  
 
 
 
DEBENHAMS PLC 
 
 
 
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009  Debenhams
User Guide
Welcome to the Debenhams annual Report 09. This interactive pdf allows you to easily
access the information that you want, whether printing, searching for a speciﬁc item or going
directly to another page, section or website.The different features are detailed below.
Document controls
Use the document controls located in the top margin to navigate through this report.
search
Print
Contents
Previous page
next page
Links
Throughout this report there are links to pages, other sections and web addresses for
additional information.
examples: This is an example of how the links appear within this document. They are
recognisable by the blue underline, simply click to go to the relevant page or web URL
(www.debenhams.com)
Section navigation
Use the links on the Contents page to navigate to the
start of a section. THE IMPORTANCE OF DETAIL IN RETAIL
–– Attention to detail in all aspects of our business is critical for us to succeed: from the design, quality
and value of our products to our focus on customer experience in our stores to our responsibilities to
our stakeholders.
ANNUAL REPORT
AND ACCOUNTS
2009
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
PG2/3
Debenhams at a Glance
Our strategy, vision and values,
key events, international presence
PG6/18
Chief Executive’s Review
Rob T empleman explains how
our strategy is moving forward
PG11/14
Design, Quality,V alue
See how our principles run
through our organisation secTion 1
—Overview
1 Debenhams
2 Debenhams at a glance
4 chairman’s statement
secTion 2
—The Business
6 chief executive’s review
11 Design, Quality,V alue
19 Finance Director’s review
22 corporate responsibility review
secTion 3
—Management and Governance
34 The Board
36 principal Business risks and Uncertainties
39 Directors’ report
42 corporate governance
47 remuneration report
secTion 4
—Financial Statements and Notes
54 statement of Directors’ responsibilities
55 independent auditors’ report to the
Members of Debenhams plc (group)
56 consolidated income statement
57 consolidated statement of recognised
income and expenses
58 consolidated Balance sheet
59 consolidated cash Flow statement
60 notes to the Financial statements
92 Five-Y ear record income statement
93 Five-Y ear record Balance sheets
94 independent auditors’ report to the
Members of Debenhams plc (company)
95 company Balance sheet
96 notes to the company Financial statements
secTion 5
—Additional Information
102 store List
103 glossary
104 shareholder information
105 www.debenhams.com
conTenTs
—What’s Inside?
This page:
One-shouldered ruffle dress
by Pearce Fionda II at
Designers at Debenhams.
FronT cover:
Cocoon coat
by Betty Jackson.Black,
bracelet by EB by
Erickson Beamon, all at
Designers at Debenhams. 1
Section 1 overview Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
DeBenhaMs
—WhoW e Are
Debenhams is a leading department store group with a
strong presence in womenswear, menswear, childrenswear,
health and beauty, accessories, lingerie and home.
Our unique mix of product ranges, including the exclusive
Designers at Debenhams portfolio, differentiates us from
our competitors.
operaTionaL highLighTs
—What HaveW e Been UpT o?
• Total fashion market share up
• Strategic focus on own bought ranges, resulting in strong
performance, especially Designers at Debenhams
• Largest space moves in Debenhams’ history completed,
c530,000 sq ft converted from concessions to own bought
• New range introductions across the store
• Five new department stores opened, creating 800 new jobs
• 11 new international franchise stores opened in
eight countries
• Further developments in multi-channel business
• Balance sheet restructured following capital raising
FinanciaL highLighTs
—How HaveW e Performed?
0.2% increase in gross transaction value
70bps increase in gross margin
13.7% increase in headline proﬁt before tax
11.1% increase in earnings per share
£403.7m reduction in net debt Department stores
Desire stores
International franchise stores
2
Section 1 overview Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
oUr sTraTegY
—A Brief Summary
our strategy is based around our desire
to meet our customers’ needs by offering
them good quality products in an appealing
shopping environment, whether instore
or online.
The strategic priorities over the
next year will be:
• core stores and organic growth;
• space expansion;
• multi-channel expansion and
integration; and
• balance sheet optimisation.
our focus is on the drivers of cash proﬁt
to deliver shareholder value.
More about our strategy on pgs 6–18
DeBenhaMs aT a gLance
—A Brief Overview of our Business
DeBenhaMs sTores WorLDWiDe
—Department, Desire and International Franchise Stores
at the end of 2009, we had a total of 154 stores in the UK and republic of ireland.
of these, 144 are department stores which offer a full selection of products including
womenswear, menswear, childrenswear, health and beauty, accessories, lingerie, home
and food services.The other ten are Desire by Debenhams stores, our smaller format store
which offers an edited collection of womenswear, accessories, lingerie, childrenswear and
health and beauty.
at the year end we also had 52 international franchise stores in 17 countries.
Full store list on pg 102
oUr vision
anD vaLUes
—Our Priorities and Culture
We endeavour to meet the needs of all
our stakeholders in everything we do:
our customers, our employees, those
involved in our supply chain, the local
communities in which we operate and the
environment.We believe that looking after
these interests will ultimately lead to
increased shareholder value. 
Section 1 overview Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
designers
at debenhams
—From Catwalk to High Street
Under the designers at debenhams
banner, we sell a range of exclusive and
stylish products designed by internationally
renowned fashion designers.
T ed Baker
Jeff Banks
Jasper Conran
Ben De Lisi
Erickson Beamon
Frost French
Pip Hackett
Henry Holland
Betty Jackson
Julien Macdonald
Melissa Odabash
Jane Packer
Pearce Fionda
Janet Reger
John Rocha
Eric van Peterson
MatthewWilliamson
own boUght
ProdUCts
—WhatW e Do Best
own bought products fall into three
main categories.
the ﬁrst is debenhams’ own label which
includes Collection, mantaray, maine
new england, bluezoo and Le Vrai
gourmet.these brands represent our
core customer offer.
the second is designers at debenhams,
the portfolio of exclusive brands listed
above, which is an important point of
difference in an increasingly crowded
high street.
the third is international brands such
as Levi strauss, nike, ben sherman,
Chanel and estée Lauder. international
brands extend our product range and give
customers the well-known brands that
they love.
ConCessions
—Increasing Choice
Concession brands offer customers
a further level of choice.they have
historically been strong in areas where
debenhams’ own bought brands have
been under-represented, such as young
fashion and footwear in womenswear
and suiting in menswear.
Key concessions include wallis,warehouse,
miss selfridge, Jacques Vert, Kurt geiger
and tripp.
year in brief
—What’s Been in the News?
01 02
03
04 06 05
04
“Boris Johnson” looks
a little confused at
the opening of the
new ﬂagship store
atWestﬁeld London
in October 2008.
05
Long queues formed
in store when
adventurer Bear
Grylls made a
personal appearance.
06
Peaches Geldof joined
us in store in her role
as face and body of
new lingerie range
Miss Ultimo.
01
International superstar
Dame Shirley Bassey
visited us for a
personal shopping
consultation at
Westﬁeld London
in December.
Our complimentary
personal shopping
is available to all
customers in every
Debenhams store.
02
Henry Holland will be
joining the Designers at
Debenhams portfolio
next year with his
exclusive new young
fashion brand H!
03
Mantaray for women
was launched in
August adding to the
already successful
brand in menswear,
women’s accessories
and childrenswear. 4
Section 1 overview Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
our choice of structure was vindicated as the ﬁrm placing element
was several times oversubscribed and the discount was one of the
lowest seen amongst the raft of capital raisings undertaken across the
market during the ﬁrst half of the calendar year 2009.
The board did not declare an interim dividend for 2009, nor has it
proposed a ﬁnal dividend for the year. however, we are committed
to returning to paying a dividend as soon as it is ﬁnancially prudent
to do so.
We were delighted to welcome two new non-executive directors to the
board at the beginning of august. Martina King was formerly
Managing Director, europe of Yahoo Limited and we therefore
particularly look forward to her input as we seek to move our multi-
channel business forward. sophie Turner Laing, currently Managing
Director, entertainment and news at British sky Broadcasting plc,
will provide valuable insight in the areas of media and marketing.
as we have announced today, we also look forward to welcoming nigel
northridge to the board as a non-executive director in January 2010.
nigel spent 32 years with gallaher group plc, becoming the group
chief executive in 2000, a position in which he oversaw signiﬁcant
growth in shareholder value.
i would like to thank richard gillingwater, peter Long, Jonathan Feuer
and philippe costeletos who left the board during the year for their
important contributions to the business.
i have today announced that i intend to stand down from my role as
chairman and will retire from the board on 31 March 2010, thereby
providing ample time to appoint my successor. i am proud of what
has been achieved over the past six years and we have set the direction
for a sound future. Debenhams is a well managed, properly ﬁnanced
company with a clear and successful strategy and a number of
exciting development opportunities. senior
management has a deservedly high reputation
and there is a great depth of talent throughout
the company. our board functions well, its
members have wide experience, high intellect
and diverse backgrounds. i believe our
operational and ﬁnancial controls are best in
class. i hope my successor enjoys the role as
much as i have.
Looking forward, whilst the board remains
cautious about the wider macro economic
environment, our company has performed well in what has been an
unprecedented tumult throughout 2009.We continue to have a self help
plan which is being rigorously executed and will maintain our drive to
focus on cash margin.
The board would like to thank every member of the Debenhams team
for rising to the challenge we have faced and helping us to emerge
from very testing times as a stronger business.We, as shareholders, are
very fortunate to have such loyal and hard-working employees whose
contribution in the past couple of years has been immense.
Without doubt, the 12 months to september 2009 will be remembered
as one of the most difﬁcult years for the UK retail sector in
generations. The collapse of conﬁdence in the banking sector last
autumn sent shockwaves through the high street which continue to
reverberate today. our ﬁnancial year coincided with the worst of this
period following the collapse of Lehman Brothers which occurred just
three weeks into the year.
Despite this, we emerged stronger. our balance sheet has been
restructured thanks to our successful capital raising. our market share
has increased and our business model has strengthened. our goals of
increasing own brand penetration, growing internet sales and building
our international footprint have all been progressed.
We had foreseen a very tough year.We planned our business on lower
sales and a reduced level of stock purchases. We focused on cash
margin rather than sales growth. We put even more emphasis on
delivering outstanding value. our own bought ranges, especially
Designers, performed much better than concessions, reﬂecting the
signiﬁcant improvements our design and buying teams have delivered
in these ranges, giving us the conﬁdence to undertake the biggest
expansion of own bought space Debenhams
has ever seen. We introduced new brands and
departments across the store, targeted at areas
where we believe there are further market share
opportunities for us. We opened ﬁve new stores
in the UK, creating a very welcome 800 new jobs.
a further 11 new international franchise stores
were also opened in eight countries.
Ultimately the success of our strategy can be
seen in that in this difﬁcult year we generated
more proﬁt than last year. only a handful of
other retailers will be able to say this. The board believes this is a
signiﬁcant achievement for which the entire Debenhams team should
be commended.
as a board, we had said for some time that one of our key goals was
to remove leverage as an issue for Debenhams so that our focus—and
indeed the wider world’s—could return to operational and strategic
issues rather than the balance sheet.T o this end, we launched a capital
raising in June.We chose to do this through a placing and open offer
route due to the unusual nature of the shareholder register.
“…in this difficult
year we generated
more PROFIT
than last year…”
John Lovering
Chairman
22 october 2009
chairMan’s sTaTeMenT
—Detailing our Progress and Results 5
Section 1 overview Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
The iMporTance
oF DeTaiL
Detail is about helping
customers to create
the perfect ensemble
effortlessly. Jacket,
trousers, waistcoat, shirt,
tie, shoes and handkerchief
all by Jeff Banks at
Designers at Debenhams. 6
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
there is no denying that 2009 was a challenging year but i believe
that at Debenhams we met those challenges head on and we are a
stronger business as a result. Our good performance stems from our
attention to detail in all aspects of our business: improving the
design, quality and value of our products; enhancing the customer
experience through both brand rationalisation and instore upgrades;
introducing exciting new own bought brands to target specific
customer segments; and keeping tight control of resources in a
difficult market environment.
Review of theY ear
Market Conditions
2009 was characterised by a high degree of volatility arising out of
wider economic factors and the ﬁnancial year coincided with the worst
of the “credit crunch” period almost in its entirety.trading in the ﬁrst
half in particular was inﬂuenced by high proﬁle collapses in the
ﬁnancial services sector which negatively impacted an already fragile
consumer confidence.
however, the important
Christmas trading
period held up
reasonably well. there
were a number of
competing inﬂuences on
consumer conﬁdence in
the second half. On the
negative side, concerns
over unemployment
depressed confidence.
On the positive side,
lower mortgage payments due to record low interest rates and
lower household energy and fuel bills gave rise to higher disposable
income for some consumers. in the Republic of ireland, trading
conditions were difﬁcult throughout the year in light of the sharp
economic decline.
Financial Performance
Debenhams delivered a strong ﬁnancial performance in 2009,
despite the difﬁcult trading environment with increases in gross
transaction value (Gtv), market share, gross margin and proﬁt. Gross
transaction value was 0.2 per cent higher than the previous year
at £2,339.7 million. Market share gains were achieved throughout the
year (source:tNsworldpanel fashion 24 weeks market share data to
13 september 2009 vs. 2008).
During the last quarter of the year, the largest space moves in
Debenhams’ history commenced, which resulted in c530,000 sq ft of
trading space being converted from concession to own bought ranges.
As expected, this programme caused disruption to sales in the latter
part of the year and like-for-like sales for the year were 3.6 per cent
lower than last year.the shortfall in like-for-like sales was more than
offset by a strong gross margin performance which improved
signiﬁcantly as the year progressed.
Gross margin increased by 70 basis points over last year. this was
driven by higher own bought sales and an ongoing focus on the drivers
of cash proﬁt, including the tight management of costs and stocks and
historically low terminal stock levels which resulted in lower markdown
in sale periods. the adverse impact of sterling’s deﬂation against the
us dollar was reduced to a considerable degree by the Company’s
hedging policy.
headline proﬁt before tax and amortisation from capitalised bank
fees was £125.2 million, an increase of 13.7 per cent over the
£110.1 million achieved last year. Proﬁt before tax of £120.8 million
grew by 14.1 per cent (2008: £105.9 million). eBitDA increased by
3.6 per cent from £268.8 million in 2008 to £278.5 million in 2009.
Basic earnings per share (949 million weighted
average shares in issue following the capital raising)
of 10.0 pence compared with 9.0 pence last year
(860 million weighted average shares in issue).
Cash ﬂow from operating activities before
ﬁnancing, tax and interest during the year was
£156.5 million compared with £160.2 million
a year ago.
the scheduled £100.0 million amortisation
payment of the term loan was made in May 2009
from cash ﬂow. in June 2009, Debenhams raised £303.8 million net
through a placing and open offer capital raising. subsequently, a
£50.0 million pre-payment against the £150.0 million amortisation
payment due in May 2010 was made. A further £61.4 million of debt
was bought back in the market at an average discount of 5.6 per cent.
As a result, net debt at the year end on 29 August 2009 was £590.3
million.this was an improvement of £403.7 million over the position
at the start of the ﬁnancial year.
“OurGOOD performance stems
from theWORK we have
undertaken throughout our business
over the past couple of years. ”
ROBteMPLeMAN
Chief Executive
22 October 2009
Chief exeCutive’s Review
—Detailing the Performance of our Business 7
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
the iMPORtANCe
Of DetAiL
Detail is about ﬁnishing
touches that make customers
large and small feel good.
T -shirt and jeans by Bluezoo,
Debenhams’ brand new
childrenswear range. 8
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
key PeRfORMANCe iNDiCAtORs
Chief exeCutive’s Review
—continued
GROss tRANsACtiON vALue (£m)
KPI
Gtv is a measure of overall sales growth for the
business, including concession sales.the board
believes it represents a good guide to the overall
activity of the Company.
Gtv grew by 0.2 per cent during 2009, with
increases from new department stores and
international stores more than offsetting the
like-for-like sales decline.
STraTEgy 2009 PErformanCE
Like-fOR-Like (LfL)sALes (%)
LfL sales provide a measure of annual sales
performance from stores that have been open
for one year or more.this metric is therefore
an indication of organic sales growth.
LfL sales declined by 3.6 per cent in 2009.
As expected, the extensive space moves which took
place in the fourth quarter caused disruption to LfL
sales in that period which has inﬂuenced the result
for the year.
heADLiNe PROfit BefORe tAx (PBt) (£m)
PBt is the board’s principal measure of proﬁtability.
we use the headline number (which adds back
amortisation on capitalised bank fees) as this is the
metric favoured by the ﬁnancial markets.
headline PBt increased by 13.7 per cent in 2009.
the board believes this is a creditable performance
given the extremely difﬁcult retail and economic
environment which prevailed throughout the period.
tRADiNG sPACe (m sq ft)
the biggest driver of trading space is new store
openings. Our disciplined approach to capital
expenditure for new stores ensures we generate
strong returns from new space.
trading space increased by 342,000 sq ft (3.1 per
cent) in 2009 with the addition of ﬁve new stores
and a sizeable extension to the Cardiff store.
PeRCeNtAGe Of OwN BOuGht sALes (%)
Own bought sales produce higher margins than
concession sales. increasing the percentage of own
bought sales to take advantage of these higher
margins is an important part of Debenhams’ strategy.
the percentage of own bought sales increased from
71.8 per cent in 2008 to 76.0 per cent in 2009 largely
driven by the introduction of new own bought ranges
and departments, expansion of existing brands and
higher own bought mix in new stores.
LABOuR tuRNOveR (%) ChANGe
Attracting and retaining talented, motivated employees
is an important part of Debenhams’ ability to succeed.
Change in labour turnover is a measure of our ability
to retain staff, although it is always likely to be
impacted by macroeconomic factors.
Labour turnover fell signiﬁcantly in 2009.
Although the difﬁcult economic climate and high
unemployment levels have depressed the overall
labour market, we have taken positive action
to increase employee retention.
£2,336
£2,340
08
09
08
09
-0.9
-3.6
08
09
£110.1
£125.2
08
09
10.7
11.0
08
09
71.8
76.0
08
09
1.8
-12.0 9
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
the iMPORtANCe
Of DetAiL
Detail is as important in
the home as it is for fashion.
Cushions, lighting
and accessories by
Betty Jackson.Black at
Designers at Debenhams. Operating Review
Brand and Product Strategy
Debenhams gained market share throughout the year. in the most
recently available data for the uk, Debenhams’ total market share in
clothing, footwear and accessories increased by 10 basis points (source
for all market share data: TnS Worldpanel fashion 24 weeks market
share data to 13 September 2009 vs. 2008).the strongest market share
performances were delivered by menswear (up 20 basis points) and
childrenswear (up 40 basis points). womenswear market share for the
period was ﬂat and was impacted by weak concession performance
and the disruption to sales in the fourth quarter
from space moves. Debenhams has continued to
gain a greater share of the market over the past
two years and customers have responded
positively to the signiﬁcant improvements made
to the design, quality and value of Debenhams’
own bought products, as well as an enhanced
shopping experience on the back of improved
instore presentation.
Own bought products accounted for 76.0 per
cent of sales in 2009, up from 71.8 per cent last year and in line with
the strategic aim to increase the own bought product mix.the increase
in own bought mix was largely driven by the introduction of a number
of new own bought ranges and departments, the expansion of some
existing brands both in terms of trading space and product breadth
and higher own bought mix in new stores.
Designers at Debenhams made a strong contribution to sales
during 2009 of some £432 million, an increase of 11.4 per cent over
the prior year. Overall, own bought sales increased by 3.4 per cent.
the weakest category was concessions which overall saw sales decline
by 16.5 per cent.
t owards the end of ﬁnancial year 2009, a major programme of space
moves commenced which was completed by the end of september
2009. in total, c530,000 sq ft of trading space was converted
from concessions to own bought. this included the loss of
c215,000 sq ft from womenswear concessions (including Principles),
c200,000 sq ft from home concessions and c120,000 sq ft from
women’s accessories concessions.the largest increases in own bought
space were womenswear (c165,000 sq ft), sports and leisure (c140,000
sq ft), women’s accessories (c120,000 sq ft) and childrenswear
(c60,000 sq ft).
New ranges introduced during 2009 include Butterﬂy by Matthew
williamson and Mantaray in womenswear, Bluezoo in childrenswear,
sports and leisure for women, men and children and Ben de Lisi in
home. Although it is early days as many of these brands were launched
during the fourth quarter of the year, initial reactions from customers
have been very positive.
in March, a quantity of stock and ﬁxtures and ﬁttings was acquired
from the administrators of Principles, as well as a licence to trade the
brand through that stock.this was done to ensure continuity of supply
to Debenhams through the spring/summer season.
Stock Management
stock levels were managed tightly during the year.t erminal stock was
at a historically low level at year end of 2.7 per cent, arising mainly
from very aggressive
discounting in the post-
Christmas sale. At year
end, total stock was 14.1
per cent higher than the
previous year, of which
10.0% related to the
increase in own bought
space allocation. Like-
for-like stock density
decreased by 5.1%.
Store Portfolio
At the end of 2009, the store portfolio consisted of 144 department
stores and ten Desire stores. the total trading space of the portfolio
was 11,046,000 sq ft, an increase of 3.1 per cent since the start of
the year.
five new stores were opened during the year.these were: Livingston
(60,000 sq ft) in August 2008; westﬁeld London (109,000 sq ft),
wrexham (60,000 sq ft) and Great yarmouth (20,000 sq ft) all in
October 2008; and Bury st edmunds (59,000 sq ft) in March 2009.
Overall, new stores have performed in line with or ahead of expectations.
the new store pipeline for 2010 is secure with six new stores adding
a total of 300,000 sq ft of trading space.two of these stores have now
opened: kidderminster Desire in september 2009 and Monks Cross
Desire in October 2009.
“Market shareGAINS have
beenACHIEVED on a
regular basis for some two years. ”
AMONGst the
five New stORes
OPeNeD iN 2009 wAs
this futuRistiC
New stORe iN BuRy
st eDMuNDs whiCh
OPeNeD iN MARCh.
new store openings continue
to generate good returns.
10
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief exeCutive’s Review
—continued 11
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
NO.01
DesiGN
at the heart of everything we do
NO.02
QuALity
It’s all about detail, cut and craft
NO.03
vALue
Design and quality at an affordable price
2009
sPeCiAL feAtuRe
Over the past two years we have made signiﬁcant improvements to
our own bought product ranges. Our mantra has been to enhance the
design, quality and value of everything that we sell. Let me tell you
how we think about these three inter-dependent factors and how they
run through our company.
MiChAeL shARP
Deputy Chief Executive NO.01
JAsPeR CONRAN
grey ruffle trenchcoat
from J by Jasper
Conran at Designers
at Debenhams.
DesiGN
—at The Heart of Everything
W e Do
Design is a synthesis of many things.
it’s about style and fashionability. it’s about
theme and trend and seasonality. But it is
also about meeting the needs of the
target customer.
t o ensure our design process works
effectively, we put the customer at the
heart of it. from the ﬁrst sketch to the last
detail, our designers think about the brand’s
proﬁle customer and how she or he is going
to use the product. so whilst our designers
for occasionwear brand Debut will be
thinking about glamour and sophistication,
the team working on Maine New england
will focus on practicality and comfort.
we are of course fortunate at Debenhams
to work with some of the world’s greatest
fashion designers through the Designers
at Debenhams portfolio whose
combined knowledge and skill
is unparalleled.
12
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009 NO.02
QuALity
—It’s all about Detail,
Cut and Craft
for Debenhams, quality is just as
important as design in ensuring our
customers are pleased with the
products they buy from us.
Quality is about both looking great and
being ﬁt for purpose. so it’s about fabrics
and linings and embellishment and
trimmings, all of which are obvious quality
clues. And it’s about garments that look
as good after repeated wearing and
washing as they did when new, and home
products that can withstand the rigours
of everyday life.
we check that we are meeting our quality
standards on an ongoing basis from both
a formal quality assurance process and
through customer feedback and testing.
JAsPeR CONRAN
Jacket, shirt and tie
from J by Jasper
Conran at Designers
at Debenhams.
13
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009 14
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
NO.03
vALue
—Design and Quality
at an affordable Price
we think of value as being about so much
more than price. it is interesting that
despite the difﬁcult economic environment,
the best performing part of our business
in 2009 was Designers at Debenhams,
our highest price product ranges.why has
this been the case? we believe it is because
customers are looking for the quality,
longevity and versatility these products
offer and not just the lowest cost option
which may be cheaper but overall offer
them less value for money.
Debenhams is committed to supporting its
customers through the difﬁcult economic
environment and we constantly look for
ways to enhance our value proposition.
ReD heRRiNG
Shirt and jeans from
red Herring. 15
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief exeCutive’s Review
—continued
the programme to refurbish core stores remained largely on hold in
2009, although the Cardiff store was refurbished, including a sizeable
extension which provides an entrance into the new st David’s
shopping centre. improvements are being made in all stores with
the introduction of new shop ﬁts for many ranges across the store
chain, especially in womenswear. Over the past year these have
included J by Jasper Conran, star by Julien Macdonald and Collection.
International Franchise Stores
Debenhams’ business outside the uk and Republic of ireland takes
the form of franchise stores operated by a number of regional
franchise partners.
During 2009, a further 11 international franchise stores were opened
in eight countries.these included market entry in iran and Moldova.
there were 52 franchise stores in 17 countries by the end of the year,
representing 1.7 million sq ft of trading space.
whilst some of the international markets have experienced a
slowdown in consumer activity, overall we are pleased with the
performance of the international business. sales attributable to the
international business increased by 13.6 per cent to £63.3 million
(2008: £55.7 million). its contribution to total gross transaction value
increased from 2.4 per cent in 2008 to 2.7 per cent in 2009.
Multi-Channel
Debenhams Direct, the online business, continued to grow in 2009.
sales were up 31.0 per cent to £55.1 million (2008: £42.1 million),
resulting in a contribution to total gross transaction value of 2.4 per
cent (2008: 1.8 per cent). eBitDA increased by 133 per cent.
the number of visitors
to Debenhams Direct
increased by 36.8 per
cent during the year.
During 2009 a change
was made to our online
fulfilment provider
which has improved
service levels for
customers and reduced
delivery times.
New features added in 2009 include: zoom, video and catwalk/outﬁt
projection; the launch of the online outlet from which customers
can access all current offers and promotions; shop by size; product
reviews and surveys; and social networking capability. Priorities
going forward will be to develop a full multi-channel offering alongside
the existing online operation and these are described in more detail in
the 2010 Preview on page 18.
Marketing
Customers today are looking for unique design, great quality and
exceptional value for money. we believe that Debenhams with its
differentiating mix of Designers at Debenhams ranges, contemporary
own brands for all ages and occasions and international brands is in
the best position to deliver this. Launched in Autumn 2009,
Debenhams has recently unveiled its new brand manifesto, “design in
every department”, symbolising the importance of design across all
aspects of the business. New branding has been rolled out throughout
all communications, stores and our website. it is embedded in the way
we talk to our customers, present our products instore and online, our
tone of voice and product visuals.
A key pillar of this campaign is a tv/digital campaign running in
October and November 2009, with a subsequent product campaign
continuing into 2010.
in order to complement this focus of great product design and quality,
Debenhams will continue to offer its customers exceptional value for
money via product offers, promotions and spectaculars. we are
committed to ensuring we support our customers when the economic
outlook remains challenging.
targeted communication programmes also
continue to develop further this year with
increased focus on retention and growth for our
Debenhams Cardholder base, acceleration of
our email customer base, driving both online
and store sales, and finally the introduction of
our Beauty Club Reward scheme. the
Debenhams Beauty Club not only allows
customers to earn points on their purchases at
Debenhams for money-off rewards but it also
gives them access to cosmetics samples/free
gifts, makeovers/skincare consultations, instore events, exclusive
products and offers.
Deleveraging Initiatives
the board had said for some time that reducing leverage for
Debenhams was an important aim. t o this end, a capital raising was
launched on 4 June 2009 and subsequently approved by shareholders at
a General Meeting on 23 June 2009 with new shares issued on 26 June
2009. the capital raising took the form of a placing and open offer
which was chosen due to the unusually concentrated nature of
Debenhams’ shareholder register which contained several large
shareholders who were unlikely to participate. the choice of this
structure was vindicated as the ﬁrm placing element was several times
“W e are committed to
ensuring weSUPPORT
ourCUSTOMERS
when the economic outlook
remains challenging. ”
AN exteNsiON tO
the CARDiff
stORe wAs OPeNeD
iN 2009 As PARt Of
the stORe’s
RefuRBishMeNt.
The store refurbishment
programme will
recommence in the
second half of 2010
having largely been on
hold for the past year. 16
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief exeCutive’s Review
—continued
oversubscribed and the discount was one of the lowest seen amongst
the raft of capital raisings undertaken across the market during the
ﬁrst half of the calendar year 2009.
the purpose of the capital raising was four-fold. first, to reduce net
debt and enhance the ability to reﬁnance in the future. secondly, to
provide an opportunity to amend existing covenants resulting in
greater headroom and operational and ﬁnancial ﬂexibility.thirdly, to
provide funds in order to buy back debt at below par in the market
should it become available. finally, to improve the ability to pursue
opportunistic acquisitions.
in line with these aims, the covenants on the term loan and revolving
credit facility were reset as follows: net debt/eBitDA of 3.75 times;
ﬁxed charge cover of 1.60 times (NB: the metrics used in these
covenants are based on uk GAAP as adjusted for covenant purposes).
following the receipt of the proceeds, a £50.0 million pre-payment
was made against the £150.0 million amortisation payment due in
May 2010. A further £61.4 million of debt has been acquired in the
market at an average discount of 5.6 per cent. since the end of the
year, a further £100.0 million payment has been made against the
May 2010 amortisation payment.
As a result of the capital raising and organic cash generation, net debt
stood at £590.3 million at year end, £403.7 million lower than at the
start of the year.
Strategy Update and 2010 Preview
following the successful deleveraging of Debenhams’ balance sheet,
we are now looking forward to the next era in the Company’s
development as we move into the new ﬁnancial year.
Our strategic priorities for 2010 and the medium term are:
• core stores and organic growth;
• space expansion;
• multi-channel expansion and integration; and
• balance sheet optimisation.
Core stores and organic growth
Own bought products generate signiﬁcantly higher margins than
concession products even after the additional costs of stockholding,
logistics and stafﬁng are taken into account. for this reason, one of
our key strategic aims is to increase the percentage of own bought
merchandise sold in our stores and thereby take advantage of the
higher margins available.
Our target own bought sales participation is 80-85 per cent.
New stores opened in the past 12-18 months already carry some
90 per cent of own bought merchandise and are trading well.
the outperformance of own bought over the past year suggests
that customers are favourable towards these ranges and acknowledge
the superior design, quality and value they offer. this position
is reinforced by the relative underperformance of concessions across
the business.
the full year impact of the 530,000 sq ft space moves undertaken
in late 2009/early 2010 will move us a good way towards this target
through the introduction of new ranges such as Mantaray
in womenswear, Bluezoo in childrenswear and the new sports and
leisure department.
A signiﬁcant part of own bought growth is expected to come from
Designers at Debenhams, our portfolio of aspirational brands created
exclusively for Debenhams by internationally renowned fashion designers.
they are catwalk designers, not celebrities, whose mainline collections
are shown at the world’s greatest fashion events such as London fashion
week. Designers at Debenhams is a unique and important differentiator
for Debenhams in an increasingly crowded high street.
expansion of Designers at Debenhams falls into four main categories.
• expansion of existing designer brands: through extending designer
presence to all stores and increasing the space allocated to
designers in stores where they are already present to give them
more authority.
• introduction of existing designers into new categories such as the
expansion of Butterﬂy by Matthew williamson from accessories
and childrenswear into womenswear.
• increasing the designer mix in under-represented categories such
as home and women’s footwear.
• introduction of new designer brands to target market share
opportunities: in 2010 these will include the launch of a new young
fashion designer brand, h! by henry holland, in 65 stores from
spring/summer.
Organic growth will also be achieved through the recommencement of
the modernisation programme for core stores. some 40 core stores
remain to be modernised. Our priority in the ﬁrst instance will be to
modernise high turnover stores in large towns and this will commence
in the second half of 2010. we have historically generated strong
returns of 25-35 per cent on modernised stores with an uplift in sales
of some 5 per cent. As well as whole store modernisations, we will
continue to reﬁt individual brands across all stores and in 2010 these
will include Red herring in womenswear and Jeff Banks in menswear.
Space Expansion
Debenhams generates strong returns from new stores.we continue to
believe that there are up to 240 possible locations for department
stores and 100 for Desire stores in the uk and Republic of ireland. 17
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
the iMPORtANCe
Of DetAiL
Detail is just as important
where only you can see it.
ruched bra and shorts
by red Herring. 18
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief exeCutive’s Review
—continued
however, as the difﬁcult economic environment has been impacting
new property developments for some time there may be some delay to
anticipated store openings in the medium term.
six new stores are scheduled to open during 2010, comprising three
department stores and three Desire stores, two of which have opened
since the year end. these include a ﬂagship store in Newcastle upon
tyne which is due to open in february. in total, these openings will
add some further 300,000 sq ft of trading space.
space growth is also anticipated outside the uk and ireland through
the international franchise stores. A further ﬁve stores are scheduled
to open in ﬁve countries during 2010.
Multi-Channel Expansion and Integration
the Debenhams online store, www.debenhams.com, has been
growing steadily. New features and services are added on a regular
basis and over the past year these have included: zoom, video and
catwalk/outﬁt project; the launch of the online outlet from which
customers can access all current offers and promotions; shop by size;
product reviews and surveys; and social network capability. we are
now looking to accelerate sales growth from our online business by
developing a full multi-channel business which integrates online and
instore shopping and drives additional trafﬁc to the online store.
the key components of this, all of which are expected to be fully
operational by the end of 2010, are as follows:
• website refresh and ease of shopping improvements:
debenhams.com will beneﬁt from a new look and improvements to
its ease of shopping meaning that customers can get to their
desired products more quickly.
• using afﬁliates to drive additional trafﬁc to debenhams.com: stores
will be launched on afﬁliate sites such as Amazon on a trial basis
during the autumn. Looking further out, we will look to develop
websites for individual brands which would be available through
afﬁliates, including some of the Designers at Debenhams brands.
• instore ordering: enabling customers to order instore for delivery
at home will improve ranging in small stores and availability in all
stores. Assisted facilities are available in all stores and self-service
kiosks are being rolled out over the next year.
• Collect from store: this will enable customers to collect goods they
have ordered online from their local store.
• international delivery: we know from the success of our
international franchise stores that Debenhams products are
attractive to overseas customers. international deliveries will be
available to a range of countries from late autumn.
Balance Sheet Optimisation
the Group’s balance sheet was substantially delevered following the
capital raising in June which substantially reduced net debt.
the balance sheet must be structured effectively to maintain an
appropriate balance between ﬂexibility on the one hand and
minimising interest costs on the other.
in July, a pre-payment of £50.0 million was made against the
£150.0 million term loan amortisation payment that is due in May
2010. A further £61.4 million of debt was acquired in the market
before the end of the year at an average discount of 5.6 per cent. since
the end of the year, a further pre-payment of £100.0 million has been
made against the amortisation payment due in May 2010.
we will continue to look for accretive acquisitions which may involve
adding further operating units to leverage our existing infrastructure
or acquiring brands to reverse into our existing units whilst reducing
costs and expanding margins.
Current Trading
for the seven weeks to 17 October 2009, gross transaction value
increased by 2.8 per cent over the previous year. Like-for-like sales
grew by 0.6 per cent. Gross margin and cash margin were both ahead
of last year.
Outlook
the outlook for consumer behaviour remains hard to predict.
however, we are encouraged by the response of customers to the
changes we have made to our offer. Our focus will continue to be on
the drivers of cash proﬁt. we will also be investing for the future
through the opening of new stores, development of our multi-channel
business and recommencement of the store modernisation programme. 19
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
ChRis
wOODhOuse
finance Director
22 October 2009
Sales, Margin and Costs
the Group’s gross transaction value grew by 0.2 per cent during the
52 weeks ended 29 August 2009 to £2,339.7 million (2008: £2,336.0
million) and revenue was up by 4.2 per cent to £1,915.6 million (2008:
£1,839.2 million). these increases were primarily from our own
bought ranges, including our exclusive Designers at Debenhams offer,
and were supported by good sales performances in new stores. During
the year we have seen trading space being converted from concession
to own bought ranges and the introduction of a number of new brands
and departments. however, like-for-like sales declined by 3.6 per cent
in the ﬁnancial year, reﬂecting the difﬁcult trading environment
and disruption to sales in the fourth quarter arising out of the space
move programme.
Continued growth was achieved from our internet business, with sales
increasing 31 per cent to £55.1 million (2008: £42.1 million) during
the year. At the same time we have changed our
fulﬁlment partner and we expect to be able to
deliver new functionality and cost savings from
this transfer.
the international business has continued to grow
and over the past 12 months we opened 11 new
stores. At the year end we were represented in 17
countries with a total of 52 franchise stores with
sales of £63.3 million, up 13.6 per cent on the
previous ﬁnancial year (2008: £55.7 million).
Gross margin increased by 70 basis points over the previous ﬁnancial
year.this was driven by the higher mix of own bought sales, the tight
management of costs and stocks and historically low levels of terminal
stock, which resulted in lower markdown during sale periods. the
effect of our 18-month hedging policy has also reduced the impact of
us dollar movement during the year.
Control of costs is critical, particularly in the current economic
environment, and further signiﬁcant cost savings have been made
during the ﬁnancial year in addition to those achieved during the
second half of last year. Overall store operational costs increased,
primarily due to new store openings, but like-for-like stores saw a
decrease in costs of 0.4 per cent.
this combined to generate gross proﬁt during the ﬁnancial year of
£264.9 million (2008: £267.6 million).
Distribution costs decreased by £4.7 million, due to tighter control
of stocks and transport schedules alongside warehouse labour
efﬁciencies. Administration costs were also down £4.1 million
reﬂecting the full year impact of changes implemented last year and
the ongoing challenges to the cost base.
Operating proﬁt in the ﬁnancial year ending 29 August 2009 increased
to £182.2 million (2008: £176.1 million) and proﬁt before taxation
grew to £120.8 million (2008: £105.9 million).
Interest
for the ﬁnancial year ended 29 August 2009 the net interest charge
was £61.4 million (2008: £70.2 million).the decrease of £8.8 million
is principally due to three factors: ﬁrst a £100.0 million scheduled
repayment of the senior term loan in May 2009; secondly the £303.8
million (net of issue costs) capital raising in June 2009; and thirdly the
£50.0 million partial pre-payment in July 2009 of the £150.0 million
term loan amortisation payment due in May 2010.this was offset by
lower interest receivable on money market deposits.
Taxation
the Group’s tax charge of £25.7 million on proﬁt of £120.8 million
gives an effective rate of tax of 21.3 per cent. the charge is lower
than the rate of uk corporation tax primarily due to the successful
resolution of items previously under negotiation with hM Revenue
and Customs.
Earnings
the basic earnings per
share of 10.0 pence
(2008: 9.0 pence) and
diluted earnings per
share of 10.0 pence
(2008: 9.0 pence) reﬂect
the weighted average
number of shares in
issue during the course
of the ﬁnancial year and similarly for the comparative period. the
weighted average impact of the issue of 404 million new ordinary
shares on 26 June 2009 is reﬂected in these ﬁgures.
Dividends
Although no interim dividend has been paid or ﬁnal dividend
proposed for 2009, the board’s intention is to return to paying a
dividend when it is ﬁnancially prudent to do so.
“Control of costs isCRITICAL,
particularly in the current economic
ENVIRONMENT. ”
fiNANCe DiReCtOR’s Review
—Detailing our financial Performance Capital Expenditure
During the ﬁnancial year we opened ﬁve new department stores and
continued to invest in our online business. expenditure on capital
items in the ﬁnancial year was £84.5 million, which is lower than in
previous years partly due to the deferral of the store modernisation
programme during 2009.
Cash Flow
Net cash generated from operating activities in the year ended
29 August 2009 was £158.4 million. this was a decrease of
£33.0 million on the previous year (2008: £191.4 million). the
decrease was ﬁrst due to payment of capital accruals outstanding from
the previous year linked to an unusually high number of store
openings over that period, secondly the reduction invAt rate reducing
the year end vAt creditor and ﬁnally a reduction in concession
creditors from reduced sales.
During the year the Company raised £303.8 million (net of issue costs
of £19.4 million of which £4.7 million remains in accruals at the
year end) through a ﬁrm placing and placing and open offer with
clawback of ordinary shares.
Borrowings
the Group’s net debt position was £590.3 million at 29 August 2009,
a reduction of £403.7 million during the course of the year
(£994.0 million as at 30 August 2008). this included a scheduled
repayment of £100.0 million in May 2009, from operating cash ﬂow.
in July 2009, following the capital raising, the Company made a partial
pre-payment of £50.0 million of the £150.0 million term loan
amortisation payment due in May 2010. Additionally, during the year,
the Group purchased debt with a par value of £61.4 million in
the market at an average discount of 5.6 per cent.
Equity
following approval by shareholders at a General Meeting held on
23 June 2009, the Company issued 73.4 million new shares to existing
shareholders and 330.6 million new shares were placed. All issued
shares had a nominal value of £0.0001 and were issued at 80 pence
per share on 26 June 2009. the share issue was effected through a
structure which resulted in a merger reserve arising under section 612
of the Companies Act 2006.
Financial Risk and Treasury Management
the board has established an overall treasury policy and has approved
authority levels within which the treasury function must operate.
treasury policy is to manage risks within the agreed framework whilst
not taking speculative positions.
the policies and strategies for managing ﬁnancial risk are summarised
in note 3 of the Group financial statements.
Pensions
the Group provides a number of pension arrangements for its
employees, which include the Debenhams Retirement scheme and
Debenhams executive Pension Plan (together the “pension schemes”)
which closed for future service accrual from 31 October 2006.
the pension schemes’ deﬁcit as at 29 August 2009 was £53.6 million
(2008: surplus of £25.0 million). During the year the pension
schemes’ actuary completed the triennial actuarial valuation, as at
31 March 2008, and funding was agreed between the Group and the
trustees of the pension schemes. As a result, the rate of employer
contributions payable under the agreed schedule of contributions will
remain at the same level as agreed for the past three years until the
effective date of the next valuation, 31 March 2011.
future pension arrangements will be provided for Debenhams
employees by stakeholder or deﬁned contribution pension schemes.
Summary
it is pleasing to report that Debenhams has delivered a strong
performance during the ﬁnancial year, despite the difﬁcult trading
environment, with increases in gross transaction value, gross margin
and proﬁt. in addition, the balance sheet has been substantially
deleveraged following the capital raising.
20
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
fiNANCe DiReCtOR’s Review
—continued the iMPORtANCe
Of DetAiL
Detail is about stunning
shapes and beautiful fabrics.
Dress from Butterﬂy by
matthewWilliamson at
Designers at Debenhams.
21
Section 2 the Business Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009 22
Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Introduction
as a retail business, debenhams’ activities can
impact the lives of millions of people: our
customers, our employees, the communities in
which we operate, those who work in our supply
chain and their own communities. in addition,
our potential impact on the environment is
signiﬁcant. we have a responsibility to all these
people and to our planet to try to have a positive
impact upon them and to take their needs
into account when we make decisions about
our business.
we believe that the management of and accountability for how we live
up to this responsibility should be embedded into our business activities
rather than a centralised corporate responsibility function. a cross-
functional corporate responsibility steering committee meets regularly,
chaired by nikki Zamblera, who is debenhams’ hr director and has
executive responsibility for corporate responsibility issues.
our corporate responsibility work falls into three main areas. first,
environmental which covers waste management and recycling and
energy usage, including our carbon footprint reporting. secondly,
ethical trading which includes information on our factory approval
and audit programme, our purchasing practices and our involvement
with the ethical trading initiative. the third category is workplace
and Community which covers employment practices, learning and
development, disability awareness, health and safety and community
and charity engagement.
Environmental
Waste Recycling
debenhams is committed to reducing the amount of waste generated
by its activities. we seek to divert as much waste away from landﬁll
through a number of recycling schemes.
Stores
in 2009 the number of stores that “backhaul” cardboard and plastic
waste to our distribution centre (dC) in peterborough for recycling
increased from 78 to 140. a new cardboard baler was installed in
peterborough in october 2008 which has allowed more stores to
return their waste for baling rather than relying on compactors or skips
at a local level. waste studies have revealed that the amount of waste
passed to landﬁll as a result of implementing backhauling drops by as
much as 80 per cent as the bulk of store waste is card and plastic.
in addition to backhauling waste to the dC, all stores also action some
form of recycling using multi-stream recovery units. in 2009, the
amount of total waste recycled in this way increased by 3.2 per cent
whilst the amount of general waste sent to landﬁll decreased by
15.6 per cent.
we are increasing the percentage of hangers which are either
re-used or returned to the dC for recycling. as part of our hanger
initiative, we are now working with our supplier to reduce the
amount of hangers that
we grind for recycling
by introducing a new
programme of re-use.
Distribution Centres
in 2008 a target to move
to 98 per cent of dC
waste recycled was
set. this target was met
in 2009 and we look to
improve this further
where possible.
recycling points have been installed at all three dCs and individual
waste bins removed from all ofﬁces.
Head Office
a recycling initiative was introduced in head ofﬁce locations in 2008
which encourages the recycling of many waste streams including
paper, glass and cans.
Carrier Bags
following the introduction of 100 per cent recycled carrier bags in
2007, we are continuing to ﬁnd ways to reduce the number of carrier
bags used by our business that meet the needs of both our customers
and the environment. overall, this has resulted in a 3.1 per cent
reduction on last year’s volumes. more focus has been placed in staff
training on the use of the right size bag, resulting in a 9 per cent
we regularly
make donations
of toys to CrÈChe
faCilities at our
suppliers’ faCtories
around the world.
In 2009 we sent toys to
factories in India, China
and Bangladesh.
Corporate responsibility review
—Detailing our accountability for our actions
“Debenhams’ activities can impact
the lives of millions of people…
we have aRESPONSIBILITY
to them and to our planet. ” 23
Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
tv presenter
trisha goddard
wearing a t -shirt
designed by Julien
maCdonald and
sold in support
of breast
CanCer Care
Many Designers at
Debenhams also designed
exclusive T -shirts to
support this worthwhile
cause for which Debenhams
has raised nearly £2 million
in recent years. 24
Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Corporate responsibility review
—continued
aea are leaders and trusted advisors in the ﬁeld of environmental
consultancy, operating in the uk, europe, the usa and China.
they are the leading provider of advisory services to the uk
government and work extensively with the eu and major private sector
organisations.they are internationally renowned with expertise in air
quality and climate change, carbon management, resource efﬁciency
and the environmental impacts of transport. since april 2008, aea
has been defra’s principal technical consultant for the CrC scheme
and will be advising defra as the government develops the regulations
for the scheme.
Debenhams Carbon Footprint 2009
2008 saw debenhams publicly report its environmental impacts in
terms of ghg emissions for the ﬁrst time. emissions were reported
for a base year spanning the 2007 calendar period. since then, we have
continued to implement procedures in order to monitor and report
our carbon footprint. the greenhouse gas protocol Corporate
standard has been adhered to for our footprint calculation.
three notable changes have been implemented since the carbon
footprint was reported last year.
1. the reporting year has been changed from a calendar year to
debenhams’ ﬁnancial year ended 29 august 2009. reporting has
been altered in such a way in order for emissions performance
to be aligned and better understood against the background
ﬁnancial performance.
2. the footprint boundary has been widened to include emissions
sources from store and distribution centre waste, refrigeration gas
from food services and waste water.
3. ghg emissions sources other than Co
2
have been included where
applicable. these are multiplied by the relevant “global warming
potential” they possess in relation to Co
2
and are included in the
total footprint as Co
2
equivalent (Co
2
e).
the results of the footprint calculation are conveyed in the table
overleaf using the deﬁnition of emissions scope supplied by the
greenhouse gas protocol. the previously reported 2007 footprint
data has been recalculated to account for improved accuracy with
carbon conversion factors and also the inclusion of methane and
nitrous oxide that occur in trace amounts during fuel combustion.the
footprint calculation is also given for the 2008 calendar period in order
for emissions reporting to span a coherent passage of time.
reduction in the use of the largest bag, and on asking customers if they
require a bag with their purchases. these reductions fall in line with
the latest government voluntary initiative to reinforce the message to
our customers about only using bags where necessary.
t o supplement the plastic bag reduction, we have continued our range
of reusable shopping bags featuring the “bags don’t grow ontrees”
logo and have sold over 184,000 units.
Transport and Logistics
debenhams’ logistics ﬂeet within the uk and ireland is operated by
dhl. in september 2008, new vehicles and trailers were introduced
to improve the efﬁciency of the logistics ﬂeet further. high cube
trailers are also being employed to reduce the amount of trafﬁc
required to move stock within the dC network.
we are committed to avoiding the use of air transportation whenever
possible.the majority of own bought product is brought into the uk
by sea. having already reduced air freighting to a signiﬁcant degree in
the previous year, in 2009 the amount of product air freighted almost
halved and is now less than 5 per cent.
Print Operations
the debenhams print department is registered to use fsC and pefC
paper to produce certiﬁed printed material.these standards provide
assurance that the timber content of the paper is sourced from a legal
and sustainable source.
last year the print department became the ﬁrst part of the Company
to achieve iso14001: 2004 environmental management system
certiﬁcation. this demanding, internationally recognised standard
ensures that we can be conﬁdent that all the work undertaken by the
department is produced in such a way that the environmental impact
of production is minimised.
Carbon Footprint and Energy Usage
debenhams recognises the ever-growing threat that climate change
presents. we strive to acknowledge and mitigate our greenhouse gas
(ghg) impacts and risks, continually escalating the importance of
sustainability within the business and ensuring that we continue to
succeed in a competitive marketplace.
the environmental consultancy aea was commissioned to provide
a breakdown of carbon emitting activities throughout the business
and to understand how each activity contributes to the overall
carbon footprint. 25
Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
January 2007-december 2007 January 2008-december 2008 september 2008-august 2009
ghg activity Co
2
e Co
2
e Co
2
e
protocol data activity emissions activity emissions activity emissions
emissions source scope units data (tonnes/year) data (tonnes/year) data (tonnes/year)
premises—gas 1 kwh 39,803,690 7,323 48,181,860 8,864 45,963,151 8,456
premises—oil 1 kwh 4,270,709 1,138 3,773,301 1,006 4,281,031 1,141
premises—food services refrigerant 1 kg n/a n/a n/a n/a 219 625
Company car 1 km 2,393,283 487 2,393,283 477 2,393,283 477
logistical transport 1 litres 3,134,896 8,368 3,085,449 8,236 3,038,852 8,112
sub-total 1 17,316 18,583 18,811
premises—electricity 2 kwh 316,337,008 172,144 319,843,280 174,052 304,990,225 165,970
sub-total 2 172,144 174,052 165,970
business travel—flights 3 pkm 7,183,564 903 12,585,881 1,639 9,237,366 1,195
business travel—rail 3 pkm 2,376,585 137 2,322,856 136 1,272,780 73
business travel—ferry 3 pkm 13,592 2 18,240 2 4,008 1
water consumption 3m
3
638,433 176 651,197 180 743,061 205
wastewater 3m
3
n/a n/a 618,637 429 705,908 489
dC waste 3 tonnes n/a n/a n/a n/a 104 63
store waste 3 tonnes n/a n/a n/a n/a 8,038 2,066
sub-total 3 1,218 2,386 4,092
t otal gross all all 190,678 195,021 188,873
t otal net* all all 183,270 147,800 69,843
*once green electricity has been subtracted.
the total carbon footprint for ﬁnancial year 2009 has been
calculated as 188,873 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. it is clear
electricity emissions dominate debenhams’ carbon footprint,
comprising nearly 90 per cent of the total emissions. fossil fuel
(gas and oil) and ﬂeet fuel are the second and third most abundant
sources of carbon emissions as a result of debenhams’ activities,
contributing 5.1 per cent and 4.3 per cent of the emissions
respectively. all remaining sources within the footprint scope
contribute less than 3 per cent of the total footprint.
although a number of assumptions were required to complete certain
datasets, statistical analysis indicates certainty within the overall
footprint calculation is high, with an error margin of just 2 per cent.
at debenhams, our primary focus will always be to reduce our direct
carbon footprint. however, we realise we can only go so far in
reducing our environmental impact before we will need the assistance
of indirect measures.therefore, our strategy involves the purchase of
emissions-free renewable electricity as a means to offset the
environmental impact of our consumption.as a result, this year we have
indirectly reduced our emissions by 119,030 tonnes Co
2
e, representing
a reduction on our gross carbon footprint of 63 per cent.
2007 2008 2008/2009
Co
2
e tonnes deductible
for green electricity (7,408) (47,221) (119,030)
Scope 1—Direct Emissions From Own Sources. scope 1 emissions
encompass a company’s direct ghg emissions that arise from sources
that it owns or controls (e.g. boilers, furnaces, ﬂeet vehicles).
Scope 2—Purchased Electricity (Indirect Emissions). scope 2 ghg
emissions account for energy that is purchased and consumed by the
company. scope 2 emissions physically occur at the facility where the
energy is generated, most commonly at power stations.
Scope 3—Other Indirect Emissions. scope 3 ghg emissions account
for all other indirect emissions that are a consequence of the activities
of the company but that occur from sources that are not owned or
controlled by the company.
when reporting emissions, it is essential to disclose total scope 1
and 2 emissions where possible. at debenhams, we also report our
scope 3 emissions in order to demonstrate our commitment
to environmental reporting and to gain further clarity of our business
impacts on the environment. from the above table, it is clear that
scope 3 emissions are relatively minor in comparison to scope 1 and
2 emissions, which combined total 98 per cent of the footprint.
nevertheless, scope 3 emissions reductions are targeted where it is
feasible to do so. 26
Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Corporate responsibility review
—continued
reporting period.this is determined by the smaller ratio for stationary
emissions against the total premises ﬂoor area.
Conclusions
there is a positive outcome with regards to ongoing carbon
performance within debenhams. emissions did increase slightly over
the 2008 calendar year but activity in the current ﬁnancial year has
remedied this and emissions are now a full 3 per cent lower on a scope-
for-scope basis than when calculated for the 2007 calendar year.this
reduction is largely down to efﬁciency improvements, particularly
within store electricity use and goods transportation by the dhl ﬂeet.
t o complement this encouraging conclusion, the ratio of emissions
per turnover is now less than previous years, indicating tighter control
of carbon emissions in line with Company growth. similarly, energy
efﬁciency for all premises is now greater on the whole than in historic
reporting periods.
Energy Usage
reducing the amount of electricity used in our business is clearly a
key part of our energy strategy given its signiﬁcant contribution to our
carbon footprint.
Stores
a number of stores were identiﬁed last year as having energy usage
above the good practice benchmark. work has been undertaken in
2009 to address this.three of these stores supply electricity to other
third-party stores in the shopping centres in which they are located.
we are taking steps to separate the electricity usage of our own store
from the third-party stores to ensure we can monitor our own
consumption effectively. action plans have been introduced in all other
stores and their energy usage has reduced as a result.
a real success story is the substantial energy efﬁciency improvements
observed when looking at electricity use in stores that had remained
open for an entire year. this provides a much clearer picture of the
real efﬁciency within stores over the various reporting periods, without
skewed ﬁgures resulting from ongoing store openings and closings.
the calculated efﬁciency benchmarks across the three reporting
years are displayed in the table below and these are compared to
established benchmarks.
it is apparent that speciﬁc energy consumption has been steadily
improving and measures well against published benchmarks. in
particular, electricity use in mixed fuel stores betters the existing best
practice benchmark.
best
kwh electricity/m
2
2007 2008 2008/09 practice*
open stores (only electric) 248 239 216 209
open stores (mixed fuel) 197 193 178 194
*taken from Cibse guide f: energy efﬁciency in buildings.
Historical Emissions Comparison
there is a positive outlook with regards to ongoing carbon
performance within debenhams. emissions did increase slightly over
the 2008 calendar year but activity in the 2009 ﬁnancial year remedied
this and emissions were a full 3 per cent lower on a scope-for-scope
basis than when calculated for the 2007 calendar year.this reduction
is largely due to improvements within store electricity usage and
transportation of goods by the dhl ﬂeet.
additionally, through the purchase of electricity on green tariffs, the
total net emissions reduced by 53 per cent in ﬁnancial year 2009 from
2008 levels and by 62 per cent from the 2007 baseline.
in future emissions reporting, the carbon emissions can be compared
against the newly established benchmark ﬁgure for the 2009 ﬁnancial
year.this will provide consistency in emissions reporting and will also
allow for a better analysis of the variation between all emissions scopes
now included.
Emissions Intensity
understanding the context behind ﬂuctuations in emissions can be
assisted by use of emissions intensity ratios. an intensity ratio deﬁnes
the magnitude of emissions in relation to a key variable. by using
intensity ratios, the relative carbon performance can be better
understood in line with ﬂuctuations in core business activities.
the most useful ratios to assist in understanding the basis of emissions
variation are those in relation to turnover, the number of stores in
operation and the total ﬂoor area of buildings. these metrics are
displayed in the table beneath for all reported years.
2007
1
2008
1
2009
2
emissions per £m turnover 82.7 83.5 79.0
scope 1 and 2 emissions per
operational store 1,199 1,182 1,184
stationary emissions/m
2
0.100 0.103 0.098
1 Calendar year.
2 financial year.
when comparing emissions with ﬁnancial performance, it is clear
carbon efﬁciency in 2009 saw a marked improvement on previous
years. this is against a background of turnover growth. it should be
noted that turnover reported for the 2007 and 2008 ﬁnancial years has
been aligned to the calendar year and, therefore, results are indicative.
nevertheless, this analysis provides a good means of making a
comparative assessment and can be improved upon in subsequent
ﬁnancial reporting years.
although emissions rose on an absolute basis in 2008, this
can be partly attributed to an increase in store numbers. in actual fact,
emissions per operational store were the lowest in 2008 calendar
year than the other reported periods. however, efﬁciency of energy
use over all debenhams’ premises was the greatest over the current 27
Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
finding energy efﬁcient lighting solutions for our stores is an
important part of our energy strategy and a number of initiatives are
ongoing. during the past year switching circuits have been rectiﬁed to
allow much more control over lighting, particularly overnight, thereby
contributing to lower electricity usage.
trials are underway of lower wattage tungsten halogen and led
lamps and are progressing well.the jewellery cabinet lighting trial—
designed to reduce the energy consumed and heat generated by these
displays—has been completed and a cost-effective solution will be
rolled out in due course.
New Stores
our target is to reduce the energy usage of new stores by 30 per cent
compared to the total store portfolio.the ﬁve stores opened in 2009
achieved this target with the average energy usage of these stores being
34 per cent lower than that of all stores. new stores are built with
energy efﬁciency in mind, using construction materials wherever
possible which aid energy efﬁciency and installing energy efﬁcient
heating and air conditioning systems. in addition, low energy led
lighting is used wherever possible.
Green Energy
in october 2008, debenhams signed a landmark two-year deal with
scottish power to supply all its uk stores and properties with
electricity provided by wind power. scottish power supplies us with 35
mw of green energy a month which is enough to light and heat
50,000 homes. the power source is the black laws wind farm near
shotts in scotland.
Raising Awareness of Energy Efficiency for Employees
encouraging our employees to take responsibility for their energy
usage both at work and at home is an important way that we can
reduce our impact on the environment.
the storewide energy efﬁciency programme which uses the magazine
style “e!” publication as its principal communication tool continued
to good effect in 2009. the programme rewards both individual
employees and stores for success in energy efﬁciency initiatives. in the
two programmes run during 2009, 80 stores were rewarded in the
winter period and 105 in the summer period.
in 2009, an energy savings newsletter has been distributed in employee
payslips containing, amongst other things, news about the Company’s
energy programmes, tips for energy saving measures at home and
special offers and incentives.
the head ofﬁce energy awareness initiative “do the right thing” is
now in its second year. a competition was held between head ofﬁce
locations to see which could reduce its energy consumption the most,
the winner achieving a 12 per cent reduction.
2010 Energy Usage Projects
based upon our planned projects, the ﬁndings and recommendations
from aea, our focus for 2010 will be:
• replacement lights and lighting controls;
• more efﬁcient refrigerators and dishwashers;
• completing the installation of amr metering; and
• upgrading and networking heating and cooling controls.
References
2009 guidelines to defra/deCC’s ghg Conversion factors for
Company reporting.
Cibse (2004), Cibse guide f: energy efﬁciency in buildings.
wbCsd and wri (2004), greenhouse gas protocol. a Corporate
accounting and reporting standard.
Ethical Trading
Ethical Sourcing
our sourcing strategy is part based on the concept of “right product,
right country”.through this, we endeavour to source products in the
appropriate countries. our commitment remains to ensure our
products are made in ethically compliant factories. our suppliers and
manufacturers are required to adhere to our Code of Conduct and
their compliance is regularly monitored to ensure that everyone
involved in manufacturing products for debenhams can work in a
well-maintained, safe and caring working environment.we believe our
customers have a right to expect every product we sell to be produced
in safe and free environments, compliant with our Code of Conduct,
and that all workers are treated with dignity and not exploited or
discriminated against in any way.
Ethical Trading Initiative
debenhams has been a member of the ethicaltrading initiative (eti)
since 2001. the eti was established in 1989 and is a tri-partite
alliance of companies, non-governmental organisations (such as
oxfam, labour behindthe label and fair labour organisation) and
trade unions (such as the leather and t extile federation). it aims to
improve the lives of workers in global supply chains by promoting
responsible corporate practices that support this goal. the eti
specialises in developing approaches and implementing codes of
practice that address supply chain labour conditions. the eti is
funded by member contributions and a grant from the uk
department of international development. debenhams works with
the eti and is involved in projects such as overtime in China and
decent working practices. 28
Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Corporate responsibility review
—continued
following management’s visits to overseas factories to review
compliance, we continue to send several cartons of new toys as a
donation to several crèche facilities. in 2009 we sent toys to children
in india, China and bangladesh.
Decent Work Project
during the course of 2009 we have engaged with one of our major
suppliers in China in a project with the eti called decent working
practices. this is the ﬁrst time any tri-partite group has successfully
rolled out this pilot project. the eti, wintop of China (our partner
manufacturer), China women’s working network (a hong kong
based ngo), are working together along with union collaboration
from hong kong and academics from the hong kong university.
the main aims of the project are to establish a mechanism for
sustainable labour management dialogue within the factory according
to the practical circumstances of the factory and the expectations of
different parties and to seek ways to improve the work environment
through the mechanism of sustained labour/management dialogue.
the following is a summary of the experience and shared views of the
project so far from the owner ofwintop: “The ETI DecentW ork project
intends to support employers and employees at the factories to design and
build a sustainable mechanism for dialogue within the factories and to
provide continued support after the initial training.The objectives are to
seek ways to improve the work environment through the mechanism of
sustained labour management dialogue and to raise workers’ participation
and awareness for the labour law,occupational health and safety and build
their conﬁdence and ability to solve labour management issues.The progress
of the project up to date is that we have 24 workers who have registered to
become worker representatives and we will soon start to provide appropriate
training for them.I believe the ETI DecentW ork project will beneﬁt both the
workers and the factory,given a better communication between the workers
and the management.It helps to solve problems through employer-employee
discussions and helps the factory to improve the productivity and
management in order to give room for the improvement of working
conditions.At the same time,it helps to strengthen employees’approval and
commitment to the factory, reducing turnover. ”
this project will continue into 2010 and as a pilot project for the
group learnings will be shared amongst eti members, ngos and
unions with further development for continuing projects rolled out,
which we hope to encourage further into our Chinese supply chain.
Purchasing Practices
we believe that one of the best ways to ensure our ethical sourcing
goals are met is to embed them into the purchasing process. otherwise,
as noted in reports by oxfam, Cafod and acona, purchasing practices
can undermine the effectiveness and impact of ethical trading
programmes by inadvertently restricting suppliers’ abilities to uphold
labour standards. by analysing our end-to-end processes in depth,
we were able to make changes to our purchasing practices,
such as critical path management system improvements and staff
training.we have also introduced “expert” training sessions speciﬁcally
on the elements of ethical auditing and pre-factory set up processes,
Factory Approval and Audit
debenhams has continued to develop and strengthen its robust
factory approval process.the level of data collection and analysis for
each factory is now more comprehensive than last year. as part of this
approval process, the submission of an ethical social Compliance
audit, conducted by an internationally recognised third-party
monitoring company, remains. however, the introduction of our
nominated monitoring partner, société générale de surveillance
(sgs), has increased the communication and support for our
suppliers and factories.the speciﬁc audit tool we require sgs to use
for all our audits is called “smeta”.this is recognised by the eti and
ngos and the additional advantages to us are that this tool requires
a standardised approach with set rules, therefore giving us maximum
continuity within our programme.
we do not pass or fail existing factories. instead our approach is to
monitor and maintain standards by working together with our
suppliers and their factories.
the process of identifying non-compliance throughout our supply
chain has again signiﬁcantly improved, allowing us to ﬁlter and reject
as necessary at an earlier stage. no purchase orders can be placed with
a new factory until it has been approved by debenhams’ Compliance
team and a code reference has to be “live” in order to activate an order.
in 2009, we rejected 75 factories from coming into the business for not
meeting our Code of Conduct.
during the year we also had to disengage two suppliers permanently
from the business for continually failing to meet our Code of Conduct.
in addition to introducing new factories, which are fully audited, as
part of supply Chain factory management we continue to review and
deactivate factories that are no longer manufacturing our own buy
product.this has resulted in 446 new factories being brought into the
business and 1,438 factories being deactivated.
our core hub areas account for over three quarters of our business.
the largest two areas are China and india where 77 per cent and 89
per cent of our factories respectively are audited with the remainder
in work-in-progress as part of our ongoing programme.100 per cent
of our factories in bangladesh, the uk andturkey have been audited.
all third-party audits are now unannounced, within a given two week
window, and the number of unannounced visits by debenhams’ senior
management has increased.
as a result of reviewing the audit ﬁndings, corrective action plans are
tracked and monitored within the agreed time scales for remediation.
we work closely with our suppliers to deliver the required actions and
this is supported globally by sgs. an example of this was a seminar
conducted with sgs for our China suppliers in hong kong, which
outlined our audit requirements and provided information on the most
common issues found in China and ways to address them. 29
Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
which all employees can attend. in addition to this, the standard
Company hr induction for all new staff includes a more in-depth
overview of our procedures and requirements.we are also continuing
to run our london College of fashion buying school programme.
in may 2009, further brieﬁng sessions with our buying teams took
place to reiterate our requirements, standards and overall ethical
trading position. part of these training sessions speciﬁcally covered
the importance of purchasing practices and the impact they have on
the workers.
as part of the eti purchasing practice project we are meeting with an
ngo in october 2009 with the eti to engage and discuss our next
steps for further development of our purchasing practices work.
Ethical Products
debenhams operates within a framework of policies relating to the
composition of its products, ranging from animal testing to conﬂict
diamonds. these policies can be found in full on our website
www.debenhamsplc.com.
Customers are increasingly looking for products made from organic
and fairtrade materials and we are meeting this demand by increasing
the number of organic and fairtrade options available in both our
designer and core product collections.
designers at debenhams brand rocha.John rocha is our ﬂagship
brand for the use of organic cotton and includes organic ranges across
all departments in the store including womenswear, menswear,
childrenswear and home. additional organic cotton products were
introduced into these ranges during 2009.
in other brands, organic cotton products include red herringt -shirts
and sleepwear in womenswear, underwear and loungewear in
menswear, babywear in childrenswear and bedding in home. these
ranges have been expanded during 2009.
fairtrade cotton remains strong within menswear with sales increasing
year-on-year under the maine new england fiveg brand. this
perfect combination of sir steve redgrave and fairtrade has offered
customers an exclusive, contemporary casual collection. it is available
in 116 stores across jersey, shirts, denim, knitwear and outerwear.
based on the success of the existing fairtrade ranges, there will be
further expansion into new areas for spring/summer 2010.
in our food services business, all coffee served in debenhams’
restaurants and cafes used douwe egberts good origin coffee
which is certiﬁed by global ngo utz kapeh as being derived from
100 per cent sustainable sources which protect both the interests of
the workers who produce the beans and the environment in which
they are grown. in addition, all tea used is endorsed by the ethical
t ea partnership.we use free range eggs, which resulted in debenhams
being awarded the good egg award by Compassion in world
farming. we also recycle used cooking oil into bio-diesel and use
sandwich wrappers and napkins made from 100 per cent recycled
card/paper. information sheets are available for customers on all our
products providing details of ingredients for allergy or other customer
preference purposes.
W orkplace and Community
Our People
debenhams had an average of 26,800 employees during 2009 (2008
average: 24,200). most of this increase is accounted for by the large
number of new store openings in the second half of 2008 and the ﬁrst
half of 2009. in light of growing unemployment in 2009, we were
pleased to be able to create new jobs around the uk through the
opening of new stores, including some 325 jobs at our new ﬂagship
store at westﬁeld london which opened in october 2008.
labour turnover decreased from 41.7 per cent in 2008 to 29.7 per cent
in 2009, an improvement only to be expected in light of the difﬁcult
economic environment and increasing levels of unemployment although
we have taken some positive steps to increase employee retention.
76 per cent of our employees are female. 28 per cent of our people
have more than ﬁve years’ service, 16 per cent have more than ten
years’ service and 4 per cent have more than 20 years’ service.
debenhams is committed to ensuring that every individual connected
with the Company—whether employee, applicant, customer or other
third party—receives fair and equitable treatment, regardless of their
differences.these include but are not restricted to:
• gender;
• race;
• ethnic or national origin;
• religious, political or philosophical beliefs;
• disability;
• marital or civil partnership status;
• sexual orientation;
• gender reassignment; and
• age.
the policy helps us create a culture of respect and tolerance, a wider
and more diverse talent pool from which we can recruit the best
possible people for our business and supports our corporate
reputation by ensuring we give excellent customer and employee
experience. we recognise that few people would deliberately breach
the policy, however, it is possible to do so unintentionally.we therefore
require everyone to familiarise themselves with its contents. 30
Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Corporate responsibility review
—continued
Store Managers
our highly successful finishing school was launched during 2009 to
help deputy store managers make the ﬁnal step to their ﬁrst
appointment as store manager.
NVQs
during 2009, the romford store undertook a pilot programme in
conjunction with havering College to offer a national vocational
Qualiﬁcation (nvQ) level 2 qualiﬁcation to employees on the sales
ﬂoor and in food services.the debenhams sales advisor competencies
formed the basis for the qualiﬁcation and all 22 candidates achieved
their qualiﬁcation within a six-month period.
a level 2 qualiﬁcation is the equivalent of 5 gCses and as the
majority of those taking place in the trial did not have educational
qualiﬁcations the process has been hugely motivating for the
individuals concerned. a further 28 people are now going through the
training and assessment with one person taking a level 3 (a level
equivalent) nvQ. in terms of results, the absence level for the nvQ
group is running at 2.3 per cent compared to the stores rolling annual
absence of 4.1 per cent.
the programme has been very well received by the participants.tracy
faires of the romford store said: “Achieving NVQ Level 2 has been
nothing but a positive experience for me. It has given me more conﬁdence
and enhanced my current level of training.The NVQ experience has given
me the hunger to learn and develop more from life and work. I am excited
about where my learning will end. ”
as a result of this pilot we have joined forces with skillsmart retail
to run a trial in ten stores across england where the labour market
is challenging. the trial, which commenced in september 2009,
will involve at least 25 people in each store working towards a
level 2 qualiﬁcation.
during the trial we will measure the labour turnover and absence
rates for the trainees versus the store. we believe trial stores will
see increased commitment from staff and higher motivation
levels, particularly from those who may have missed out on other
academic opportunities.
longer term we believe that this qualiﬁcation will support the
development of the potential supervisor population.
Disability Awareness
we are continuing to improve the accessibility of our premises for
employees, customers and visitors.
disability awareness is an important component of the induction
programme for all new store staff and training is given on customer
care for disabled people.
we provide information on accessibility matters relating to our stores
via www.directenquiries.com. this includes information such as:
we are committed to ensuring equality of opportunities for all our
employees. through our equal opportunities policy we aim to create
an environment that offers all employees the chance to use their skills
and talent.
we are committed to supporting all our employees to achieve an
acceptable balance between their work and personal life. where
appropriate, we offer a number of ﬂexible contracts to suit the
different needs of employees. we recognise there are times when an
employee may need to take time off work due to personal situations
and have a number of policies in place to support employees through
such events including maternity, paternity and adoption leave, ﬂexible
working and a career break scheme.
Learning and Development
we have a great reputation for developing our people and providing
opportunities for employees to learn and develop is a crucial factor in
our future success. in the fast moving retail environment employees
need to have a ﬂexible suite of skills.we offer a wide range of training
courses and programmes which encourage individuals to expand their
skills and reach their full potential. Comprehensive competency-based
training programmes are offered to provide clear paths for progression
for those wishing to pursue a career in all our areas of operations. a
dedicated learning and development team works closely with stores
and head ofﬁce to ensure that both the potential and aspirations of
our employees is maximised.
we are closely involved in skills development for the retail sector as a
whole and nikki Zamblera, debenhams’ hr director, is on the board
of skillsmart retail, the government skills sector Council for the
industry, having served two years as vice Chairman.
highlights of the learning and development programme in
2009 include:
Senior Management
a new programme for senior head ofﬁce buyers and merchandisers to
prepare them for promotion to divisional head and senior executive
level was introduced in 2009.
a similar programme was run for our most talented and experienced
store managers to help them develop the skills they will need to
become senior store managers.this is a vitally important programme
as we continue to grow our store portfolio.
Buying and Merchandising
a number of junior and assistant buyers embarked upon “the buying
school” which comprises technical and behavioural modules
including range planning, garment technology, margin and proﬁt,
negotiation skills, making an impact, managing upwards and
presentation and management skills. the buying school also links
back to our corporate responsibility policy by ensuring that our up
and coming buyers are fully versed in our purchasing policies. 31
Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
designated parking spaces; location of accessible entrances; passenger
lift facilities; location of accessible toilet facilities; availability of
personal shopper services; collect-by-car arrangements; and details of
accessible customer collection points.
we are also continuing to develop our website, www.debenhams.com,
to improve accessibility and when considering any change to the
website we go through a process that includes the needs and
considerations of anyone with disabilities.
debenhams welcomes applications for employment from disabled
people. as part of our policy on equality of opportunity, decisions
on recruitment, training, promotion, pay, terms and conditions and
leavers are based solely on objective, job-related criteria and personal
competence and performance.
during the past two years we have reviewed and, where appropriate,
amended all hr policies with support and guidance from the
disability rights Commission. a “disability Champion” has been
appointed in the hr team to ensure our policies and procedures are
in line with both our legal obligations and business needs.
we seek wherever possible to make reasonable adjustments to ensure
that an employee who becomes disabled during the course of his or
her employment is able to continue working effectively.this includes:
providing equipment or altering working arrangements; providing
additional training; reallocating on a temporary or permanent basis
some of the employee’s duties to other members of staff; transferring
the employee to a suitable alternative role; and adjusting working times.
any such adjustment will be monitored and reviewed on a regular
basis to ensure it is continues to be effective.
debenhams is a member of the employers’ forum on disability
which seeks to enable companies to become disability confident by
making it easier to recruit and retain disabled employees and to
serve disabled customers.
Employee Consultation Forum (ECF)
the eCf is a group of elected representatives from all areas of the
business that meets annually with members of the board.the purpose
of these meetings is to allow our employees the opportunity to receive
information about debenhams and to be consulted on certain parts of
our business activities.the representatives elected by stores also meet
during the year on a local basis to discuss regional business issues and
to prepare for the national annual meeting.
Debenhams Retirement Association (DRA)
the dra is a registered charity established to provide help and
support to any of the retired employees in receipt of pension who need
assistance.there are currently over 5,000 pensioners and the charity
keeps in touch with them using a network of pensioner support
ofﬁcers who each cover speciﬁc areas of the uk. helplines are
provided for those in need and funds/grants are available to pensioners
to buy essential items or in emergency circumstances.
the main source of funding is a donation from the Company but
many stores and head ofﬁce departments hold fundraising events for
the dra. during 2009, the second annual fundraising day was held
with stores and head ofﬁce departments running numerous events
including cake sales, book and dvd sales, rafﬂes and dressing up days.
Celebrating Success
with people so critical to our success, we are rigorous in ensuring that
contributions are recognised, large or small. our Celebrating success
policy encourages managers and colleagues to acknowledge the efforts
of others and each year culminates in the annual Celebrating success
awards where the best of the best are honoured for their outstanding
achievement in customer service or behind the scenes.
this year, annual winners from every store and each head ofﬁce
division spent the day relaxing at altont owers before being joined by
the executive directors and other senior managers for an evening of
celebration and recognition.
Health and Safety
nigel palmer, retail operations director, chairs the Company health
and safety committee, which meets quarterly and is made up of
representatives from all areas of the business. the ﬁndings of these
meetings are communicated throughout the business. in addition,
there are interim meetings of a smaller group (also every quarter) on
operational issues.
debenhams employs an environmental health and safety manager,
a food Quality assurance manager and product t echnologists to
manage the application of policies and procedures in general health
and safety, food safety and product safety. in relevant circumstances
the Company also appoints consultants, with appropriate expertise,
to advise on speciﬁc safety related matters.
debenhams has speciﬁc partnership arrangements with two local
authorities; luton borough Council on matters of general health
and safety and westminster Council on matters of food safety and
trading standards.
in addition to the Company committee, every store also has a health
and safety committee.the minutes from these meetings are published
to the store and reviewed by the environmental health and safety
manager. each store also has an elected store safety representative,
who is a member of the committee.
the maintenance of safety standards and the performance of key
health and safety tasks form a major part of the risk management
review. the outcome and remedial actions required after risk
management inspections are followed up by the store manager, sales
director and the risk management team.
debenhams believes that the key to maintaining a safe environment for
both employees and customers is through training on general safety
for all employees when they are initially employed and through a
programme of training on new developments, policies and trends. 32
Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Corporate responsibility review
—continued
Customers
keeping in touch with our customers and understanding what they
think about debenhams is paramount to achieving our goals.two new
initiatives were launched in 2009 to help us do this.
Customer Feedback
a new Customer experience feedback programme was launched in all
stores at the end of June 2009. a message on every till receipt invites
customers to visit a website where they ﬁll in a survey to tell us about
their instore experience. in the ﬁrst two months of the programme
28,000 customers gave us their feedback on every aspect of the
debenhams customer experience.
as well as providing the store manager with a score for how their store
is performing, we capture additional feedback on Company issues
such as store environment, brand reputation and product range.there
is immediate recognition for members of staff providing exceptional
service, and an opportunity for store managers to engage with
dissatisﬁed customers. Customers are also given the opportunity to
opt-in for future marketing promotions and to join the debenhams
design t eam.
whilst 65 per cent of customers were extremely satisﬁed with their
visit to debenhams, and 73 per cent of customers say that we’re better
than other retailers, the programme has identiﬁed some areas for
improvement—in particular store presentation and layout, availability
and food services.
The Design T eam
the design t eam is a group of debenhams shoppers who take part
in online research, also called a customer research community or an
online customer panel.
launched in october 2008, there are now 10,000 members who take
part in regular online surveys, discussion boards and polls, giving
feedback on all aspects of debenhams including products, stores,
service, website and marketing. t o date, the design t eam has
been involved in over 30 projects including the development of
beauty Club, instore ordering, new brand reviews such as women’s
mantaray, bluezoo and rocha.John rocha sonas and new department
developments such as sports and leisure.
the design t eam is fully managed in-house by the Customer and
strategy development team which allows customer feedback to be
generated quickly and cost effectively and therefore gives the customer
a voice in more decisions within debenhams.
design t eam members are encouraged to participate with gift card
prize draws and they enjoy hearing how their feedback is changing
debenhams in regular email newsletters. as one member says:
“By taking part in the Design T eam surveys and helping Debenhams to
meet customer expectations hopefully everyone will be a winner!”
in addition, debenhams recognises the training needs of speciﬁc roles
and accordingly provides bespoke training; training is provided for:
• t echnical service advisors and selling support managers on the
management and supervision of health and safety through
attendance on approved Chartered institute of environmental
health courses;
• food services sales managers through intermediate food hygiene
courses and in-house training on the principles of haCCp and its
implementation in debenhams food operations;
• all food handlers on basic food safety—a computer based
programme accredited by the riph;
• t echnical services advisors on basic electrical competence
delivered by the institute of electrical engineers;
• basic electrical safety for employees working in the lighting
department;
• those working in the loading bay on safety considerations
associated with their work environment; and
• the loss prevention teams on conﬂict resolution, restraint and
personal safety.
as part of the major own bought space expansion that took place in the
second half of the year, signiﬁcant emphasis was placed on providing
the correct information, instruction and training for stores to enable
them to properly prepare for the project.
debenhams records and reviews its performance in relation to the
number and nature of the accidents reportable to enforcement
authorities. despite the expanding size of the business, and therefore
the increasing customer footfall in the Company’s premises each year
(in excess of 15 million), the results set out below continue to
demonstrate an encouragingly low level of reportable accidents.
Accidents Statistics for Customers and Staff
07
108
25
09
85
27
08
111
44
Staff
Customers 33
Section 2 the business Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Community
Community Projects
through its stores, debenhams is involved in a wide range of local
projects which help to provide direct support for the communities we
are part of.
for several years we have been involved with local projects through
business in the Community (bitC) and scottish business in the
Community (sbitC). as a result of this initiative, the opening
programme for a new store now includes a team building event for
the store management team which beneﬁts local people and helps the
team to recognise and start to understand the speciﬁc needs and issues
of their own local community.
for example, a project took place ahead of the opening of the great
yarmouth store in october where over 60 members of the new team
took part in a beach clean onyarmouth beach in conjunction with the
marine Conservation society.after a day’s hard cleaning, the team then
enjoyed the yarmouth beach olympics. the event was so successful
that the store will be repeating it to celebrate its ﬁrst anniversary.
in 2009, we have been working with home-start trafford, a charity
based in trafford, manchester which helps local families going
through difﬁcult times. home-start recruits and trains volunteers who
provide support, friendship and practical help in the families’ own
home.the charity needed help in establishing a clear strategy and its
scheme manager has requested outside mentoring support. nicola
debney, debenhams’ learning and development manager, debbie
Curran, senior store manager for ourtrafford park store, and Janine
allen, regional training manager, have supported the organisation
in a number of ways. nicola facilitated a strategy day for home-start’s
board and helped it to develop its future plan. debbie is acting as
mentor to scheme manager kathryn eckersley and Janine is helping
kathryn to prepare development plans for both herself and her team.
Getting People Back toWork
as a large employer, we are keen to ensure employment opportunities
are made available to all sections of the community, including those
who have been out of employment for some time. one of the ways we
do this is through our involvement with local employment
partnerships (lep) which were set up by the government in 2007
with the aim of raising the employment rate and reducing the number
of working people dependent on beneﬁts. a key part of the lep
scheme is the “Jobs pledge” through which employers work to offer
opportunities to people who are at a disadvantage in the labour
market—such as lone parents or those on incapacity beneﬁt—so long
as they engage with the support available and are ready, willing and
able to work. support is provided by agencies including Jobcentre plus
and the learning and skills Council.
t o date debenhams has employed over 150 people through lep
schemes. the schemes are particularly important at the time of new
store openings. one region where lep has been particularly
successful is north wales with the stores in bangor, llandudno and
wrexham leading the way. having already been recognised for their
work in this area in 2008, debenhams north wales won the
recruitment innovation award at the 2009 lep awards. the award
citation detailed how we have developed novel ways to ﬁnd new talent
in the community and retain employees. store manager peter rodgers
said: “The LEP has helped us reach the job market in a way that wouldn’t
be possible with traditional recruitment methods.We’ve found so many
great employees.We don’t favour these candidates, we just take away the
unfair disadvantages. ”
debenhams was runner-up in the getting backt owork award which
focused on James mcgreachan, one of the employees who has joined
us as a result of the lep in north wales.
Charities
debenhams is a strong supporter of charities at both a national and
local level.
one of our key national charities is the breast Cancer Campaign
which we have supported for a number of years, raising
nearly £2 million to date through the sale of special products and
instore events.
our clothing brand mantaray is a proud supporter of the marine
Conservation society (mCs). our support for the mCs’s work for
clean seas, sustainable ﬁsheries and protected sea life is not just
ﬁnancial. we are also helping in more practical ways by encouraging
employees and customers to take part in voluntary beach cleans and
surveys, helping to clear the uk’s beaches of the tide of litter currently
endangering the life of coastal wildlife such as seabirds, dolphins,
porpoises and marine turtles.
other charities we have supported in 2009 include the nspCC and
its irish equivalent ispCC, devon and warwickshire wildlife trusts,
Children’s hospice association, Children first, running the deep
and muscular dystrophy eire.
stores nominate local charities to receive the proceeds of events linked
to the arrival of santa instore for Christmas.
our head ofﬁce in t aunton supports a wide range of local charities
and in 2009 these included local schools, sports clubs, animal charities,
children’s homes, old people’s homes, hospitals, hospices and medical
charities as well as supporting the charitable undertakings of individual
members of staff. 789
123
6 5 4

Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
The Board 
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
5 Paul Pindar*
†
Independent Non-Executive Director (50)
Paul Pindar became a director of the Company in april 2006 and was
appointed Senior Independent non-executive director in april 2009.
he is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee. he has been
Chief executive of The Capita Group plc since 1999 having joined
Capita in 1987. he is currently Chairman of the Corporate
development Board for the Great ormond Street hospital.
6 Adam Crozier
• †
Independent Non-Executive Director (45)
adam Crozier became a director of the Company in april 2006 and
was appointed Chairman of the remuneration Committee in april
2009. Mr Crozier is currently Chief executive of royal Mail holdings
plc and a non-executive director of Camelot Group plc. Previously he
was Chief executive of the Football association Limited and has held
a number of senior positions at Saatchi & Saatchi UK including Joint
Chief executive.
7 Martina King
•
Independent Non-Executive Director (48)
Martina King joined the Company on 1 august 2009. Ms King
is currently a non-executive director of Capita Group Plc, Independent
Media distribution Plc and Johnston Press Plc. her former
appointments include Managing director, europe of Yahoo Limited
and Sales director and then Managing director of Capital radio. Ms
King is also a trustee of Coram and Governor of Woodbridge School.
8 Dennis Millard
• †
*
Independent Non-Executive Director (60)
dennis Millard became a director of the Company in april 2006 and
is Chairman of the audit Committee. Mr Millard is also Chairman of
halfords Group plc and Smiths News plc and a non-executive director
of Xchanging UK Limited and Premier Farnell plc. his former
appointments include Group Finance director of Cookson Group plc,
Finance director of Medeva plc and non-executive director of exel
plc, arc International and eaG Ltd. Mr Millard is a member of the
South african Institute of Chartered accountants.
9 Sophie Turner Laing
†
Independent Non-Executive Director (49)
Sophie Turner Laing joined the Company on 1 august 2009. She is
currently Managing director, entertainment and News at British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. In addition, she is a trustee of BaFTa and
a governor of the National Film & TV School. her previous roles
include Controller, Programme acquisition at the BBC and Vice-
President, Broadcasting at Flextech (now Virgin Media T elevision).
Ms Turner Laing was also Co-founder and Managing director of
hiT entertainment.
• Member of the audit Committee
* Member of the Nomination Committee
† Member of the remuneration Committee
1 John Lovering*
Chairman (60)
John Lovering has been the Chairman of the Company since May
2006. Prior to the IPo in May 2006 he was Chairman of debenhams
Limited having been appointed in december 200. Mr Lovering is a
former Chairman of Fitness First Limited, the Laurel Pub Company
Limited, odeon Limited, homebase Group Limited, Fired earth
Limited, the Peacock Group, Somerﬁeld Limited and Birthdays
Group Limited. he was also previously Chief operating ofﬁcer of
T armac Limited, Finance director of Sears Limited and Vice
Chairman of Barclays Capital.
2 Rob Templeman
Chief Executive (52)
rob T empleman became Chief executive of the Company in May
2006. Prior to the IPo he was Chief executive of debenhams Limited
having been appointed in december 200. Previously MrT empleman
was Chief executive and subsequently Chairman of halfords Group
plc, Chief executive ofﬁcer of homebase Group plc and Chief
executive ofﬁcer of harveys Furnishing plc.
3 Michael Sharp
Deputy Chief Executive (52)
Michael Sharp was appointed deputy Chief executive in November
2008 having previously held the post of Chief operating ofﬁcer since
May 2006. From 1997 to 200, Mr Sharp was Trading director of
debenhams Limited and from January 200 to May 2006 was Chief
operating ofﬁcer of debenhams Limited. he previously worked in
various capacities within the Burton Group, including as Managing
director of Principles and racing Green and Buying and
Merchandising director of T opshop and T opman.
4 Chris Woodhouse
Finance Director (48)
Chris Woodhouse has been the Finance director of the Company
since May 2006. Prior to the IPo in May 2006 he was Finance
director of debenhams Limited having been appointed in december
200. MrWoodhouse is currently Group non-executive Chairman of
Gondola Group Limited. he was previously deputy Chairman of
halfords Group and Commercial director and deputy Chief
executive at homebase Group. he is a former Finance director of
Birthdays Group and Superdrug Stores. MrWoodhouse is a Fellow of
the Institute of Chartered accountants in england and Wales and an
associate of the association of Corporate Treasurers. 6
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
PrINCIPaL BUSINeSS rISKS
aNd UNCerTaINTIeS
rISK
reduction in gross transaction value and a decline
in sales on discretionary purchases
• Strategic business reviews conducted
• Business focused on key priorities and costs
• Brand awareness programme strengthened
• Growth through new stores, developing strong targeted power brands,
accelerating development of our multi-channel offer and developing
international opportunities with franchise partners
IMPaCT eXaMPLeS oF MITIGaTIoN
Consistent fall in
customer spending
as a result of economic
downturn, inﬂation
or deﬂation
Loss of market share, customer loyalty, reduction in
gross transaction value and a decline in sales on
discretionary purchases
• range of discrete media used to target speciﬁc segments of the market
• Brand awareness programme strengthened
• effectiveness measured regularly by management through key
performance indicators
Ineffective brand
awareness and marketing
programmes
reduced growth or a decline in gross transaction
value and may be required to write down the value of
any stock acquired for sale in an uncompleted store
• research of key markets and demographics
• Cost beneﬁt analysis conducted pre-investment
• Market and trend awareness
• Thorough end-to-end management of project
• drive growth through new space and improved visual merchandising
Failure to develop and
implement new store
roll out successfully
REPUTATIONAL RISK
Negative effect on reputation leading to loss of
stakeholder trust and conﬁdence, with subsequent
impact on performance and results
• active member of ethical Trading Initiative (eTI) and expect all
suppliers to follow the eTI base code
• excellent supplier relationships maintained to ensure ethical sourcing
• executive body, who form the CSr committee, works on the key objectives
for the organisation in this area (i.e.Waste electrical and electronic
equipment (Weee), reducing energy usage and transportation costs)
• Membership of key industry bodies to provide awareness of changes to
standards and legislation
• Code of Business Conduct Policy in place and compliance noted
• Whistleblowing policy in place
Failure of ethical
trading policy or poor
perception in the
market on Corporate
Social responsibility
(CSr) matters
Material adverse effect on the ability to attract
and retain third-party brands, suppliers, designers,
concessionaires and franchisees with subsequent
impact on performance and results
• Quality assurance process in place to ensure the integrity of own
bought products
• active member of ethical Trading Initiative (eTI) and expect all
suppliers to follow the eTI base code
• excellent supplier relationships maintained to ensure ethical sourcing
and compliance
• executive body, who form the CSr committee, works on the key objectives
for the organisation in this area (i.e.Weee, reducing energy usage and
transportation costs)
• Membership of key industry bodies to provide awareness of changes to
standards and legislation
• executive health and Safety committee who works to review compliance
for organisation in this area
• Code of Business Conduct Policy in place and compliance noted
Negative impact to
brand due to product
quality, supply chain
practices, health and
Safety, etc
Introduction
The board has overall responsibility for risk management and internal control in terms of achieving debenhams’ objectives.This is carried out
through a regular and systematic assessment of the risks facing the business in order to provide assurance that strategic targets can be met.The
board is responsible for the Company’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.The details of this process can be found within the section titled “Internal Control” in the Corporate Governance section
of this annual report on page .
Statements made in the annual report that look forward in time or express management’s beliefs, expectations or estimates regarding future
occurrences or prospects are “forward-looking statements”. These forward-looking statements reﬂect debenhams’ current expectations
concerning future results and actual results may differ materially from current expectations or historical results. any such forward-looking
statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Both external factors, such as the economic environment, and internal factors, such
as the retention of key management, are included in the risks and uncertainties that could substantially impact performance. Whilst it is not
possible to list them all, the key risks in no particular order, as determined by the board, their impact and relevant mitigation are detailed in the
table below.
STRATEGIC RISK 7
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
rISK IMPaCT eXaMPLeS oF MITIGaTIoN
PRODUCT RISK
GTV will be lower, market share reduced and forced
to rely on markdowns and sales to dispose of excess
or slow moving inventory or inventory shortfalls on
popular merchandise
• Market, trend and customer awareness
• excellent supplier relationships maintained to work towards optimising fulﬁlment
• Close management of slow moving/terminal stocks
• Focus on and improve stock ﬁle accuracy
• high operational standards in stores
• effectiveness measured regularly by management through key
performance indicators
Inability to predict or
fulﬁl customer demands
or preferences
Place pressure on our pricing strategy, margins
and proﬁtability
• Promotional activity and implementation reviews
• Product differentiation through “design in every department”
• Listening to customers and market intelligence
• effectiveness measured regularly by management through key
performance indicators
Competitive pressures
in existing markets
inﬂuencing customer
behaviour
FINANCIAL RISK
hinder ability to adjust rapidly to changing market
conditions and impact earnings and cash ﬂow
hedging strategy may not adequately protect
operating results from the impact of exchange rate
ﬂuctuations or may limit any beneﬁt caused by
favourable movements in exchange rates
May affect available cash and liquidity and could have
material effect on the business, results of operations
and ﬁnancial condition
• Treasury function in place which is mandated by the board and
audited annually
• Treasury policy in place which includes counterparty limits and hedging
for both foreign exchange, interest rates and energy
• deleverage balance sheet
• excellent supplier relationships maintained to work towards optimising costs
• Close management of costs, capital investment, cash ﬂow, stocks, banks, debtors
and creditors
• effectiveness measured regularly by management through key
performance indicators
The risks associated
with currency, hedging,
interest rates, credit,
counterparties and
ﬁnancial covenant under
the credit facilities
Increases in pension related liabilities could impact
proﬁt and cash ﬂow
• Trustees carefully monitor the pension fund and adjust the investment strategy
appropriately with any shortfall being brought to the board’s attention
Shortfall in the
pension fund
OPERATIONAL RISK
divert ﬁnancial and management resources from
more beneﬁcial uses and signiﬁcantly damage ability
to manage information technology systems
• Cost beneﬁt analysis conducted pre-investment
• Project assurance framework in place for all key projects undertaken
• Steering committees monitor all key areas involved in project
Failure to deliver a
business critical project
Signiﬁcant alterations in rental terms could have a
material adverse effect on the business, as would
failure to resecure desirable locations
disputes over modernisation of stores may lead to
reinstatement costs being incurred and termination
of leases may lead to dilapidation costs being incurred
Failure to manage asbestos in speciﬁc properties
may lead to ﬁnes or other liabilities affecting
debenhams’ reputation and the full or partial
closure of such properties
• Property team liaises closely with landlords
• Close management of renegotiation and modernisation processes
• Cost beneﬁt analysis conducted for modernisations pre-investment
• awareness of market rates and trends
• Membership of key industry bodies to provide awareness of
changes to standards and legislation
risks associated with
leasehold properties,
or former properties for
which debenhams may
have potential liabilities
in the event of default
by the current tenant 8
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
PrINCIPaL BUSINeSS rISKS aNd UNCerTaINTIeS
—continued
rISK IMPaCT eXaMPLeS oF MITIGaTIoN
HAZARD
adverse effect on inventory and gross transaction
value and will also divert ﬁnancial and management
resources from more beneﬁcial uses
In the case of terrorism, customer conﬁdence may
also be impacted
• executive body, forming the business continuity committee, works on key
objectives for the organisation in this area
• Business continuity plan in place for the organisation
• executive health and Safety committee works to review compliance for
organisation in this area
• Internal audits conducted to assess the degree of health and Safety compliance
• regulatory/legal changes are monitored through specialists i.e.T ax, hr, Legal,
and International
• Insurance placed where appropriate for key risks
Loss of business or
additional expenditure
caused by terrorism,
increased energy costs,
natural disaster,
pandemics or tax/
regulatory changes
Costs associated with the transfer of the operations,
potential of additional operational cost from a
new provider
Changes in exclusivity arrangements with designers
could affect business ﬁnancial condition and results
of operations, any decline in popularity of one or
more of the designers could have a material adverse
impact on the business
Loss of a number of important concession partners
may have an adverse effect on gross transaction value
adverse events within the supply chain could
restrict the availability or signiﬁcantly increase the
cost of merchandise
Credit insurance difﬁculties for a signiﬁcant number of
suppliers could lead to a detrimental variation of terms
or alternative suppliers used to source some goods
• Maintain excellent supplier relationships to work towards optimising
fulﬁlment and costs
• Maintain excellent designer relationships
• Market, trend and customer awareness
• appropriate contracts in place
• Financial status monitored and contingency plan in place
• Grow own bought merchandise
• Maintain excellent supplier relationships to work towards optimising
fulﬁlment and costs
• development of multiple sourcing routes
• Promote business strategy to suppliers and their providers of ﬁnancial backing
disruptions or other
adverse events affecting
relationships with or the
performance of major
suppliers, store card
providers, designers
or concessionaires
Materially adversely affect gross transaction value and
may be required to write down the value of any stock
acquired for sale during this period
• Maintain excellent supplier relationships to work towards optimising
fulﬁlment, lead times and costs
abnormal, severe
or unseasonal
weather conditions
PERSONNEL RISK
Signiﬁcantly delay or prevent achievement of
business plan
• Succession planning throughout the organisation
• Personal development plans in place
• T argeted performance related bonus schemes
• PSP and eSoP schemes in place
departure of
key personnel
Injury or loss of life to staff or customers
Negative effect on reputation and will divert ﬁnancial
and management resources from more beneﬁcial use
• executive health and Safety committee works to review compliance
for organisation in this area
• high operating standards in stores and head ofﬁce
• Quality assurance process in place to ensure the integrity of own
bought products
Personal injury or
property damage
relating to a major
debenhams or
supplier location
Negative effect on reputation leading to loss of
stakeholder trust and conﬁdence, with subsequent
impact on performance and results and will also
divert ﬁnancial and management resources from
more beneﬁcial use
• Information Security committee reviews projects and key activities for
compliance in this area
• Compliance levels monitored by management and reported to audit Committee
• Strategy for full compliance in place
• Security tools (i.e. encryption) used to protect data
Theft of customer data
or breach of payment
card industry data
security standards
Negative effect on reputation and will divert ﬁnancial
and management resources from more beneﬁcial uses
• accounting policies and other procedures/controls in place which are
subject to audit activity
• Code of Business Conduct Policy in place and compliance for
management noted
• Whistleblowing policy in place
• Prevention, control and monitoring activities undertaken
• risk Management investigates issues and report ﬁndings to the audit Committee
Fraud 9
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
dIreCTorS’ rePorT
Principal Activities
debenhams is a leading department store group with a strong presence in womenswear, menswear, home, health and beauty, accessories,
lingerie and childrenswear. a unique mix of exclusive own brands, including designers at debenhams, and third-party brands helps differentiate
debenhams from its competitors.
debenhams had 1 stores including ten desire by debenhams stores, across the UK and Ireland with approximately 11.0 million sq ft of
trading space and some 28,000 employees as at 29 august 2009.
In addition, debenhams has 2 international franchise stores in 17 countries outside the UK and Ireland. debenhams also extends its customer
reach by making direct sales through its internet website www.debenhams.com.
Business Review
This review has been prepared in accordance with the Companies act 2006 which requires the Company to set out in this report a fair
review of the business of the Group during the ﬁnancial year ended 29 august 2009, including an analysis of the position of the Group at the
end of the ﬁnancial year and the trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the business.
The purpose of the Business review is to enable shareholders to assess how the directors have performed their duty under section 172 of the
Companies act 2006.
The contents of this directors’ report, together with the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief executive’s review, the Finance director’s review,
the Corporate responsibility review which can be found on pages  to , Principal Business risks and Uncertainties on pages 6 to 8, the
remuneration report on pages 7 to  and the directors’ responsibility Statement on page  constitute the Business review and are
therefore incorporated into this report by reference. any liability is restricted to the extent prescribed by the Companies act 2006.
Events Since the Y ear End
Since the year end debenhams has opened two desire by debenhams stores, one in Kidderminster and one in Monks Cross.
Proﬁt and Dividends
The proﬁt after tax for the ﬁnancial year ending 29 august 2009 was £9.1 million (2008: £77.1 million).The board did not declare an interim
dividend (2008: 2. pence per share) and has not proposed a ﬁnal dividend for 2009 (2008: 0. pence per share).
Share Capital
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in note 27 to the Financial Statements on pages 86 and 87. on 2 June
2009, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased from £128,86.1 to £167,28.82 in connection with the placing and open
offer, the details of which were set out in the prospectus published on  June 2009. as a result of the approval of the placing and open offer on
2 June 2009, 0,981,28 ordinary shares of 0.01 pence per share were issued on 26 June 2009.
Major Shareholders
as at 22 october 2009, debenhams plc has received notiﬁcation of the following signiﬁcant holdings of voting rights pursuant to the disclosure
and Transparency rules:
Issued share
Number of capital
Shareholder shares %
artemis Investment Management Ltd 128,099,72 9.9
TPG Group 120,220,261 9.
Bestinver Gestion S.a. SGIIC 108,762,96 8.
Milestone resources Group Ltd 89,18,1 6.9
Standard Life Investments Ltd 77,9,99 6.02
aXa S.a. 6,829,98 .96
Legal & General Group plc 2,07,7 .27 0
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
dIreCTorS’ rePorT
—continued
Share Capital and Control
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in note 27 to the Financial Statements on pages 86 and 87 and consist of
ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each. all the shares rank pari passu.The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, in
addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Company’s articles of association, a copy of which can be obtained by
writing to the Company Secretary. The Company was authorised by shareholders at the January 2009 annual General Meeting (aGM) to
purchase in the market up to 87,77,02 ordinary shares. although this authority was not utilised by the Company during the last ﬁnancial
year, approval will be sought from shareholders at the forthcoming aGM to renew this standard authority for a further year. It is the Company’s
present intention, should shares be bought back, for them to be cancelled or retained in treasury pending a subsequent sale, cancellation or
transfer.The Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.The Company will only buy back shares if the directors believe that it
is in shareholders’ best interests and will increase earnings per share.
Changes to the articles of association must be approved by special resolution of the Company. New articles are being proposed at this year’s
aGM to reﬂect principally the changes imposed by the Companies (Shareholders’ rights) regulations 2009 and the Companies act 2006.
explanatory notes relating to these changes are included in the appendix to the Notice of Meeting that accompanies this report.
The debenhams retail employee Trust 200 holds 1,1,6 ordinary shares in the Company (0.11 per cent); any voting or other similar
decisions relating to those shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendations of the Company.
There are no signiﬁcant agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of
the Company except that the supplier agreements with major cosmetic suppliers contain termination provisions on change of control and the
Credit agreement dated 19 april 2006 (as amended by supplemental agreements dated 28 November 2007 and  June 2009) in respect of the
£1,0 million credit facility contains mandatory pre-payment.There are no agreements providing for compensation for directors or employees
on change of control. details concerning the impact on share options and share awards held by directors or employees in the event of a change
of control are set out on page 0 of the remuneration report.
Essential Contracts
debenhams has contractual arrangements with many organisations but no one contract is so material as to be essential to our business with
the exception of our warehouse operators.
Board of Directors
The membership of the board and biographical details of the directors are given on pages  and  and are incorporated into this report by
reference.The rules governing the appointment and replacement of the board members are set out in the Company’s articles of association.
Directors’ Indemnities
In addition to the indemnity provisions in their articles of association, the Company and other Group companies have entered into a direct
indemnity agreement with each of the directors and certain other ofﬁcers or senior employees of the Group. The Company also maintains
directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action that may be brought against its directors.
Directors’ Interests
The beneﬁcial and non-beneﬁcial interests of the directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Company are shown on page 2
of the remuneration report.Their interests in options and awards over shares in the Company are shown on page  of the same report.
No director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of signiﬁcance in relation to the Group’s business.
Payment of Suppliers
It is the Company’s policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the agreed payment terms provided that the invoice is properly presented and
not subject to dispute.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts owed by the Company to trade creditors at the end of the year and the amounts invoiced
by suppliers in the ﬁnancial year ended 29 august 2009 was nil days (2008: nil days).The ratio, expressed in days between the amounts owed
by the Group to trade creditors and the amount invoiced by suppliers in the ﬁnancial year ended 29 august 2009 was 7 days (2008: 8 days).
Financial Instruments
debenhams does not enter into ﬁnancial instruments for speculative trade. details of ﬁnancial instruments entered into for underlying risks
are set out in note 22 on pages 78 to 81.
Political Donations
It is the Group’s policy not to make donations to political parties.There were no disclosable expenses made during the ﬁnancial year which fall
within the deﬁnition of a political donation under the Political Parties, elections and referendums act 2000. 1
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Charitable Giving
details of the Company’s charitable activities are given in the Corporate responsibility review on page .The Group made direct donations
for charitable purposes in the ﬁnancial year of £12,906 to the Breast Cancer Campaign (2008: £122,628), £210,81 to the NSPCC
(2008: £nil), £6, to the debenhams retirement association (2008: £60,000) and £10,000 to the Marine Conservation Society
(2008: £10,000).
Going Concern
after making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance Statement
In accordance with the Financial Services authority’s disclosure and Transparency rule (“dTr”) 7.2.1, the disclosures required by dTr
7.2.2r to dTr 7.2.7 are within the Corporate Governance review on pages 2 to 6 of this report which is incorporated into this report
by reference.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors
each of the directors of the Company at the time when this directors’ report was approved conﬁrms that:
a) so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed by the Company’s auditors in connection with preparing their report of which
the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
b) s/he has taken all the steps that s/he ought to have taken as a director in order to make him/herself aware of any information needed by the
Company’s auditors in connection with preparing the report and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in ofﬁce and a resolution dealing with their reappointment as auditors
of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming aGM.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The aGM of debenhams plc will be held at holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2a 1PB on Tuesday 12 January 2010
at 2pm.The Notice is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
By order of the board
PAuL EARDLEY
Company Secretary
22 october 2009 2
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
CorPoraTe GoVerNaNCe
In accordance with the Listing rules of the UK Listing authority, the Company conﬁrms that at 29 august 2009 and as at the date of this annual
report, it was compliant with the provisions of and has applied the principles as set out in the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance
(“the Code”) issued by the Financial reporting Council.The Company also conﬁrms that it was compliant throughout the year except for Code
Provision a..2 which requires that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors. at
the start of the year the board comprised the Chairman, four executive directors, ﬁve independent non-executives and two non-independent
non-executives. Following the departure of angela Spindler as Managing director on 0 November 2008 there remained three executive
directors. richard Gillingwater resigned from the board on 16 april 2009 reducing the number of independent non-executives to four. on
 June 2009, Jonathan Feuer and Philippe Costeletos, the two non-independent non-executive directors resigned from the board. Since
1 august this year, following the resignation of Peter Long and the appointment of Martina King and SophieTurner Laing, the board comprises
the Chairman, ﬁve independent non-executive directors and three executive directors.The board is conﬁdent that it has the right balance of
skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business, that no individual dominates the decision making and that the board
operated effectively throughout the year and continues to do so.
The following section sets out how the Company has applied the principles of Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board
The board of directors, chaired by John Lovering, provides leadership of the Group directly and through the operation of committees and
delegated authority. In accordance with good practice there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the board’s decision and this can
be found on the Company’s website www.debenhamsplc.com. There are clear divisions of responsibilities between the Chairman and
the Chief executive and these are set out in writing and agreed by the board.The description of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman
and Chief executive is also available on www.debenhamsplc.com. The Chairman’s main responsibilities are to lead the board, ensuring its
effectiveness on all aspects, to facilitate the contribution of the non-executive directors and the relationship between them and the executive
directors and to set the board’s agenda.The day-to-day management of the Group is the responsibility of the Chief executive.
The executive directors are rob T empleman (Chief executive), Michael Sharp (deputy Chief executive—having been appointed to the
position in November 2008) and Chris Woodhouse (Finance director). rob T empleman will stand for re-election, in accordance with the
provisions of the Code, at the 2010 annual General Meeting (aGM).
The ﬁve independent non-executive directors are Paul Pindar (Senior Independent director), adam Crozier, dennis Millard, Martina King
and Sophie Turner Laing. In accordance with the Code, Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing who were appointed non-executives during
the year will be subject to election by shareholders at their ﬁrst aGM in 2010 along with dennis Millard who will offer himself for re-election.
all the non-executive directors are considered by the board to be independent and free from any relationship or circumstances that could
affect their independent judgement.
The following details the changes to the board composition since 0 august 2008:
Michael Sharp executive director Promoted to deputy Chief executive on  November 2008
angela Spindler executive director resigned 0 November 2008
richard Gillingwater Senior Independent director resigned 16 april 2009
Jonathan Feuer Non-executive director resigned  June 2009
Philippe Costeletos Non-executive director resigned  June 2009
Peter Long Non-executive director resigned 1 august 2009
Martina King Non-executive director appointed 1 august 2009
Sophie Turner Laing Non-executive director appointed 1 august 2009
In addition to the directors, board meetings are attended by Nigel Palmer (retail operations director), Nikki Zamblera (human resources
director), Suzanne harlow (Group Trading director) and Paul eardley (Company Secretary and General Counsel). Suzanne harlow was
appointed to the position of Group Trading director in November 2008 and is responsible for all of the buying and merchandising functions
of the Group.
Meetings and Attendance
Full attendance is expected at all meetings of the board and its committees. agendas are set by the chairman of the meeting and papers are
usually circulated to the members one week in advance.The board held six meetings during 2008/09 as well as a number of ad hoc meetings
and committee meetings held in connection with the placing and open offer. 
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
The attendance by individual directors at scheduled meetings of the board and its committees in 2008/09 was as follows:
Nomination remuneration audit
Board meeting Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 6133
John Lovering 61
rob T empleman 6
Michael Sharp 6
Chris Woodhouse 6
adam Crozier 22
Martina King
(1)
Sophie Turner Laing
(1)
dennis Millard 61
Paul Pindar 12
Note: (1) Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing were both appointed to the board on 1 august 2009.There were no board or Committee meetings held during the period from their date of
appointment to 29 august 2009.
Where directors have not been able to attend meetings due to conﬂicts in their schedule, they receive and read the papers for consideration at
that meeting and if necessary follow up with the relevant chairman of the meeting.
Board Committees
The board committees are the audit, remuneration and Nomination Committees.The terms of reference of each committee can be found at
www.debenhamsplc.com.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Paul Pindar.The other members are John Lovering and dennis Millard.The committee is responsible
for making appropriate recommendations to the board for the appointment of replacement or additional directors. It is also responsible for
succession planning, for reviewing board size, structure and composition, the re-election of any director by shareholders, directors’ time
commitment and for monitoring and approving the directors’ conﬂicts of interest.
on 7 July 2009, the appointment of two new non-executive directors was announced.The Nomination Committee identiﬁed possible candidates
for these non-executive positions with the aid of external search consultants. The Chairman met a number of potential candidates before
recommending a shortlist to the Chairman of the Nomination Committee. Following further discussion Martina King and Sophie Turner
Laing were appointed, effective from 1 august 2009. Before the appointment Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing had met several other
members of the board.There is a full induction process in place for the new directors that aims to enable them to make a full contribution to
board discussions and refresh their knowledge on corporate governance and compliance.
The Remuneration Committee
The Committee’s membership and responsibilities are detailed within the remuneration report on pages 7 to .
The Audit Committee
The board has overall responsibility for the system of internal controls, including risk management, and has delegated certain of these
responsibilities to the audit Committee, which is chaired by dennis Millard who has signiﬁcant, recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience.The
other members are adam Crozier and Martina King. all the members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors. audit
Committee meetings are also attended by the Finance director, the Company Secretary, the head of risk Management, the external auditors
and the Treasurer. In addition to the meetings set out in the attendance table above, the Committee met with the Company’s auditors and the
head of risk Management separately without any executives being present.
during the year the Committee has monitored and reviewed the efﬁciency of risk management and internal control, considered the external
auditors’ performance, resource, independence and objectivity to enable them to recommend to the board their re-election as auditors for
2009, reviewed the ﬁnancial statements, key accounting policies, the auditors’ report on the year-end audit and management’s responses to the
issues.The internal audit programme and the external audit strategy and scope for 2009 were also agreed and approved.Treasury, legal and
health and safety reports are presented to each meeting. The Chairman of the Committee reports any signiﬁcant ﬁndings or identiﬁed
weaknesses to the board. 
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
CorPoraTe GoVerNaNCe
—continued
Information and Professional Development
The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, ensures that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information. at each board
meeting the Chief executive and deputy Chief executive each provide a review of the business and how it is performing and the Finance
director provides a detailed review of the Group’s ﬁnancial performance. In addition, the board receives presentations from other senior
management on key areas of the business.The Company makes available the necessary resources to develop and update its directors’ knowledge
and skills in order that they may perform the functions required of a director of a listed company. all directors have access to the advice and
services of the Company Secretary, who is appointed by, and can only be removed by, the board.The Company Secretary ensures compliance
with board processes and gives advice on corporate governance. Independent professional advice is also available to the non-executive directors
and the board committees at the Company’s expense in order to fulﬁl their duties. None of the directors sought such advice during the year.
debenhams provides insurance cover and indemnities for its directors and ofﬁcers.
Performance Evaluation
a formal evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees, the individual directors and the Chairman was conducted during the year
in order to review past performance and to develop future performance.The performance of the internal and external auditors was also evaluated.
Use of an external body to manage the performance evaluation process was considered. however the board concluded that the approach followed
last year remained appropriate and cost efﬁcient for the Company. Consequently, as in previous years, a conﬁdential questionnaire was completed
by all directors in relation to the board and any committee of which they were a member. In addition, the Chairman completed questionnaires
on each individual director.The questionnaires seek to establish whether the group or individual was contributing effectively to their role and
to also determine their commitment to the role.The senior independent director appraised the Chairman’s performance.
The results of the evaluations were collated by the Company Secretary and analysed in detail by the Chairman, the chairman of the relevant
committee, the senior independent non-executive director and the Company Secretary.The Chairman led the full board in a discussion about
the results of the evaluation and a similar session took place in respect of each committee led by the committee chairman.
The evaluation concluded that the board operates well and that the board committees operate effectively. In particular, the structure of the board
is now more suitable for that of a public company.The discussions have led to further adjustments to the method of agenda setting, allocation
of more time on the board agenda for non-operational matters and for a more structured follow up of action items arising from board meetings.
Directors’ Conﬂicts of Interest
at the aGM in January 2009, shareholders approved the adoption of new articles of association, which amongst other things, permitted the
board to authorise situations where a director has an interest that conﬂicts, or may possibly conﬂict, with the interests of the Company.
The Nominations Committee reviewed and considered the interests and other appointments of the board members in august this year and all
conﬂicts were approved. directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to the registered conﬂicts.
Share Capital and Control
Information which the directors are required to provide pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies act 2006 can be found on page 0 of the
directors’ report.
Internal Control
The board considers it important that there should be a regular and systematic assessment of the risks facing the business in order to provide
assurance that strategic targets can be met. The board is responsible for the Company’s system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The following sections detail how the Company maintains a framework of internal controls based on a combination of the ﬁve components of
the internationally recognised CoSo Framework for Internal Control together with other enterprise risk management guidelines and any
related guidance provided by the Financial reporting Council. also described below are details of how the audit Committee reviewed during
the year the effectiveness of that framework and its supporting policies and procedures.
Control Environment Including Objective Setting
The strategic objectives of the organisation are underpinned by the control environment which is exempliﬁed by the board to their various
stakeholders through their compliance with the Combined Code of Corporate Governance, internally published risk management strategy,
related policies and procedures and in particular the Code of Business Conduct.
Risk Assessment and Risk Response
risks to the achievement of the strategic objectives have been identiﬁed through various organisation-wide control environment reviews, the
most recent of which was completed in September 2009.The board, including the senior management team, participated in this exercise which
considered the business strategy and related objectives, internal and external risks to their achievement, together with current and any new
controls required to mitigate those risks. risks were ranked according to a matrix of severity and likelihood of occurrence and the risk register
was updated accordingly. 
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
The key risks identiﬁed, together with strategies to mitigate them, are reviewed by the audit Committee and ratiﬁed by the board annually.
during this process the audit Committee satisfy themselves that the key risks are being effectively managed and monitored by senior
management and that the internal audit plan is focused on high priorities. Information on principal business risks and uncertainties can be found
on pages 6 to 8.
Control Activities
a series of control activities used to mitigate the risks identiﬁed include risk transfer (through a third-party contract), ﬁnancing the risk through
insurance or consideration by management of re-engineering the process in question.
In addition, suitably qualiﬁed staff are responsible for each of the functions within the organisation and there are training, performance reviews
and support mechanisms in place to ensure standards of performance are maintained.
Monitoring and Communicating
The risks that have been identiﬁed are monitored through a variety of mechanisms which include; the audit programme, fraud detection
systems across point of sale and certain central data repositories, the critical and serious risk monitor, internal procedures such as stock takes
and stock ﬁle counts, prevention tools such as CCTV and through management controls.
In addition to the above, there are a number of processes to test the Company’s ﬁnancial information and controls. an operating plan is prepared
in august of each year and a revised forecast is then prepared each month, which analyses actual performance and highlights variances against
the plan. In particular, performance is monitored through a series of key ratios. daily sales, weekly sales and margin and monthly management
accounts are also prepared, all of which report on performance against plan, last year and forecast. a treasury report is made to each meeting
of the board, covering matters such as senior operating restrictions and covenant reporting and forecasting (under the banking facilities),
exposure to foreign exchange and hedging arrangements, net debt and interest rate hedging, cash ﬂow and cash ﬂow forecasting and amounts
deposited with counterparties.
Internal Audit and Risk Management
Internal audit forms part of the risk management function, which also comprises the anti-fraud, insurance and proﬁt protection departments.
This combination enables the Company to maintain a cohesive approach to all aspects of risk management whilst allowing internal audit to
beneﬁt from the insights that the other elements of the team can provide.The internal audit plan focuses on critical and serious risk testing of
high priority areas.
The Company Secretary conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of both internal and external audit teams in august 2009.The respondents
included all audit Committee members, the Finance director, function heads, senior retail managers and a self-assessment by the head of
Internal audit and risk Management.
For the internal audit function the evaluation considered effectiveness in a number of categories; understanding, charter and structure, skills
and experience, communication, planning, performance and work programme.The categories for external audit were reputation and coverage,
communication, understanding, governance and independence, quality processes, audit team, audit scope, performance, audit fees.The overall
feedback was very positive for both internal and external audit with effectiveness scores of 90 per cent and 9 per cent respectively.
Whistle Blowing
all employees are required to adhere to the Code of Business Conduct (senior employees conﬁrm compliance in writing). This sets out the
ethical standards expected by the Company and includes details of how matters can be raised in strict conﬁdence.There are two main routes
available to encourage employees at all levels within the organisation to raise concerns over malpractices. The ﬁrst, employee guidelines to
problem solving, encourages employees to talk to their line manager, their manager’s line manager or if still concerned to call hr Connect
(the central human resources team) directly.The alternative route is a conﬁdential reporting line, where employees can speak to the debenhams
anti-fraud team. If an employee feels that the matter is so serious that it cannot be discussed in any of these ways, he/she should contact the
Company Secretary or the head of risk Management directly. Contact details are given for all these routes.The Company’s policy on whistle
blowing and these methods of raising issues of concern are published on the intranet and emphasised on posters. all serious matters are raised
with the audit Committee Chairman.
Auditor Independence
In order to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained with the external auditors, a policy on auditor independence has been
established and is regularly reviewed.This covers matters such as that auditors and their staff have no family, ﬁnancial, employment, investment
or business relationship with the Company, the employment by the Company of former audit employees, the rotation of audit partners and
the provision of non-audit services.The audit Committee makes recommendations to the full board in respect of re-appointment annually of
the auditors and the board then ensures that this is included on the Notice for the annual General Meeting. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
(“PwC”) has a policy that requires the audit partner to rotate off an audit client’s account every ﬁve years and this rotation has recently taken
place in respect of the debenhams audit. as regards the risk of PwC’s withdrawal from the market, the Company considers that there are
sufﬁcient other auditors in the market place should this situation ever arise. 6
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
CorPoraTe GoVerNaNCe
—continued
The objective of the audit Committee’s policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors is to ensure that the provision
of such services does not impair the external auditors’ independence or objectivity. an independent report is produced by the debenhams central
costs team each quarter during the year detailing all non-audit work, its cost, when it was carried out and who instructed it.This information
is reported to the audit Committee at each meeting.
The Company’s policy identiﬁes three categories of accounting services. The ﬁrst category is audit-related services, which the auditors are
permitted to provide.The second category is prohibited services which the auditors are not permitted to provide. Prohibited services are those
which might result in the external auditors auditing their own work or making management decisions for the Company and those where some
mutuality of interest is created or where the external auditors are put in the role of advocate for the Company.The third category is “potential”
services which the auditors may, in certain circumstances, provide subject to compliance with the independence policy.These services include
tax advisory services or services where the auditors are acting as the Company’s reporting accountant.
£0.7 million was paid by the Company to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for non-audit services in respect of advisory services, £0.6 million
of which related to the capital raising in June 2009.The audit fees paid by the pension schemes were £6,000.
Relations with Shareholders
The board is responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders. The Chairman and senior
independent director are always available to meet with major shareholders at their request on relevant issues. during 2009 shareholders were
consulted on remuneration issues. Formal trading updates were issued on six occasions during the year: September 2008 (full-year trading
update), october 2008 (full-year results), January 2009 (interim management statement), March 2009 (half-year trading update), april 2009
(interim results) and June 2009 (interim management statement). Formal presentations were held following the announcement of the full-year
and interim results. Conference calls were held for all other trading updates and interim management statements. a programme of meetings
and conference calls is organised throughout the year at which the Chief executive, Finance director and head of Investor relations discuss
the Company’s performance with investors. In 2009 meetings were held in London, edinburgh, Boston, Stamford and NewY ork. analysts and
investors were invited to attend tours of the new ﬂagship store in Westﬁeld London in october 2008 and March 2009.The Chairman made a
presentation on the Company’s ﬁnancial performance and major business initiatives at the aGM in January 2009. 7
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
reMUNeraTIoN rePorT
This remuneration report for the year ended 29 august 2009 has been prepared by the remuneration Committee on behalf of the board for
approval by shareholders at the annual General Meeting (aGM) to be held on 12 January 2010.The report complies with the requirements
of the Listing rules of the UK Listing authority, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (accounts and reports)
regulations 2008 and the provisions of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Part 1: Unaudited Information
The Remuneration Committee
The remuneration Committee comprises the following non-executive directors: adam Crozier (Committee Chairman), dennis Millard, Paul
Pindar and Sophie Turner Laing (appointed on 1 august 2009). The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee. There were three
meetings of the Committee during the year under review.The individual attendance of the directors is detailed in the table within the Corporate
Governance report on page .
The Committee has responsibility for setting the remuneration of the executive directors and the Company Secretary, reviewing the
appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy and administering all aspects of any share schemes in operation for senior
management. The Committee is governed by formal terms of reference which are reviewed annually and can be downloaded from the
Company’s website at www.debenhamsplc.com.
during the year, the Committee appointed deloitte LLP (“deloitte”) to provide it with independent advice on directors’ remuneration and
share plans. deloitte also provides industry and comparative employee remuneration data to debenhams’ management.The Committee has
also consulted with the Company’s Chairman, Chief executive, Finance director and human resources director but not on matters relating
to their own compensation or contracts. deloitte also provided advisory services in respect of corporate tax planning during the year.
The remuneration Committee reviews external data produced through surveys and benchmarking from deloitte about total remuneration
in other comparable companies and the elements of that total remuneration, in order to inform its consideration of the remuneration of
Company executives.
Remuneration Policy
When determining remuneration policy and arrangements for executive directors, the remuneration Committee considers pay and employment
conditions elsewhere in the Group. It is the Company’s policy to provide remuneration packages that will attract, motivate and retain high
calibre employees in a competitive retail market and, where possible, to do this in the most cost effective way for the business. In 2008/09, as
part of the announcement of a pay freeze for the senior management population, the executive directors also elected to take a pay freeze.This
pay freeze will continue for the executive directors group in 2009/10 although it has been lifted for the rest of the management population. In
addition to basic salary and pension provision, the Company seeks to incentivise its managers through an annual bonus scheme and through
its share schemes.The Committee’s policy is to weight executive directors’ remuneration towards performance-linked pay and thus to strike a
balance between short and long-term incentives. For the ﬁnancial year 2009/10 the Committee intends to implement changes to the performance
conditions underpinning the Performance Share Plan and the executive Share option Plan.This follows further consultation with shareholders
in July and august 2009. No awards have been granted this year under these plans to executive directors. It has been determined that the Chief
executive and Finance director will not be made awards under the Performance Share Plan or the executive Share option Plan in 2009/10.
The deputy Chief executive will be granted awards under the PSP and eSoP with a face value of 7 per cent of base salary under each plan.
The awards will vest subject to stretching ePS growth targets (PSP) and sustained roCe outperformance (eSoP). Full details of targets will
be disclosed in the 2009/10 remuneration report.The Committee believes that in totality the combined use of performance share awards with
an ePS performance measure and share options with a roCe performance measure effectively incentivises management to achieve both share
price and efﬁcient earnings returns which are goals aligned with the Company’s long-term strategy and shareholder value creation.
Components of Remuneration
Base Salary
The Committee considers base salary and salary increases for executives based on the median level paid within a group of comparable
companies in the FTSe 0 retail sector and in the context of salary increases across the Group’s wider employee population. T o ensure
the attraction and retention of the quality of individuals required to successfully run the business, the Committee’s policy is for base pay
to be at or close to the market median of companies of a comparative enterprise value. The Committee believes the benchmarking on the
basis of enterprise value captures the capital structure of the Company and better reﬂects the scope, complexity and responsibility of the
roles at debenhams.
Base salaries were not increased in respect of 2008/09 and in addition, the executive directors have elected to take a pay freeze for 2009/10 in
light of the uncertain market conditions faced by the industry. Michael Sharp’s salary increased to £0,000 due to his promotion to deputy
Chief executive on  November 2008.
Executive Directors’ Bonus Schemes
The annual bonus scheme for executive directors focuses on the achievement of speciﬁc numerical business targets. The maximum bonus
potential for 2008/09 was 100 per cent salary and the targets composed of two independent elements: proﬁt before tax and net debt. 8
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
reMUNeraTIoN rePorT
—continued
Proﬁt before tax of £120.8 million (post executive bonus) has triggered a bonus achievement of .6 per cent on this target, with the net debt
target triggering at 20 per cent of salary. This, therefore, triggered a bonus award of 6.6 per cent of base salary. an additional award of
£166,9 has been made to Chris Woodhouse, Finance director, in recognition of the exceptional effort on his part in the successful capital
raising in June 2009 and the restructuring of the Company’s debt.
during the year the Committee reviewed the performance measures for the annual bonus and determined that for 2009/10 bonus would be
based on one measure: earnings Before Interest and T ax (“eBIT”) performance.The Committee considered that this approach would better
focus executive directors on achieving exceptional earnings performance.
The Debenhams Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”)
The Committee has discretion to grant awards under the PSP up to a maximum of 200 per cent of base salary to executive directors and other
senior executives. Up to 20 per cent of base salary may be awarded in exceptional circumstances (e.g. for recruitment). on vesting, executives
may receive shares, the number of which is determined by the extent to which a performance condition is achieved, provided that they remain
employed in the Group. awards under the PSP comprise an option to receive free shares or a nil cost option.
awards under the PSP normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant (and must be exercised within six months of vesting) subject
to satisfaction of performance conditions set by the remuneration Committee at the time awards are granted and if the remuneration
Committee is satisﬁed that the underlying ﬁnancial performance of the Company over the performance period is sufﬁcient to justify the vesting
of the award.
awards made up to date under the PSP are subject to two performance targets. 0 per cent of the award is based on the adjusted earnings Per
Share (“ePS”) growth of the Company above the percentage increase in the retail Prices Index (“rPI”) over a three-year performance period
and the other 0 per cent is based on the Company’s T otal Shareholder return (“TSr”) against the weighted TSr of the FTSe 0 General
retailers Index over a three-year performance period.The Committee considers TSr to be an appropriate measure of shareholder value with
the FTSe 0 General retailers Index as the comparator.The Committee determined that a weighted index was a fairer and more reasonable
method of determining relative performance (as opposed to a conventionalTSr ranking) as it factors in the size of each comparator company
and therefore the absolute levels of value that each company generates relative to its size.When determining theTSr requirement for maximum
vesting, the Committee took into consideration the historical TSr performance of the comparator companies over the past ten years. a three-
month average TSr at the start and end of the performance period will be used to mitigate the effect of any short-term share price volatility.
If one or both of the performance conditions are not met at the end of the performance period, 0 per cent or 100 per cent
(as appropriate) of the awards will lapse immediately without any opportunity to re-test the relevant performance condition.
The table below sets out the performance conditions of PSP awards existing during the year:
date of grant Vesting criteria Performance condition over three-year period
2 November 2006 0 per cent on ePS growth Below rPI +7 per cent pa = zero vesting
against rPI growth rPI +7 per cent pa = 0 per cent vesting
rPI +1 per cent pa = 100 per cent
Between 7 per cent and 1 per cent pa = straight-line basis between
0 per cent and 100 per cent
0 per cent on TSr debenhams TSr is less than the weighted TSr = zero vesting
against FTSe 0 debenhams TSr is equal to the weighted TSr = 0 per cent
debenhams TSr is ≥ 12 per cent above the weighted TSr =
100 per cent
Between the latter two points = straight-line basis between
0 per cent and 100 per cent
29 May 2007 0 per cent on ePS growth Below rPI + per cent pa = zero vesting
against rPI growth rPI + per cent pa = 0 per cent vesting
rPI +7 per cent pa = 100 per cent
Between  per cent and 7 per cent pa = straight-line basis between
0 per cent and 100 per cent
0 per cent on TSr debenhams TSr is less than the weighted TSr = zero vesting
against FTSe 0 debenhams TSr is equal to the weighted TSr = 0 per cent
debenhams TSr is ≥ 12 per cent above the weighted TSr =
100 per cent
Between the latter two points = straight-line basis between
0 per cent and 100 per cent 9
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Performance conditions of PSP awards existing during the year (continued).
 February 2008 0 per cent on ePS growth Below rPI + per cent pa = zero vesting
against rPI growth rPI + per cent pa = 0 per cent vesting
rPI +8 per cent pa = 100 per cent
Between  per cent and 8 per cent pa = straight-line basis between
0 per cent and 100 per cent
0 per cent on TSr debenhams TSr is less than the weighted TSr = zero vesting
against FTSe 0 debenhams TSr is equal to the weighted TSr = 0 per cent
debenhams TSr is ≥ 12 per cent above the weighted TSr =
100 per cent
Between the latter two points = straight-line basis between
0 per cent and 100 per cent
7 May 2008 0 per cent on ePS growth Below rPI + per cent pa = zero vesting
against rPI growth rPI + per cent pa = 0 per cent vesting
rPI +8 per cent pa = 100 per cent
Between  per cent and 8 per cent pa = straight-line basis between
0 per cent and 100 per cent
0 per cent on TSr debenhams TSr is less than the weighted TSr = zero vesting
against FTSe 0 debenhams TSr is equal to the weighted TSr = 0 per cent
debenhams TSr is ≥ 12 per cent above the weighted TSr =
100 per cent
Between the latter two points = straight-line basis between
0 per cent and 100 per cent
No PSP awards vested during the year.The awards granted in November 2006 and May 2007 have lapsed since the performance conditions
attaching to those awards were not satisﬁed as at 29 august 2009. The award granted in February 2008 lapsed upon the departure of
angela Spindler on 0 November 2008.
No awards were granted to the executive directors during the year.
The Debenhams 2006 Executive Share Option Plan (the “ESOP”)
The Committee has discretion to grant options to acquire shares to eligible employees. options granted under the eSoP may either be
her Majesty’s revenue & Customs approved options (up to the prescribed limit currently £0,000) or unapproved options up to a maximum
amount of 100 per cent of base salary. options may, in exceptional circumstances, be granted with a market value in excess of this amount at
the discretion of the remuneration Committee.
Share options are granted at the closing mid-market price on the day prior to the date of grant and normally become exercisable three years
after grant expiring seven years later. The exercise of the options is subject to performance conditions set by the remuneration Committee
at the time awards are granted. options exercised under the eSoP are subject to the adjusted earnings Per Share (“ePS”) growth of
the Company increasing above the percentage increase in the retail Prices Index (“rPI”) over a three-year performance period.There is no
re-testing of the performance condition.
The table below sets out the performance conditions of eSoP options existing during the year:
date of grant Vesting criteria Performance condition over three-year period
2 November 2006 ePS growth against rPI growth rPI ≥ 7 per cent pa = 100 per cent vesting
29 May 2007 and
12 November 2007 ePS growth against rPI growth rPI ≥  per cent pa = 100 per cent vesting
 February 2008 ePS growth against rPI growth Below rPI + per cent pa = zero vesting
rPI + per cent pa = 0 per cent vesting
rPI +8 per cent pa = 100 per cent
Between  per cent and 8 per cent pa = straight-line basis
between 0 per cent and 100 per cent No options under the eSoP were exercised during the year. The options granted in November 2006 and May 2007 lapsed since the
performance conditions attaching to those options were not satisﬁed as at 29 august 2009.The options granted in February 2008 lapsed upon
the departure of angela Spindler on 0 November 2008.
No options were granted to the executive directors during the year.
Debenhams 2006 Sharesave Scheme (the “Sharesave Scheme”)
Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees may be granted an option to acquire shares at a ﬁxed exercise price. at the end of the savings period
the employee may either exercise the option within six months of the end of the savings period using the savings contributions and bonus
accumulated or have the savings and bonus repaid. No options have been granted under this scheme and there is currently no intention to use
the scheme.
The Debenhams Deferred Bonus Matching Plan (the “DBMP”)
Under the dBMP participants will be able to invest up to the full amount of their annual bonus (on an after-tax basis) in shares. If the participant
remains in service for three years, he/she will, subject to the satisfaction of a performance target, be eligible to receive a matching share award
(based on the pre-tax amount of the bonus that has been invested). The remuneration Committee has not determined what performance
conditions will apply to awards under the dBMP although it is intended that they be appropriately demanding and linked to the Company’s
performance. If the performance target is not met at the end of the performance period, the awards will lapse immediately and there will be no
opportunity to re-test the performance condition. No awards have yet been made under the dBMP but the Committee continues to review
the use of the Plan and may grant awards if appropriate.
Capital Raising
during the year the Company undertook a placing and open offer. awards granted to employees under the various plans have been adjusted,
in accordance with general market practice, to reﬂect the open offer. No adjustment was made to reﬂect the placing. Performance for awards
will be measured to ensure that they are not less stretching to achieve following the capital raising.
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (The “Trust”)
The debenhams retail employee Trust 200 was originally set up to satisfy share options under the debenhams employee option Plan.
The trust currently holds 1,1,6 shares in the Company. dividends receivable on the shares held in the Trust are waived on the
recommendation of the Company.
In 2008, the Company adopted the debenhams 2008 Share Incentive Plan. however, despite consultation with key shareholders in 2008 who
were supportive of proposals to grant awards under the Plan during 2008/09, it was decided that due to the then prevailing economic climate
the Company should not grant awards under the Plan. It is the Company’s intention to make awards under the debenhams 2008 Share
Incentive Plan in 2009 in using the shares held in the Trust.The rules of the Plan, allow the remuneration Committee at the date of grant, to
determine the vesting period of the option granted. In 2009, options with an 18-month vesting period, will be granted to a small number of
key, senior employees below board level, whom the Company wishes to retain and incentivise in the short to medium term.
Funding of Share Schemes
It is the Company’s current intention to satisfy any future requirements of its share schemes in a method best suited to the interests of
the Company, either by acquiring shares in the market or, subject to institutional guidelines, issuing new shares.Where the awards are satisﬁed
by newly issued shares the Company will comply with aBI guidelines on shareholder dilution. Current levels of shareholder dilution are
0.8 per cent of share capital.
Change of Control
The rules of the Company’s share schemes provide that in the event of a change of control, awards/options would vest to the extent that the
performance conditions are satisﬁed at the date of such an event. any such early vesting would be on a time pro-rata basis.
Pension
The directors are not members of a Company pension plan, except for Michael Sharp who is a deferred member of the debenhams executive
Pension Plan. Full details are disclosed on page  of this report.
Performance Graph
The performance graph overleaf shows the Company’s total shareholder return against the FTSe 0 General retailers Index over the period
from ﬂotation on 8 May 2006 to 29 august 2009.The FTSe 0 has been chosen as debenhams has been a member throughout the period
and it is made up of a broad spectrum of retail competitors (including major general retail listed competitors) in the principal product areas
in which the Company trades.
0
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
reMUNeraTIoN rePorT
—continued 1
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Total Shareholder Return Since IPO (May 2006)
Letters of Appointment and Service Contracts
John Lovering’s appointment as Chairman is subject to the terms of a letter of appointment dated 1 January 2009 in which the Company has
engaged him, in his capacity as a partner of Lovering and Lovering, as an independent contractor. The appointment is terminable by either
party, giving not less than one month’s written notice. In addition to time commitment, the annual engagement fee, and other business interests,
the Chairman is permitted to hold the ofﬁce of a director or Chairman of certain named companies provided that any such appointment does
not interfere with his position at the Company. he is also permitted to remain a passive investor in any non-competing business so long as no
conﬂict of interest arises.
The non-executive directors have letters of appointment from the Company covering matters such as duties, time commitment, fees and other
business interests.The appointments of Messrs Crozier, Millard and Pindar may be terminated by either party giving one month’s notice. Both
Sophie Turner Laing and Martina King are appointed for a term of three years ending on 1 July 2012, subject to the Company’s articles of
association and shareholders’ re-election provisions.
Fees for non-executive directors are determined by the board and are made up of an annual fee for acting as a non-executive director of the
Company (£0,000) together with additional fees for chairing (£,000) and membership of a board committee (£2,00).There is a further
fee (£10,000) for acting as senior independent non-executive director.The non-executive directors do not take part in discussions on their own
remuneration, which is reviewed annually.The fees are set to reﬂect the time which they are required to commit to their duties, their experience
and the amounts paid to non-executive directors in comparable companies. Fees for the non-executive directors remain frozen for 2009/10 since
the non-executive directors declined a review.
details of the letters of appointment of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are set out below and the terms are available for inspection
at the Company’s registered ofﬁce during normal business hours and at the aGM.
date of joining date of letter of
Name Position annual fee the Group appointment
John Lovering Chairman £20,000 8 September 200 1 January 2009
adam Crozier Non-executive director £0,000 9 May 2006 18 april 2006
Martina King Non-executive director £2,00 1 august 2009 0 June 2009
dennis Millard Non-executive director £,000 9 May 2006 10 april 2006
Paul Pindar Senior independent non-executive director £60,000 9 May 2006 19 april 2006
Sophie Turner Laing Non-executive director £2,00 1 august 2009 0 June 2009
rob T empleman, Chris Woodhouse and Michael Sharp entered into service agreements with the Company on  May 2006. each agreement
is terminable by either party giving not less than 12 months’ written notice. Prior to Michael Sharp’s appointment as deputy Chief executive
on  November 2008, he was only required to give the Company six months’ notice. It is the Company’s policy that the notice periods of
executive directors’ should not exceed one year.The remuneration Committee has considered the ﬁnancial consequences of early termination
of directors’ service contracts; in order to limit and provide certainty in the event of termination of a contract without cause, the directors’
contracts contain liquidated damages clauses. If the Company terminates the employment without due notice, other than in circumstances such
as gross misconduct or other immediate justiﬁable cause, the Company is required to make a payment equal to the aggregate of the executive
director’s basic salary and the value of their contractual beneﬁts for the notice period together with a payment equal to the average of the
annual bonus paid to the executive director in the two bonus years prior to the termination of employment.
Debenhams TSR FTSE 350 General Retailers Index TSR
2 September 2006 1 September 2007 30 August 2008 29 August 2009
120
0
20
40
60
80
100
3 May 2006 2
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
reMUNeraTIoN rePorT
—continued
executive directors are entitled, in addition to salary, to other beneﬁts or equivalent cash allowances, the value of which is set out in the table
of directors’ emoluments. Such beneﬁts include company car and fuel, life, medical, dental and personal accident insurance together with
product discount and personal ﬁnancial advice.
rob T empleman and Chris Woodhouse’s contracts permit each of them to hold up to two non-executive directorships in non-competing
companies and to retain payments received in respect of those other directorships. Chris Woodhouse, who is Group non-executive Chairman
of Gondola Group Limited, retained fees of £170,000 (2008: £10,000).
Directors’ Shareholdings
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company as at 29 august 2009 are shown below. awards granted under the PSP are
shown in Part 2 of this report.
ordinary shares held as at
1 august 2008 ordinary shares held as at ordinary shares held as at
director or date of appointment 29 august 2009 22 october 2009
John Lovering 6,68,187 1,7,671 1,7,671
rob T empleman 1,66,21 1,8,769 1,8,769
Michael Sharp
(1)
,60,9 ,8,79 ,8,79
Chris Woodhouse 11,98,79 11,828,66 11,828,66
adam Crozier 2,61 2,681 2,681
Martina King –– –
dennis Millard ,76 69, 69,
Paul Pindar 2,10 0,98 0,98
Sophie Turner Laing –– –
1) as at 22 october 2009 Michael Sharp’s holding includes 218,90 shares held by The Sharp discretionary Settlement of which the director is a Trustee.
Part 2:Audited Information
Directors’ Emoluments
The remuneration of each director who served during the year is set out in the following table. emoluments remain principally the same due
to the pay freeze, albeit there has been a change to the senior independent non-executive director and changes to committee membership.The
table also reﬂects Michael Sharp’s appointment to the position of deputy Chief executive on  November 2008.
annual
allowance
in lieu of Compensation T otal T otal
Salary/fees Benefits Bonus pension for loss of office 2009 2008
director ££ £££ ££
John Lovering 20,000 20,000 20,000
rob T empleman
(1)
67,070 ,8 28,07 100,961 1,2,62 99,7
Michael Sharp 20,01 ,90 1,290 81,70 968,6 6,62
Chris Woodhouse 7,678 2,1 7,678 68,62 1,007,9 60,92
angela Spindler
(2)
1,000 28,79 101,20 0,000 80,729 1,2
Philippe Costeletos
()
0,62 0,62 0,000
adam Crozier 6,872 6,872 ,000
Jonathan Feuer
()
0,62 0,62 0,000
richard Gillingwater
()
9, 9, 62,00
Martina King
()
,2 ,2 n/a
Peter Long
(6)
1,20 1,20 ,000
dennis Millard ,000 ,000 ,000
Paul Pindar ,7 ,7 0,000
Sophie Turner Laing
()
,2 ,2 n/a
ToTaL 2,9,979 10,98 1,217,01 2,61 0,000 ,80,81 ,22,1
1) rob T empleman’s taxable beneﬁts this year include £8,000 relating to ﬁnancial advice received during the last two ﬁnancial years and a cash allowance adjustment further to his election to
exchange the car beneﬁt for the equivalent cash value (effective June 2009).
2) angela Spindler left the Company on 0 November 2008 and received liquidated damages in accordance with her service contract.
) Philippe Costeletos and Jonathan Feuer left the Company on  June 2009.
) richard Gillingwater left the Company on 16 april 2009.
) Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing were appointed as directors on 1 august 2009.
6) Peter Long left the Company on 1 august 2009. 
Section 3 Management and Governance Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Pay in Lieu of Pension Provision
Under the terms of their contracts of employment, the executive directors are entitled to a salary supplement in lieu of pension provision of
1 per cent of base salary (Michael Sharp’s entitlement decreased from 20 per cent to 1 per cent on  November 2008 following his
appointment as deputy Chief executive).These amounts are disclosed in the directors’ emoluments table on page 2.
Pension
The debenhams executive Pension Plan was closed in 2002. Michael Sharp is a deferred member of the debenhams executive Pension Plan.
he ceased to accrue beneﬁts in that plan on 1 March 2006.
The table below shows his pension accrued at the year end.
Transfer Transfer
value as at value as at
Increase in accumulated 0 august 2008 29 august 2009 Increase in
Increase in accrued pension total accrued of accrued of accrued transfer value
accrued pension during the year pension at pension as at pension as at during
during the year (net of inflation) 29 august 2009 0 august 2008 29 august 2009 the period
director ££ £££ £
Michael Sharp 8,661 22 181,6 ,16,829 ,06,19 169,6
Directors’ Interests in the Performance Share Plan
Number of
shares held at Shares awarded Shares lapsed 29 august Market value on earliest
date of award 1 august 2008 during the year(ii) during the year 2009 date of award date of vesting
rob T empleman 2 November 2006 16,611 ,26 – 169,87 196p 2/11/2009
Chris Woodhouse 2 November 2006 112,61 2,887 – 11,01 196p 2/11/2009
Michael Sharp 2 November 2006 10,66 2,68 – 107,8 196p 2/11/2009
angela Spindler
(i)
 February 2008 1,82,2 – 1,82,2 – 7p 0/02/2011
i) The awards granted to angela Spindler lapsed on her leaving the Company on 0 November 2008.
ii) The number of shares granted under the above awards to rob T empleman, Chris Woodhouse and Michael Sharp were adjusted with effect from 26 June 2009 as a result of the open offer.These
awards have however lapsed since the applicable performance conditions were not achieved as at 29 august 2009.
Directors’ Interests in the Executive Share Option Scheme
Number of
shares under Number of
option held at Shares granted Shares lapsed shares held at earliest date
date of grant 1 august 2008 during the year during the year option price 29 august 2009 of exercise
angela Spindler approved Scheme:
 February 2008 0,0 – 0,0 7p – 0/02/2011
Unapproved Scheme:
 February 2008 689,189 – 689,189 7p – 0/02/2011
Note: The options granted to angela Spindler lapsed on her leaving the Company on 0 November 2008.
The closing mid-market price of the Company’s shares on 29 august 2009 was 79. pence and ranged from 22. pence to 98. pence during
the period from 1 august 2008 to 29 august 2009.
on behalf of the board
ADAM CROzIER
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
22 october 2009 54
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
STATEmEnT oF DIRECToRS’ RESPonSIbILITIES
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the directors have elected to prepare
the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union,
and the parent company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom
Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are
satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the proﬁt or loss of the Group for that
period. In preparing these Financial Statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company Financial Statements respectively; and
• prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial
Statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements,
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement Pursuant To Disclosure And Transparency Rule 4.1.12
Each of the directors whose names and functions are detailed on page 34 to 35 conﬁrm that, to the best of his/her knowledge:
• the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of
the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the Group; and
• the Directors’ Report contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position
of the Company and the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 55
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
InDEPEnDEnT AUDIToRS’ REPoRT To ThE
mEmbERS oF DEbEnhAmS PLC (GRoUP)
We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 29 August 2009 which comprise the Consolidated
Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses, the Consolidated balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash
Flow Statement and the related notes. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 54, the directors are responsible for the preparation of
the Group Financial Statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial
Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).Those standards require us to comply
with the Auditing Practices board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Sections 495
and 496 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable assurance that
the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.This includes an assessment of: whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the
reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 29 August 2009 and of its proﬁt and cash ﬂows for the year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on Other Matter Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year for which the Group Financial Statements are prepared is consistent
with the Group Financial Statements.
Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ Report set out on page 41 in relation to going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined
Code speciﬁed for our review.
Other Matters
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 29 August 2009 and on the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
M R HODGSON (SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
22 october 2009 56
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
ConSoLIDATED InComE STATEmEnT
For the financial year ended 29 August 2009
For the financial year ended:
29 August 30 August
2009 2008
note £m £m
Revenue 5 1,915.6 1,839.2
Cost of sales (1,650.7) (1,571.6)
Gross profit 264.9 267.6
Distribution costs (45.3) (50.0)
Administrative expenses (37.4) (41.5)
Operating profit 7 182.2 176.1
Interest receivable and similar income 9 1.3 4.8
Interest payable and similar charges 10 (62.7) (75.0)
Profit before taxation 120.8 105.9
T axation 11 (25.7) (28.8)
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders 28 95.1 77.1
Earnings per share attributable to the equity shareholders (expressed in pence per share)
Pence Pence
per share per share
basic 13 10.0 9.0
Diluted 13 10.0 9.0
Dividends per share (expressed in pence per share)
Pence Pence
per share per share
Proposed final dividend per share 12 – 0.5 57
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
ConSoLIDATED STATEmEnT oF RECoGnISED
InComE AnD ExPEnSES
For the financial year ended 29 August 2009
For the financial year ended:
29 August 30 August
2009 2008
note £m £m
Profit for the financial year 95.1 77.1
Actuarial loss recognised in the pension schemes 23 (93.6) (79.8)
movement on deferred tax relating to the pension schemes 24 26.2 22.3
Currency translation 28 (0.3) 1.3
Change in the valuation of the available-for-sale investments 16 (2.2) (9.3)
Cash flow hedges
—net fair value losses (net of tax) 28 (9.2) (5.0)
—recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the acquisition cost of inventory 28 (20.1) 0.9
—reclassified and reported in net profit 28 – (0.5)
Net expense recognised directly in equity (99.2) (70.1)
Total recognised (expense)/income attributable to the equity shareholders of the Group (4.1) 7.0 58
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
ConSoLIDATED bALAnCE ShEET
As at 29 August 2009
29 August 30 August
2009 2008
note £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 14 839.9 840.8
Property, plant and equipment 15 669.2 693.3
Financial assets
—available-for-sale investments 16 8.8 11.0
—derivative financial instruments 22 0.2 8.2
Retirement benefit assets 23 – 25.0
Deferred tax assets 24 80.6 57.4
1,598.7 1,635.7
Current assets
Inventories 17 270.9 237.5
Trade and other receivables 18 68.5 58.5
Derivative financial instruments 22 9.5 10.5
Cash and cash equivalents 19 188.2 42.1
537.1 348.6
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
—bank overdraft and borrowings 21 (92.6) (144.5)
—derivative financial instruments 22 (24.2) –
Trade and other payables 20 (458.6) (470.2)
Current tax liabilities (34.0) (29.9)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 26 (2.1) (0.7)
(611.5) (645.3)
Net current liabilities (74.4) (296.7)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
—bank overdraft and borrowings 21 (685.9) (891.6)
—derivative financial instruments 22 (8.0) (0.7)
Deferred tax liabilities 24 (78.3) (95.3)
other non-current liabilities 25 (273.0) (225.8)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 26 (0.2) (0.3)
Retirement benefit obligations 23 (53.6) –
(1,099.0) (1,213.7)
Net assets 425.3 125.3
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital 27 0.1 0.1
Share premium 28 682.9 682.9
merger reserve 28 1,504.7 1,200.9
Reverse acquisition reserve 28 (1,199.9) (1,199.9)
hedging reserve 28 (18.5) 10.8
other reserves 28 2.6 5.1
Retained earnings 28 (546.6) (574.6)
Total equity 425.3 125.3
The Financial Statements on pages 56 to 91 were approved by the board on 22 october 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
C K WOODHOUSE
Director 59
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2009
ConSoLIDATED CASh FLoW STATEmEnT
For the financial year ended 29 August 2009
For the financial year ended:
29 August 30 August
2009 2008
note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 30 241.0 285.8
Interest received 1.1 4.8
Interest paid (58.4) (71.6)
T ax paid (25.3) (27.6)
net cash generated from operating activities 158.4 191.4
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (77.0) (124.9)
Purchase of intangible assets (7.5) (4.2)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 30 – 3.5
net cash used in investing activities (84.5) (125.6)
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of term loan facility 21 (150.0) (100.0)
Repurchase of term loan facility (35.5) –
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 27 323.2 –
Share issue costs (14.7) –
Dividends paid 12 (2.4) (44.4)
Purchase of shares by Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (“DRET”) 27 – (1.1)
Finance lease payments (0.1) (0.7)
Capitalised debt issue costs 21 (3.3) (1.8)
net cash generated/(used) in financing activities 117.2 (148.0)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 191.1 (82.2)
net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 19 (2.9) 79.3
Net cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 19 188.2 (2.9) 60
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
1 Basis of Preparation and General Information
Introduction
Debenhams plc (“the company”) is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the companies act 2006 (company
No. 5448421).the address of the registered ofﬁce is Debenhams plc, 1 Welbeck street, london,W1G 0aa.
the principal activity of the company and its subsidiaries (together the “Group” or the “Debenhams Group”) is the sale of fashion clothing
and accessories, cosmetics and products for use in the home.the Group trades from department stores and small store formats in the UK and
the Republic of ireland, on the internet and has international franchise stores.
the Group prepares its ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁnancial year ending on the nearest saturday to 31 august of a given calendar year.
the principal companies within the Group during the ﬁnancial year ended 29 august 2009 are disclosed in note 33.
Basis of Preparation
the consolidated Financial statements have been prepared in accordance with international Financial Reporting standards (“iFRs”)
(including international accounting standards (“ias”) and international Financial Reporting interpretations committee (“iFRic”)
interpretations and with those parts of the companies act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under accounting standards as adopted
for use in the eU. the consolidated Financial statements for the ﬁnancial year ended 29 august 2009 and 30 august 2008 have been prepared
under the historical cost convention.
the preparation of the Financial statements, in conformity with iFRs, requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reporting
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting
period. although these results are based on management’s best knowledge of the amounts, events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ
from those estimates (see note 6).
2 Accounting Policies
the Group’s principal accounting policies are described below.
Consolidation
the Financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of Debenhams plc and all its subsidiaries. subsidiaries include all entities
(including special purpose entities) over which the Group has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies. the existence and
effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another
entity. subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which the Group has the power to control.they are de-consolidated from the date
that control ceases.
on consolidation, inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. accounting policies
of the company and its subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services
provided in the normal course of business, net of staff discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points, and is stated net of value added tax and
other sales-related taxes.
Revenue on department store sales of goods and commission on concession sales are recognised when goods are sold to the customer. Retail
sales are usually in cash or by credit or debit card. Department store customer special orders and internet sales are recognised when the goods
are despatched to the customer. Revenue from gift cards and gift vouchers sold by the Group are recognised on the redemption of the gift card
or gift voucher.
it is the Group’s policy to sell its products to the end customer with a right of return. accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide
for such returns at the time of sale.
Interest Recognition
interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the interest rate applicable.
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009 61
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
2 Accounting Policies continued
Dividend Distribution
a ﬁnal dividend distribution to the company shareholders is recognised as a liability in the company and Group’s Financial statements in the
period in which the dividends are approved by the company shareholders. interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Retirement Beneﬁt Costs
the liability or asset recognised in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes is the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the deﬁned
obligation at the balance sheet date.the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit
method.the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outﬂows using interest rates
of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in sterling, and that have terms to maturity which approximate to the terms of the related
pension liabilities.
actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. they are recognised outside the income statement and
presented in the statement of Recognised income and expenses.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes in pension plans are conditional on the employees
remaining in service for a speciﬁed period of time (the vesting period). in this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis
over the vesting period.
the Group operates a deﬁned contribution scheme in ireland and a stakeholder scheme in the UK. contributions to these pension schemes
are charged to the income statement as they fall due. Differences between contributions payable in the period and contributions actually paid
are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Balance sheet.
Share-Based Payments
the Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. a fair value for the equity-settled share awards is measured at the
date of grant.the Group measures the fair value using the valuation technique most appropriate to value each class of award, a Black-scholes,
monte carlo or Binomial pricing model.
the fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the
shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. at each balance sheet date, the Group revises
its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. it recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the
income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (at nominal value) and share premium when
the options are exercised.
Exceptional Items
exceptional items are events or transactions which, by virtue of their size or nature, have been disclosed in order to improve a reader’s
understanding of the Financial statements.
Foreign Exchange
a) Functional and Presentational Currency
items included in the Financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”).the consolidated Financial statements are presented in sterling, which
is the Group’s functional and presentational currency.
b) Group Companies
the results and ﬁnancial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated
into the presentation currency as follows:
• assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet;
• income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative
effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transaction); and
• resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
c) Transactions and Balances
transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency at average monthly rates. monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Differences on
exchange are taken to the income statement. 62
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
2 Accounting Policies continued
Taxation
t axation expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
current tax is based on taxable proﬁts for the ﬁnancial period using tax rates that are in force during the period. t axable proﬁt differs from
net proﬁt as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and
it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and
their carrying amounts for ﬁnancial reporting purposes. if deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other
than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁt or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply
when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable proﬁt will be available against which the temporary
differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversals of the
temporary differences is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which
case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Leased Assets
a) Finance Leases
leases of assets which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases. Finance leases
are classiﬁed as a ﬁnancial liability and measured at amortised cost. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of
the fair value of the leased property, plant and equipment or the present value of the minimum lease payments and depreciated over the period
of the lease.the resulting lease obligations are included in liabilities.
lease payments are apportioned between ﬁnance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on
the remaining balance of the liability.
b) Operating Leases
all other leases are classiﬁed as operating leases. Rentals payable under operating leases, net of lease incentives, are charged to the income
statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Where property lease contracts contain guaranteed ﬁxed minimum incremental rental payments, the total committed cost is determined and
is calculated and amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Intangible Assets
a) Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net
identiﬁable assets of the acquired subsidiary. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortised,
but tested for impairment annually, or when trigger events occur, and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill represents the goodwill for a portfolio of sites, which have been allocated to groups of cash-generating units which are split on a
regional basis for the purpose of impairment testing.
b) Other Intangible Assets
acquired licences and trademarks are capitalised at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful life, not to exceed ten years.
internally generated software costs, where it is clear that the software developed is technically feasible and will be completed and that the
software generated will generate economic beneﬁt, are capitalised as an intangible asset.the software is amortised on a straight-line basis over
its useful economic life, being three to eight years. 63
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
2 Accounting Policies continued
Property, Plant and Equipment
it is the Group’s policy to hold properties at cost less accumulated depreciation, subject to the requirement to test assets for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at the following rates per annum to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less residual value, on a
straight-line basis from the date on which they are brought into use:
Freehold land Not depreciated
Freehold buildings 1 per cent
long leasehold land and buildings including landlords’ ﬁxtures and ﬁttings 1 per cent or life of lease if shorter
short leasehold land and buildings including landlords’ ﬁxtures and ﬁttings life of lease
Retail ﬁxtures and ﬁttings 4–20 per cent
ofﬁce equipment 10–12.5 per cent
computer equipment 14–33
1
⁄ 3 per cent
Vehicles 25 per cent or life of lease
the assets’ useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each ﬁnancial year end.
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount.these are included in the income statement.
included within property, plant and equipment are assets in the course of construction. these assets comprise stores, which are under
construction, including costs directly attributable to bring the asset into use. transfers to the appropriate category of property, plant and
equipment are made when the store opens. No depreciation is provided on stores or other assets under construction.
Impairment Testing
assets that have an indeﬁnite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. assets that are subject to
amortisation are reviewed for impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable an impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. the
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are
grouped by store, which is the lowest level for which there are separately identiﬁable cash ﬂows (cash generating units).
Available-for-Sale Investments
the Group classifies its investments as available-for-sale financial assets in accordance with ias 39 “Financial instruments: Recognition
and measurement”. available-for-sale financial investments are non-derivative assets. they are included in non-current assets unless
management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date. investments are recognised at fair value plus
any transaction costs.
the fair value of available-for-sale investments denominated in a foreign currency is calculated in that foreign currency and translated at the
spot rate at the reporting date.
an impairment test is performed annually on the carrying value of each investment. an impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which
the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
Inventories
inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the retail method and represent goods for resale. concession inventories
are not included within inventories held by the Group.
Trade Receivables
trade receivables, deﬁned as loans and receivables in accordance with ias 39, are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently measured
at amortised cost using the effective interest method for any doubtful amounts. a provision for impairment of trade receivables is established
when there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.the amount
of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of future cash ﬂows discounted at the effective
interest rate.the movement in the provision is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at the bank and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities
of approximately three months or less. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities. 64
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
2 Accounting Policies continued
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost. any
difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of
the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classiﬁed as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months
after the balance sheet date.
Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs that are facility costs, are recognised initially at fair value, and are amortised over the term of the facilities at a constant rate
on the committed amount of each facility.
Debt Repurchase
the nominal value of debt repurchased has been accounted for as a loan redemption, reducing net borrowings at the balance sheet date.
Trade Payables
trade payables, deﬁned as ﬁnancial liabilities in accordance with ias 39, are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
all of the trade payables are non-interest bearing.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and, where it is more likely
than not an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured at
management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Share Capital
ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity.
incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares in equity are shown as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Derivatives
the derivative instruments used by the Group to manage its interest rate and currency risk are interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
the method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as an effective hedging instrument and the
nature of the item being hedged.the Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions (cash ﬂow hedges).
Derivatives are recognised using trade date accounting.
at the inception of the transaction the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items as well as its risk
management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.the Group also documents its assessment, both at the inception
and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash ﬂows
of hedged items.
i) Cash Flow Hedges
the effective portion of the changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ﬂow hedges are recognised in equity.
the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the relevant line of the income statement which will be affected
by the underlying hedged item.
amounts accumulated in equity are recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the underlying hedged item when the underlying
hedged item is recognised on the Balance sheet or in the income statement.
When a hedged instrument expires, is sold or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss
existing in equity at that time is immediately recognised in the relevant line of the income statement which will be affected by the original
underlying hedged item.When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity
is immediately transferred to the relevant line of the income statement, which would have been affected by the forecasted transaction. 65
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
2 Accounting Policies continued
ii) Derivatives That Do Not Qualify For Hedge Accounting
certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
iii) Embedded Derivatives
Where the risks and characteristics of derivatives embedded in other contracts are not closely related to those of the contracts, and the whole
contract is not carried at fair value with gains or losses reported in the income statement, the derivative is separated from that host contract
and measured at fair value, with fair value movements reﬂected in the account in the income statement which will be affected by the underlying
host contract.
New Standards and Interpretations
During the year the Group adopted iFRic 13 “customer loyalty programmes”.the adoption of this iFRic has not had any impact on the
prior year Balance sheet or income statement.
During the year, the international accounting standards Board (“iasB”) and international Financial Reporting interpretations committee
(“iFRic”) issued the following standards and interpretations which are effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after the stated
effective date.these standards and interpretations are not effective for and have not been applied in the preparation of these Financial statements:
effective date
International Accounting Standards (IFRS/IAS)
iFRs 8 operating segments January 2009
ias 1 revised Presentation of financial statements January 2009
ias 23 (2007) Borrowing costs January 2009
ias 27 revised consolidated and separate financial statements July 2009
amendment to ias 32 Financial instruments: Presentation January 2009
amendment to ias 39 eligible hedged items July 2009
iFRs 2 share-based payments – amendment to vesting conditions
and cancellations January 2009
iFRs 2 share-based payments – Group cash-settled share-based
payment transactions January 2010
iFRs 3 revised Business combinations July 2009
amendment to iFRs 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures January 2009
annual improvements to iFRs (2007) January 2009
IFRIC Interpretations
iFRic 12 service concession arrangements march 2009
iFRic 14/ias 19 the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements
and their interaction January 2009
iFRic 15 agreements for the construction of real estate January 2009
iFRic 16 hedges in a net investment in a foreign operation July 2009
iFRic 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners July 2009
iFRic 18 transfers of assets from customers July 2009
iFRic 17, iFRic 18 and the amendment to iFRs 7 have not yet been adopted by the european Union.
the Group is currently considering the implications of the adoption of these standards and interpretations. they are not expected to have
a material impact on the Group’s Financial statements. 66
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
3 Financial Risk Management
a) Financial Risks and Treasury Management
the board has established an overall treasury policy and has approved policies, procedures and authority levels within which the treasury
function (“Group treasury”) must operate. the Finance Director conducts treasury reviews at least monthly and the board receive regular
monthly reports covering treasury activity.the treasury committee meets and reviews the report on a quarterly basis.
Group treasury manage the Group’s funding requirements and ﬁnancial risks in line with the agreed treasury policies and procedures.
the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments, other than derivatives, primarily include borrowings, cash and liquid resources, trade receivables and trade
payables.the main purpose of these ﬁnancial instruments is to manage liquidity or raise ﬁnance for the Group.
Group treasury uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to manage its interest rate risks associated with the Group’s ﬁnancing and currency risk
arising from the Group’s operations.the derivatives used are mainly interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts.
the Group’s activities expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks, which include:
• funding and liquidity risk;
• credit risk;
• foreign exchange risk; and
• cash ﬂow interest rate risk.
the Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of ﬁnancial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse
effects on the Group’s ﬁnancial performance.the Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
the policies and strategies for managing these risks are summarised as follows:
i) Funding and Liquidity Risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies sufﬁcient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount
of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group
treasury aims to maintain ﬂexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
the Group ﬁnances its operations by a combination of retained proﬁts, debt ﬁnance and leases.the objective is to ensure that there is sufﬁcient
cash or working capital facilities to meet the cash ﬂow requirements of the Group for its current business plan.
short-term requirements can be ﬁnanced by the £250.0 million Revolving credit Facility (“RcF”), which expires in april 2011, of which £nil
(2008: £45 million) was utilised at the balance sheet date.
ii) Credit Risk
credit risk is the risk where the Group can suffer ﬁnancial loss through default by customers or ﬁnancial institutions.
the Group has no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk. sales to retail customers are made in cash or by credit and debit cards, wholesale
sales of products to franchisees are made to customers with an appropriate credit history. Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are
limited to high credit-quality ﬁnancial institutions. the Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one ﬁnancial
institution. cash surpluses are placed on deposit for no longer than three months and only with ﬁnancial counterparties with a short-term credit
rating of a1, P1 or better as assigned by either standard and Poor’s or moody’s respectively.the carrying amount of ﬁnancial assets recorded
in the ﬁnancial statements net of any allowances for losses, represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk.
iii) Foreign Exchange Risk
the Group’s functional currency is sterling.the Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various
currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Us dollar and also to the euro. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial
transactions relating to imports and trading in the Republic of ireland.
t o manage the foreign exchange transaction risk, entities in the Group use forward currency contracts transacted by Grouptreasury. Foreign
exchange risk arises when commercial transactions are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Grouptreasury
is responsible for managing the exposure in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts with a settlement of 18 months
or less. Up to 100 per cent of the ﬁrst three months’ forecast purchases, up to 80 per cent of the next three months and up to 70 per cent for
the following 12 months’ forecast purchases are hedged.the Group does not hedge economic exposure and reviews the need to hedge translation
exposure arising from the proﬁts, assets and liabilities of its non-sterling business. Due to the volatility of the sterling and the euro exchange
rate during the year, the Group hedged the indebtedness between the UK and its irish subsidiary. 67
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
3 Financial Risk Management continued
iv) Cash Flow Interest Rate Risk
the Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. the Group’s current borrowing facilities are issued at variable rates that
expose the Group to cash ﬂow interest rate risk.
the interest exposure of the Group is managed within the constraints of the Group’s business plan and the ﬁnancial covenants under its
facilities. the aim is to reduce exposure to the effect of interest rate movements and to take advantage of low interest rates by hedging an
appropriate amount of interest rate exposure whilst maintaining the ﬂexibility to minimise early termination costs. the Group’s interest rate
hedging strategy is to achieve a target ﬁxed percentage of 75 per cent, with a 15 per cent tolerance (60–90 per cent).
the impact of movements in interest rates is managed through the use of ﬂoating rate debt and interest rate swaps.these are usually matched
with speciﬁc loans for a period of time up to their maturity or call date.
the Group’s main interest rate exposure is from the ﬂoating rate loans under the credit facilities. at the year end, following the capital raising
on 23 June 2009, the Group’s hedged ﬁxed rate borrowings amounted to £727.5 million, being 93 per cent of the Group’s total borrowings.
the Group is currently reviewing its interest rate swap portfolio.
v) Other Price Risk
the Group is exposed to equity risk arising from equity investments.
the sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to equity price risk at the reporting date. at the year end, if the
valuations had been 10 per cent higher/lower when all other variables were held constant:
• net proﬁt would have been unaffected as the equity investments were classiﬁed as available-for-sale investments;
• other reserves would decrease/increase by £0.4 million (2008: £0.6 million) for the Group as a result of the changes in the fair value of
available-for-sale investments.
b) Capital Management
the Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns
for shareholders and beneﬁts to other stakeholders and to maintain a structure to optimise the cost of capital. in order to maintain or adjust
the capital structure the Group may consider; the amount of dividend paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or
sell assets to reduce debt.
c) Fair Value Estimates
the fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash ﬂows. the fair value of forward currency
contracts has been determined based on market forward currency exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
the fair values of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
in the case of the Group’s loans due in more than one year, the fair value of ﬁnancial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting
the future contractual cash ﬂows at the current market interest rates available to the Group.
there were no material differences between the carrying value of non-derivative ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities to their fair values
at the year end.
4 Segmental Reporting
Based on an analysis of risks and returns, the directors consider that the Group has only one identiﬁable business segment, retailing.
all material operations of the Group are carried out in the British isles and therefore no geographical segmentation is disclosed. the Group
operates both an internet and an international division, both of which remain immaterial for the purposes of segmental reporting.
consequently, the Group has considered business segmentation as the primary segmentation, with a single separately reportable segment, retailing. 68
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
5 Gross TransactionV alue
Revenue from concessions is required to be shown on a net basis, being the commission received rather than the gross value achieved by the
concessionaire on the sale. management believes that gross transaction value, which presents revenue on a gross basis before adjusting for
concessions, staff discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points, represents a good guide to the value of the overall activity of the Group.
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Gross transaction value 2,339.7 2,336.0
6 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements
the Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.the resulting accounting estimates will, by deﬁnition, seldom equal the
related actual results. estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.the estimates and assumptions that have a signiﬁcant
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next ﬁnancial period are discussed below.
Estimated Impairment of Goodwill
the Group tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2. the recoverable
amount of cash-generating units is determined based on a value-in-use calculation.the method requires an estimate of future cash ﬂows and
the selection of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the net present value of the cash ﬂows. actual outcomes could vary.
Taxation and Deferred Taxation
the Group is subject to income taxes in the UK and the Republic of ireland. at each ﬁnancial period end, judgement is required in determining
the provision for income taxes.the Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on the best estimates at the balance sheet date.
signiﬁcant judgement is also required in determining the deferred tax on developers’ contributions, fair value losses and gains, retirement
beneﬁt assets and liabilities and other provisions. the Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the best estimates at the
balance sheet date.
Where the ﬁnal tax outcome of the above matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the
corporation tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.the ﬁnal outcome of some of these tax items
may give rise to material proﬁt and loss and/or cash ﬂow movements.
Share-Based Payments
the Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. the fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period.the fair value is calculated using the appropriate fair value model with the estimated level of vesting
being reviewed annually by management.the key assumptions of this model are set out in note 27.
Pension Liabilities
the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt schemes’ pension liabilities, which are assessed each period by actuaries, are based on key assumptions including
return on plan assets, discount rates, mortality rates, inﬂation, future salary and pension costs.these assumptions, individually or collectively,
may be different to actual outcomes.
other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions; additional information relating to this is disclosed
in note 23.
Estimated Useful Life of Property, Plant and Equipment
the Group estimates the useful life of property, plant and equipment and reviews this estimate at each ﬁnancial period end.the Group also
tests for impairment whenever a trigger event occurs. 69
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
7 Operating Proﬁt
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit:
the amounts of inventory written down during the financial year 10.2 16.5
cost of inventories recognised as an expense 983.6 914.5
employment costs (note 8) 321.2 307.5
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 15):
—owned assets 87.2 86.2
—assets held under finance leases 0.7 1.3
accelerated depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 15):
—owned assets 0.1 0.8
amortisation of intangible assets (note 14) 8.1 7.5
loss/(profit) on disposal of:
—Property, plant and equipment 0.2 (3.1)
operating lease rentals:
—Property 167.1 157.3
—other 0.9 1.4
Foreign exchange gains (3.4) (8.0)
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 10.5 13.2
auditors’ remuneration 1.0 0.4
Operating Lease Costs and Incentives
the amount charged to the income statement in respect of operating lease costs and incentives for the Group has changed signiﬁcantly under
iFRs. the adverse impact on reported proﬁt relating to the treatment of leases with annual ﬁxed increments in rent and the accounting for
both rent free periods and developers’ contributions is as follows:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
leases with fixed annual increments in rent 13.1 13.5
Rent free periods 1.6 1.4
Developers’ contributions 9.5 7.7
Reduction in operating profit resulting from accounting in accordance with IAS 17 “Leases”
and SIC 15 “Operating leases—incentives” 24.2 22.6
Services Provided by the Company’s Auditor and Network Firms
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the company’s auditor as detailed below:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Audit services
Fees payable to the company’s auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated accounts 0.2 0.2
the audit of the company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
Other services
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services
—t ax advisory services 0.1 0.1
—other assurance services 0.6 –
included with other assurance services is £46,000 (2008: £24,000) relating to the deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme audits.
other assurance services comprise advisory work relating to the capital raising through the ﬁrm placing and placing and open offer of shares
in June 2009, totalling £0.6 million. it is cost effective for the Group that such services are provided by its auditor in view of their knowledge
of the Group’s affairs. 70
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
8 Employees
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Wages and salaries 294.6 282.1
social security costs 23.3 22.5
Pension credit (0.3) (1.7)
share-based payments (note 27) 0.3 0.8
short-term employee benefits 3.3 3.8
Total employment costs 321.2 307.5
Number Number
Average number of employees:
Full time 8,601 8,958
Part time 19,165 18,442
Total 27,766 27,400
included in pension credit above is £0.6 million (2008: £0.5 million) of contributions payable to key management’s personal pension plans.
information concerning directors’ remuneration, interest in shares and share options, are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to
53 which forms part of these Financial statements.
Key Management Compensation:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
salaries and short-term benefits 4.4 2.7
compensation for loss of office 0.5 –
Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.5
share-based payments – 0.5
5.5 3.7
members of the executive management board, which includes the executive directors, are deemed to be key management. it is the executive
board who have responsibility for planning and controlling the activities of the Group. During the year the executive board consisted of seven
members (2008: seven members).
9 Interest Receivable and Similar Income
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
interest on bank deposits 1.3 4.8
10 Interest Payable and Similar Charges
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts 55.0 67.1
amortisation of issue costs on loans (note 21) 4.4 4.2
interest payable on finance leases 3.3 3.0
charges arising from ineffective cash flow hedges – 0.7
62.7 75.0 71
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
11 T axation
Analysis of Tax Charge in the Financial Y ear
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Current tax:
UK corporation tax charge on profit for the year 39.8 26.0
adjustments in respect of prior periods (10.5) (0.2)
Current tax expense 29.3 25.8
Deferred taxation:
origination and reversal of timing differences (8.5) (3.6)
Pension cost relief in excess of pension charge 4.2 7.0
adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.7 (0.4)
Deferred tax (credit)/expense (note 24) (3.6) 3.0
Tax charge for the financial year 25.7 28.8
the tax for the year is lower (2008: lower) than the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.0 per cent (2008: weighted average rate of 29.2 per
cent).the differences are explained below.
the change in the standard rate of corporation tax to 28.0 per cent with effect from april 2008 was reﬂected in the weighted average rate for
the year ended 30 august 2008.
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 120.8 105.9
Profit on ordinary activities at standard rate of corporation tax in
the UK of 28.0 per cent (2008: 29.2 per cent) 33.8 30.9
Effects of:
expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.5 0.2
overseas items (1.2) (2.2)
adjustments in relation to prior periods (9.8) (0.6)
Non-qualifying depreciation 2.4 1.3
contribution to employee share options – 0.1
Fixed asset disposals – (0.9)
Tax charge for the financial year 25.7 28.8
12 Dividends
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Final paid 0.5 pence (2008: 3.8 pence) per £0.0001 share
settled in cash 2.4 32.6
settled in scrip issue 1.9 –
interim paid nil pence (2008: 2.5 pence) per £0.0001 share
settled in cash – 11.8
settled in scrip issue – 9.7
4.3 54.1
the directors are not proposing a ﬁnal dividend in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 29 august 2009 (2008: 0.5 pence per share).the ﬁnal
dividend in respect of the year ended 30 august 2008 absorbed £4.3 million of shareholders’ funds. 72
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
13 Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary
shares outstanding during the year.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential
ordinary shares. the Group has one class of dilutive potential ordinary shares, those share options granted to employees where the exercise
price is less than the market price of the company’s ordinary shares during the year.
Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share
29 August 2009 30 august 2008
Basic Diluted Basic Diluted
£m £m £m £m
Profit for the financial year after taxation 95.1 95.1 77.1 77.1
Number Number Number Number
mm mm
Weighted average number of shares 950.8 950.8 861.5 861.5
shares held by esoP (weighted) (1.4) (1.4) (1.1) (1.1)
shares issuable (weighted) –– ––
adjusted weighted average number of shares 949.4 949.4 860.4 860.4
Pence Pence Pence Pence
per share per share per share per share
earnings per share 10.0 10.0 9.0 9.0
14 Intangible Assets
licences and
Goodwill trademarks software t otal
£m £m £m £m
Cost
at 1 september 2007 817.4 2.9 43.6 863.9
additions – (0.2) 4.5 4.3
exchange rate movement 1.1 –– 1.1
Disposals –– (0.6) (0.6)
at 30 august 2008 818.5 2.7 47.5 868.7
additions –– 6.3 6.3
exchange rate movement 0.7 – 0.2 0.9
Disposals –– (1.3) (1.3)
At 29 August 2009 819.2 2.7 52.7 874.6
Accumulated amortisation
at 1 september 2007 – 0.1 20.9 21.0
charge for the year – 0.3 7.2 7.5
Disposals –– (0.6) (0.6)
at 30 august 2008 – 0.4 27.5 27.9
charge for the year – 0.2 7.9 8.1
Disposals –– (1.3) (1.3)
At 29 August 2009 – 0.6 34.1 34.7
Net book amount
At 29 August 2009 819.2 2.1 18.6 839.9
at 30 august 2008 818.5 2.3 20.0 840.8
at 1 september 2007 817.4 2.8 22.7 842.9 73
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
14 Intangible Assets continued
Software Development Costs
the computer software capitalised of £6.3 million (2008: £4.5 million) principally relates to internally developed application software.
externally developed application software capitalised during the year amounted to £2.9 million (2008: £0.8 million).
Amortisation of Intangible Assets
amortisation on the Group’s intangible assets has been charged to the income statement as follows for the ﬁnancial years ended:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
included within:
—cost of sales 6.7 4.5
—distribution costs 0.5 0.3
—administrative expenses 0.9 2.7
8.1 7.5
Impairment Test for Goodwill
Goodwill arising is not amortised but is reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill represents the goodwill for a portfolio of sites, which has been allocated to groups of cash-Generating Units (“cGUs”) split on a
regional basis according to the level at which management monitors that goodwill.this allocation was primarily undertaken subsequent to the
acquisition in December 2003 of the Debenhams stores by Debenhams plc.the cGUs are set out below:
south south
North midlands east West south other t otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Goodwill 159.3 184.3 180.1 185.3 102.8 7.4 819.2
For the purposes of this impairment review, the recoverable amounts of the cGUs are determined based on value-in-use calculations.these
cash ﬂow projections are based on ﬁnancial budgets approved by management covering a ﬁve-year period.the key assumptions used in these
projections are sales growth and discount rates. the projections also assume that the change in sales mix from concessions to own bought
stock will result in improved gross margins. the ﬁve-year plan is built up using management’s previous experience and incorporates
management’s view of current economic conditions and trading expectations. cash ﬂows beyond the ﬁve-year period are extrapolated based
on the assumption of no growth after year ﬁve.the growth rates do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the retail sector in which
the cGUs operate.the pre-tax discount rate used to calculate the value in use was 8.0 per cent (2008: 7.3 per cent) and reﬂects the speciﬁc
risks in the retail business.
management determined the gross margin for each cGU based on performance of individual stores and its expectations for the market
development.the weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports.the discount rates used
are pre-tax and risk-free rates. Based on the value-in-use calculations, there is substantial headroom on a region-by-region basis, and a reasonably
possible change in the assumptions used would not cause an impairment write down to goodwill.
as a result of the impairment review, as at 29 august 2009, no impairment of goodwill has been required (2008: £nil). 74
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
15 Property, Plant and Equipment
land and buildings
short-
leasehold Vehicles,
long- fixtures and fixtures and
Freehold leasehold fittings equipment t otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
at 1 september 2007* 59.1 11.4 315.0 608.8 994.3
additions –– 16.0 97.8 113.8
exchange rate movements –– 1.1 7.5 8.6
Disposals and write-offs (8.1) – (7.8) (33.3) (49.2)
at 30 august 2008* 51.0 11.4 324.3 680.8 1,067.5
additions –– 11.8 49.0 60.8
exchange rate movements –– 0.6 3.8 4.4
Disposals and write-offs –– (0.1) (12.5) (12.6)
At 29 August 2009 51.0 11.4 336.6 721.1 1,120.1
Accumulated depreciation
at 1 september 2007* 3.9 0.7 49.8 272.2 326.6
charge for the year 0.9 0.3 12.8 73.5 87.5
exchange rate movements –– 0.1 3.0 3.1
accelerated depreciation –– 0.5 0.3 0.8
Disposals and write-offs (3.0) – (7.7) (33.1) (43.8)
at 30 august 2008* 1.8 1.0 55.5 315.9 374.4
charge for the year 0.4 0.2 13.6 73.7 87.9
exchange rate movements ––– 1.1 1.1
accelerated depreciation ––– 0.1 0.1
Disposals and write-offs ––– (12.4) (12.4)
At 29 August 2009 2.2 1.2 69.1 378.4 450.9
Net book value
At 29 August 2009 48.8 10.2 267.5 342.7 669.2
at 30 august 2008 45.5 8.7 268.8 370.3 693.3
at 1 september 2007 51.5 9.0 265.2 342.0 667.7
* opening balances are now stated gross of fair value adjustments in respect of previous acquisitions.these adjustments have increased the cost and accumulated depreciation of ﬁxed assets
at 1 september 2007 by £199.5 million.
assets in the course of construction included in property, plant and equipment at the ﬁnancial year end are as follows:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Assets in the course of construction 40.3 46.5
Property, plant and equipment includes the following assets held under ﬁnance leases:
Vehicles, fixtures Freehold and long-leasehold
and equipment land and buildings
29 August 30 august 29 August 30 august
2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m
cost 3.4 4.3 53.5 53.5
aggregate depreciation 2.4 3.1 2.9 2.6
Net book value 1.0 1.2 50.6 50.9 75
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
16 Financial Assets—Available-for-Sale Investments
£m
at 1 september 2007 20.3
Decrease in the market value charged to the statement of Recognised income and expenses (“soRie”) (9.3)
at 30 august 2008 11.0
Decrease in the market value charged to the soRie (2.2)
At 29 August 2009 8.8
the Group holds 10 per cent (2008: 10 per cent) of the issued shares of ermes Department stores limited (“ermes”), a company listed on
the cyprus stock exchange. the market value of the shares at 29 august 2009 was £3.9 million (2008: £6.6 million). ermes is a company
that is registered and trades in cyprus and their shares are quoted in euros.
the Group holds 100 per cent (2008: 100 per cent) of the “a” ordinary shares in BF Properties (No.4) limited, which cost £3.0 million and
have a fair value of £4.9 million (2008: £4.4 million). these shares carry no voting rights. the directors consider that the ultimate parent
undertaking and controlling party of BF Properties (No.4) limited is the British land company plc.
BF Properties (No.4) limited was incorporated in Great Britain.the address of its principal place of business isY ork house, 45 seymour street,
london, W1h 7lX.
BF Properties (No.4) limited year end is 31 march and it continues to report in accordance with UK GaaP . the aggregate amount of the
capital and reserves of BF Properties (No.4) limited at 31 march 2008 was £141,023,968. the proﬁt of BF Properties (No.4) limited for
the year ended 31 march 2008 was £22,915.this is the most recent set of published results for the company.
the investment in BF Properties (No.4) limited has been calculated by discounting the future expected proceeds from the investment at the
prevailing interest rate of 1.36 per cent (2008: 5.18 per cent).
there were no disposals or impairment provisions on available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets during the years shown.
17 Inventories
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
items held for resale 270.9 237.5
inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the retail method.this method intrinsically takes into account any stock
loss or mark down to goods sold below cost.
Write downs of inventories are disclosed in note 7. 76
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
18 Trade and Other Receivables
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
trade receivables 22.4 13.8
allowance for doubtful debts (0.6) (0.2)
21.8 13.6
other receivables 0.9 0.5
Prepayments and accrued income 45.8 44.4
68.5 58.5
at the year end £21.9 million (2008: £13.4 million) of the trade receivables are denominated in sterling, with the balance being in euros.
the average terms of trade receivables as at the year end is 67 days (2008: 55 days).the Group has provided for all receivables over 90 days
past the relevant due date. trade receivables between 60 days and 90 days are provided based on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the
sale of goods.
at 29 august 2009, £0.6 million (2008: £0.2 million) of trade receivables were past their due date and impaired.
trade receivables which are up to 90 days past their due date but not impaired amount to £4.1 million (2008: £2.0 million).
19 Cash and Cash Equivalents
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
cash at bank and in hand 30.6 38.7
short-term bank deposits 157.6 3.4
188.2 42.1
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits (per cent) 0.5 4.8
average maturity date (days) 11.6 2.5
Net cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash Flow statement:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
cash and cash equivalents 188.2 42.1
Bank overdrafts and revolving credit facility (“RcF”) (note 21) – (45.0)
188.2 (2.9)
20 Trade and Other Payables
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
trade payables 274.8 251.3
other payables 73.9 81.8
other taxation and social security 23.9 27.2
accruals 85.4 108.5
Deferred income 0.6 1.4
458.6 470.2 77
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
21 Bank Overdraft and Borrowings
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Current
t erm loan facility
(1)
88.9 96.2
Revolving credit facility (note 19) – 45.0
lease obligations 3.7 3.3
92.6 144.5
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Non-current
t erm loan facility
(1)
642.8 844.3
lease obligations 43.1 47.3
685.9 891.6
1)t erm loan facility includes unamortised issue costs of £8.6 million (2008: £9.7 million).
the Group’s credit facilities include a term loan of £800.0 million (2008: £950.0 million) and an RcF of £250.0 million (2008: £250.0
million). in may 2009 a scheduled term loan repayment of £100.0 million was made. in addition, £50.0 million of the proceeds from the
capital raising in June 2009 was used to fund a partial pre-payment of the £150.0 million term loan amortisation payment which was due in
may 2010. the Group has also taken advantage of current credit market conditions to buy back its debt in the market. During the year the
Group purchased debt with a par value of £61.4 million. During the year £35.5 million of this amount was paid, the remaining £25.9 million
is included within other payables at 29 august 2009.the term loan facility is repayable in instalments with the loan being repaid in full by april
2011. interest rates are based on liBoR and denominated in sterling. the RcF is multicurrency with interest rates based on the relevant
inter-bank market rate. During the year the Group has complied with its covenants relating to its credit facilities.
issue costs, which mainly relate to facility costs are being amortised over the term of the facilities at a constant rate based on the committed
amount of the term loan. an additional fee of £3.3 million was capitalised during the year.the amortisation charge relating to the issue costs
of the credit facilities for the year ended 29 august 2009 was £4.4 million (2008: £4.2 million).
Finance Lease Obligations
the minimum lease payments under ﬁnance leases fall due as follows:
29 August 2009 30 august 2008
Property Other Property other
leases leases leases leases
£m £m £m £m
Not later than one year 7.2 0.6 8.3 1.0
later than one year but not more than five years 54.1 0.6 65.3 1.0
61.3 1.2 73.6 2.0
interest element of future instalments (15.5) (0.2) (24.7) (0.3)
45.8 1.0 48.9 1.7
i) Property Lease Obligations
in 1988 a number of properties with a market value of £42.7 million were sold to a bank on 125-year leases at peppercorn rentals.the Group
subsequently entered into full tenant and landlord repairing sub-leases for 125 years. During the year ended 30 august 2008 one of the
properties within this arrangement was sold.this sale reduced the outstanding principal by £5.0 million.
at the year end the following amounts remained outstanding under the leases:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Principal 37.7 37.7
accrued interest 8.1 11.2
Outstanding liability 45.8 48.9 78
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
21 Bank Overdraft and Borrowings continued
the rentals payable are structured so as to give the lessors a ﬁnancing return linked to liBoR in the ﬁrst 25 years and, in the following ten
years, a liBoR linked return together with the repayment of capital.thereafter, market rentals are payable subject to revision every ﬁve years.
in the early years, the amounts payable are below liBoR and in the later years are in excess of liBoR. the ﬁnancing costs are, however,
allocated over the 25-year period so as to achieve an annual funding cost which is consistent with liBoR.the Group has limited rights up to
the 25th year of the leases to vary the terms of the leases to buy out the rental obligations based on the properties’ original sales proceeds.the
leases are reﬂected in ﬁxed assets at their cost to the Group.
ii) Other Lease Obligations
other lease obligations relate mainly to computer software, print machinery and vehicles leased under hire purchase contracts.
Maturity of Borrowings
the maturity of the Group’s borrowings are as follows:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
amounts falling due:
in one year or less or on demand 92.6 144.5
in more than one year but not more than two years 646.2 149.7
in more than two years but not more than five years 39.7 741.9
778.5 1,036.1
Interest Rates
the effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
% %
Bank overdrafts N/A 6.30
t erm loan facility 3.58 6.47
RcF N/A 6.32
lease obligations 4.08 6.23
22 Financial Instruments
Derivative Financial Instruments
29 August 2009 30 august 2008
Assets Liabilities assets liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Current
Forward foreign currency contracts—cash flow hedges 4.5 (5.2) 6.9 –
Forward foreign currency contracts—held for trading 5.0 (1.5) 2.9 –
interest rate swaps—cash flow hedges – (17.5) ––
interest rate swaps—held for trading –– 0.7 –
9.5 (24.2) 10.5 –
Non-current
Forward foreign currency contracts—cash flow hedges 0.2 (1.1) 2.9 –
interest rate swaps—cash flow hedges – (6.9) 5.3 (0.7)
0.2 (8.0) 8.2 (0.7)
the ﬁnancial risks and treasury management information has been disclosed in note 3. 79
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
22 Financial Instruments continued
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
the notional principal amounts and fair values of ﬁnancial instruments used in interest risk management were as follows:
29 August 2009 30 august 2008
Notional Notional
principal Book Fair principal Book Fair
amount value value amount value value
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Primary financial instruments
Borrowings:
—due within one year (96.0) (97.7) (97.7) (148.3) (148.5) (148.5)
—due after one year but no more than two years (649.7) (649.7) (649.7) (153.2) (153.2) (153.2)
—due after more than two years but no more than five years (39.7) (39.7) (39.7) (744.1) (744.1) (744.1)
cash and cash equivalents 188.2 188.2 42.1 42.1
Derivative financial instruments held to manage interest rate
and currency risk
interest rate swaps 727.5 (24.4) (24.4) 752.5 5.3 5.3
Forward foreign currency contracts 258.5 1.9 1.9 158.7 12.7 12.7
Net financial liabilities (621.4) (621.4) (985.7) (985.7)
the ﬁnancial instruments table above excludes trade receivables of £21.8 million (2008: £13.6 million) and trade payables of £274.8 million
(2008: £251.3 million), which have fair values equal to their carrying values.
Derivatives are used to hedge the exposure to market risks. Derivatives that are held for hedging are designated as cash ﬂow hedged instruments
in accordance with ias 39.the derivatives held for hedging are described below.
there is no material impact in the income statement resulting from ineffective hedges.
i) Forward Foreign Currency Contracts
the net fair value losses at 29 august 2009 on open forward foreign exchange contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk of anticipated
future inventory purchases are £1.6 million (2008: gains of £9.8 million).this will be recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement
of the acquisition cost of inventory over the next 18 months.
Forward exchange contracts designated as cash ﬂow hedges are reclassiﬁed to “assets held for trading” when the underlying forecast transaction
is crystallised on the Balance sheet as inventory. During the year there were no contracts reclassiﬁed to “assets held for trading” due to cash
ﬂow hedges being ineffective.
ii) Interest Rate Swaps
the Group’s interest rate swaps switch interest from ﬂoating rates to ﬁxed rates.the Group’s interest rate swap portfolio matures as follows:
Notional Rate
£m % maturity
interest rate swaps 727.5 4.718–6.040 may 2010 to November 2011
the net gains and losses on these swaps, which are deferred in equity, will reverse through interest in the income statement over the life of
the swaps.
interest rate swaps that do not qualify for hedge accounting are classiﬁed as held for trading. changes in the fair value of any instrument that
does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement within interest payable and other costs. 80
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
22 Financial Instruments continued
Financial Liabilities and Assets
the interest rate proﬁles of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities after taking account of interest rate swaps, swapped from ﬂoating to ﬁxed rates, used
to manage interest were as follows:
29 August 2009
Non-interest
Fixed Floating bearing Total
£m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities
sterling
(1)
(730.2) (56.9) – (787.1)
Financial assets
sterling 157.6 – 22.7 180.3
euro – 6.6 1.3 7.9
Total financial assets 157.6 6.6 24.0 188.2
1)Debt issue costs of £8.6 million are excluded from the ﬁnancial liabilities above.
the weighted average interest rate on the ﬁxed rate borrowings as at 29 august 2009 was 7.4 per cent (2008: 6.1 per cent), with the weighted
average time for which rates are ﬁxed being 1.0 years (2008: 2.0 years). Floating rate borrowings are interest bearing at interest rates based on
liBoR. cash deposits are interest bearing at rates based on liBiD or relevant base rates. Non-interest bearing cash refers to cash in stores or
in transit.
Floating rate borrowings have been classiﬁed as ﬁxed if there were derivative ﬁnancial instruments hedging the ﬂoating rate interest for more
than one year.
30 august 2008
Non-interest
Fixed Floating bearing t otal
£m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities
sterling
(2)
(754.3) (291.5) – (1,045.8)
Financial assets
sterling 2.6 0.9 21.5 25.0
euro 0.8 14.9 1.2 16.9
Us dollar – 0.2 – 0.2
Total financial assets 3.4 16.0 22.7 42.1
2)Debt issue costs of £9.7 million are excluded from the ﬁnancial liabilities above.
Borrowing Facilities as at 29 August 2009
as at 29 august 2009 the t erm loan Facility was fully drawn together with £nil (2008: £45.0 million) of the RcF . the undrawn element of
the RcF at the year end is £250.0 million (2008: £205.0 million).these facilities expire on 19 april 2011.
Both of these facilities incur commitment fees at market rate. 81
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
22 Financial Instruments continued
Sensitivity Analysis
the Group monitors interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk by determining the effect on proﬁt of a range of possible changes in interest
rates and foreign exchange rates. the range of changes chosen, being 1 per cent movement in the interest rate or 5 per cent movement in
sterling when compared to Us dollar, reﬂects the Group’s view of potential changes to these risk variables which existed at the year end.
the table below illustrates the estimated impact on the Group as a result of market movements in foreign exchange and interest rates in relation
to all the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments. the analysis has been produced assuming no changes in the borrowings and existing interest rate
swaps portfolio when considering the interest rate movement. similarly, when considering the movement in foreign exchange rates, the analysis
assumes no changes in the volumes of imports.
29 August 2009 30 august 2008
Income income
Statement Equity statement equity
loss gain loss gain
£m £m £m £m
1 per cent increase in interest rate (1.6) 3.6 (2.6) 0.8
29 August 2009 30 august 2008
Income income
Statement Equity statement equity
gain gain loss gain
£m £m £m £m
5 per cent weakening in sterling compared to Us dollars 0.8 6.4 (3.6) 6.5
23 Retirement Beneﬁt Obligation
the Group operates deﬁned beneﬁt type pension schemes, being the Debenhams executive Pension Plan and the Debenhams Retirement
scheme (together “the Group’s pension schemes”), the assets of which are held in separate trustee-administered funds.
Both pension schemes were closed for future service accrual from 31 october 2006.the closure to future accrual will not affect the pensions
of those who have retired or the deferred beneﬁts of those who have left service or opted out before 31 october 2006. Future pension
arrangements are provided through a money purchase stakeholder plan or a deﬁned contribution scheme for the employees in the Republic
of ireland.
in accordance with the recovery plan for the Group’s pension schemes, the Group have agreed to contribute £5.8 million per annum from
1 april 2009 to 31 march 2011 increasing by annual RPi from the year to 31 December 2009, to fund past service beneﬁts.the Group has
also agreed to contribute a further £7.0 million from 1 april 2011 until 31 august 2021, increasing by annual RPi from the year to 31 December
2009. if the company pays or declares a dividend during the period from 1 april 2009 to 31 march 2011, the Group shall make further
contributions of 3.1 per cent and 1.9 per cent of the total amount of the ordinary dividend to the Debenhams Retirement scheme and
Debenhams executive Pension Plan respectively.the Group has also agreed to fund all non-investment expenses and levies incurred by the
Group’s pension schemes.
actuarial valuations of the Group’s pension schemes using the projected unit basis were carried out at 31 march 2008, and updated as at each
relevant year end for the purposes of ias 19 “employee beneﬁts” by Watson Wyatt limited, a qualiﬁed independent actuary.the 31 march
2008 actuarial valuation has been used when calculating the ias 19 “employee beneﬁts” valuation at 29 august 2009.the major assumptions
used by the actuary were:
29 August 30 august 1 september
2009 2008 2007
per annum per annum per annum
% %%
inflation assumption 3.30 3.80 3.10
General salary and wage increase 3.30 3.80 3.90
Rate of increase in pension payments and deferred payments 3.30 3.80 3.10
Pension increase rate 3.30 3.80 3.10
Discount rate 5.45 6.35 5.95 82
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
23 Retirement Beneﬁt Obligation continued
the expected return on scheme assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for return over the entire life of the deﬁned
beneﬁt obligation.
29 August 2009 30 august 2008 1 september 2007
Long-term long-term long-term
rate of return rate of return rate of return
expected expected expected
per annum Value per annum Value per annum Value
% £m % £m % £m
Assets
equities 9.00 230.6 10.00 277.7 8.30 315.0
Bonds 4.40 217.5 5.10 204.5 5.95 197.3
Property 8.00 20.1 7.90 19.9 7.10 8.2
cash and other assets 4.30 20.2 5.10 23.5 5.00 31.8
Total market value of assets 6.70 488.4 7.80 525.6 7.25 552.3
Present value of scheme liabilities (542.0) (500.6) (465.0)
(Deficit)/surplus in scheme (53.6) 25.0 87.3
assumptions regarding future mortality experiences are based on the mortality tables shown below.
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
Male & male &
female female
Debenhams Retirement scheme PNMA00 + 1 PNma00 + 1
Debenhams executive Pension Plan PNFA00 - 2 PNma00 - 1
the current life expectancies underlying the mortality tables above are as follows:
29 August 2009 30 august 2008
Y ears Y ears Y ears Y ears
Male Female male Female
member currently aged 65 22.6 24.3 22.1 23.0
member aged 65 in 15 years 23.5 25.1 23.9 24.7
the actual loss on scheme assets was as follows:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Loss on scheme assets (22.3) (17.7)
the amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
interest on pension scheme liabilities 31.2 27.2
expected return on pension scheme assets (39.1) (36.6)
Total credit included within staff costs (7.9) (9.4)
the total credits included are as follows:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
cost of sales (6.6) (7.8)
Distribution costs – (0.1)
administrative expenses (1.3) (1.5)
Total credit (7.9) (9.4) 83
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
23 Retirement Beneﬁt Obligation continued
changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are as follows:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Present value of obligation at start of the financial year 500.6 465.0
interest on pension scheme liabilities 31.2 27.2
Benefit payments by the fund (20.7) (15.7)
loss on change of assumptions 49.1 9.5
experience (gain)/loss (18.2) 14.6
Present value of obligation at end of the financial year 542.0 500.6
changes in the fair value of pension scheme assets are as follows:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Fair value of pension scheme assets at start of the financial year 525.6 552.3
Benefits paid (20.7) (15.7)
company contributions 7.1 8.1
expected return on pension scheme assets 39.1 36.6
actuarial losses (62.7) (55.7)
Fair value of pension scheme assets at end of the financial year 488.4 525.6
movement in (deﬁcit)/surplus during the ﬁnancial year:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
surplus in the schemes at start of the financial year 25.0 87.3
movement in year:
Pension credit 7.9 9.4
company contributions 7.1 8.1
Net actuarial losses (93.6) (79.8)
(Deficit)/surplus in the schemes at end of financial year (53.6) 25.0
cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
at start of the financial year 4.5 84.3
Net actuarial losses recognised in the financial year (93.6) (79.8)
Net actuarial (losses)/gains recognised at end of the financial year (89.1) 4.5
history of experience gains and losses:
29 August 30 august 1 september 2 september 3 september
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
actuarial loss/(gain) arising on scheme assets:
—amounts £62.7m £55.7m £2.4m £(23.6)m £(46.0)m
—Percentage of scheme assets 12.8% 10.6% 0.4% (4.5)% (10.1)%
experience (gain)/loss arising on defined benefit obligation:
—amounts £(18.2)m £14.6m £4.1m £3.7m £2.8m
—Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (3.4)% 2.9% 0.9% 0.7% 0.6%
Present value of scheme liabilities £(542.0)m £(500.6)m £(465.0)m £(513.3)m £(463.0)m
Fair value of scheme assets £488.4m £525.6m £552.3m £527.1m £453.6m
(Deficit)/surplus £(53.6)m £25.0m £87.3m £13.8m £(9.4)m 84
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
23 Retirement Beneﬁt Obligation continued
the contributions expected to be paid during the year ended 28 august 2010 amount to £7.2 million.
Debenhams Deﬁned Contribution Scheme and Debenhams Stakeholder Pension Schemes
the Group contributions to the schemes during the year were £7.2 million (2008: £7.2 million).
24 Deferred T ax Assets and Liabilities
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28 per cent (2008: 28 per cent).
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Non-current
Deferred tax assets 80.6 57.4
Deferred tax liabilities (78.3) (95.3)
2.3 (37.9)
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is probable that these
assets will be recovered.
the movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below:
Developers Retirement
contribution Fair value other benefit
received losses provisions asset t otal
Assets £m £m £m £m £m
at 1 september 2007 34.4 – 17.9 – 52.3
credited to the income statement 2.2 – 2.8 – 5.0
exchange rate movements –– 0.1 – 0.1
at 30 august 2008 36.6 – 20.8 – 57.4
credited/(charged) to the income statement 3.1 (4.9) (0.4) (4.2) (6.4)
credited to the soRie – 10.4 – 19.2 29.6
At 29 August 2009 39.7 5.5 20.4 15.0 80.6
accelerated Retirement
tax Fair value benefit
depreciation gains asset t otal
Liabilities £m £m £m £m
at 1 september 2007 (82.9) (6.3) (22.4) (111.6)
(charged)/credited to the income statement (1.5) 0.4 (6.9) (8.0)
credited to the soRie –– 22.3 22.3
credited to equity – 2.0 – 2.0
at 30 august 2008 (84.4) (3.9) (7.0) (95.3)
credited to the income statement 6.1 3.9 – 10.0
credited to the soRie –– 7.0 7.0
At 29 August 2009 (78.3) –– (78.3) 85
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
25 Other Non-Current Liabilities
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
other liabilities 273.0 225.8
included within other liabilities are lease incentives received from landlords either through initial contributions or rent-free periods. these
incentives are being credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. additionally, the creditor
relates to the smoothing of the charges relating to leases with ﬁxed annual increments in rent.
26 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges
Vacant closure Promotional other
properties provisions activities provisions t otal
£m £m £m £m £m
at 1 september 2007 0.5 1.7 – 0.6 2.8
credited to the income statement (0.1) ––– (0.1)
Utilised during the financial year (0.2) (1.5) –– (1.7)
at 30 august 2008 0.2 0.2 – 0.6 1.0
charged to the income statement –– 1.7 – 1.7
Utilised during the financial year (0.2) – (0.1) (0.1) (0.4)
At 29 August 2009 – 0.2 1.6 0.5 2.3
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
current 2.1 0.7
Non-current 0.2 0.3
2.3 1.0
Vacant Properties
Provision for vacant properties represents the residual lease commitments, after taking into account existing sub-lease arrangements, in respect
of one property and was utilised over the remaining term of the lease which expired in august 2009.
Closure Provision
the termination of a number of operations resulted in closure costs predominantly related to the closure of a store in the Republic of ireland
and vacated buildings.the provision in respect of the closure of a store in the Republic of ireland was utilised during the year ending 30 august
2008.the remaining provision will be utilised over the term of the relevant lease, being the next ﬁve years.
Promotional Activities Provision
Provisions for promotional activities represent the cost to the business of operating an internal cosmetics loyalty scheme, and is expected to be
utilised during the next 12 months.
Other Provisions
the majority of the Group’s other provisions relate to dilapidations on properties based upon the directors’ best estimate of the Group’s future
liability.the remainder of the other provisions, none of which are individually signiﬁcant, represent the best estimate of the expenditure required
to settle present obligations in respect of other liabilities.these provisions are mainly short term in nature and are expected to be utilised within
the next 12 months. 86
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
27 Share Capital
29 August 2009 30 august 2008
£ Number £ Number
Authorised
ordinary shares of £0.0001 each 167,285 1,672,848,189 128,846 1,288,461,539
on 23 June 2009 the company increased its authorised share capital to 1,672,848,189 ordinary shares of £0.0001 each.
29 August 2009 30 august 2008
£ Number £ Number
Issued and fully paid—Ordinary shares of £0.0001 each
at start of year 87,477 874,770,325 85,897 858,974,359
shares issued in lieu of dividends 805 8,054,691 1,580 15,795,966
Firm placing and placing 33,059 330,592,432––
open offer 7,339 73,388,851––
At end of year 128,680 1,286,806,299 87,477 874,770,325
on 4 June 2009 the company announced a share issue to raise additional funds through a ﬁrm placing and placing and open offer. New ordinary
shares issued in respect of the open offer amounted to 73.4 million and 330.6 million new ordinary shares were issued though a placing, both
at an issue price of 80 pence per share, which raised net proceeds of £303.8 million after issue costs of £19.4 million. this share issue was
approved by shareholders on 23 June 2009 and all issued shares had a nominal value of £0.0001 each.the shares were issued and commenced
trading on the london stock exchange on 26 June 2009.the share issue was effected through a structure which resulted in a merger reserve
arising under section 612 of the companies act 2006.
Employee Share Trust—Interest in Share Capital
the number of ordinary shares in the company held by the DRet were as follows:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
Ordinary shares ordinary shares
Number Number
Debenhams Retail employee trust 2004 1,413,536 1,413,536
the market value of the shares on 29 august 2009 were £1.1 million for DRet (2008: £0.7 million).the cost of the shares held at the year
end is £1.2 million (2008: £1.2 million).
Share-Based Payments
the total charge to operating proﬁt relates to the following schemes:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Performance share Plan 2006—equity-settled element 0.4 0.8
executive share option Plan—equity-settled element (0.1) –
Charge for the year 0.3 0.8
PsP esoP
Number Number
outstanding at 1 september 2007 8,639,036 4,625,817
Granted 5,405,023 2,332,733
Forfeited (612,746) (516,474)
outstanding at 30 august 2008 13,431,313 6,442,076
Granted following the rights issue 210,723 80,265
lapsed (2,951,121) (2,275,984)
Forfeited (2,567,428) (1,065,770)
Outstanding at 29 August 2009 8,123,487 3,180,587 87
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
27 Share Capital continued
i) The Debenhams Performance Share Plan (the “PSP”)
the PsP is intended to facilitate the retention of senior executives of the company by enabling executives to receive shares provided that they
remain in the Group. an award under the PsP will normally vest on the third anniversary of date of grant and must be exercised within six
months of vesting. No payment is required for the grant of an award. an award under the PsP will comprise an option to receive free shares
or nil cost options with performance conditions attached. awards under the scheme have been made since may 2006.
the vesting on half of the shares granted is dependent on earnings Per share (“ePs”) growth. in accordance with iFRs 2 “share-based
Payments” this is classiﬁed as a non-market condition and therefore the shares have been fair valued at face value.the vesting of the remaining
half of the shares is dependent upon t otal shareholder Return (“tsR”) over a three year period when compared to total shareholder return
of the Ftse 350 General Retailers index.the fair value of the PsP options granted for this proportion of the award is calculated based on a
monte carlo simulation model assuming the inputs shown below:
Grant date 7 may 08 29 may 07 24 Nov 06
Number of shares under option (number) 3,410,092 2,816,895 1,896,500
expected term (years) 3.0 3.0 3.0
share price at grant (pence) 65.0 137.5 198.3
exercise price (pence) –– –
Risk free rate 5.7% 6.0% 5.5%
expected volatility 34.0% 21.0% 21.0%
expected dividend yield 3.5% 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value of option (pence):
tsR 29.0 64.3 95.2
ePs 59.0 121.0 178.0
Volatility has been estimated by taking the historic volatility in the company’s share price.
During the year 210,723 (2008: 5,405,023) options were granted under the plan following the ﬁrm placing and placing and open offer in
order to maintain an equivalent number of options. consequently this grant does not change the fair value of each option. in accordance with
the plan rules, options issued in may 2006 and June 2006 have lapsed during the year as neither the ePs nor thetsR performance conditions
were met. in addition, the February 2008 options were forfeited.
ii) Executive Share Option Plan (the “ESOP”)
the esoP allows the company to grant options to acquire shares to eligible employees. these options will normally become exercisable
following a three year performance period, only if and to the extent that the performance conditions to which they are subject have been
satisﬁed. options are granted with an exercise price equal to the middle market value of the shares on the day immediately preceding the date
of grant.
the vesting of options granted under this plan is dependent on ePs growth and the fair value of the share options has been calculated using
a binomial model.the key assumptions are as follows:
Grant date 12 Nov 07 29 may 07 24 Nov 06
Number of shares under option (number) 1,518,082 334,447 1,328,058
expected term (years) 6.0 6.0 6.0
share price at grant (pence) 103.0 137.5 198.3
exercise price (pence) 103.0 137.5 198.3
Risk free rate 5.8% 6.0% 5.5%
expected volatility 32.0% 24.0% 24.0%
expected dividend yield 3.5% 3.5% 3.5%
Fair value of option (pence) 30.0 31.7 44.8
During the year 80,265 (2008: 2,332,733) options were granted under the plan following the ﬁrm placing and placing and open offer in order
to maintain an equivalent number of options. consequently this grant does not change the fair value of each option. in accordance with the
plan rules, options issued in may 2006 and June 2006 have lapsed as the performance conditions associated with these options were not met.
in addition, the February 2008 options were forfeited.
the weighted average exercise price of the esoP at 29 august 2009 was 146.4 pence (2008: 159.1 pence). 88
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
28 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity
Reverse
share share merger acquisition Retained hedging translation other
capital premium reserve reserve earnings reserve reserve reserve t otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 September 2007 0.1 682.9 1,200.9 (1,199.9) (549.5) 15.4 – 13.1 163.0
Profit for the financial year –––– 77.1 ––– 77.1
currency translation differences ––––– – 1.3 – 1.3
actuarial loss in pension schemes (note 23) –––– (79.8) ––– (79.8)
movement in deferred tax
relating to pension schemes (note 24) –––– 22.3 ––– 22.3
change in valuation of
available-for-sale investments (note 16) ––––– –– (9.3) (9.3)
cash flow hedges:
—Net fair value gains (net of tax) ––––– (5.0) –– (5.0)
—Recycled and adjusted against the initial
measurement of the acquisition cost
of inventory ––––– 0.9 –– 0.9
—Reclassified and reported in net profit ––––– (0.5) –– (0.5)
Total recognised income and expense
for the financial year –––– 19.6 (4.6) 1.3 (9.3) 7.0
share options
—Value of employee services (note 27) –––– 0.8 ––– 0.8
Purchase of treasury shares for DRet (note 27)–––– (1.1) ––– (1.1)
Dividends paid (note 12) –––– (54.1) ––– (54.1)
shares issued in lieu of dividends (note 12) –––– 9.7 ––– 9.7
Balance at 30 august 2008 0.1 682.9 1,200.9 (1,199.9) (574.6) 10.8 1.3 3.8 125.3
Profit for the financial year –––– 95.1 ––– 95.1
currency translation differences ––––– – (0.3) – (0.3)
actuarial loss in pension schemes (note 23) –––– (93.6) ––– (93.6)
movement in deferred tax
relating to pension schemes (note 24) –––– 26.2 ––– 26.2
change in valuation of
available-for-sale investments (note 16) ––––– –– (2.2) (2.2)
cash flow hedges:
—Net fair value gains (net of tax) ––––– (9.2) –– (9.2)
—Recycled and adjusted against the initial
measurement of the acquisition cost
of inventory ––––– (20.1) –– (20.1)
Total recognised income and expense
for the financial year –––– 27.7 (29.3) (0.3) (2.2) (4.1)
share options
—Value of employee services (note 27) –––– 0.3 ––– 0.3
share issue (note 27) –– 303.8 ––––– 303.8
Discount arising on repurchase
of term loan facility (net of tax) –––– 2.4 ––– 2.4
Dividends paid (note 12) –––– (4.3) ––– (4.3)
shares issued in lieu of dividends (note 12) –––– 1.9 ––– 1.9
Balance at 29 August 2009 0.1 682.9 1,504.7 (1,199.9) (546.6) (18.5) 1.0 1.6 425.3 89
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
28 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity continued
Share Premium Account
on admission to the london stock exchange the company issued 358,974,359 shares at £1.95, generating proceeds of £700.0 million. costs
directly associated with the issue of the new shares totalled £17.1 million and in accordance with the companies act these costs were set off
against the premium generated on issue of the new shares.
Merger Reserve
the merger reserve of £1,200.9 million exists as a result of the 2005 Group reconstruction. the merger reserve represents the difference
between both the nominal value of the share capital and loan notes issued by the company and the fair value of Baroness Group holdings
limited Group at 24 may 2005, the date of the 2005 Group reconstruction.
on 26 June 2009, the share issue was completed and 404.0 million ordinary shares with a total nominal value of £0.04 million were issued for
consideration of £303.8 million, net of issue costs of £19.4 million.the issue was effected through a structure which resulted in a merger reserve
arising under section 612 of the companies act 2006.
Reverse Acquisition Reserve
the reverse acquisition reserve exists as a result of the method of accounting for the 2005 Group reconstruction. in accordance with
international accounting standards the 2005 Group reconstruction has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition.
Hedging Reserve
the hedging reserve represents the change in fair value of all interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts which have been
designated as cash ﬂow hedges.
Gains and losses transferred from equity into proﬁt or loss during the year are included in the following line items of the income statement:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
credited to cost of sales (27.9) (1.3)
charged to interest payable and similar charges – 0.7
(27.9) (0.6)
Other Reserves
other reserves represent the change in fair value in respect of the Group’s available-for-sale investments (see note 16).
Translation Reserve
the translation reserve arises from exchange differences arising as part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation.
Retained Earnings
the dividends not taken up in cash of £1.9 million (2008: £9.7 million) have been written back to retained earnings.
29 Operating Lease Commitments
29 August 2009 30 august 2008
Land and land and
buildings Other buildings other
£m £m £m £m
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable
operating leases are as follows:
Within one year 156.1 0.4 146.4 1.3
later than one year and less than five years 644.7 0.6 612.0 1.0
after five years 3,846.8 – 3,837.1 –
4,647.6 1.0 4,595.5 2.3
the Group leases departmental stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating leases.the leases have various terms, escalation clauses
and renewal rights.the Group also leases vehicles and ﬁxtures and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases. 90
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
Notes to the FiNaNcial statemeNts
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
30 Cash Generated From Operations
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 95.1 77.1
t axation (note 11) 25.7 28.8
Depreciation (note 15) 87.9 87.5
accelerated depreciation (note 15) 0.1 0.8
amortisation (note 14) 8.1 7.5
loss/(profit) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 (3.1)
employee options granted during the year (note 27) 0.3 0.8
Fair value gains on derivative instruments (0.6) (3.7)
Net movements in provisions for liabilities and charges (note 26) 1.3 (1.8)
interest income (1.3) (4.8)
interest expense 62.7 75.0
Difference between pension charge and contributions paid (note 23) (15.0) (17.5)
Net movement in other non-current liabilities 47.2 18.8
Changes in working capital
(increase)/decrease in inventories (33.4) 7.1
(increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (7.3) 8.0
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (30.0) 5.3
Cash generated from operations 241.0 285.8
in the cash Flow statement, proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment comprise:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Net book amount (note 15) 0.2 5.4
(loss)/profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (0.2) 3.1
t otal proceeds on sale – 8.5
less off set to long-term loan – (5.0)
cash proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment – 3.5
Non-Cash Transactions
other non-cash changes comprise:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
amortisation of issue costs relating to debt issues 4.4 4.2
Non-cash movements associated with term loan facility (24.4) –
Non-cash movements associated with finance lease obligations (3.7) (6.4)
Non-cash transactions (23.7) (2.2) 91
Section 4 Financial statements and Notes Debenhams annual Report and accounts 2009
31 Analysis of Changes in Net Debt
at At
30 august Non-cash 29 August
2008 cash flow movements 2009
£m £m £m £m
Analysis of net debt
cash and cash equivalents 42.1 146.1 – 188.2
Bank overdrafts (45.0) 45.0 – –
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (2.9) 191.1 – 188.2
Debt due within one year (96.2) 100.0 (92.7) (88.9)
Debt due after one year (844.3) 88.8 112.7 (642.8)
Finance lease obligations due within one year (3.3) 0.1 (0.5) (3.7)
Finance lease obligations due after one year (47.3) – 4.2 (43.1)
(994.0) 380.0 23.7 (590.3)
32 Contingent Liabilities
at the year end the Group gave guarantees in the normal course of business which related to an insurance letter of credit for £5.0 million
(2008: £5.0 million) and a duty deferment guarantee of £6.4 million (2008: £5.0 million).
33 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings
the principal subsidiary undertakings of Debenhams plc at 29 august 2009 were as follows:
country of country of
company incorporation registration activity
Debenhams Retail plc UK england Department store Retailing
Debenhams Group holdings limited * UK england holding company
Debenhams Retail (ireland) limited ireland ireland Department store Retailing
Debenhams Properties limited UK england Property investment
* Denotes investments held by the company. all other investments are held by subsidiary undertakings.
all companies are wholly owned.
all subsidiary companies are consolidated. 92
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
Gross transaction value 2,339.7 2,336.0 2,305.6 2,192.9 2,086.8
revenue 1,915.6 1,839.2 1,774.4 1,707.7 1,608.7
cost of sales (1,650.7) (1,571.6) (1,494.9) (1,376.3) (1,293.4)
Gross profit 264.9 267.6 279.5 331.4 315.3
distribution costs (45.3) (50.0) (46.2) (53.0) (43.5)
administrative expenses (37.4) (41.5) (39.2) (40.2) (43.8)
Operating profit before exceptional items 182.2 176.1 194.1 238.2 228.0
exceptional items – – (14.3) (14.6) (4.4)
Profit on deemed disposal of subsidiary – ––– 117.7
Operating profit 182.2 176.1 179.8 223.6 341.3
net interest (61.4) (70.2) (66.6) (125.4) (160.8)
exceptional interest payable and similar charges – –– (36.1) (92.9)
Profit before taxation 120.8 105.9 113.2 62.1 87.6
t axation (25.7) (28.8) (34.2) (18.4) 36.1
Profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders 95.1 77.1 79.0 43.7 123.7
Gross Transaction Value
revenue from concessions is required to be shown on a net basis, being the commission received rather than the gross value achieved by the
concessionaire on the sale. management believe that gross transaction value, which presents revenue on a gross basis before adjusting for
concessions, staff discounts and the cost of loyalty scheme points, represents a good guide to the value of the overall activity of the Group.
Five-year record income Statement 93
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
intangible assets 839.9 840.8 842.9 836.1 829.9
t angible assets 669.2 693.3 667.7 639.5 650.0
Financial assets 9.0 19.2 40.0 16.0 7.2
retirement benefit assets – 25.0 87.3 13.8 –
deferred tax assets 80.6 57.4 52.3 51.1 58.9
Total non-current assets 1,598.7 1,635.7 1,690.2 1,556.5 1,546.0
Net current liabilities (74.4) (296.7) (215.8) (156.6) (143.2)
Non-current liabilities (1,099.0) (1,213.7) (1,311.4) (1,346.6) (2,083.5)
Net assets/(liabilities) 425.3 125.3 163.0 53.3 (680.7)
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Share capital 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 –
Share premium account 682.9 682.9 682.9 682.9 –
other reserves 288.9 16.9 29.5 3.5 1.0
retained earnings (546.6) (574.6) (549.5) (633.2) (681.7)
Total equity 425.3 125.3 163.0 53.3 (680.7)
Five-year record Balance SheetS 94
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
We have audited the Parent company Financial Statements of debenhams plc for the year ended 29 august 2009 which comprise the Parent
company Balance Sheet and the related notes.the ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law
and united Kingdom accounting Standards (united Kingdom Generally accepted accounting Practice).
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
as explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent company
Financial Statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. our responsibility is to audit the Parent company Financial
Statements in accordance with applicable law and international Standards on auditing (uK and ireland).those standards require us to comply
with the auditing Practices Board’s ethical Standards for auditors.
this report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Sections 495
to 497 of the companies act 2006 and for no other purpose.We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements
an audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable assurance that
the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.this includes an assessment of: whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the
reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Opinion on Financial Statements
in our opinion the Parent company Financial Statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 29 august 2009;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with united Kingdom Generally accepted accounting Practice; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the companies act 2006.
Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
in our opinion:
• the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the companies act 2006; and
• the information given in the directors’ report for the ﬁnancial year for which the Parent company Financial Statements are prepared is
consistent with the Parent company Financial Statements.
Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the companies act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent company Financial Statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
M R HODGSON (SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
london
22 october 2009
indePendent auditorS’ rePort to the
memBerS oF deBenhamS Plc (comPany) 95
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
note £m £m
Fixed assets
investments 4 4,030.3 3,716.6
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 5 – 5.3
4,030.3 3,721.9
Current assets
debtors 6 352.0 138.5
Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 5 – 0.7
cash at bank and in hand – 0.2
352.0 139.4
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 (1,502.2) (1,206.6)
Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments 5 (17.5) –
Net current liabilities (1,167.7) (1,067.2)
Total assets less current liabilities 2,862.6 2,654.7
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 8 (696.5) (844.3)
Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments 5 (5.8) (0.6)
Provisions for liabilities 10 – (1.5)
Net assets 2,160.3 1,808.3
Capital and reserves
called-up share capital 12 0.1 0.1
Share premium account 13 682.9 682.9
merger reserve 13 1,274.6 970.8
hedging reserve 13 (16.7) 3.9
Profit and loss account 13 219.4 150.6
Total shareholders’ funds 14 2,160.3 1,808.3
the Financial Statements on pages 95 to 101 were approved by the board of directors on 22 october 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
C K WOODHOUSE
Director
comPany Balance Sheet
as at 29 august 2009 96
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
1 Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
these Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with uK GaaP using the historical cost
convention.these Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards within the united Kingdom
and the companies act 2006.
the company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash ﬂow statement in accordance with FrS 1 (revised 1996) “cash
Flow Statement”.the cash ﬂows of the company are included in the debenhams Group Financial Statements.
the company is also exempt under the terms of FrS 8 “related Party disclosures” from disclosing related party transactions with entities
that are part of the debenhams Group.
the principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently during the year, are set out below.
Investments
investments are held at cost less any provision for impairment.
Impairment Testing
assets that have an indeﬁnite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. assets that are subject to
amortisation are reviewed for impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable. an impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. the
recoverable amount is the higher of an assets net realisable value and value in use.
Borrowings
all borrowings are stated at the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs. issue costs together with ﬁnance costs,
are charged to the proﬁt and loss account over the term of the borrowings. Finance costs represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital
repayments outstanding.
Taxation
current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates that are in force during the period.
deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions
or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
timing differences are differences between the taxable proﬁts and the results as stated in the Financial Statements that arise from the inclusion
of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the Financial Statements.
deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. a deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on
the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be taxable proﬁts from which the future reversal of
the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Dividend Distribution
a ﬁnal dividend distribution to the company shareholders is recognised as a liability in the company’s Financial Statements in the period in
which the dividends are approved by the company shareholders. interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Share-Based Payments
Where the company has granted options over the company shares to employees of its subsidiaries, a capital contribution has been deemed to
be made by the company.this is then recharged to the subsidiary and is based on the fair value of the options issued spread over the options
vesting period. at each balance sheet date, the company revises its estimate of the number of options that are expected to vest. it recognises
the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Derivatives
the derivative instruments used by the company to manage its interest rate risk are interest rate swaps.
derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
the method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as an effective hedging instrument
and the nature of the item being hedged. the company designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions
(cash ﬂow hedges).
derivatives are recognised using trade date accounting.
noteS to the comPany
Financial StatementS
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009 97
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
1 Accounting Policies continued
the company documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items as well as its risk
management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. the company also documents its assessment, both at the
inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in
cash ﬂows of hedged items.
i) Cash Flow Hedges
the effective portion of the changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ﬂow hedges are recognised in equity.
the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the relevant line of the proﬁt and loss account which will be
affected by the underlying hedged item.
amounts accumulated in equity are recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the underlying hedged item when the underlying
hedged item is recognised on the Balance Sheet or in the proﬁt and loss account.
When a hedged instrument expires, is sold or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss
existing in equity at that time is immediately recognised in the relevant line of the proﬁt and loss account which will be affected by the original
underlying hedged item.When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity
is immediately transferred to the relevant line of the proﬁt and loss account which would have been affected by the forecasted transaction.
ii) Derivatives that do not Qualify for Hedge Accounting
certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognised immediately in the proﬁt and loss account.
the company has taken advantage of the exemption in FrS 25 “Financial instruments: disclosure and Presentation” not to present information
on ﬁnancial risk management and hedging where that information is presented in the same Group Financial Statements. accordingly,
information on risk management and hedging may be found in notes 3 and 22 of the Group Financial Statements.
2 Proﬁt and Loss Account
the directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of the companies act 2006 and have not presented a proﬁt
and loss account for the company alone. a proﬁt of £70.9 million is attributable to shareholders for the ﬁnancial year ended 29 august 2009
(2008: loss of £70.9 million).
the contracts of employment for all the executive directors are held by debenhams plc.the total cost of employing the directors is disclosed
in the remuneration report.the company has no other employees (2008: none).
auditors’ remuneration of £0.1 million (2008: £0.1 million) is borne by another Group undertaking.
3 Dividends
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Final paid 0.5 pence (2008: 3.8 pence) per £0.0001 share
Settled in cash 2.4 32.6
Settled in scrip issue 1.9 –
interim paid nil pence (2008: 2.5 pence) per £0.0001 share
Settled in cash – 11.8
Settled in scrip issue – 9.7
4.3 54.1
the directors are not proposing a ﬁnal dividend in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 29 august 2009 (2008: 0.5 pence per share).the ﬁnal
dividend in respect of the year ended 30 august 2008 absorbed £4.3 million of shareholders’ funds. 98
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
noteS to the comPany Financial StatementS
—continued
For the financial year ended 29 august 2009
4 Investments
investments in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Cost
At 30 August 2008 4,068.7
additions 313.7
At 29 August 2009 4,382.4
Provision for impairment
at 30 august 2008 and at 29 august 2009 352.1
Net book value
At 29 August 2009 4,030.3
at 30 august 2008 3,716.6
Investment in Subsidiary Undertakings
as part of the ﬁrm placing and placing and open offer which was announced on 4 June 2009, the company acquired 89 ordinary shares at a
price of £1 per share and 250,000,000 preference shares at a price of £1.255 per share, amounting to £313.7 million, in Kylie (Jersey) limited,
a Jersey incorporated company.
during the year the company also subscribed for 1 share in Jerimain investments limited, a uK incorporated company.
in accordance with FrS 11 “impairment of ﬁxed assets and goodwill” the carrying value of the company’s subsidiary undertakings has been
compared to their recoverable amounts represented by the value in use to the company.the review results in an impairment of £nil (2008:
£135.3 million). in previous years the impairment has been charged to the proﬁt and loss account, which is set off in full by a reserves transfer
from the merger reserve.the discount rate used in the calculation to arrive at the valuation was 8.0 per cent (2008: 7.3 per cent) on a pre-tax basis.
the principal subsidiary undertakings of the company at 29 august 2009 are shown in note 33 of the debenhams Group Financial Statements.
5 Derivative Financial Instruments
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Current assets
interest rate swaps—held for trading – 0.7
Non-current assets
interest rate swaps—cash flow hedges – 5.3
Current liabilities
interest rate swaps—cash flow hedges (17.5) –
Non-current liabilities
interest rate swaps—cash flow hedges (5.8) (0.6)
information relating to the derivatives held by the company are shown in note 22 of the debenhams Group Financial Statements.
6 Debtors
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
deferred tax asset (note 11) 6.5 –
amount owed by Group undertakings 345.5 138.5
352.0 138.5
amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, repayable on demand and carrying an average rate of interest of 4.6 per cent (2008: 7.8
per cent). 99
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
7 Creditors:Amounts Falling DueWithin One Y ear
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Bank loans and overdraft (note 9) 96.6 141.7
amounts owed to Group undertakings 1,399.7 1,064.0
corporation tax 0.9 0.5
other creditors 4.4 –
accruals and deferred income 0.6 0.4
1,502.2 1,206.6
amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no ﬁxed date of redemption and either carry an average interest rate of 4.6 per cent
(2008: 7.8 per cent) or are interest free.
8 Creditors:Amounts Falling Due After More Than One Y ear
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
t erm loan facility (note 9) 696.5 844.3
9 Borrowings
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
t erm loan facility 801.7 950.2
revolving credit facility – 45.0
Bank loans and overdraft – 0.5
t otal borrowings 801.7 995.7
less: issue costs (8.6) (9.7)
793.1 986.0
Maturity of Debt
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
amounts falling due:
in one year or less or on demand 96.6 141.7
in more than one year but not more than two years 696.5 146.5
in more than two years but not more than five years – 697.8
793.1 986.0
information relating to the borrowings of the company are shown in note 21 of the debenhams Group ﬁnancial statements.
10 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
deferred tax (note 11) – 1.5 100
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
noteS to the comPany Financial StatementS
—continued
For the financial year ended 30 august 2009
11 Deferred T axation
Fair value
gains
£m
at 30 august 2008 – liability (1.5)
credited to the Statement of t otal recognised Gains and losses 8.0
At 29 August 2009 – Asset 6.5
deferred tax is calculated in full on all temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28.0 per cent (2008: 28.0 per cent).
deferred tax provided on the fair value gains represents the deferred tax on the derivatives that qualify for cash ﬂow hedges.
12 Called-up Share Capital
29 August 2009 30 august 2008
£ Number £ number
Authorised
ordinary shares of £0.0001 each 167,285 1,672,848,189 128,846 1,288,461,539
on 23 June 2009, the company increased its authorised share capital to 1,672,848,189 ordinary shares of £0.0001 each.
29 August 2009 30 august 2008
£ Number £ number
Issued and fully paid—Ordinary shares of £0.0001 each
at start of year 87,477 874,770,325 85,897 858,974,359
Shares issued in lieu of dividends 805 8,054,691 1,580 15,795,966
Firm placing and placing 33,059 330,592,432––
open offer 7,339 73,388,851––
At end of year 128,680 1,286,806,299 87,477 874,770,325
on 4 June 2009, the company announced a share issue to raise additional funds through a ﬁrm placing and placing and open offer. new
ordinary shares issued in respect of the open offer amounted to 73.4 million and 330.6 million new ordinary shares were issued through a
placing, both at an issue price of 80 pence per share, which raised net proceeds of £303.8 million after issue costs of £19.4 million.this share
issue was approved by shareholders on 23 June 2009 and all issued shares had a nominal value of £0.0001 each.the shares were issued and
commenced trading on the london Stock exchange on 26 June 2009. the share issue was effected through a structure which resulted in a
merger reserve arising under section 612 of the companies act 2006.
the number of ordinary shares in the company held by the debenhams retail employee trust 2004 (“dret”) in connection with the
Group’s employee ownership plan described is as follows:
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
Ordinary ordinary
shares shares
Number number
debenhams retail employee trust 2004 1,413,536 1,413,536
the market value of the shares at 29 august 2009 was £1.1 million for dret (2008: £0.7 million). the cost of the shares held at the year
end was £1.2 million (2008: £1.2 million). 101
Section 4 Financial Statements and notes Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
13 Reserves
Share
premium hedging merger Profit and
account reserve reserve loss account
£m £m £m £m
at 30 august 2008 682.9 3.9 970.8 150.6
Profit for the financial year ––– 70.9
cash flow hedges—net fair value gains (net of tax) – (20.6) ––
merger reserve arising on issue of shares –– 303.8 –
employee share ownership plans (net of tax) ––– 0.3
dividends to shareholders (note 3) ––– (4.3)
Shares issued in lieu of dividends (note 3) ––– 1.9
At 29 August 2009 682.9 (16.7) 1,274.6 219.4
Hedging Reserve
the hedging reserve represents the change in fair value of the interest rate swaps which have been designated as cash ﬂow hedges.
Merger Reserve
the merger reserve was created as a result of the company acquiring the Baroness Group holdings limited Group on 24 may 2005. the
merger reserve represents the difference between both the nominal value of the share capital and loan notes issued by the company and the
fair value of Baroness Group holdings limited Group at the date of acquisition less any subsequent adjustments as a result of an impairment.
on 26 June 2009, the share issue was completed and 404.0 million ordinary shares with a total nominal value of £0.04 million were issued for
consideration of £303.8 million, net of issue costs of £19.4 million.the issue was effected through a structure which resulted in a merger reserve
arising under Section 612 of the companies act 2006.
Proﬁt and Loss Account
the dividends paid by the company during the year ended 29 august 2009 are shown in note 3.
the dividends not taken up in cash of £1.9 million (2008: £9.7 million) have been written back to the proﬁt and loss account reserve.
14 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
29 August 30 august
2009 2008
£m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 70.9 (70.9)
dividends paid (note 3) (4.3) (54.1)
Retained profit/(loss) 66.6 (125.0)
merger reserve arising on issue of shares 303.8 –
issue of ordinary share capital in lieu of dividend 1.9 9.7
cash flow hedges:
– net fair value losses (net of tax) (20.6) (12.4)
employee share ownership plans (net of tax) 0.3 0.8
Net increase/(decrease) to shareholders’ funds 352.0 (126.9)
opening shareholders’ funds 1,808.3 1,935.2
Closing shareholders’ funds 2,160.3 1,808.3
15 Contingent Liabilities
the company has guaranteed certain of its subsidiary property ﬁnance lease obligations totalling £45.8 million at 29 august 2009 (2008:
£48.9 million).
the company is also liable for the pension schemes’ contributions and deﬁcits for both the debenhams executive Pension Plan and the
debenhams retirement Scheme. 102
Section 5 additional information Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
UK and Ireland
aberdeen
ashford
ayr
Banbury
Bangor
Barrow
Basildon
Basingstoke
Bedford
Belfast
Birmingham
Blackburn
Blackpool
Bolton
Bournemouth
Brighton
Bristol
Bromley
Bury St edmunds
cambridge
canterbury
cardiff
carlisle
chatham
chelmsford
cheltenham
chester
clapham
colchester
cork—mahon Point
cork—Patrick Street
coventry
crawley
croydon
derby
doncaster
dublin—Blackrock
dublin—Blanchardstown
dublin—henry Street
dublin—t allaght
dundee
dunfermline
east Kilbride
eastbourne
edinburgh
eltham
exeter
Farnborough
Folkestone
Foyleside
Galway
Gateshead—metro centre
Glasgow
Glasgow Silverburn
Gloucester
Gravesend
Guildford
Greatyarmouth
hanley
harrogate
harrow
hastings
hemel hempstead
hounslow
hull
ilford
inverness
ipswich
Kings lynn
lakeside
leeds—city centre
leeds—White rose
leicester
leith
limerick
lincoln
liverpool
livingston
llandudno
llanelli
london—oxford Street
london—Westﬁeld
luton
manchester
manchester—trafford Park
mansﬁeld
merryhill
middlesbrough
milton Keynes
newbridge
newbury
newry
northampton
norwich
nottingham
nuneaton
oldham
oxford
Perth
Plymouth
Portsmouth
Preston
reading
redditch
romford
rushmere
Salisbury
Scarborough
Shefﬁeld
Shefﬁeld—meadowhall
Slough
Southampton
Southend
Southport
Southsea
Staines
Stirling
Stockport
Stockton
Stratford
Sunderland
Sutton
Swansea
Swindon
t aunton
t elford
t orquay
tralee
uxbridge
Walsall
Warrington
Waterford
Welwyn Garden city
Westwood cross
Weymouth
Wigan
Wimbledon
Winchester
Woking
Worcester
Workington
Worthing
Wrexham
y ork
Desire by Debenhams
altrincham
Ballymena
Birmingham Fort
Falkirk
Kidderminster*
Kirkcaldy
merthyr tydﬁl
monks cross*
orpington
South Shields
truro
Walton
International
Bahrain—manama
cyprus—avenue
cyprus—apollon
cyprus—central
cyprus—engomi
cyprus—Korivos
cyprus—Kinyras
cyprus—ledra
cyprus—nicosia
cyprus—olympia
cyprus—Zenon
czech republic—Prague
iceland—reykjavik
india—courtyard
india—delhi
india—mumbai
indonesia—Jakarta Senayan
city
indonesia—Karawaci
iran—t ehran
Jordan—amman
Kuwait—airport
Kuwait—avenues
Kuwait—home
Kuwait—Souq Sharq
malaysia—Kuala lumpur
moldova—chisinau
Philippines—manila Glorieta
Philippines—manila Shangri la
Philippines—manila trinoma
Qatar—doha
romania—Banessa
romania—Bucharest
romania—cluj Polis
romania—constanta
romania—oradea
romania—Plaza
Saudi arabia—Gallery
Saudi arabia—Jeddah
Saudi arabia—Jeddah airport
Saudi arabia—Khobar
Saudi arabia—madinah al
noor
Saudi arabia—mecca
Saudi arabia—riyadh
Kingdom mall
Saudi arabia—riyadh Granada
mall
Saudi arabia—riyadh Sahara
mall
turkey—istanbul
uae—abu dhabi
uae—dubai—deira
uae—dubai—ibn Battuta
uae—dubai—mall
uae—dubai—mall of
emirates
uae—Sharjah
* opened after 29 august 2009
Store liSt 103
Section 5 additional information Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Celebrating Success
our annual employee recognition programme for store and head ofﬁce employees.
Concessions
Brands which are sold through our stores where the stock belongs to a third-party concessionaire. they are found chieﬂy in womenswear
(e.g.Wallis, oasis,Warehouse) and accessories (e.g.tripp luggage).
Core Stores
Stores which have yet to be modernised.
Designers at Debenhams
exclusive diffusion ranges designed for debenhams by leading international designers including Julien macdonald, Jasper conran and John
rocha.
Desire
our smaller format store, typically 15-20,000 sq ft, which sells a mix of own bought womenswear, women’s accessories, lingerie, childrenswear
and health and beauty.
Direct
our online store available at www.debenhams.com.
Earnings Per Share (EPS)
the proﬁt for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
Flagship Store
a large store, typically over 100,000 sq ft, in a major city. they include oxford Street and Westﬁeld in london, henry Street in dublin,
Birmingham and liverpool. a new ﬂagship store in newcastle upon tyne opens in February 2010.
Footfall
the number of people who visit our stores.
Gross Margin
Gross transaction value less the cost of goods sold, as a percentage of gross transaction value.
Gross Transaction Value
revenue (excluding vat) on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions and staff discounts.
Headline Proﬁt Before Tax
Proﬁt before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of capitalised bank fees.
International Brands
Brands such as levis, Ben Sherman, clarins and estée lauder for which debenhams owns the stock.
Market Share
the percentage of the market or market segment that is being serviced by debenhams. For instance, if 100t -shirts were sold a year in the uK
and debenhams sold ten of them, it would have 10 per cent market share.
Own Bought
Brands for which debenhams owns the stock.they include core brands, designers at debenhams and international brands.
Own Label
Brands designed and produced exclusively for debenhams. they include core brands such as collection and maine new england and
designers at debenhams such as J by Jasper conran and Betty Jackson.Black.
Store Pipeline
the future programme of new store openings.
GloSSary 104
Section 5 additional information Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
Registered Ofﬁce and Head Ofﬁce
1 Welbeck Street
london W1G 0aa
registered in england and Wales
company number: 5448421
Financial Advisors
lazard
50 Stratton Street
london W1J 8ll
Financial Advisors and Stockbrokers
citigroup Global markets limited
citigroup centre
canada Square
london e14 5lB
Bank of america merrill lynch
merrill lynch Financial centre
2 King edward Street
london ec1a 1hQ
Solicitors
Freshﬁelds Bruckhaus deringer
65 Fleet Street
london ec4y 1hS
Auditors
Pricewaterhousecoopers llP
1 embankment Place
london Wc2n 6rh
Registrars
equiniti limited
aspect house
Spencer road
lancing
West Sussex Bn99 6da
t elephone: 0871 384 2766
www.shareview.co.uk
Shareholder inFormation WWW .deBenhamS.com
Designed and produced by 85FOUR
Printed in-house by Debenhams
105
Section 5 additional information Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009
A new look and feel for debenhams.com is
launching in Autumn 2009. Debenhams
1 Welbeck Street
London
W1G 0AA
www.debenhams.com
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
