 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
A nn u a l
R ep o r t
&
A cco u n t s
2 0 1 4
Debenhams plc Debenhams is a leading  
international, multi-channel brand  
with a proud British heritage trading  
out of 245 stores in 28 countries  
and online in 67 countries. 
We offer our customers around the  
world a unique, differentiated and 
exclusive mix of own brands, 
international brands and concessions. Overview
04 Chairman’s letter
06 Market overview
Strategic report
10 Chief Executive’s report
14 Business model and strategy
16 Our strategy at a glance
18 Resources, relationships and sustainability
24 Key performance indicators 
26  Risk review
28  Principal risks and uncertainties
Performance
34 Financial review
Corporate governance
4 0  C h a i r m a n ’ s i n t r o d u c t i o n
42 Board of directors
44 Corporate governance report
50 Nomination Committee report
51 Audit Committee report
54 Directors’ remuneration report
78 Directors’ report
81 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Financial statements
84  Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Debenhams plc (Group)
90 Consolidated income statement
91  Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
92 Consolidated balance sheet
93  Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity
94 Consolidated cash flow statement
95 Notes to the financial statements
135 Five year record income statements
136  Five year record balance sheets
137  Independent auditors’ report to the  
members of Debenhams plc (Company)
139 Company balance sheet
140  Notes to the Company financial statements
Other information
147 Store list
148  Glossary and references
149 Additional information
F I NAN C I AL
R E S U LT S
Gross transaction value (GTV) 
£2.8bn
Revenue
£2.3bn
Underlying profit before tax*
£110.3m
*Before non-recurring finance cost of £4.5m.
Basic earnings per share 
7.1p
Dividend per share
3.4p
Please refer to the glossary on page 148 for explanations of financial and retail industry terms.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
1  In this section 
04  Chairman’s letter 
06  Market overview
O V E R V IE W
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
2  In this section our Chairman Nigel 
Northridge shares his thoughts on 
2014 and we provide some context 
on the markets in which we operate, 
as well as independent views of the 
UK retail market and economy.
O V E R V IE W
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
3  O V E RVI E W
C H AI R M A N ’ S L E T TE R
A solid base on which we can build
Despite the challenges we faced in 2014, 
we have focused on making progress 
in our strategy to build a leading 
international, multi-channel brand. 
We have also diversified our sources 
of funding, maintained the dividend 
and strengthened our board.
N I GEL 
NOR T H R I D G E
Chairman
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
4  Dear Shareholder
2014 saw the bicentenary of the Debenhams 
name appearing on the British high street.
At the same time it was one of the most 
challenging years we have encountered 
in those 200 years. Whilst the results 
for the first half of the year were very 
disappointing, we are clear about the 
issues that we faced and are taking decisive 
action to address them. As a consequence, 
we saw a much better performance in the 
second half. I am therefore confident we 
have a solid base on which we can build 
in 2015 and beyond.
Our strategy
The board firmly believes that the four 
pillars of our strategy to build a leading 
international, multi-channel brand 
remain the right way to create value 
for our shareholders. 
You can see a visual representation of our 
strategy on page 14. Our customers are 
at the heart, reflecting the importance 
of continuing to deliver a compelling 
customer proposition across all sales 
channels. During 2014 we also worked hard 
to improve the performance of our sales 
channels in the UK by making our multi-
channel service offer more competitive and 
by seeking to improve the return on the UK 
stores by increasing sales densities. 
International has also been at the forefront 
of our thinking during the year as we aim to 
leverage our expertise from the UK into 
other markets. You can read more about 
this work and the progress made under 
each of the four pillars in the strategic 
report on pages 16 and 17 .
Our finances
At the start of July we refinanced our 
borrowing facilities. We issued £225 million 
of seven year senior notes and refinanced 
our bank funding through a £425 million 
revolving credit facility to October 2018. 
The refinancing has allowed us to achieve 
two goals. First, it reduces our reliance on 
traditional bank funding and secondly it 
diversifies our sources of funding. Over 
the life of the notes we also expect to 
achieve a material saving in interest 
costs compared with the anticipated 
cost of bank funding alone. 
Our dividend
Debenhams remains a cash generative 
business and the board has therefore 
decided to maintain the total cash dividend 
at 3.4 pence per share for 2014 despite 
lower profits. It is our intention to rebuild 
dividend cover over time as earnings 
increase. The share buyback has 
been discontinued.
Our board
We welcomed Suzanne Harlow to the 
board in December 2013. Suzanne has 
20 years’ experience with Debenhams. 
She has held the role of Group Trading 
Director since 2008 and leads the design, 
buying and merchandising functions of 
the business. 
Matt Smith will join the board as Chief 
Financial Officer during the course of 2015 
and we look forward to the benefits that 
his extensive experience of international 
and multi-channel retailing will bring to 
our business.
Matt succeeds Simon Herrick who left the 
business in February 2014. Neil Kennedy 
has done an excellent job as Acting Chief 
Financial Officer since this time, for which 
we extend our sincere thanks.
The governance section starting on page 
40 provides more information on how the 
board carries out its duties.
Our people
Our colleagues around the world coped 
admirably with the difficult trading 
conditions we saw in 2014. During the 
year we undertook our second annual 
engagement survey and were pleased that 
more people took part and that last year’s 
engagement score was maintained given 
the challenging year faced by the business. 
On behalf of the board I offer all of our 
people my gratitude for their hard work 
and dedication in 2014 and thank them in 
advance for their ongoing support in 2015. 
Nigel Northridge
Chairman
In December 2013 we celebrated the 
200th anniversary of the Debenhams 
name appearing on the high street 
for the very first time. We marked the 
occasion with special instore events 
and a limited edition collection of 
products designed by some of 
the Designers at Debenhams.
200 years
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
5   Figure 1: UK retail footfall (% change versus last year)
2.0
1.0
0
-1.0
-2.0
-3.0
Sep 13 Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug 14
Source: BRC/Springboard Footfall Monitor
 Figure 2: UK consumer conﬁdence 
5.0
0
-5.0
-10.0
-15.0
Source: GfK Consumer Conﬁdence Barometer on behalf of the European Commission
Sep 13 Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug 14
Figure 3: Average earnings and consumer prices annual growth rates (%)
5.0
2.5
0
-2.5
-5.0
Source: Ofﬁce for National Statistics Total pay Consumer Prices Index
Sep 13 Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul 14
O V E RVI E W
MAR K E T O V E R VI E W
Putting our performance in context
categories increased by 14.6% (source: 
BRC-KPMG Retail Sales Monitor July 2014, 
12 month average).
Consumers began to feel better about their 
financial circumstances and so UK consumer 
confidence started to increase during the 
second half of the year (see figure 2). In June 
2014 consumer confidence recorded a score 
of + 1, the first positive score since March 
2005. The last four months of the year saw 
the index within a range of 0 plus or minus 2, 
prompting Nick Moon of GfK to comment: 
“It looks like we might be in a new period of 
relative stability for the index. ”
However, many consumers were not feeling 
any better off because wage growth was 
lower than inflation throughout the year (as 
shown in figure 3). In June 2014 wages fell 
for the first time since the recession in 2009, 
despite a fall in unemployment to its lowest 
since 2008. There was some recovery in 
subsequent months.
Further, the UK remained highly competitive 
and promotional as evidenced by price 
deflation throughout the year, the longest 
period of deflation since 2006 (source: 
BRC-Nielsen Shop Price Index).
The trading environment in our 
international markets was mixed. 
The Danish economy is growing but the 
Republic of Ireland remained difficult. 
Our franchise markets generally 
performed in line with the prevailing 
economic conditions.
Market metrics
Market conditions in 2014
In the UK, market conditions remained 
challenging. The number of people visiting 
Britain’s shops declined, as seen in figure 1 
which shows high street footfall on a 
monthly basis compared with the previous 
year. High street locations were impacted 
most by the decrease in footfall whilst out 
of town locations generally fared better.
Lower store footfall was in part due to the 
continuing channel shift from stores to 
online. The percentage of the UK total 
clothing, footwear and accessories market 
sold online grew from 17% in September 
2013 to 19% in August 2014 (source: Kantar 
Worldpanel market share data 24 weeks to 
3 August 2014, 24 weeks to 29 September 
2013). Total online sales in non-food 
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
6  A n i n dep en den t v ie w 
o f t h e U K r et ai l mark et
From a general retail perspective, 2014 
has so far been the best year since before 
the recession. The market context has 
improved as the fragile economic recovery 
strengthens, employment grows, 
consumer sentiment improves and the 
housing market accelerates, releasing pent 
up demand for home-related products. 
This has led to a raft of retailers floating 
as they take advantage of investors’ 
improving attitude to the retail sector.
Yet there are nevertheless brakes on 
spending. Despite more people in work, 
wage growth is still below price inflation 
and this, combined with high living costs 
and the likelihood of interest rate rises and 
a new government in 2015, is dampening 
expenditure. Consumers have a completely 
different attitude to spending to that of the 
pre-recession period. Instead of buying 
lots of low price product and fuelling 
spending with credit, consumers are more 
considered in their buying habits. Now it is 
about value; price is still important but they 
would rather buy fewer items and spend 
more on each for quality and longevity.
Hence not every retailer is benefiting from 
improving conditions. With consumers 
buying fewer items, volumes are down and 
this, combined with a mature market and 
relatively low growth rates, means that not 
everyone can gain. This is most evident in 
the grocery sector where inflation has 
slowed, shoppers are buying less, and less 
often, and are offsetting indulgences with 
value-led ranges, hitting sales and profits. 
Indeed the retail landscape has changed 
significantly. Being market leader and 
having the benefit of scale with stores in 
more locations than competitors is no 
longer an advantage. Competitors have 
expanded as well giving consumers a 
greater choice of retailers within easy 
access, and of course the big disrupter has 
been the internet and online shopping 
sites, giving everyone access to an infinite 
choice of retailers and products. 
The buying process has become much 
more complex with the integration of 
online and physical stores giving shoppers 
endless options on how they research, buy 
and have goods delivered. Retailers have 
far more interaction with the customer, 
which demands consistent levels of service 
on many more touch points. And of course 
social media is having an even greater 
impact on the buying process through 
recommendations and reviews. The result 
is the role of the physical store has changed 
fundamentally – it is now more of a step in 
the buying journey, whether for inspiration, 
purchasing or collection.
We are in an era where truly the consumer 
is king. Consumers have unlimited choice 
and access. They want brands that are in 
tune with them and their needs, inspire 
them and value them as customers, editing 
the choice to fit their lifestyles, income and 
specific needs. In retail being in tune with 
your customer is even more essential to 
thrive and survive.
Maureen Hinton
Global Research Director
A n i n dep en den t v ie w 
o f t he U K ec on om y
Having been unusually gloomy for an 
unusually long time, the outlook for the 
UK consumer has started to brighten. 
Over the past year, the number of people 
in work has risen to record highs, the 
unemployment rate has fallen back to its 
lowest level in more than five years and real 
consumer spending has recovered to 
within a whisker of pre-recession levels. 
Consumer confidence, meanwhile, is 
approaching levels last seen in the late 
1990s and early 2000s.
Headwinds to growth still persist, however. 
In particular, average earnings growth has 
remained extremely weak, both in absolute 
terms and relative to inflation. The squeeze 
on real wages that has dogged consumers 
since the beginning of the financial crisis 
persists, albeit to a lesser degree now than 
in the recent past. Furthermore, at around 
60% of take-home pay, non-discretionary 
spending remains at elevated levels for a 
significant number of households. Higher 
levels of indebtedness have also made 
consumers more sensitive to potential 
changes in interest rates. 
The so-called “cost of living crisis” has 
resulted in consumers becoming more 
careful with their spending, shopping 
around more than they would have done 
in the past. This has particularly been the 
case where non-discretionary spending is 
concerned: the striking rise of discounters 
in the food retail space and, more recently, 
the growing market share for smaller 
players in the utilities industry is testament 
to this. The increase in competition which 
this has engendered has helped to limit the 
extent of any price increase for consumers. 
Consumer price inflation, which has acted 
as a significant drag on growth in recent 
years, has fallen materially in recent 
months. In particular, inflation for non-
discretionary spending is now hovering at 
close to zero. This level of inflation has 
helped to offset some of the weakness in 
real wage growth, with emerging evidence 
that, in at least some parts of the market, 
declining inflationary pressures have 
started to boost retail sales volumes. 
Over the shorter term, this discounting may 
have contributed to downward pressure 
on margins for retailers. This has certainly 
been the case for a number of listed retail 
companies, especially in the food retail 
space. In non-food stores, the rate of 
downward revisions to consensus 
estimates has actually moderated since 
the start of the year. 
Looking forward, diminishing slack in 
the labour market should support some 
recovery in earnings growth. Coupled with 
falling food prices and lower energy bills, 
the picture for household cash flow – and 
discretionary spending more generally – 
over the next couple of years in the UK is 
likely to be one of steady improvement. 
Darren Winder
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
7  In this section 
10 Chief Executive’s report
14 Business model and strategy
16 Our strategy at a glance
18  Resources, relationships and sustainability
24 Key performance indicators 
26  Risk review
28 Principal risks and uncertainties
S TR A TE G Y
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
8  In this section you can read an interview 
with Chief Executive Michael Sharp, see 
how we create value through our business 
model and our strategy, review our KPIs, 
learn how we build relationships and 
manage scarce resources and how we 
approach risk.
S TR A TE G Y
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
9  S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
C H I EF E X E C U T I V E’ S R EP O R T
Taking decisive action to improve performance
Michael Sharp has been 
Chief Executive of 
Debenhams since 2011. 
Here he discusses the 
issues that impacted our 
performance in 2014 and 
the decisive action being 
taken to address them.
truly multi-channel Christmas. Convenience 
had a much greater influence on customer 
behaviour and the winners were retailers 
who could offer services such as next day 
click and collect. We were not able to do 
this and, whilst our online sales continued 
to grow, in reality we fell further behind 
some of our competitors.
Q : W h a t a r e y o u d o i n g t o a d d r e s s 
t h ese i s su es ?
We have taken decisive action to address 
these issues. In April we set out five clear 
priorities under the pillars of our strategy to 
build a leading international, multi-channel 
brand. These priorities are underpinned by 
the setting of more prudent sales targets 
and buying a lower level of stock which 
will make us more resilient going forward. 
The first of these priorities, in terms of 
delivering a compelling customer 
proposition, is to refocus our approach to 
promotions. Second, for multi-channel, we 
are continuing to build a more competitive 
and economic business. Third, the priority 
for UK retail is to drive a better return from 
our stores. Next, in the international 
business, our aim is to accelerate growth 
across all channels. Finally, we are investing 
in operational effectiveness which I think 
of as the “glue” which connects the four 
pillars together. 
Q : H o w c a n y o u r e f o c u s y o u r 
pr om o t ion a l a c t i v i t y w i t h o u t 
di s en g a g i n g yo u r c u s t o m er s ? 
A n d h o w w i l l y o u m e a s u r e 
y o ur s uc c e s s?
Promotions are part of Debenhams’ DNA. 
Customers like them and recognise the 
great value they offer. But in the run-up to 
Christmas the increased intensity of our 
activity started to cause some confusion. 
Our emphasis is now on the important 
Q : W h a t w e r e y o u r h i g h s a n d l o w s 
i n 2 0 14 ?
2014 was a challenging year for 
Debenhams. I was extremely frustrated 
and disappointed by our performance in 
the first half of the year and its impact on 
the results for the year as a whole. But it is a 
mistake to think that the year was without 
positives, not least that we saw a much 
more encouraging performance in the 
second half. Our brand remains in good 
shape and customers continue to like our 
product ranges. The Oxford Street 
transformation project was completed on 
plan and the flagship store is meeting our 
expectations. We opened four new stores 
in the UK and a net six new international 
franchise stores. Our online sales continued 
to grow. We refinanced our borrowing 
facilities, taking advantage of highly 
attractive credit markets to secure 
longer-term and more diversified funding.
Q : W h a t w e n t w r o n g i n t h e f i r s t 
h alf o f t h e y e ar ?
Our performance in the first half was 
impacted by lower than expected sales in 
our UK clothing business before Christmas. 
This meant we had to clear significantly 
more stock during the post-Christmas sale, 
resulting in a 100 basis point (bps) decline 
in gross margin for the first half. I believe 
that three factors contributed to this 
disappointing performance. First, in 
hindsight we set our sales expectation 
too high and as a result bought too 
much stock. Weak market conditions in 
September and October exacerbated 
the problem. Second, the clothing market 
was extremely promotional in the run-up 
to Christmas, meaning that our own 
long-established promotional events were 
less successful than they had been in the 
past. Finally, Christmas 2013 was the first 
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
10  10.6%+
Increase in own brand full price 
sell-through in second half of year
10pm
Order cut-off for next day delivery 
to home from October 2014
promotional events such as spectaculars, 
sales and blue cross. We are removing from 
the calendar some of the smaller events 
which create promotional “noise” with only 
limited reward. Overall, we are reducing 
the number of days we are on promotion 
and the depth and breadth of product 
participation within promotions. This is a 
journey, predicated on the more prudent 
sales targets mentioned above, which will 
not be achieved in one season. We are 
making these changes at a pace which 
makes sense to our customers so they do 
not become disengaged. At the same time 
we are improving clarity around value on 
a more general basis, for example by 
tightening price points in categories such 
as childrenswear. We are measuring our 
success in a number of ways. Clearly gross 
margin is the key metric and it grew by 
10 bps in the second half compared with 
a decline of 100 bps in the first half. We also 
saw a 10.6% increase in own brand full price 
sell-through in the second half compared 
with the previous year and an improvement 
in the markdown to sales ratio of 3.9%. 
Q: W h en w i l l yo u r m ul t i -c h a n n el 
s e r v ic e pr op o s i t ion be a s g o o d 
a s y o ur c om pe t i t or s ’ ? H o w a r e 
yo u i m p r o v i n g m ul t i -c h a n n el 
p r o f i t a b ili t y ?
We are confident in our online product 
offer, but we have not been as competitive 
as our best-in-class peers in the range of 
delivery options available to multi-channel 
customers. Many of these issues have now 
been addressed. The cut-off for next day 
delivery to home has been extended from 
2pm to 10pm. Customers can now elect 
for evening delivery or delivery on a 
nominated day including Saturday and 
Sunday. Next day click and collect is also 
available. We expect these new services to 
M IC H A E L 
S HAR P
Chief Executive
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
11  S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
C H I EF E X E C U T I V E’S R EP O R T C O N T I N U ED
We have a lot to do and 
we do not underestimate 
the challenge ahead. 
I am confident that we 
can deliver our goals 
and that we have the 
right strategy, team 
and resources in place 
to do so.
drive sales and to improve profitability. 
They will drive sales by appealing to 
customers for whom convenience is the 
most important reason why they choose 
to shop with a retailer. They will drive 
profitability by enabling us to recover a 
higher proportion of delivery costs.
We are aiming to improve online 
profitability further by reducing our 
fulfilment costs which we know are higher 
than our competitors’. We have made 
progress in the last two years, reducing UK 
online costs as a percentage of sales by 
some 500 bps. There is more to come over 
the medium term, particularly through the 
automation of our distribution centres, 
as detailed on the next page.
Q : H o w a r e y o u i m p r o v i n g t h e 
r e t ur n on y o ur U K s t or e s? 
Our UK stores will continue to be our 
largest single sales channel for the 
foreseeable future. However, the role of 
the store is changing in the multi-channel 
world. Store footfall has been impacted by 
the ongoing channel shift from store-based 
shopping to online. The ongoing 
modernisation programme and the work 
to improve store standards are providing 
a better shopping experience than five 
years ago. However, sales densities have 
declined due to the channel shift and the 
closure of a number of concession brands, 
particularly in larger stores. This has 
contributed to a fall in UK store like-for-like 
sales which we are seeking to address. 
I said last year that we were conducting 
an estate-wide space review to ensure all 
space is being used in the most profitable 
way. This has been completed and we have 
now moved into a phase of trials which aim 
to increase sales densities by offering a 
wider choice of product categories, brands 
and services. Trials have commenced with 
brands including Sports Direct, Monsoon, 
Mothercare and Costa. Early results have 
been encouraging. Decisions on future 
roll-out will be made after peak trading. 
Q: Ho w w i l l yo u ac c eler a t e g r o w t h 
i n y o ur i n t e r n a t ion a l b u s i ne s s?
With an estimated size of more than 
£300 billion, the global department store 
market provides an opportunity for our 
International segment to become a 
substantial part of Debenhams over the 
next five years, accounting for some 30% 
of sales. In the past year international 
has become much more front of mind 
in our organisation. There is much closer 
integration between our international 
and buying/merchandising teams and 
we have improved the management of 
the international supply chain. Looking 
forward, we expect growth will come in 
the main from our franchise stores, where 
we are aiming to double the number of 
stores and countries. We are contracted 
to open 14 new stores over the next three 
years with another 12 in final negotiation. 
International online is growing quickly 
with sales up by 41.6% in 2014. It accounted 
for 4.3% of total international sales and 
we are aiming to increase this to c.15% 
in five years. In addition to our existing 
international models, we are looking at 
alternative routes to market for our own 
brands which will help us expand our reach 
into more markets and continue to grow the 
profitability of our international business.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
12  Q : Y o u a r e i n c r e a s i n g y o u r f o c u s 
on ope r a t ion a l e f f ec t i v e ne s s . 
W h a t a r e t he pr ior i t i e s f or t he 
m ediu m t er m ?
As Debenhams changes from a UK 
department store model to an international, 
multi-channel model, we are evolving the 
systems, supply chain and processes that 
support the business. We have a clear 
roadmap to achieve this which focuses 
on four areas of operational effectiveness. 
We are developing our buying and 
merchandising capabilities to facilitate 
a joined up approach to buying, range 
planning and merchandising across 
geographies and channels. The supply 
chain is being restructured to provide more 
flexible and scalable supply and logistics. 
The quality of our decision making is 
improving through enhanced data 
analytics and reporting capability for all 
channels. Finally, we are upgrading our 
systems infrastructure to provide the 
platform and tools to sustain us as we grow. 
One project which is worth dwelling on 
for a moment is the automation of our 
Peterborough and Sherburn distribution 
centres. This will not only give us the 
capacity for future growth but will enable 
us to achieve a significant reduction in 
the cost per unit of picking and packing, 
thereby contributing to a meaningful 
increase in the profitability of online sales. 
Q : W h a t i s y o u r a p p r o a c h t o s t o r e 
e x p a n s i o n i n t h e U K ?
Our store estate will continue to be our 
largest channel and plays a vital part in 
driving our multi-channel business. The 
vast majority of customers touch a store 
in some way. When we open a store in a 
new location we see an increase in online 
sales in the catchment area.
However, I believe it is useful to clarify our 
position on new UK stores. We have 160 
stores today. The contracted pipeline is 
comprised of 12 stores. Borehamwood and 
Scunthorpe will open during October 2014 
and ten stores are scheduled to open in 
the following three years. There are 
another ten priority markets where we 
would like to open a store if we can obtain 
the right space on the right deal. They 
include the shopping malls at Bluewater 
and Westfield Stratford City. Beyond this, 
we are not looking to open any more stores 
in the UK. 
Q : Y o u h a v e a l o t t o d o . D o y o u 
h a v e t h e t e am an d t h e re so u r c e s 
t o del i v er ?
We do have a lot to do and I do not 
underestimate the challenge ahead. 
I am confident that we can deliver. I am 
fortunate in having what I believe is one 
of the most talented retail management 
teams in the UK. We strengthened the 
Executive Committee during 2014 with 
the appointments of Peter Swann as 
Operations Director, adding responsibility 
for supply chain and logistics to his 
existing systems brief, and Ross Clemmow 
as E-Commerce Director. These 
appointments recognise the importance 
of these disciplines to our future success. 
I would also like to make special mention 
of Neil Kennedy who has fulfilled the role 
of Acting Chief Financial Officer admirably 
ahead of Matt Smith’s arrival. 
We also have the financial wherewithal 
to deliver. Debenhams remains a cash 
generative business with clear priorities 
for the uses of cash. The first priority is 
to invest in the four pillars of our strategy. 
Capital expenditure amounted to £128 
million in 2014 and is expected to be in the 
region of £130 million in 2015. We remain 
focused on return on capital employed.
Q : W h a t i s y o u r o u t l o o k f o r 2 0 1 5 ?
We expect the market to remain highly 
competitive because customers tell us 
that although they are encouraged by 
economic improvements, this has yet to 
translate into higher disposable income. 
We therefore remain cautious about the 
strength and timing of a UK consumer 
recovery and are planning prudently. 
Whilst this has been a challenging year for 
Debenhams, the brand is strong and our 
improved second half performance 
demonstrates that we have taken decisive 
action to address the issues we faced in the 
first half. The progress we have achieved so 
far gives me confidence that we are ready 
and prepared for the key Christmas period 
and that we have a clear strategy to deliver 
long-term sustainable growth and 
shareholder value. 
Our 2014 strategic report, from page 
10 to page 31, has been reviewed and 
approved by the board of directors on 
23 October 2014.
Michael Sharp
Chief Executive
23 October 2014
Executive Committee 
members from left to 
right. Back row: Richard 
Cristofoli (Marketing 
Director), Peter Swann 
(Operations Director), 
Michael Sharp (Chief 
Executive), Suzanne 
Harlow (Group Trading 
Director), Neil Kennedy 
(Acting Chief Financial 
Officer). Front row: Ross 
Clemmow (E-Commerce 
Director), Nikki Zamblera 
(HR Director), Mike Goring 
(Retail Director).
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
13  Focusing on UK retail
through multi-channel
Increasing availability and choice
Expanding the brand internationally
Operational effectiveness
Operational effectiveness
Delivering a
compelling
customer
pr oposition
We create value through a business model which has a clear understanding of who our customer is and what they want from us, 
combined with expertise in how we source and sell products. Our strategy is to build a leading international, multi-channel brand and 
has four inter-related pillars with delivering a compelling customer proposition at their heart. Operational effectiveness provides the 
processes, systems and supply chain which connect our strategy with our customers.
S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
B U S I N E S S M O D E L A N D S TR A TE G Y
Our place in the value chain
Key performance indicators
The board assesses the performance of 
the business on a range of financial, 
strategic and sustainability key 
performance indicators.
READ MORE ON PAGES 24 AND 25
Corporate governance
Good governance is about responsible 
and effective management which 
demonstrates honesty, transparency 
and accountability.
READ MORE ON PAGES 40 TO 53
Directors’ remuneration
We have set strategic targets in the 
management performance share plan to 
reflect our focus on key priorities under 
each pillar of our strategy.
READ MORE ON PAGES 54 TO 77
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
14  Customer proﬁle by age
 15-24 – 12%
 25-34 – 17%
 35-44 – 19%
 45-54 – 20%
 55-64 – 14%
 65+ – 18%
Own brand sourcing
by country
 China/Hong Kong – 46%
 India – 13%
 Bangladesh – 12%
 Vietnam – 6%
 Romania – 5%
 Cambodia – 4%
 Turkey – 4%
 UK – 3%
 Other – 7%
Customer proﬁle 
by demographic*
 A – 6%
 B – 29%
 C1 – 31%
 C2 – 19%
 DE – 15%
*National Readership Survey (NRS) 
 demographic categories
Own brand direct
vs indirect sourcing
 Direct – 64%
 Indirect – 36%
 Core own brands – 27%
 Designers at Debenhams 
 own brands – 17%
 International brands – 32%
 Concessions – 24%
Sales by brand type
Sales by channel
 Stores – 84.7%
 Online – 15.3%
Store numbers
 UK – 160
 Denmark – 6
 Republic of Ireland – 11
 International franchises – 68
Sales by category
 Womenswear – 17%
 Menswear – 14%
 Childrenswear – 9%
 Lingerie – 6%
 Accessories – 14%
 Beauty – 24%
 Home & furniture – 12%
 Food – 3%
 Other – 1%
W ho i s ou r cu s t o m e r
We put our customer at the heart of everything we do.  
Debenhams is a family oriented brand which has a broad appeal 
across our store estate and websites. Our core shopper is 
female, ABC1 and aged 35-55. In 2014, 12 million customers 
visited our UK stores and our websites received 276 million visits.
H o w w e b u y
Our sourcing strategy is based on “right product, right country” . 
We have been sourcing our own brand products directly for 
many years and have built long-standing relationships with 
suppliers. Our global sourcing activities meet our customers’ 
and our own expectations that every one of our products is 
manufactured in a factory that meets high ethical, safety 
and quality standards.
W h a t w e s e l l
Our customer proposition is differentiated by a unique 
combination of exclusive, credible core and Designers at 
Debenhams own brands, international brands and concessions 
within a good/better/best price architecture. Half of everything 
we sell is exclusive to Debenhams. A wide choice of clothing and 
non-clothing categories provides balance and resilience.
Ho w w e s el l
Convenience is becoming an increasingly important factor in 
how and where customers shop. We therefore give customers 
a wide range of shopping channels, including our stores, online, 
mobile, apps, instore kiosks, catalogues and telephone ordering. 
Multi-channel customers can collect their products from one 
of our stores or have them delivered to home.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
15  S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
O U R S TR A TE G Y A T A G L A N C E
Building a leading international, multi-channel brand
Strategic priorities
• Investing in our product and brand strategy to ensure our 
proposition remains competitive
• Refocusing our promotional strategy to drive gross 
margin improvement
• Developing buying and merchandising capability to 
create greater alignment between buying teams and our 
international and online operations
• Effective communication of the proposition across all media
2014 performance
• Ongoing returns were achieved from the investment made in 
Red Herring and Principles by Ben de Lisi buying teams
• Recent brand launches were rolled out to more stores including 
menswear Designers at Debenhams brand Hammond & Co. by 
Patrick Grant which grew from 20 stores to 80 stores
• The value proposition was sharpened in key categories 
including childrenswear
• New brand development included Racing Green which will be 
launched in menswear in 2015
• Work to refocus the promotional strategy commenced, leading 
to a 10.6% increase in own brand full price sell-through in the 
second half
• Stock efficiency improved, leading to a 5.3% reduction in 
like-for-like stock at year end
• “Single customer view” is now fully operational, driving greater 
return from CRM and eCRM programmes
2015 challenges
• Our markets remain highly competitive with new store and online 
entrants, especially in clothing
• Managing availability in light of lower stock commitment
• Achieving another step change in return from marketing activity 
across all channels
• Ensuring strong communication of new delivery services
• Managing the potential impact of political unrest on sourcing 
and supply chain
Strategic priorities
• Giving customers a relevant choice of inspiring products and 
brands which are made easy to choose and easy to shop
• Increasing the competitiveness of our multi-channel 
delivery options
• Improving the economics of multi-channel through higher 
recovery of delivery costs and reduction in cost per unit 
of fulfilment
2014 performance
• Online sales grew by 17 .6% to £430.7 million with the online mix 
increasing from 13.2% of Group GTV to 15.3%. However progress 
was restricted by the uncompetitiveness of our fulfilment offer
• Total online visits increased by 15% to 276 million
• Mobile continued to be the fastest growing channel with mobile 
visits up by 58% and mobile sales up by 81%
• Next day delivery to home launched in the UK in September 2013
• Demand for click and collect in the UK grew to 22.3% of all online 
orders compared with 7 .4% in the prior year
• Key customer pain points were addressed, particularly around 
checkout and returns
• Efficiencies in fulfilment resulted in a 230bps reduction in the 
UK online cost to sales ratio
2015 challenges
• Launching the new multi-channel delivery services in time 
for peak trading to drive sales and achieve higher recovery 
of fulfilment costs
• Integrating new carriers for evening and weekend 
delivery options
• Supporting next day click and collect service levels and at the 
same time protecting margins through fulfil-from-store and 
changes to the transport network 
• Developing a flagship online experience through improved 
product presentation, search and navigation
• Achieving a further reduction in cost per unit of fulfilment 
• Finalising plans for automation of fulfilment centres
Increasing availability 
and choice through 
multi-channel
Delivering a compelling 
customer proposition
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
16  We made progress within each of the four pillars 
of our strategy in 2014 despite the difficult trading 
conditions. Here we review the key elements of 
our performance and outline the key challenges 
we will be facing in 2015. 
Strategic priorities
• Addressing the impact of the channel shift on UK store 
performance including the optimisation of inefficient space
• Improving store standards
• Opening new stores in target markets to grow sales and 
market share
2014 performance
• UK store like-for-like sales declined in a highly competitive market 
and performance continued to be impacted by the channel shift
• Trials to improve sales densities commenced with Sports Direct, 
Monsoon, Mothercare and Costa
• New instore projection for click and collect rolled out to all stores
• The transformation of Oxford Street into our international 
flagship store was completed on plan and the store is performing 
in line with expectations
• Store operating standards continued to benefit from the model 
store programme
• New stores were opened in Cheshire Oaks, Haverfordwest, 
Hereford and Leamington Spa, adding 169,000 sq ft of 
trading space
• New store pipeline stands at 12 stores over next four years
2015 challenges
• UK consumer confidence has improved but the cost of living 
is still rising faster than real income
• Highly competitive marketplace in an environment of declining 
store footfall due to the channel shift
• Need to ensure efficient handling of expected increase in 
demand for click and collect following launch of the next day 
service, including fulfil-from-store
• Managing continued inflation in store costs
• Execution of new brand trials and the subsequent roll-out 
of all trial brands
• Successful opening of new stores in Borehamwood 
and Scunthorpe
Strategic priorities
• Accelerating growth in international activities, building on our 
existing credible, exportable proposition
• Leveraging our core strength in own brand products into 
global markets
• Employing the appropriate operating model for each 
market based on our preference for prudent investment 
and risk management
2014 performance
• International segment GTV and operating profit increased 
by 5.1% and 14.5% respectively 
• Good performance from Magasin du Nord 
• Eight franchise stores opened including three new markets 
(Latvia, Libya, Estonia), two stores closed
• Contracted new franchise store pipeline stands at 14 stores 
in seven countries over next three years, 12 more are in 
final negotiation
• International online sales increased by 41.6%
• Trading conditions in the Republic of Ireland 
remained challenging
• Ship direct was extended to cover deliveries to franchise partners 
in Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines taking five weeks out 
of lead times and halving the cost per unit of shipping
• Closer organisational integration between international business 
and core activities including buying and merchandising, supply 
chain and logistics
2015 challenges
• Geopolitical issues are a concern in franchise markets such as 
Russia and Libya
• The Republic of Ireland is expected to remain a difficult market
• We must ensure the systems, supply chain and processes are in 
place to support a growing international business
• Successful development of alternative routes to market
• Gaining momentum in online markets where we have no 
store presence
Focusing on  
UK retail
Expanding the  
brand internationally
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
17  S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
RE S O U R C E S , RE L A T I O N S H I PS  
AN D S US T A I NAB I L I T Y
Ensuring our ability to endure
W E R E C O G N I S E T H A T 
W E C A NN O T R UN O UR 
B U S I N E S S I N I S O L A T I O N . 
T H E R E F O R E OU R MO D E L 
I S UND E R P I NNE D B Y A 
S E R I E S O F R E L A T I O N S H I P S 
W I T H S T A K E H O L D E R S A T 
L O C A L , NA T I O NAL AN D 
I N T E R NA T I O N AL L E V E L , 
W H I C H C O NTR I B U TE T O 
T H E L O N G-T E R M S UC C E S S 
AN D S US T A I N AB I L I T Y O F 
T HE B U S I NE S S .
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
18  Building strong relationships
Our customers
We put our customers at the heart of 
everything we do, which is why the first 
pillar of our strategy is delivering a 
compelling customer proposition. We 
take our customers’ views very seriously 
and listen carefully to what they think 
about what we are doing. Members of 
the Executive Committee participate in 
customer closeness sessions where we 
meet eight to ten customers at a time to 
talk to them about their experiences of 
shopping at Debenhams. We have a 
customer panel of 15,000 customers to 
whom we send weekly surveys on a variety 
of topics. Quarterly brand tracking research 
helps us to understand how customers 
perceive our brand against our competitor 
set. Every customer is invited to participate 
in an online customer voice scheme. We 
also operate an online website satisfaction 
study. Our single customer view system 
also allows us to survey specific customers 
based on their purchase history.
Putting our customers first is also about 
making sure we give them great value 
every day. As well as refocusing our 
promotional strategy (as described on 
pages 10 and 11), we have improved value 
in key categories such as childrenswear. 
Our employees
Our relationship with our employees 
is crucial to our success as a business. 
In 2014 over 80% of our 28,000 employees 
participated in the second annual 
engagement survey. The engagement 
score was the same as last year at 77%. 
The results of the survey make it very 
clear that if you work at Debenhams it 
really is all about the people and the pride 
in doing a good job. The commitment and 
loyalty of our team is evidenced by the 
long service of many of our employees, 
some of whom have dedicated more 
than 40 years to the Company.
The organisation continues to evolve in 
order to support our changing business 
model and this year has seen the opening 
of an office in Bangladesh to support our 
growing sourcing activities in that country. 
Our London head office is enjoying the 
benefits afforded by our move to a single 
location from five previous buildings. 
The continued focus on operational 
effectiveness is being supported by a 
new performance appraisal system and 
the roll-out of a simple behaviour-based 
programme to stores. It is called “Pride, 
Passion & People” and embodies the 
values important to us and our customers.
We endeavour to keep our employees up 
to date with our strategy and performance 
in a number of ways, including personal 
briefings from the Chief Executive.
Local communities
The pride and passion of our employees 
extends into the communities we serve. 
In 2014 we raised £1.4 million for the causes 
supported by the Debenhams Foundation. 
Our charity partners reflect the causes that 
our people and our customers hold dear. 
During the year we added Help for Heroes 
to our existing partners Children in Need 
and Think Pink which comprises three 
breast cancer charities.
The first Debenhams Foundation Ball was 
held in September 2013 in honour of the 
200th anniversary of the Debenhams name 
appearing on the high street. It was 
supported by our long-standing supplier 
base and our champion fundraisers.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
19  S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
RE S O U R C E S , RE L A T I O N S H I PS  
AN D S US T A I NAB I L I T Y C O N T I N U E D
We were pleased to receive the Silver Award 
for Payroll Giving 2014 from the Charities Aid 
Foundation in recognition of the generosity 
of many of our employees.
Our suppliers
As the business model on page 14 
shows, nearly half of everything we 
sell is exclusive to Debenhams. In the 
25 years we have been working on our 
own brand programme, we have developed 
relationships with suppliers around the 
world. We work with more than 500 
own brand suppliers to ensure that our 
customers are provided with exceptional 
quality at great value. We require 
our suppliers to ensure that their own 
employees are paid a fair wage, are treated 
with dignity, are not discriminated against 
or exploited in any way and have a safe 
working environment. The standards we 
expect are embedded in our policies and 
set out in our supplier code of conduct 
which is incorporated into suppliers’ 
conditions of trading and to which they 
are expected to adhere.
We operate a comprehensive factory 
approval and audit process for the 1,150 
factories we source from around the world. 
During 2014, half of these factories were 
audited as part of our ongoing monitoring 
programme. We have compliance teams in 
Hong Kong and Bangladesh in addition to 
using third party audit partners. Having 
worked with a single third party partner for 
the last five years, in October 2013 we 
opened up our programme to other major 
independent providers in order to increase 
flexibility. Our two preferred independent 
audit companies are Intertek and UL. Whilst 
our standard audit programme continues, 
we have also increased our focus on 
training, guidance and encouraging 
transparency to enable positive change by 
way of open dialogue and more frequent 
visits to our suppliers and manufacturers.
We participated in a number of projects 
during 2014, including working closely with 
WRAP to educate and raise awareness 
about fire prevention and safety, particularly 
in Bangladesh, India and Pakistan. We are 
working with Impactt, a leading specialist 
in ethical trade, human rights and labour 
standards, on a project in Bangladesh with 
a reach of 200 factories and more than 
250,000 employees. It is helping ready-made 
garment factories to become better 
businesses which provide better employee 
practices, aim to reduce overtime, improve 
production efficiency, reduce absenteeism 
and improve skills. The results have been 
very positive so far and during 2015 we will 
start the same programme in India. During 
2014 we also started to work with ILO Better 
Factories Cambodia to improve compliance 
with labour standards in that country. 
Further, we became a signature to the 
Sustainable Clothing Action Plan (SCAP). 
More information on all of these projects 
can be found on our sustainability website 
at http://sustainability.debenhamsplc.com/ . 
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
20  Greenhouse gas emissions
We have reported greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions for our UK, Irish and 
Danish operations since 2008. Since 
then the footprint boundary has evolved 
to include areas such as our international 
offices, packaging, hangers and waste. 
This section provides a breakdown 
of our GHG emissions for 2014. 
Further details of our GHG emissions 
can be found on our website at  
http://sustainability.debenhamsplc.com/ . 
With the support of Ricardo-AEA, we have 
applied the GHG Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard 2013 
and the UK government conversion factors 
to calculate our carbon emissions. We 
report GHG emissions in line with our 
financial year.
In 2014, based on the data provided, our 
overall carbon footprint has increased by 
1 1%, from 174,080 tonnes CO
2
e in 2013 to 
193,365 tonnes CO
2
e. A breakdown of this 
is shown in table 1 overleaf. This includes UK 
GHG emissions which have increased by 
16% from 140,866 tonnes CO
2
e in 2013 to 
163,890 tonnes CO
2
e in 2014. The increase is 
due to two main reasons. The predominant 
factor is the 10% increase in the UK grid 
electricity GHG intensity. This has led to an 
increase in our UK electricity carbon 
emissions, even though our actual electricity 
consumption, in kWh, reduced by 2%. The 
second reason for the increase in this year’s 
footprint is an increase in the number of 
GHG sources which have been included 
within the footprint compared with 
previous years.
Whilst the overall footprint has increased, 
many other component sources have 
reduced including total oil and gas, Irish 
and Danish electricity, UK water use, UK 
road freight, air freight and international 
road freight.
Business partners
Our business model and our strategy lead 
us to work with many organisations. They 
include the Designers at Debenhams, third 
party brands and concessions whose 
ranges we sell and the companies who own 
and operate our international franchise 
stores. We have a number of partners 
within our multi-channel business including 
the provider of the website platform, the 
operator of our fulfilment centres, our key 
search engines and the carriers who deliver 
our products. We also work closely with our 
store landlords. 
It is important that we know that all of our 
partners are doing the right things and are 
adhering to the same high standards that 
we set for ourselves and our suppliers. 
This is partly done through contractual 
arrangements but also through building 
relationships with our partners at all levels 
of our organisation so they understand what 
our strategy is and the part they can play in 
executing it. For example, during 2014 we 
hosted strategy briefings with audiences 
including the Designers at Debenhams, the 
beauty houses, property companies and 
landlords and our international franchisees. 
Managing resources
Our success depends upon the availability 
of scarce resources such as power and fuel, 
raw materials and water. We are also a 
producer of waste, whether carbon 
emissions, waste water, packaging or 
general waste streams. It is our responsibility 
to ensure that our use of resources and 
waste is proportionate and efficient, as well 
as being compliant with all relevant 
environmental legislation and regulation.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
21  S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
RE S O U R C E S , RE L A T I O N S H I PS  
AN D S US T A I NAB I L I T Y C O N T I N U E D
Energy efficiency
Energy efficiency is a key component of 
our store expansion and modernisation 
programmes. In 2015 we are investing 
£2.7 million on initiatives. This will result 
in a better environment for customers 
and employees in our stores through 
advanced control of heating, lighting 
and air conditioning. New stores in 
Borehamwood and Scunthorpe will 
benefit from full LED lighting schemes 
on the shop floor and back of house which 
will reduce total energy usage by some 
20% compared with conventional lighting.
Transportation
We are committed to driving down the 
impacts of deliveries to and from our 
distribution centres through the use 
of more efficient vehicles and trailers 
and through more effective planning 
of deliveries. 
The anticipated growth in click and collect 
following the introduction of the next day 
service will lead to increased delivery 
frequency to stores as we seek to fulfil 
click and collect orders in the most cost 
effective way. We are introducing a new 
planning tool to assist us, building on the 
benefits we have already seen over the 
past year through better planning and 
vehicle utilisation.
To support our growing international 
franchise business, we opened a 
distribution hub in Singapore in April 2013 
which ships product manufactured in Asia 
direct to our Middle East franchise partner. 
Since then, we have added shipments to 
our partners in Indonesia, Malaysia and 
the Philippines and are now processing 
5 million units per year through the facility, 
taking up to five weeks out of lead times.
Other resources
You can find out how we manage 
other resources online at  
http://sustainability.debenhamsplc.com/ . 
Table 1: Group scope 1, 2 and 3 
absolute GHG emissions shown in 
tonnes CO
2
e
2012 2013 2014
Scope 1 14,850 17,786 15,989
Scope 2 144,536 139,607 149,068
Scope 3 19,071 16,687 28,308
Total 178,457 174,080 193,365
This year we have captured more emission 
sources than in previous years and we 
will continue to endeavour to do so 
going forward. 
In addition, we are investing in projects that 
will reduce our footprint and environmental 
impacts. In 2014 we invested £1 million 
in energy efficiency projects and plan to 
spend a further £2.7 million on energy 
efficient lighting, heating, cooling and 
control projects in 2015. 
Emissions data are made more meaningful 
when compared to a core business 
variable. We have developed intensity 
ratios for the total footprint using both 
annual GTV and premises floor area. 
Table 2 shows the total annual GTV and 
floor area for the whole business. The total 
absolute emissions are then divided by 
these figures to provide tonnes CO
2
e per 
£million of turnover and tonnes CO
2
e per 
m
2
 of floor area, respectively, as  shown 
in table 3. 
Table 2: Group data used for intensity 
measures
2012 2013 2014
GTV (£m) 2,700 2,777 2,824
Total floor 
area* (m
2
)
 
1,829,856 1,898,203 1,850,874
*Total floor area includes back of house in stores, offices 
and distribution centres as well as store trading space.
Table 3: Assessment of absolute 
footprint emissions
2012 2013 2014
Absolute 
emissions  
(tCO
2
e) 
178,457 174,080 193,365
Absolute 
tCO
2
e/£m 
GTV
66 63 68
Absolute 
tCO
2
e/m
2
0.097 0.096 0.104
T able 3 shows that intensity metrics have 
grown ahead of the increases in the 
Group’s GTV and floor space. This is largely 
due to the same reasons for the increase 
in absolute emissions, in particular the 
increase in UK grid electricity GHG intensity.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
22  Sustainability in the 21st century
Our work in the area of sustainability is 
overseen by a cross-function Sustainability 
Committee which is chaired by Martina 
King, non-executive director.
The primary goal of the Sustainability 
Committee is to take a long-term view of 
the world in which we trade, to ensure that 
we will continue to be a successful retailer 
for the next 150 years. We need to consider 
our relationships with our stakeholders. 
These relationships have changed 
dramatically over the past 20 years, 
primarily as a result of the advancement 
of technologies, from global trading and 
distribution of goods at a mass scale to 
the launch of the internet, new payment 
methodologies and mobile advancements, 
to name a few.
There is a huge amount of debate still 
raging regarding the role of the high street 
in the future. In a world of fast moving 
and developing technologies, it is well 
understood that content creators will 
always have a role, as long as the content is 
demanded and available. Debenhams is in 
an enviable position; our commitment to 
affordable “designer” collections, which 
are celebrating their 21st anniversary, 
means that we are creators of our own 
content, not just a showcase of others’ 
creations, although that remains core to our 
customer proposition as a contemporary 
department store. It is this dual approach 
that delivers increased margin, delighted 
customers and greater long-term security.
Our committee has a watching brief 
to monitor long-term consumer and 
technology trends, as well as ensuring our 
responsible approach to the consumption 
of the world’s resources, including looking 
after the interests of the broadest 
description of our stakeholder group.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
23  +70
2010 2011
-20
2012
-30
2013
0
2014
-60
2,564
2010 2011
2,640
2012
2,708
2013
2,777 2,824
2014
0
2010 2011
-0.3
2012
+1.6
2013
+2.0 +1.0
2014
145.3
2010 2011
151.9
2012
158.3
2013
139.0 110.3
2014
Key performance indicators
The board uses a range of KPIs to 
assess performance. 
Given the disappointing performance of 
the business in the first half of the year, we 
did not meet our expected targets for the 
strategic and Group financial KPIs in 2014.
Directors’ remuneration
New KPIs have been introduced this year 
for delivering a compelling customer 
proposition and focusing on UK retail to 
align them with performance criteria under 
the performance share plan (PSP). Annual 
bonus is awarded on the basis of profit 
before tax. PSP awards are granted 
according to performance against targets 
set for earnings per share, gross margin 
movement, online EBITDA growth rate, 
UK GTV and International EBITDA growth 
rate. More information can be found in the 
directors’ remuneration report starting 
on page 54.
S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
K E Y P E RF O RM A N C E I N D I C AT O R S ( K P I s )
Measuring our progress
Strategic KPIs
Underlying profit before tax* (£m) Like-for-like sales change (%) Gross transaction value (£m)
Delivering a compelling customer proposition 
– Group gross margin movement (bps)
Rationale
Gross margin is defined as GTV less the 
cost of goods sold, as a percentage of 
GTV. Key drivers include intake margin, 
sales mix and markdown.
2014 performance
Gross margin fell by 60 bps due to high 
levels of markdown in the UK in H1. 
Performance was better in H2.
Looking forward
We expect gross margin to recover 
over time as the work to refocus the 
promotional strategy delivers higher full 
price sell-through and lower markdown.
Rationale
Gross transaction value (GTV) is a measure 
of overall sales in the business, including 
those from concession brands.
2014 performance
Group GTV increased by 1.7% with growth 
in both the UK (up 0.9%) and International 
(up 5. 1%) segments.
Looking forward
We expect GTV to continue to grow  
as we build a leading international, 
multi-channel brand.
Rationale
Like-for-like (LFL) sales is a measure of the 
annual performance of stores that have 
been open for at least one year plus 
online sales.
2014 performance
Group LFL sales increased by 1.0%, driven 
mainly by UK and International online sales 
and by our Danish stores.
Looking forward
We expect continued LFL sales growth 
despite setting more prudent sales targets 
to build resilience.
Rationale
Underlying profit before tax (PBT) is our 
principal measure of profitability. It 
excludes items which are one-off in nature.
2014 performance
Underlying PBT fell by 20.6% due to a 
number of factors which affected the UK 
segment in the first half (see page 10).
Looking forward
The board expects underlying PBT to grow 
in future years from the £1 10.3 million 
achieved in 2014.
Group financial KPIs
Linked to executive remuneration
* Before exceptional items and non-recurring finance 
cost (2014: £4.5 million). 2013-14 under IAS 19 R, 2010-12 
under IAS 19.
All numbers for 2011 on 52 week basis.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
24  439.6
2010 2011
490.0
2012
503.4
2013
522.0 548.6
2014
104.1
2010 2011
179.2
2012
250.6
2013
366.3 430.7
2014
7.5
2010 2011
8.6
2012
9.8
2013
9.2 7.1
2014
199
2010 2011
198
2012
179
2013
174 193
2014
 
  
 
 
 
2013
77 77
2014
Employee engagement (%)
Increasing availability and choice through 
multi-channel – Group online GTV (£m)
Carbon emissions (CO
2
e 000 tonnes)
Expanding the brand internationally – 
International GTV (£m)
Earnings per share* (pence)
Rationale
Basic earnings per share divides earnings 
attributable to ordinary shareholders by 
the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares outstanding during the financial 
year (excluding shares purchased by the 
Company and held in treasury).
2014 performance
Lower profits resulted in a 22.8% decline in 
EPS to 7 . 1 pence.
Looking forward
The board expects EPS to grow in future 
years as profits recover.
Rationale
CO
2
e is used as a measure of 
environmental impact. It takes into account 
harmful emissions from the six greenhouse 
gases identified by the Kyoto Protocol.
2014 performance
Carbon emissions increased by 1 1% largely 
due to an increase in the emissions 
intensity of UK grid electricity (see page 21 
for more details).
Looking forward
We are investing in energy efficiency 
measures to reduce our carbon emissions.
Rationale
We conduct an annual engagement survey, 
inviting all employees in our UK and Irish 
stores and head office to participate.
2014 performance
Our engagement score remained at 77%, 
a good result given a significant increase 
in the number of participants and the 
challenging year faced by the business.
Looking forward
Measures are in place to address issues 
raised by employees during the 2014 
survey and drive the engagement score 
going forward.
Rationale
International GTV comprises sales from the 
17 owned stores in Denmark and Ireland, 
sales to the franchise stores and online 
orders delivered outside the UK.
2014 performance
International GTV increased by 5. 1% to 
£548.6 million, driven by growth in 
Denmark, the franchise stores and online.
Looking forward
The key drivers of International growth will 
continue to be Denmark, franchise stores 
and online.
Rationale
Online GTV is a good indicator of the 
performance of our multi-channel 
activities. It includes sales to customers 
in the UK and internationally.
2014 performance
Online GTV increased by 17 .6% to £430.7 
million, representing 15.3% of total GTV.
Looking forward
Online GTV will continue to grow and 
we expect to see a benefit from the 
introduction of new delivery options 
in time for Christmas 2014.
2,124.7
2010 2011
2,149.5
2012
2,204.6
2013
2,254.8 2,275.3
2014
Focusing on UK retail –  
UK GTV (£m)
Rationale
The use of UK segment GTV reflects the 
performance of our UK stores as well as 
recognising the importance of stores in 
generating multi-channel sales.
2014 performance
UK GTV grew by 0.9% to £2,275.3 million. 
Store performance continues to be 
impacted by the channel shift.
Looking forward
Our space optimisation programme aims 
to increase sales densities within the UK 
store estate which will lead to GTV growth.
Sustainability KPIs
*2013-14 under IAS 19 R, 2010-12 under IAS 19.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
25  Strategic objectives
Report
Divisions Specialist functions
Executive Committee Audit Committee
Risk identiﬁcation
Risk identiﬁcation 
Risk evaluation 
Risk management
team
Deﬁne principal risks
and risk treatment
Deﬁne risk appetite
Risk reporting
Strategic objectives
Evaluate
Strategic objectives
Treat
Strategic objectives
Identify
S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
R I S K R EV I EW
Safeguarding future returns
Figure 1: Debenhams risk management framework
The board of Debenhams, which has 
overall responsibility for risk management 
and internal control, considers it important 
that there should be a regular and 
systematic approach to the management 
of risks in order to provide assurance that 
strategic and operational goals can be met 
and the Group’s reputation is protected. 
The board has conducted a review of 
the effectiveness of internal controls 
and is satisfied that those in place 
remain appropriate.
To support this system for internal control, 
the Group has a risk management framework 
(figure 1) that highlights the central role that 
the management of risk plays in strategic 
planning and the successful delivery of 
strategic objectives and the fact that 
this process is dependent upon people 
fulfilling their clearly defined roles 
and responsibilities. 
Roles and responsibilities
The board
The board is responsible for: approving 
the risk management policy and related 
framework; setting and communicating the 
Group’s risk appetite and related policies; 
setting the tone and culture for managing 
risk; providing strategic direction and 
guidance on risk-related decision making; 
ensuring that risk management processes 
are adopted across the whole Group; 
obtaining assurance on the effectiveness 
of, and compliance with, the risk 
management framework; reporting on the 
management of risk to stakeholders; and 
signing off public disclosures relating to 
risk and risk management.
In addition, the Audit Committee satisfies 
itself that key risks are monitored by senior 
management and the internal audit plan 
is focused on high priority areas.
Heads of function 
Heads of function are responsible for: 
identifying and evaluating the risks that 
relate to their areas and activities; 
implementing appropriate controls to 
manage risks in line with the Group’s risk 
appetite; and taking ownership for risks 
and controls within their area of 
responsibility, including the use of 
segregation of duties to protect against 
management override of controls.
Risk management team
The risk management team is responsible 
for: developing, implementing and 
reviewing the risk management framework 
and process; promoting effective risk 
management at all levels of the Group; 
encouraging an appropriate risk culture 
within the Group; liaising with other 
functions that advise on specialist areas; 
coordinating responses where risks impact 
more than one area; reporting, escalating 
and communicating risk management 
issues to key internal stakeholders; and 
providing assurance regarding risk 
management within the Group.
The team also manages corporate 
insurance, business continuity planning, 
travel risk management and the 
whistleblowing line, amongst other things.
Internal audit team
In relation to risk management, the internal 
audit team is responsible for providing 
independent assessment of: the design, 
operation and effectiveness of the risk 
management framework and process; 
management of key risks, including the 
effectiveness of the controls; reporting 
of risk and control status; and the reliability 
of assurances provided by management.
Whistleblowing
Two main routes are available to 
employees to raise concerns over 
malpractices. The first encourages 
employees to talk to their line manager, 
their manager’s manager or, if still 
concerned, to call the central human 
resources team directly. The second route 
is a confidential reporting line where 
employees can speak to the Group’s 
anti-fraud team. If an employee feels 
that the matter is so serious it cannot be 
discussed in any of these ways, s/he can 
contact the Company Secretary or the 
Director of Internal Audit and Risk 
Management. The Group’s policy on 
whistleblowing and these methods of 
raising issues are published on the intranet 
and on posters. The policy is reviewed 
annually by the Audit Committee and any 
serious matters identified are raised with 
the chairman of the Audit Committee.
Risk management activities
Risk identification
Risks are identified through a number 
of routes. These include: strategic planning 
exercises; ongoing operational reviews 
by management; project governance 
processes; internal audits; control 
environment reviews; environmental 
scanning (eg market research and 
membership of industry bodies); 
changes to legislation; and enterprise 
risk management best practices. 
In addition, an extensive review 
of the organisation’s risk universe has 
been undertaken to verify that all key risks 
have been identified and to ensure that 
management has considered these as 
part of its control environment review. 
This organisation-wide review is facilitated 
by the risk management team for each 
operating division on an ongoing 
cyclical basis. 
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
26  All senior managers participate in this 
exercise, including the Executive Committee. 
It considers strategy, objectives and risks 
to their achievement together with the 
existing and new controls required to 
mitigate risk. 
Management is required to update the 
register with any new or emerging risks 
as they are identified.
Risk evaluation
In order to understand the impact specific 
risks would have on the Group, each risk 
is evaluated based on the likelihood of 
occurrence and its severity using a risk 
ranking matrix (figure 2) for consistency, 
which considers the degree of change across 
one or more key performance indicators.
Risk treatment
The risk score, derived from the risk ranking 
matrix, is compared to the risk appetite 
matrix (figure 3), which provides guidance 
on the expected level of treatment, 
timeframes and authority levels. The four 
methods used to treat risk are:
• Tolerate (take no further action)
• Treat (improve or implement controls)
• Transfer (via insurance/contract)
• Terminate (eliminate/re-engineer)
Risk reporting
The outputs from these processes are 
collated into the risk register and linked 
together to define the principal risks faced 
by the Group. These are taken into 
consideration when setting the annual 
internal audit plan. 
Individual managers are expected to 
define and analyse the reports they require 
to enhance financial and operational 
performance and to identify emerging 
risks or control failures. 
Figure 3: Risk appetite matrix
Risk score Risk matrix zone Action Risk response 
Treatment 
timeframe 
Risk acceptance 
owner
1, 2, 3 or 4 Green (Limited) Optional 
Treat or  
tolerate 9-12 months 
Head of 
department 
8, 9 or 12 Yellow (Moderate) Optional 
Treat or  
tolerate 6-9 months Line director 
16, 18 or 27 Orange (Significant) Yes 
Treat, transfer 
or terminate 3-6 months 
Executive 
Committee 
32, 36, 48 or 64 Red (Ultimate) Yes 
Treat, transfer 
or terminate 0-3 months Board 
Figure 2: Risk ranking matrix
Frequency of event occurrence
Event will probably occur at least once every year Frequent 4 4 16 36 64
Event will probably occur at least once every 3 years Common 3 3 12 27 48
Event will probably occur at least once every 10 years Occasional 2 2 8 18 32
Event will probably occur less than once every 10 years Unlikely 1 1 4 9 16
1(1
2
) 4(2
2
) 9(3
2
) 16(4
2
)
Low Moderate Serious Critical
Severity of impact
(based on specified degrees of change  
across one or more financial or reputational  
key performance indicators)
Performance is also reviewed by the board, 
Executive Committee, Audit Committee, 
business continuity management 
committee and executive health and 
safety committee. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
The risks detailed on pages 28 to 31 are the 
principal risks and uncertainties that may 
impact the Group’s ability to achieve its 
strategic and operational goals. 
It should be noted that any system of risk 
management and internal control is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
27  S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
P R I N C I P A L R I S K S A N D 
U N C E R T A I N T I E S
Risk
1
 Impact Examples of mitigation Change
2
Continuing adverse 
economic conditions 
may have a material 
adverse effect on 
Debenhams’ results
A decline in sales on discretionary 
purchases leading to a reduction 
in profit
This is a decreasing risk because the 
gap between inflation and wage 
growth has started to narrow. 
However the consumer environment 
remains volatile and we remain 
cautious about the outlook
The board conducts strategic business reviews which 
ensure that management is focused on key priorities and 
cost control. These reviews also focus on the four pillars 
of the Group’s strategy to build a leading international, 
multi-channel brand and the operational effectiveness 
of the processes and systems which link the pillars of 
the strategy together. 
Debenhams’ business 
could be impacted as 
a result of weak sales 
during peak selling 
seasons or extreme 
or unseasonal 
weather conditions
Adverse effect on inventory 
and profit
Debenhams’ product and brand strategy involves selling 
a diverse mix of products in order to reduce reliance on 
those that may be weather dependent. To help mitigate 
the impact of this risk, should it occur, management 
would review the benefits of strengthening both planned 
and tactical promotional or marketing activity in order to 
drive sales. 
Theft of customer 
data or breach of 
payment card 
industry standards 
could adversely 
affect Debenhams’ 
business operations, 
reputation and results
Negative effect on reputation 
leading to loss of stakeholder trust 
and confidence, with subsequent 
impact on profitability as well as 
diverting financial and management 
resources from more beneficial uses
This is a decreasing risk because of 
the ongoing work and progress 
made around payment card 
industry (PCI) compliance
Steering groups exist for both data protection and 
PCI standards which review and report on compliance 
levels. Debenhams utilises external specialists as 
required to assist in achieving its compliance goals, with 
compliance levels versus the PCI standard monitored by 
management and reported to the Audit Committee. 
A number of security tools are employed to protect 
data, including encryption, intruder detection and 
data loss prevention.
Debenhams’ business 
could be impacted as 
a result of failing to 
compete effectively
Place pressure on our pricing 
strategy, margins and profitability
Divert financial and management 
resources from more beneficial uses
Debenhams’ product and brand strategy gives customers 
a unique, differentiated and exclusive choice of brands, 
products and categories within a good/better/best pricing 
architecture. An understanding of customers and their 
needs is developed by listening to their views, market 
intelligence and reviewing key performance indicators, 
which ensures that pricing is competitive and promotional 
activity is appropriate. Debenhams continues to invest 
additional resources in customer analytics and insight using 
tools such as the single customer view.
A number of initiatives have been put in place to address 
the causes of lower than expected sales in the first half of 
the year and to improve competitiveness. More details 
can be found in the Chief Executive’s report starting on 
page 10. In addition, a robust systems infrastructure is 
required to support the delivery of our strategic objectives. 
T o support the efficient and effective delivery of strategic 
and business critical projects, a business change roadmap 
has been developed, the governance framework has 
been enhanced and a series of projects are under way 
to strengthen business continuity to maintain and 
protect performance. 
1
 Ranked based on overall risk to the business. 
2 
Change in severity and/or likelihood of risk during course of 2014.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
28  Risk
1
 Impact Examples of mitigation Change
2
Debenhams’ business 
may suffer if it is 
unable to predict 
accurately or fulfil 
customer preferences 
or demand through 
competitive, 
economic and 
profitable channels
Sales will be lower, market share will 
be reduced and may be forced to 
rely on additional markdowns or 
promotional sales to dispose of 
excess or slow-moving inventory or 
may experience inventory shortfalls 
on popular merchandise
Channel shifts away from stores 
to online could lead to higher 
operational costs within the online 
channel and lower profitability, or 
even impairment, of store assets
Any of the above could have a 
material adverse effect on 
Debenhams’ business, financial 
condition or profitability
Delivering a compelling customer proposition is at the heart 
of Debenhams’ strategy. In developing our product and 
brand strategy , we take into consideration market, trend and 
customer research to help us predict likely demand for our 
products and services. We continue to invest in our product 
and brand strategy to ensure it remains competitive. We are 
also investing in buying and merchandising systems 
capability to achieve greater alignment across all sales 
channels and geographies.
A number of specific actions are being taken to address 
the issues of the channel shift. These include:
• Building a more competitive and economic multi-
channel business to drive sales, increase the recovery 
of fulfilment costs and reduce the cost per unit of 
fulfilment. To this end, a range of competitive delivery 
options has been introduced.
• Driving a better return on UK store assets through 
the introduction of additional products, brand and 
services as well as ensuring stores are fully configured 
for multi-channel shopping.
Factors influencing 
the sustainability of 
the supply chain
Any of the risks associated with 
doing business in international 
markets and/or importing 
merchandise from these regions 
could place pressure on margins and 
profitability or require the Group to 
divert financial and management 
resources from more beneficial uses 
This is a decreasing risk as 
Debenhams is developing multiple 
sourcing routes to ensure that 
pricing remains competitive and  
that demand can be supplied
Debenhams fosters mutually beneficial relationships with 
its suppliers. Both parties work towards the objective of 
optimising sustainable fulfilment and costs, which is 
measured regularly by management through key 
performance indicators. You can read more about how 
we build relationships with our suppliers on page 20.
Debenhams continues to develop its supplier base to 
mitigate the potential of cost price inflation without 
compromising the quality of its products. In addition, 
the sourcing division has been strengthened to include 
additional expertise which assists with sourcing 
decisions, production consolidation and lead time 
reduction, amongst other things.
1
 Ranked based on overall risk to the business. 
2 
Change in severity and/or likelihood of risk during course of 2014.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
29  Risk
1
 Impact Examples of mitigation Change
2
Any disruption or 
other adverse event 
affecting Debenhams’ 
relationship with 
any of its major 
suppliers, franchise 
partners, store card 
providers, designers, 
concessionaires, or 
outsourcing partners
Any of the following factors could 
impact or reduce profitability: 
• Costs associated with the transfer 
of the operations or the potential 
of extra operational cost from a 
new provider
• Changes in exclusivity 
arrangements with designers or 
any decline in their popularity
• The loss of a number of 
important concession or 
franchise partners
• Adverse events within the supply 
chain could restrict the availability 
or significantly increase the cost 
of goods 
• Credit insurance difficulties for  
a significant number of suppliers 
could lead to a detrimental variation 
of terms or alternative suppliers 
used to source some goods
This is an increasing risk based  
on unpredictable instability  
of various territories around  
the world
In order to minimise the impact of any third party 
relationship or performance issues, Debenhams’ 
objectives are to: maintain mutually beneficial third party 
relationships by ensuring strategies are aligned; have 
appropriate, unambiguous contracts in place; ensure 
third parties are financially robust; and have contingency 
plans in place in the event of a failure (eg conversion of 
space to own bought for concessionaire failure, multiple 
sourcing routes for supplier failure, shipment embargos 
for franchise failure).
Policies, controls and financial support behind 
receivables are in place to help mitigate the risk of 
franchise partner failure.
Management is closely monitoring any potential impact 
on our Russian franchise market as a result of the 
situation within Ukraine.
Any events that 
negatively impact 
the reputation of, 
or value associated 
with, Debenhams’ 
brand could adversely 
affect its business
Unfavourable publicity concerning 
Debenhams, its ethical trading 
policies, its business policies 
including health and safety, its 
corporate responsibility practices, 
any of its brands or products, its 
supply chain practices or any of its 
franchisees or manufacturers or a 
substantial erosion in the reputation 
of, or value associated with, the 
Debenhams brand may lead to 
a loss of stakeholder trust and 
confidence and could have a 
material adverse effect on 
Debenhams’ ability to attract and 
retain third party brands, suppliers, 
designers, concessions and 
franchisees, which could 
consequently impact Debenhams’ 
business, financial condition 
or profitability
Ethical sourcing, legislative change and corporate 
responsibility matters are key areas of focus for the 
sustainability committee. To ensure that Debenhams 
has the most current information available, it is a member 
of relevant industry bodies that provide awareness of 
changes to standards and legislation. All suppliers are 
expected to adhere to Debenhams’ own supplier code 
of conduct, which is underpinned by Debenhams’ robust 
policy on compliance which includes a real focus on social 
and ethical standards.
A reliance on third party suppliers and franchisees, the 
challenges of the current economic environment and the 
complexity of the new and existing legislation make this 
an ongoing risk which Debenhams and its suppliers and 
franchisees have to manage. 
An executive health and safety committee exists to review 
compliance with legal and regulatory obligations and a 
number of participants are members of various relevant 
industry bodies. The committee receives input from 
specialist teams which focus on discrete aspects. These 
include health and safety, building services, insurance and 
retail operations. To support compliance and to maintain 
high operational standards, health and safety awareness 
programmes are in place and each site has its own health 
and safety committee.
1
 Ranked based on overall risk to the business. 
2 
Change in severity and/or likelihood of risk during course of 2014.
S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
P R IN C IP A L R I S K S A N D U N C E R T A IN T IE S C O N T IN U E D
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
30  Risk
1
 Impact Examples of mitigation Change
2
Factors outside 
Debenhams’ control, 
such as damage or 
interruptions due 
to operational 
disruption, natural 
disaster, pandemics, 
terrorist activity, 
strikes or riots may 
have a material 
adverse effect on 
its results
Unable to continue operations 
smoothly in the event of a major 
incident which may have an adverse 
effect on inventory and profitability 
and divert financial and management 
resources from more beneficial uses. 
Any terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, 
social unrest or other geopolitical 
uncertainty could result in a 
significant reduction in consumer 
confidence and spending levels
Risks associated with systems failure, 
external attack of systems or data 
inaccuracy may also significantly 
damage ability to manage 
information technology systems 
or could cause inappropriate 
decisions to be made using wrong 
or ambiguous information
This is an increasing risk based on 
unpredictable instability of various 
territories around the world and the 
increased threat level within the UK
The business continuity management committee is 
comprised of senior executives and works to a framework 
based on the most recent international standard. The key 
objectives of this committee are to ensure that potential 
threats to the organisation and the impacts that those 
threats might cause have been identified, that a 
framework to build organisational resilience to known 
threats is in place and that the framework has the 
capability to deliver an effective response to safeguard 
the Group.
A business continuity policy, describing roles and 
responsibilities across the Group, ensures that an 
effective framework is in place to enable the recovery 
and continuation of normal business operations as soon 
as possible in the event of any disruptive incidents. Key 
business systems are managed and monitored by 
specialist teams. 
Insurance policies have been placed as appropriate to 
minimise the impact of specific risks.
Debenhams’ business 
may be materially 
adversely affected 
by changes to, or a 
breach by the Group 
of, laws or regulations
Adverse effect on inventory and 
profitability and will divert financial 
and management resources from 
more beneficial uses
Debenhams has specialist accounting, taxation, 
information systems and legal and secretariat teams and 
is also a member of key industry bodies which provide 
awareness of changes to standards and legislation.
Forums exist to focus on specific areas of legislation, and 
specific business policies and procedures are in place to 
ensure roles and responsibilities are understood across 
the Group.
Factors outside 
Debenhams’ control, 
such as increases in 
energy or fuel costs 
may have an adverse 
effect on its results
Place pressure on margin and 
profitability, will also divert financial 
and management resources from 
more beneficial uses
This is an increasing risk due to the 
current situation in Ukraine and 
management is currently monitoring 
energy costs even more closely
A key objective of the energy committee is to control 
energy usage, including the impact of the Carbon 
Reduction Commitment scheme. An energy hedging 
policy is in place to provide a high degree of cost certainty 
in the short term.
Acts of fraud, theft 
and industrial 
espionage could 
adversely affect 
Debenhams’ business 
operations, reputation 
and results
Negative effect on reputation, 
and will divert financial and 
management resources from more 
beneficial uses, reducing 
profitability
In order to mitigate fraud across all channels in which 
Debenhams operates, a number of preventative 
measures are in place. These include: accounting policies 
and procedures to ensure, for example, that the retail 
methodology for valuing stock remains appropriate; 
systems access restrictions; expenditure authorisation 
levels; whistleblowing and anti-bribery and corruption 
policies and a code of business conduct, all of which 
provide employees with guidelines on how to escalate an 
issue confidentially. A variety of monitoring mechanisms 
are used to identify fraudulent activity including data 
mining across point of sale and head office functions. As 
part of the organisation-wide risk assessment, individual 
managers sign an anti-fraud, bribery and corruption 
declaration. Issues identified are investigated and 
reported to the Audit Committee.
1
 Ranked based on overall risk to the business. 
2 
Change in severity and/or likelihood of risk during course of 2014.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
31  In this section 
34  Financial review
P E R F OR M A NC E
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
32  P E R F OR M A NC E
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
33  Figure 1: Financial summary
52 weeks to 
30 August 2014
52 weeks to 
31 August 2013
1
Gross transaction value
UK £2,275.3m £2,254.8m
International £548.6m £522.0m
Group £2,823.9m £2,776.8m
Increase in Group like-for-like sales +1.0% +2.0%
Revenue
UK £1,902.1m £1,895.9m
International £410.6m £386.3m
Group £2,312.7m £2,282.2m
Operating profit
UK £96.3m £127.2m
International £32.3m £28.2m
Group £128.6m £155.4m
Underlying net finance costs
2
£18.3m £16.4m
Underlying profit before tax
2
£110.3m £139.0m
Non-recurring finance cost £4.5m –
Reported profit before tax £105.8m £139.0m
Basic earnings per share 7.1p 9.2p
Diluted earnings per share 7.1p 9.2p
Dividend per share 3.4p 3.4p
1
  Operating profit, net finance costs, profit before tax, basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share 
adjusted for IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (“IAS 19 R”) (see page 102 for more details)
2 
Before non-recurring finance cost (2014: £4.5m).
S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
F I NAN C I AL R E VI E W
N E I L  
K E NNE D Y
Acting Chief 
Financial Officer
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
34  The Group’s performance for the 52 weeks 
to 30 August 2014 is summarised in figure 1. 
Whilst the first half of the year was extremely 
challenging, we saw a better performance 
in the second half as a result of the decisive 
action taken to address the key issues which 
impacted the business in the first six months 
of the year.
Income statement
Sales and revenue
Group GTV increased by 1.7% to £2,823.9 
million for the 52 weeks to 30 August 2014 
whilst Group revenue increased by 1.3% to 
£2,312.7 million.
Group like-for-like sales increased by 1.0%.
The components of the Group GTV growth 
and like-for-like sales growth are shown in 
figure 2 below.
Group own bought sales mix decreased to 
76.2% (2013: 76.7%) largely as a result of the 
movement in the UK mix which more than 
offset growth in the international mix.
Operating profit
The Group’s profitability in 2014 was 
significantly impacted by the disappointing 
performance of the UK business during the 
first half of the year which was the principal 
cause of a 100 bps decline in Group gross 
margin (which we define as GTV less the 
cost of goods sold, as a percentage of 
GTV) for the first half. The first stage of our 
work to refocus our promotional strategy, 
which is detailed on pages 10 and 11, 
delivered a better gross margin in the 
second half, increasing by 10 bps. On a 
full year basis, gross margin declined by 
60 bps.
Costs were managed tightly throughout 
the year. Total costs increased by 2.7% over 
the prior year to £2,184.1 million. Cost of 
sales (defined as product costs associated 
with gross margin, together with related 
buying, marketing and store costs) of 
£2,033.4 million increased by 2.6% in line 
with sales growth and additional markdown 
required in the first half. Distribution costs 
increased by 1.0% to £98.5 million, 
principally due to the increase in variable 
costs associated with higher online sales. 
Administrative expenses increased by 
11.8% to £52.2 million largely as a 
consequence of a £7 .1 million increase 
in costs associated with the new London 
head office. These costs include rent, rates 
and service charge and will be incurred on 
an ongoing basis.
Depreciation and amortisation, including 
losses on disposal of property, plant 
and equipment, increased by 7 .8% to 
£102.2 million, reflecting higher capital 
expenditure in 2014 and 2013 of £128.0 
million and £133.3 million respectively.
As a result of the foregoing, Group 
operating profit declined by 17 .2% to 
£128.6 million from £155.4 million in the 
previous year. 
Net finance costs
Underlying net finance costs increased by 
11.6% to £18.3 million as a result of higher 
debt levels in the first half of the year and 
increased interest in the final quarter 
following the refinancing of borrowing 
facilities, including the issue of £225.0 
million of senior notes at the start of July.
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
GTV +1.7%
-1.9%
+2.1%
+0.8%
+0.5%
+0.2%
UK stores UK online International New 
UK space
International
franchises
LFL +1.0%
Figure 2: Components of sales growth (%)
UK performance
The UK sector includes sales from 
UK stores and online sales to UK 
addresses. The inter-dependency 
between stores and online continues 
to grow. 
GTV increased by 0.9% and revenue by 
0.3%. This was principally a result of 
continued growth in online sales to UK 
customers, a good performance from 
Oxford Street following the completion 
of its transformation into our flagship 
store and the benefit of two new stores 
opened in 2013 and four stores in 2014. 
The UK experienced difficult trading 
conditions during the first half (as 
outlined on page 10). Stores continued 
to be impacted by the channel shift into 
online. Own bought mix decreased 
from 79 .9% to 79 .3% due to strong 
concession performance.
Operating profit decreased by 24.3% 
to £96.3 million due to the impact on 
first half gross margin of lower than 
expected pre-Christmas sales resulting 
in high levels of markdown during the 
January sale period. The action taken 
to refocus our promotional strategy 
in the second half led to a better 
performance during that period. UK 
profitability was also impacted by a £7 . 1 
million increase in costs following the 
move into the new London head office.
International performance
The sector comprises our Danish and 
Irish stores, the franchise stores and 
online sales to non-UK addresses.
GTV was 5. 1% higher than last year and 
revenue increased by 6.3%. Magasin du 
Nord had a strong year . We increased 
revenue in our franchise business with 
the addition of a net six new stores. 
International online sales continued 
to grow. T rading conditions in Ireland 
stores remained difficult. Own bought 
mix increased from 63.0% to 63.4% due 
to growth in Magasin.
International operating profit 
increased by 14.5%. In line with sales, 
the main contributors to this growth 
were Magasin and the franchise 
business which more than offset lower 
profits in the Irish stores.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
35  S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T
F I NAN C I AL R E VI E W C O N T I N U E D
This refinancing resulted in a non-recurring 
write-off to the income statement of 
£4.5 million of unamortised issue costs. 
Including the impact of this write-off, 
net finance costs increased by 39.0% to 
£22.8 million. 
Profit before tax
Lower operating profit and higher 
finance costs resulted in a 20.6% decrease 
in underlying profit before tax (before the 
non-recurring finance cost) from £139.0 
million to £110.3 million. 
Reported profit before tax (after the 
non-recurring finance cost of £4.5 million) 
decreased by 23.9% to £105.8 million 
(2013: £139.0 million).
Taxation
The Group’s tax charge of £18.6 million 
equates to an effective tax rate of 17 .6% 
compared with 16.6% (restated for IAS 19 R) 
for the prior year. The 2013 effective tax 
rate benefited from the resolution of 
one-off historic issues in that year, the 
absence of which in 2014 resulted in an 
increase in the effective rate year-on-year. 
This increase was partially offset by the 
impact that the adoption of FRS 101 
“Reduced disclosure framework” (FRS 101) 
by one of the Group’s UK subsidiaries has 
had on the 2014 effective tax rate. This has 
resulted in a temporary reduction in the 
2014 charge alongside the reduction in 
profits in the year and the reduction in 
the UK corporation tax headline rate.
Profit after tax
Profit after tax fell by 24.8% to £87 .2 million.
Earnings per share
Lower profits resulted in a 19.6% decline in 
underlying basic and diluted earnings per 
share (before the non-recurring finance 
cost) to 7 .4 pence. 
Reported basic and diluted earnings per 
share (after the non-recurring finance cost) 
fell by 22.8% to 7 .1 pence.
The weighted average number of shares in 
issue decreased from 1,254.5 million last 
year to 1,226.8 million. This was due to the 
purchase of 14.4 million shares in the share 
buyback scheme in the first half of the year 
and the full year impact of 23.9 million 
shares purchased in the prior year. 
modernisation programme, including Oxford 
Street, in 2014 a greater proportion of capital 
was spent on Group systems, particularly 
those to support the Group’s growing 
multi-channel and international activities, 
as shown in figure 4. 
It is expected that capital expenditure will 
be in the region of £130 million for 2015.  
Management remains focused on return 
on capital employed.
Figure 4 : Capital expenditure
Customer proﬁle by age
 New stores 12%
 Modernisations 21%
 Systems 33%
 Logistics 3%
 Maintenance 16%
 International 7%
 Head ofﬁce 3%
 Other 5%
Cash flow and uses of cash
Debenhams is a highly cash generative 
business and has clear priorities for the 
uses of cash. 
The first priority for cash is to invest in our 
strategy to build a leading international, 
multi-channel brand. Second, we pay our 
shareholders a dividend. Third, we have a 
medium-term target for net debt to earnings 
before tax, interest, depreciation and 
amortisation (“EBITDA”) of 1.0 times. 
Operating cash flow before financing 
and taxation increased from £107 .8 million 
to £112.5 million despite lower profits as a 
result of a working capital inflow of £9.7 
million in 2014 compared with a £9.1 million 
outflow in 2013. The swing in working 
capital is largely associated with the 
strategy to reduce stock levels in 
the business.
Cash flow generation, the uses of cash and 
the movement in net debt are summarised 
in figure 3.
Capital expenditure
In line with the first priority for cash, capital 
expenditure amounted to £128.0 million 
during the year, broadly in line with last 
year’s expenditure of £133.3 million. 
Whereas capital expenditure during the last 
couple of years has focused on the store 
Figure 3: Cash flow, uses of cash and movement in net debt
52 weeks to 
30 August 
2014
52 weeks to 
31 August 
2013*
EBITDA £230.8m £250.2m
Working capital £9.7m £(9.1)m
Cash generated from operations £240.5m £241.1m
Capital expenditure £(128.0)m £(133.3)m
Operating cash flow before financing and taxation £112.5m £107.8m
Taxation £(20.6)m £(29.3)m
Financing £(13.1)m £(12.5)m
Dividends paid £(41.7)m £(41.4)m
Share buyback £(15.1)m £(25.1)m
Other movements £(11.5)m £(2.8)m
Change in net debt £10.5m £(3.3)m
Opening net debt £372.0m £368.7m
Closing net debt £361.5m £372.0m
*Adjusted for IAS 19 R.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
36  Dividends
Despite lower profits in 2014, the cash 
generative nature of the business and 
confidence in future performance has 
enabled the board to maintain the 
2013 cash dividend and to resolve to 
rebuild dividend cover over time as 
earnings increase. To this end, an interim 
dividend of 1.0 pence per share was paid to 
investors on 4 July 2014 (2013: 1.0 pence). 
The board has recommended a final 
dividend of 2.4 pence per share which will 
be paid to shareholders on 9 January 2015, 
taking the total dividend for the year to 
3.4 pence, in line with that paid last year.
Share buyback programme
During the early part of the year, 14.4 million 
shares were acquired for a total expenditure 
of £15.1 million. Shares bought and 
retained by the Company as part of the 
share buyback programme are held 
in treasury.
On 31 December 2013 the board 
announced that the share buyback 
programme would cease with immediate 
effect in order to concentrate on the first 
three priorities for cash.
Net debt
The Group’s net debt position on 
30 August 2014 was £361.5 million, £10.5 
million better than at the same point a year 
ago (31 August 2013: £372.0 million). The 
ratio of reported net debt to EBITDA of 1.6 
times compared with last year of 1.5 times 
(as restated for IAS 19 R). The year end net 
debt position demonstrates an improved 
Figure 5: Key balance sheet items
30 August 
2014
31 August 
2013
Intangible assets £892.8m £876.5m
Property, plant and equipment £689.2m £692.1m
Inventory £345.7m £357.9m
Other assets £98.4m £105.4m
Trade and other payables £(529.3)m £(545.8)m
Other liabilities £(363.1)m £(359.9)m
Retirement benefit obligations £(2.4)m £(20.0)m
Net deferred tax (liabilities)/assets £(2.4)m £10.2m
Net debt £(361.5)m £(372.0)m
Reported net assets £767.4m £744.4m
performance during the second half of the 
year as net debt was £49.3 million higher at 
the end of the first half compared with the 
previous year.
Balance sheet
Key balance sheet items are summarised 
in figure 5.
Inventory
Stock levels were managed tightly during 
the second half of the year in line with our 
aim of setting more prudent sales targets 
and reducing our level of stock buy. Total 
stock decreased by 3.4% to £345.7 million 
reflecting a 5.3% decline in like-for-like 
stock densities. Terminal stock at year end 
of 3.2% was in line with internal targets.
Financial position
During the year, the Group strengthened 
its capital structure through the refinancing 
of its borrowing facilities. 
On 2 July 2014 we completed the offering 
of £225.0 million senior notes due 2021 at 
5.25%. The offering was well subscribed, 
reflecting the strength of investor 
confidence in the business. As a result it 
was upsized from the original £200.0 million 
principal amount. 
At the same time, the Group’s bank 
funding arrangements were refinanced to 
October 2018 in the form of a £425.0 million 
revolving credit facility. 
The refinancing has enabled us to reduce 
our reliance on traditional bank funding 
and meet the board’s desire to diversify the 
sources of the Group’s funding. In addition, 
we expect to achieve a material saving in 
interest costs over the life of the notes 
compared with anticipated cost of bank 
funding alone.
Treasury management
The board has established an overall 
treasury policy which has approved 
authority levels within which the treasury 
function must operate. Treasury policy is to 
manage risks within the agreed framework 
whilst not taking speculative positions. 
The policies for managing financial risks are 
disclosed in note 21 of the Group financial 
statements starting on page 117 .
Pensions
The Group provides a number of pension 
arrangements for its employees. These 
include the Debenhams Retirement 
Scheme and the Debenhams Executive 
Pension Plan (together “the pension 
schemes”) which both closed for future 
service accrual from 31 October 2006. 
Under IAS 19 R, the net deficit on the 
Group’s pension schemes as at 30 August 
2014 was £2.4 million (31 August 2013: 
£20.0 million). Further information can be 
found in note 23 to the Group financial 
statements starting on page 124.
An actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2014 is 
under way. Following the previous actuarial 
valuation as at March 2011, a funding plan 
was agreed with the pension schemes’ 
trustees intended to restore the schemes 
to a fully funded position on an ongoing 
basis by March 2022 (Debenhams 
Retirement Scheme) and August 2021 
(Debenhams Executive Pension Plan). 
As a consequence of this agreed plan, 
annual contributions to the two schemes 
were set at £8.9 million, rising each year 
by RPI. The Group also pays the non-
investment expenses and levies of the 
pension schemes, including those payable 
to the Pension Protection Fund.
Current pension arrangements for 
Debenhams’ employees are provided by 
a defined contribution pension scheme 
which is administered by Legal & General.
Neil Kennedy
Acting Chief Financial Officer
23 October 2014
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
37  In this section 
40  Chairman’s introduction
42 Board of directors
44 Corporate governance report
50 Nomination Committee report
51 Audit Committee report
54 Directors’ remuneration report
78 Directors’ report
81 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
GO V E R N A N CE
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
38  In this section you can find details of 
our approach to corporate governance, 
biographies of the board of directors, 
how our board functions and the 
reports of the Nomination, Audit 
and Remuneration Committees.
GO V E R N A N CE
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
39  C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
C H AI R M A N ’ S I NTR O D U C T I O N
Committed to high standards of corporate governance
The board of Debenhams believes that 
maintaining the highest standards of 
corporate governance is essential to 
creating and protecting shareholder 
value. It is an integral part of ensuring 
the whole Group does the right things 
in the right way.
N I GEL 
NOR T H R I D G E
Chairman
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
40  Composition of the board
 Executive 2
 Non-executive 7
Length of 
non-executive service
 One to three years 2
 Three to six years 4
 More than six years 1
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the board, I am pleased to present the corporate governance report for 
the financial year ended 30 August 2014 and to confirm that Debenhams plc complies 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code (September 2012) (“the Code”). This report, 
together with the Audit Committee report, the directors’ remuneration report and the 
directors’ report, reviews the operation of the Company by reference to the Code.
The board remains committed to promoting the highest standards of corporate 
governance and understands that an efficient, challenging and diverse board is 
essential to enable the business to deliver its strategy. 
With that in mind we were delighted to welcome Suzanne Harlow to the board in 
December 2013. Suzanne joined Debenhams in 1994 and since 2008 has held the role 
of Group Trading Director. We have made significant improvements to our customer 
proposition under her direction and we look forward to her continued contribution 
to all aspects of the business as a member of the board. 
I am also delighted that we will be welcoming Matt Smith to the board as 
Chief Financial Officer. Matt has previously served as Chief Financial Officer of 
Mothercare plc and held a number of senior finance roles within Home Retail Group 
plc, including Finance Director of Argos, as well as having worked for KPMG. I am 
confident that his wealth of retail and financial expertise will allow him to make a 
significant contribution to Debenhams. Matt will join Debenhams during 2015 
upon the satisfaction of his existing contractual obligations. 
In accordance with the Code, Lintstock Ltd has performed an evaluation of the board, 
its committees and each individual director. Details of the review and the findings 
are included in this report and the reports of each of the Nomination, Audit and 
Remuneration Committees. I confirm that following the evaluation, all of the directors 
continue to perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their roles. 
Accordingly, all directors will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting in December this year. Suzanne Harlow will offer herself for election having 
been appointed to the board during the year.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday 9 December at 2.00pm at our 
head office 10 Brock Street, London NW1 3FG. The board and I look forward to 
meeting shareholders at the meeting.
Nigel Northridge
Chairman
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
41  C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
B O A RD O F D I RE C T O R S
Governed with experience
Nigel Northridge
Role: Chairman of the board since 
April 2010 and of the Nomination 
Committee. Nigel is also a 
member of the Remuneration 
Committee.
Key strengths: Nigel has vast 
experience of a range of 
businesses in both an executive 
and a non-executive capacity. 
He spent 32 years with Gallaher 
Group plc including seven years as 
chief executive between 2000 and 
2007 where he drove consistent 
and significant growth in 
shareholder value, ultimately 
concluding a successful sale of 
that business. In addition to his 
current non-executive roles, Nigel 
has also served as a non-executive 
director of Aggreko plc and 
Thomas Cook Group plc.
Current external directorships:  
Chairman of Paddy Power PLC 
and a non-executive director 
of Inchcape plc and Aer Lingus 
Group plc.
Suzanne Harlow
Role: Group Trading Director 
since December 2013.
Key strengths: Suzanne had led 
Debenhams’ design, buying and 
merchandising activities in the role 
of Group Trading Director since 
2008 and was appointed to the 
board in December 2013. Suzanne 
has worked for Debenhams since 
1994 and her roles have included 
Trading Director for Womenswear, 
Lingerie and Beauty between 
2005 and 2008 and Buying and 
Merchandising Director of various 
divisions between 1999 and 2005.
Suzanne is a member of the 
Advisory Council of the British 
Fashion Council and the 
Development Council of 
Ballet Rambert.
Current external directorships:  
None.
Michael Sharp
Role: Chief Executive since 
September 201 1. 
Key strengths: Michael is one 
of the UK’s most experienced 
retailers and has spent his entire 
career in the industry. He has 
worked for Debenhams or its 
predecessor, the Burton Group, 
since 1985. Michael joined 
Debenhams in 1997 and was 
appointed to the board in 1999. 
He was appointed Chief 
Operating Officer in 2006 and 
Deputy Chief Executive in 2008. 
Michael is an honorary professor 
of Glasgow Caledonian University.
Current external directorships:  
None.
Martina King
Role: Independent non-executive 
director since August 2009 
and a member of the 
Remuneration, Audit and 
Nomination Committees. 
Martina also chairs the 
Sustainability Committee.
Key strengths: Martina has 
accumulated extensive experience 
in management and marketing 
through holding a number of 
senior positions in marketing and 
online media including Managing 
Director of Aurasma, Yahoo! 
and Capital Radio. She has also 
served as a non-executive director 
of Capita. As Chief Executive 
Officer of Featurespace Limited, 
Martina also has data analytic 
experience.
Current external directorships:  
Chief Executive Officer of 
Featurespace Limited and a 
non-executive director of 
Cineworld Group plc.
Peter Fitzgerald
Role: Independent non-executive 
director since October 2012 and a 
member of the Audit Committee.
Key strengths: Peter’s experience 
as a leading e-commerce executive 
is invaluable to Debenhams as we 
grow our multi-channel business. 
He is Country Sales Director for 
Google UK/Eire having worked for 
that business since 2007 and is also 
a member of the Digital High 
Streets Advisory Board. From 1999 
to 2007 Peter worked for Amazon 
both in Europe and the USA. 
Current external directorships:  
None.
Dennis Millard  
CA (SA), MBA
Role: Senior Independent 
Director since May 2010 following 
appointment as an independent 
non-executive director in May 
2006. Dennis is also chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee 
and a member of the Nomination 
and Audit Committees.
Key strengths: As chairman 
of another retail company, 
non-executive director of other 
UK public companies and with 
past experience as a finance 
director, Dennis brings relevant 
and broad experience to his 
role as Senior Independent 
Director and chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Current external directorships:  
Chairman of Halfords Group plc 
and Connect Group PLC (formerly 
Smiths News PLC), Deputy 
Chairman of Pets at Home Group 
plc and a non-executive director 
of Premier Farnell plc.
Stephen Ingham
Role: Independent non-executive 
director since January 2013 
and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Key strengths: Stephen has been 
Chief Executive Officer of Michael 
Page International plc since 2006 
having worked for that business 
since 1987 . His experience of 
building an international business 
at Michael Page supports 
our strategy to expand the 
Debenhams brand internationally.
Current external directorships:  
Chief Executive Officer of Michael 
Page International plc. Stephen 
is also a member of Great 
Ormond Street Hospital’s 
Corporate Partnership.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
42  Mark Rolfe FCA
Role: Independent non-executive 
director since October 2010. 
Mark is also chairman of the 
Audit Committee and a member 
of the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
Key strengths: Mark is a 
chartered accountant and has 
considerable financial and 
accounting experience including 
20 years spent with Gallaher 
Group plc in various finance 
and executive roles including 
that of Finance Director. He has 
also served as a non-executive 
director of Hornby plc and The 
Sage Group plc and as chairman 
of Lane Clark & Peacock LLP .
Current external directorships:  
Non-executive director of Barratt 
Developments plc. 
Sophie Turner Laing
Role: Independent non-executive 
director since August 2009 and 
a member of the Remuneration, 
Audit and Nomination Committees.
Key strengths: Sophie’s 
experience in management and 
media issues is invaluable to 
a consumer facing business such 
as Debenhams. Until September 
2013 she was Managing Director, 
Content at British Sky 
Broadcasting Group plc and a 
director of AETN UK and NGC 
Network International LLC. Prior to 
joining Sky in 2003, Sophie held 
senior roles at the BBC and was a 
founder of HIT Entertainment.
Current external directorships:  
Sophie is a trustee of BAFTA, The 
Media Trust and the National Film 
& TV School.
Committee membership
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Audit
Committee
Sustainability 
Committee
Nigel Northridge 
Michael Sharp 
Suzanne Harlow
Dennis Millard 
Peter Fitzgerald 
Stephen Ingham
Martina King 
Mark Rolfe
Sophie T urner Laing 
 Committee member  Committee chairman
Left to right: Mark Rolfe, Martina King, Suzanne Harlow, Dennis Millard, Michael Sharp, 
Nigel Northridge, Peter Fitzgerald, Sophie Turner Laing and Stephen Ingham.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
43  Executive Committee
Michael Sharp 
Chief Executive
Neil Kennedy 
Acting Chief 
Financial Officer
Suzanne Harlow
Group Trading 
Director
Ross Clemmow
E-Commerce 
Director
Richard Cristofoli
Marketing Director
Mike Goring
Retail Director
Peter Swann
Operations 
Director
Nikki Zamblera
HR Director
Financial reporting 
and management, 
tax, treasury and 
internal audit.
Design, buying, 
merchandising, 
distribution, 
sourcing and  
external business.
UK and 
International online 
sales and 
development. 
Product marketing, 
advertising, PR, 
visual and creative, 
customer strategy 
and insight.
UK and 
international  
store operations 
and store 
development.
Systems, supply 
chain and logistics.
Pay and reward, 
learning and 
development, 
recruitment, 
pensions  
and facilities.
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E R E P OR T
In accordance with the Listing Rules of 
the UK Listing Authority, the Company 
confirms that throughout the year ended 
30 August 2014 and as at the date of this 
Annual Report it was compliant with all the 
relevant provisions as set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 
2012) (“the Code”), copies of which can be 
downloaded from the Financial Reporting 
Council website (www.frc.org.uk).
Leadership
The board
The board is responsible for the long-term 
success of Debenhams by directing and 
supervising its affairs and is accountable 
to shareholders for the Group’s strategic 
aims, risk management and performance. 
No individual or small group of 
individuals dominates the board’s 
decision-making process. 
Biographical details of the board of 
directors are on pages 42 and 43. The 
board currently has nine members: the 
Chairman, two executive directors and six 
independent non-executive directors. 
The Chairman
The Chairman is responsible for the effective 
leadership, operation and governance of 
the board and its committees. He ensures 
that all directors contribute effectively in the 
development and implementation of the 
Company’s strategy whilst ensuring that 
the nature and extent of the significant 
risks the Company is willing to embrace 
in the implementation of its strategy are 
determined and challenged. The Chairman 
is also responsible for the induction of new 
directors and their continual development, 
acting on the results of board evaluations 
and succession planning. The Chairman 
holds regular meetings with the non-
executive directors without the executive 
directors being present. 
Nigel Northridge has been Chairman since 
April 2010 and is also the Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee.
The Chief Executive
The Chief Executive is responsible for the 
management of the Group’s business and 
for implementing the Group’s strategic 
aims. He also chairs the Executive 
Committee and ensures that it achieves 
the delegated objectives within the 
parameters set by the Company’s business 
policies. The roles and responsibilities of 
the Executive Committee are detailed 
below. The Chief Executive also chairs 
an annual strategy event to focus on the 
Group’s overall performance and the 
developments within each of the four 
pillars of the business strategy. 
Michael Sharp has been Chief Executive 
of Debenhams since September 2011.
The Chief Financial Officer
The Chief Financial Officer is responsible 
for the financial reporting and management 
of the Group. In addition to the finance, 
audit, tax and treasury teams, the role is 
also responsible for legal and secretariat 
and investor relations.
As announced on 28 July 2014, Matt Smith 
will join the board as Chief Financial Officer 
during 2015. Neil Kennedy has carried out 
the role of Acting Chief Financial Officer 
since 2 January 2014.
Group Trading Director
The Group Trading Director leads the 
buying and merchandising activities and 
is responsible for the development of the 
Debenhams product and brand strategy 
with the overriding objective of delivering 
a compelling customer proposition. The 
role is also responsible for the Group’s 
sourcing function.
Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors
Chief 
Executive
Group 
Trading 
Director
Senior 
Independent 
Director
Independent  
non-executive 
directors
Nigel Northridge Michael Sharp Suzanne Harlow Dennis Millard Peter Fitzgerald
Stephen Ingham
Martina King
Mark Rolfe
Sophie 
Turner Laing
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
44  Gender ratios as at 30 August 2014
 Male – 67% (6)
 Female – 33% (3)
Board
 Male – 75% (6)
 Female – 25% (2)
Executive Committee
 Male – 57% (78)
 Female – 43% (60)
Senior executives*
*Excluding non-executive directors.
 Male – 23% (5,563)
 Female– 77% (18,136)
All employees
Chief Executive’s responsibilities 
• Running the business
• Implementing the business strategy
• Regularly updating the board on 
progress against approved plans
• Ensuring the Executive Committee 
complies with all business policies, 
delegated authorities and regulations 
when conducting the objectives of 
the business
Chairman’s responsibilities 
• The effective running of the board 
ensuring the directors receive 
accurate and timely information 
to enable debate and high quality 
decision making
• Promoting high standards of 
corporate governance
• Ensuring the board agendas take 
full account of the important issues 
facing the Company and the 
concerns of all board members
• Ensuring, as Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee, that there 
are board succession plans in place  
in order to retain and build an 
effective and complementary board
Board experience 
The board has a wealth of relevant experience and expertise to govern and advise 
an international, multi-channel brand such as Debenhams.
Consumer and retail
Number of directors with consumer and retail experience: 9
Digital business
Number of directors with digital business experience: 5
International
Number of directors with international experience: 7
Marketing
Number of directors with marketing experience: 6
Significant financial expertise
Number of directors with significant financial expertise: 3
  
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
45  C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
Suzanne Harlow has been Group Trading 
Director of Debenhams since November 
2008 and was appointed to the board in 
December 2013.
Senior Independent Director
Any concerns that shareholders may have 
which are not appropriate for discussion 
through the normal channels of Chairman, 
Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer 
would be dealt with by this director. The 
Senior Independent Director serves as an 
intermediary for the other directors with 
the Chairman as necessary and acts as 
a sounding board for the Chairman as 
required. The role also has responsibility 
for leading the annual appraisal of the 
Chairman’s performance and this appraisal 
was conducted in October 2014.
Dennis Millard has been Senior 
Independent Director since May 2010 
and is also chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. 
Non-executive directors
As detailed in their biographies on pages 
42 and 43 our non-executive directors have 
a diverse range of skills, experience and 
backgrounds and provide constructive 
challenge within the boardroom. They are 
well informed about the Company and 
have a strong command of the issues 
relevant to the business. All the non-
executive directors are considered by the 
board to be independent and free from 
any relationship or circumstances that 
could affect their independent judgement. 
The table opposite details the length 
of service for each non-executive director.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary plays a leading 
role in the good governance of the Company 
by supporting the Chairman and helping 
the board and its committees to function 
efficiently. Together with the Chairman, 
the Company Secretary keeps under 
review the governance processes adopted 
by the Company to ensure they remain 
fit for purpose and considers any 
improvements that could strengthen the 
governance of the Company. All directors 
have access to the services of the Company 
Secretary and may take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s 
expense in conducting their duties. The 
Company Secretary acts as secretary to 
the board and each of its committees. 
Director Date of appointment
Length of service as a non-executive 
director at 30 August 2014
Nigel Northridge 1 January 2010 4 years 8 months
Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 8 years 4 months
Peter Fitzgerald 4 October 2012 1 year 11 months
Stephen Ingham 8 January 2013 1 year 8 months
Martina King 1 August 2009 5 years 1 month
Mark Rolfe 1 October 2010 3 years 11 months
Sophie Turner Laing 1 August 2009 5 years 1 month
Board activity throughout the year
September 2013
October 2013
December 2013
January 2014
February 2014
April 2014
June 2014
Visit to Danish 
operation Magasin 
du Nord
Presentation on  
systems
Met with 
shareholders at the 
Annual General 
Meeting
Pension scheme 
presentation
Annual strategy 
meeting
Approved interim 
results and resolved 
to pay interim 
dividend
Reviewed five 
year plan 
Presentation on 
the strategy and 
performance 
of Magasin
Approved full year 
results, report and 
accounts and 
recommended the  
final dividend
Presentation on 
the five priorities 
under the pillars 
of the strategy
Reviewed budget
Debated and 
approved the 
corporate risk map
Adopted diversity 
policy
Approved 
refinancing
Reviewed the 
annual performance 
evaluation of the 
board and its 
committees
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E R E P OR T C ON T I N U E D
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
46  The appointment or removal of the 
Company Secretary is a matter for the 
board as a whole. 
Paul Eardley has been Company Secretary 
since October 2007 .
Board diversity
Following the publication of Lord Davies’ 
report in February 2011, the Code was 
amended in 2012 to require listed companies 
to establish a policy concerning boardroom 
diversity. Our policy was formally adopted by 
the board in April 2014. It is the responsibility 
of the Nomination Committee to 
implement and monitor the achievement 
of the objectives set out in the policy and 
to review it annually. The most recent 
annual review was carried out in 
September 2014. Debenhams believes that 
diversity, in all its aspects, is important in 
order for a board to operate effectively. 
The main objectives under the policy are to 
ensure that the board is well balanced and 
appropriate for the needs of the business 
and that the board comprises directors 
who are sufficiently experienced and 
independent in character and judgement. 
In doing the above, the Company will also 
seek to maintain a composition of at least 
25% of women on the board. The charts 
on page 45 demonstrate the gender 
split at board level, within the Executive 
Committee and senior management 
and for the workforce as a whole.
Time commitment
All directors are aware of the need to 
allocate sufficient time to the Company in 
order to discharge their responsibilities 
effectively. The board monitors the extent 
of directors’ external interests and any 
conflicts on a continuing basis. The letters 
of appointment for non-executive directors 
set out the time commitment expected to 
be necessary to perform their duties. The 
time required by directors will fluctuate 
depending on the demands of the business 
and other events but the expected number 
of days required for each non-executive 
director is ten days per annum.
Induction and ongoing 
development
On appointment, a director is provided 
with an induction programme which is 
tailored to his or her experience of being a 
director of a listed company and based on 
his or her knowledge of the retail sector. 
The induction includes the provision of 
relevant current and historical information 
about the Company together with 
applicable business policies. Meetings 
are arranged with advisors and visits to 
operations around the Group are arranged. 
One-to-one meetings are also held with 
members of the Executive Committee and 
other senior executives of the business as 
appropriate. The Company Secretary 
assists in the induction of new directors 
and their ongoing development as 
required and also undertakes a review 
with new directors following induction 
to consider any new initiatives which 
would improve the induction process.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The Nomination Committee annually 
reviews and considers the interests and 
other external appointments held by the 
members of the board. All conflicts 
declared were approved at its meeting 
in September 2014. The directors have a 
continuing duty to inform the board of 
any potential conflicts immediately so that 
such conflicts may be considered and, if 
authorised, included within the register 
of conflicts. We recognise that non-
executive directors have other business 
interests outside of the Company and 
that other directorships bring significant 
benefits to the board. All existing 
directorships are detailed within the 
director biographies on pages 42 and 43. 
Non-executive directors are required to 
obtain the approval of the Chairman before 
accepting any further appointments. 
A register of “related parties” is also 
maintained by the Company Secretary.
Indemnification of directors
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions 
(as defined in section 234 of the Companies 
Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of the 
directors who held office during the year. 
The Company also provides directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance for its directors 
and other officers. 
Board meetings
The board held six scheduled meetings 
and two ad hoc meetings during 2014 
which were fully attended by all the board 
members except for one meeting which 
Dennis Millard was unable to attend due to 
a family bereavement. In addition to the 
directors, board meetings were attended 
by the members of the Executive 
Committee and the Company Secretary. 
Details of the principal items discussed at 
each meeting are shown on page 46.
The presentation of timely, high quality 
information to the board and its committees 
is essential to ensure that there is thorough 
consideration of the issues prior to and 
informed debate and challenge at board 
and committee meetings. All information 
is published in advance via a secure web 
portal. If directors are not able to attend 
meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, 
they review the papers for consideration at 
that meeting and relay any comments to 
the Chairman in advance of the meeting 
where possible, which are then passed 
on to the other directors. The Company 
Secretary ensures relevant information 
flows within the board, its committees 
and to senior management. Each board 
meeting covers presentations from the 
executive directors and from each of 
the other members of the Executive 
Committee. Presentations are also 
requested by the board on an ad hoc 
basis from the trading divisions and other 
business areas including investor relations, 
treasury, taxation, health and safety and 
human resources. In addition, the board 
receives regular updates on the key Group 
risks and ensures that the risk management 
framework and profile support the four 
pillared strategy. In accordance with the 
Code, the formal schedule of matters 
reserved for the board’s decision is 
reviewed annually, usually at the October 
board meeting.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
47  Board committees
The board committees are the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees. 
The terms of reference of each committee 
(which are reviewed annually) can be found 
on our website at http:/ /debenhamsplc.com. 
The members and the role of each 
committee are disclosed within each 
Committee report. In addition there is 
a sustainability committee which is a 
committee of the board and is chaired 
by Martina King. 
Performance evaluation
This year’s formal evaluation of the 
performance of the board, its committees, 
the individual directors and the Chairman 
was conducted by Lintstock Ltd, an 
external facilitator which has no other 
connection with Debenhams.
The first stage of the review involved 
Lintstock engaging with the Chairman 
and the Company Secretary to set the 
context of the evaluation and to tailor 
the questionnaires to the business’s 
current challenges and opportunities. 
All participants were then requested 
to complete an online questionnaire 
addressing the performance of the board 
and its committees. The anonymity of all 
participants was ensured in order to 
promote the open and frank exchange 
of views.
Investor relations calendar
September 2013
October 2013
November 2013
December 2013
February 2014
April 2014
May 2014
June 2014
Full year trading update Capital markets day:
“Increasing choice and availability 
through multi-channel”
US shareholder roadshow Annual General Meeting European shareholder roadshows First half results US shareholder roadshow Second half interim management 
statement
European shareholder roadshow Full year results
UK shareholder roadshow
First half interim management 
statement
UK shareholder roadshow European shareholder roadshows
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E R E P OR T C ON T I N U E D
The questionnaires addressed issues 
such as:
• Board composition and expertise
• Relationships between the board 
and management
• Board oversight
• Risk management
• Priorities for change
A 360° review of individual performance was 
also conducted which was provided in 
confidence to the Chairman. 
Lintstock’s report was discussed at the 
board meeting held on 16 October 2014. 
The review concluded that the level of 
interaction between the board and senior 
management is good and that the board’s 
ability to test and develop the Company’s 
strategy is highly rated. Several priorities 
for the future were identified. The 
importance of the board remaining 
focused on the key priorities and big 
issues was stressed.
Share capital and control
Information which the directors are 
required to disclose pursuant to section 
992 of the Companies Act 2006 can be 
found on page 79 of the directors’ report. 
Shareholder engagement
The board is responsible for ensuring that 
the Company maintains a satisfactory 
dialogue with shareholders. The Chairman 
and the Senior Independent Director are 
always available to major shareholders. 
Formal trading updates are given to the 
market on four occasions during the year. 
Following each of these announcements, 
conference calls are held with shareholders 
and analysts and after the full year and 
interim results a presentation is made to the 
shareholders and analysts. Analyst research 
is circulated to the board. A programme 
of meetings and conference calls is also 
organised at appropriate times during the 
year at which the Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer comment on Company 
performance and respond to any issues 
raised by investors. In addition, Debenhams 
arranges visits to its stores for analysts and 
shareholders and holds regular capital 
markets days dedicated to specific pillars 
of the business strategy.
The key elements of the Group’s investor 
relations calendar in 2014 are shown below. 
The major shareholders of the Company 
are listed on page 79 of the directors’ report.
The geographical analysis of shareholders 
is shown on page 49.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
48  Shareholders by geography
 England 58%
 USA 21%
 UAE 8%
 Singapore 5%
 Norway 3%
 Other 5%
September 2013
October 2013
November 2013
December 2013
February 2014
April 2014
May 2014
June 2014
Full year trading update Capital markets day:
“Increasing choice and availability 
through multi-channel”
US shareholder roadshow Annual General Meeting European shareholder roadshows First half results US shareholder roadshow Second half interim management 
statement
European shareholder roadshow Full year results
UK shareholder roadshow
First half interim management 
statement
UK shareholder roadshow European shareholder roadshows
December 2014 AGM –  
key highlights
• Full director attendance
• Between 720,482,084 and 726,430,430 
votes were cast for each resolution
• All directors retired and were elected/
re-elected to the board receiving 
at least 99.08% of votes cast in favour
• The remuneration report resolution  
was passed with 99.58% of votes cast 
in favour
Latest investor information 
You can find all our latest investor news 
and financial reports online, as well as 
our financial calendar and regulatory 
announcements. You can also monitor 
our share price and calculate the value 
of your shareholding.
Visit the investor relations section of our 
website at http://debenhamsplc.com
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
49  C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
NOM I N A T I ON C OM M I T T E E R E P OR T
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to set out the report of the 
Nomination Committee for the year to 
30 August 2014.
Responsibilities
The key responsibilities of the Committee are:
• Identifying and nominating, for the 
approval of the board, candidates to fill 
board vacancies as and when they arise 
together with leading the process for 
such appointments
• Putting in place plans for succession, in 
particular with respect to the Chairman, 
the Chief Executive and the Senior 
Independent Director
• Reviewing regularly the board structure, 
size and composition and making 
recommendations to the board 
of adjustments that are deemed 
necessary
• Annually reviewing the time required 
from and spent by a non-executive 
director in fulfilling his or her duties 
The full terms of reference of the Committee 
are available on the Company’s website 
and are reviewed annually by the Committee.
Activities during the year
The Committee held three meetings 
during the year at which the following 
matters were considered:
• Evaluated the balance of skills, experience, 
independence, diversity and knowledge 
on the board and recommended the 
appointment of Suzanne Harlow as an 
executive director of the Company, with 
effect from 11 December 2013
• Reviewed the non-executive directors’ 
time commitments and lengths of service 
and recommended to the board the 
re-appointment of Mark Rolfe for 
a further three year term with effect 
from 1 October 2013
• Carried out an annual review of the 
directors’ conflicts of interest register 
and the Committee’s terms of reference 
• Adopted a formal diversity policy
• Recommended the appointment of 
Matt Smith as Chief Financial Officer. 
The appointment was facilitated by 
external search firm, MWM Consulting, 
which has no connection to the 
Company. MWM worked with the 
Chairman to devise a long list of 
candidates and then a short list. 
Candidates met with members of the 
Committee and the Chief Executive 
after which the Committee was able 
to formulate its recommendation
Diversity of the board
Our goal is to ensure that the board is well 
balanced and appropriate for the needs 
of the business, comprising directors 
who are sufficiently experienced and 
independent of character and judgement. 
When recommending new directors to the 
board, the Nomination Committee has 
regard to the balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience and diversity of psychological 
type, background and gender. However, 
all board appointments will always be 
made on merit. Debenhams currently 
exceeds the 25% minimum target of 
women on boards as recommended by the 
Davies Report with women representing a 
third of its board. 
Committee evaluation
The annual evaluation of the Committee’s 
effectiveness was, in accordance with the 
Code, undertaken by Lintstock Ltd, an 
external facilitator, which has no other 
connection with Debenhams. It was 
concluded that the Committee uses its 
time effectively and the information 
provided to the Committee is clear 
and concise.
This year, when reviewing the re-election of 
directors at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting, the Committee took account of 
the fact that Dennis Millard will have served 
nine years in May 2015. The Committee 
believes that he continues to demonstrate 
the qualities of independence and 
judgement in carrying out his role and 
that his length of service and resulting 
experience and knowledge of the 
Company are of great benefit to the board. 
However, Dennis Millard has indicated that 
he is likely to step down from the board 
sometime during the 2015 financial year. 
The Nomination Committee is, in line with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
recommending that all the directors of 
the Company stand for re-election at the 
next Annual General Meeting along with 
Suzanne Harlow who will stand for election 
to the board having been appointed as a 
director during the year. 
Nigel Northridge
Chairman, Nomination Committee
Composition
The individuals who served on the Committee during the year under review are set out below:
Members
Date appointed 
Committee member 
Attendance at meetings
during the year
Nigel Northridge (Chairman) 1 April 2010 3/3
Martina King 1 May 2010 3/3
Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 3/3
Mark Rolfe 1 October 2010 3/3
Sophie Turner Laing 1 May 2010 3/3
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
50  A U D IT C O M M IT T E E R E PO R T
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to set out the report of 
the Audit Committee for the year to 
August 2014.
The Audit Committee’s report has 
been modified this year to reflect the 
responsibilities and reporting obligations 
of the Audit Committee as set out in 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(September 2012). This report sets out the 
significant issues that the Committee has 
considered and addressed in relation 
to the financial statements and outlines 
how we have assisted the board in making 
its statement on page 81, which confirms 
that Debenhams’ 2014 annual report 
and accounts is fair, balanced and 
understandable. 
In addition to the members of the 
Committee, the Chairman, the Chief 
Financial Officer, the Director of Internal 
Audit and Risk Management and senior 
representatives of the Company’s external 
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , 
attend and receive papers for each meeting. 
The Company Secretary is secretary 
to the Committee. After each meeting 
I report to the board on the matters 
discussed, on recommendations and 
on actions to be taken.
The Committee met with the Company’s 
auditors twice during the year without 
management being present and once 
with each of the Chief Financial Officer 
and the Director of Internal Audit and 
Risk Management without other 
management being present. 
Responsibilities
The role and responsibilities of the Audit 
Committee are set out in its terms of 
reference which are reviewed annually 
by the Committee, taking into account 
relevant legislation and recommended 
good practice. The terms of reference 
of the Committee are available on the 
Company’s website.
In accordance with the terms of reference, 
the Committee’s responsibilities include, 
but are not limited to, the following matters:
• To monitor the integrity of financial 
statements (including any related 
information presented with the 
financial statements) and any formal 
announcements relating to the 
Company’s financial performance
• To review any changes in accounting 
principles and consider the 
appropriateness of accounting 
policies adopted by the Company
• To review the internal audit programme 
and ensure that the internal audit 
function is properly resourced
• To agree with the external auditors 
the nature and scope of the audit 
and to review the output
• To review and monitor the effectiveness 
of the risk management and internal 
control systems within the business
• To consider the appointment of the 
external auditors and their independence 
and to make recommendations to the 
board in relation to their appointment, 
remuneration and terms of engagement
• To review the Company’s plans for the 
prevention and detection of fraud, 
bribery and corruption
• To provide advice to the board on 
whether the Company’s annual report, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy
Activities during the year
Governance
This year’s formal evaluation of the 
Committee was conducted by Lintstock 
Ltd, an external facilitator. The Committee 
considered the results of the review at its 
meeting in October 2014 and concluded 
that its composition is appropriate and that 
it is effective in reviewing and testing the 
work of the internal audit function and the 
external auditors. It was felt that the 
Committee makes good use of its time 
and  that it is effective at reviewing the 
quality of the Group’s financial reporting, 
at assessing the system of internal controls 
and at monitoring the management of risk. 
The Committee has identified its priorities 
for the coming year and these include 
supporting the incoming Chief Financial 
Officer and providing some oversight of 
information systems development.
Composition
The individuals who served on the Committee during the year under review are set out below:
Director
Date appointed 
Committee member
Attendance at meetings 
during the year
Mark Rolfe
(Committee chairman) 
1 October 2010
(appointed Committee 
Chairman 2 September 201 2) 3/3
Peter Fitzgerald 18 October 2012 3/3
Martina King 1 August 2009 3/3
Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 2/3*
Sophie Turner Laing 1 May 2010 3/3
*Dennis Millard was unable to attend the meeting in June 2014 due to a family bereavement.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
51  The Committee started planning the 
process for this year’s annual report 
and accounts early in the year. The early 
planning included a preliminary but 
detailed discussion on the likely significant 
issues, the establishment of a compliance 
committee and agreement of that 
committee’s terms of reference. The 
compliance committee, chaired by the 
Acting Chief Financial Officer, comprises 
representatives from the finance, investor 
relations, risk and secretarial functions. 
The compliance committee met on two 
occasions, carrying out a full review of the 
draft report and made some significant 
adjustments to it. The compliance 
committee also reviewed feedback from 
external parties on our prior year report 
and other external communications. It 
reported to the Audit Committee at its 
meeting in October 2014. In addition the 
Committee also received assurances from 
all members of the Executive Committee 
that they had reviewed the draft. The 
Committee assessed at its October 
meeting whether the annual report 
and accounts were fair, balanced and 
understandable and reviewed all the 
processes that had underpinned this 
assessment. The formal statement on the 
annual report and accounts is set out on 
page 81.
The Committee continually assesses the 
need for training and sessions are provided 
to its members by internal experts. During 
the year, training was provided on: revenue 
recognition; margin and stock valuation; 
property leases; and pensions accounting.
Financial reporting
The Committee reviewed the annual and 
interim financial statements during the 
year. It considered significant accounting 
policies, financial reporting issues and 
judgements together with the findings as 
set out in the reports from the external 
auditors. The Committee considered the 
clarity and completeness of the disclosures 
within the financial reports reviewed.
Internal audit
The Committee received updates from 
the Director of Internal Audit and Risk 
Management at each of its meetings during 
the year covering, amongst other matters, 
updates on the Group’s significant risks 
and internal financial controls, progress 
against the approved audit plan, the key 
findings from reviews undertaken and 
management’s implementation of 
its recommendations.
External audit 
The scope of the audit for 2014 was 
agreed together with the fees and terms 
of engagement. Details of the amounts 
paid to the external auditors for the audit 
services for 2014 are given in note 6 on 
page 106 of the financial statements. 
Effectiveness of internal audit
The effectiveness of the internal audit 
function was reviewed during the year 
using an external facilitator with input 
from the function’s key customers within 
the Group, in addition to the Committee, 
the Executive Committee and the 
Company Secretary. The questionnaire 
covered areas including internal audit’s 
understanding of the business, the Audit 
Committee’s expectations and the 
robustness of the audits.
The review concluded that the internal 
audit function has a strong understanding 
of its responsibilities, the business and 
its risks. It is firm in its challenges, liaises 
effectively with external audit and delivers 
efficiently executed audits. It demonstrates 
good technical knowledge, integrity, good 
judgement and a robust attitude.
Effectiveness of external audit
The Committee assessed the effectiveness 
of the external audit process using an 
external facilitator with input from the 
Committee, the Company Secretary, 
the Acting Chief Financial Officer, the 
Director of Finance and Support Services 
and the Director of Internal Audit and 
Risk Management. The questionnaires 
circulated focused on the quality of the 
audit team, their understanding of the 
business, the audit approach and their 
relationship with management.
The review concluded that the external 
auditors are effective, objective, 
understand the business and its risks and 
that communication with them is good. 
They are firm in their challenges to 
management where appropriate.
Significant issues
The Committee pays particular attention 
to matters it considers to be important 
by virtue of their impact on the Group’s 
results or the level of complexity, 
judgement or estimation involved in their 
application on the Group’s financial 
statements. The significant issues 
considered in relation to the Group’s 
financial statements for the year ended 
30 August 2014 are set out below together 
with a summary of the actions taken. In 
addition, the Committee and the external 
auditors have discussed the significant risks 
and the other risks described in the 
independent auditors’ report on pages 
85 to 87 .
Revenue recognition
As with most companies there is a risk 
that, in order to achieve the planned 
results, revenue may be recognised 
in contravention of the Group’s policy 
for revenue recognition.
Actions: In a retail business, the vast 
majority of sales are settled immediately 
and the process for allocating such 
revenue into individual accounting 
periods is straightforward and tightly 
controlled. Risks mostly arise around 
accounting adjustments applied to 
revenue and the recognition of credit 
sales, largely relating to international 
franchise operations. Here, controls are 
in place to monitor, reconcile and check 
balances, with clear authority limits in 
place. The Committee received a 
presentation from finance management 
during the course of the year setting out 
the accounting principles relating to 
revenue recognition and discussed the 
related audit procedures with the external 
auditors. The Committee also reviewed 
reports from both internal and external 
auditors in relation to their examination of 
controls in this area, the findings of which 
were satisfactory.
Inventory valuation
The Company uses the retail method in 
respect of valuation of inventory in the UK 
and Ireland which is reliant on a number of 
judgemental components, details of which 
are set out in note 5 to the financial 
statements on pages 104 and 105. 
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
A UD I T C O MM I T T E E R E P O R T C O N T I NUE D
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
52  The work of the annual report compliance 
committee supports the Audit Committee 
in assessing whether the annual report, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and that it complies with 
all legal and regulatory requirements.
Actions: The Committee received a 
presentation from financial management 
in the course of the year setting out the 
accounting principles relating to inventory 
valuation and discussed the related audit 
procedures with the external auditors. The 
Committee also reviewed reports from 
both internal and external auditors setting 
out inventory risk metrics and findings from 
the examination of controls in this area, 
which indicated that inventory was valued 
satisfactorily.
External auditor appointment
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) 
has served as the Company’s auditors 
since 2006. In accordance with auditing 
standards and to protect independence 
and objectivity, John Ellis was appointed 
as the audit partner on 1 September 2013. 
The Audit Committee is satisfied that PwC 
remains appropriately independent and 
is best placed to conduct the Company’s 
audit for 2015. The Committee therefore 
recommended PwC be re-appointed as 
the Company’s auditors. The Committee 
will keep under review the requirement to 
tender the external audit contract prior to 
the 2016 financial year.
External auditors’ independence
In order to ensure that an appropriate 
relationship is maintained with the external 
auditors, a policy on auditor independence 
has been established and is reviewed 
annually. This policy covers matters such 
as the auditors and their staff having no 
family, financial, employment, investment 
or business relationship with the Company, 
the employment by the Company of 
former audit employees, the rotation of 
audit partners and the controls around the 
provision of non-audit services. The Audit 
Committee makes recommendations to 
the board in respect of re-appointment 
annually for inclusion in the notice of 
Annual General Meeting. As regards the 
risk of the external auditors’ withdrawal 
from the market, the Company considers 
that there are sufficient other auditors in 
the marketplace should this situation arise.
The objective of the Audit Committee’s 
policy in relation to the provision of 
non-audit services by the auditors is to 
ensure that the provision of such services 
does not impair the external auditors’ 
independence or objectivity. All fees for 
non-audit work require pre-authorisation 
by either the Company Secretary, the Chief 
Financial Officer or the Audit Committee in 
circumstances where the fees are above an 
agreed threshold. An independent report 
is produced each quarter during the year 
detailing all non-audit work, its cost, when 
it was carried out and who instructed it. 
This information is reported to the Audit 
Committee at each meeting by the 
Company Secretary. 
The Company’s policy identifies three 
categories of accounting services. The 
first category is audit-related services which 
the auditors are permitted to provide. The 
second category is prohibited services 
which the auditors are not permitted to 
provide. Prohibited services are those 
which might result in the external auditors 
auditing their own work or making 
management decisions for the Company 
and those where some mutuality of interest 
is created or where the external auditors 
are put in the role of advocate for the 
Company. The third category is “potential” 
services which the auditors may, in certain 
circumstances, provide subject to 
compliance with the independence 
policy. These services include tax advisory 
services or services where the auditors 
are acting as the Company’s reporting 
accountant.
£0.2 million was paid by the Company to 
PwC for non-audit services which represents 
38% of the total audit fees paid to PwC, 
including £73,000 relating to the senior 
notes issue.
The audit fees paid by the pension schemes 
were £29,500.
Mark Rolfe
Chairman, Audit Committee
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
53  C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
D I RE C T O R S ’ RE M U N E R A T I O N RE P O R T
I N T R OD U C T I ON
During the year the Remuneration 
Committee undertook a review of the 
performance share plan to better align 
the performance measures used with 
our key strategic priorities.
D E N NI S M I L L A R D
Chairman,  
Remuneration Committee
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
54  Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee 
(“the Committee”), I am pleased to present 
our remuneration report for 2014. 
This is the first year that the new 
remuneration reporting regulations apply 
to Debenhams and, to reflect this, the 
Committee has restructured the 
remuneration report into two parts: 
• The policy report – This report will be 
put forward for a binding shareholder 
vote at the Annual General Meeting 
on 9 December 2014. The policy will 
be effective from this date
• The annual report on remuneration – 
This report will be subject to an advisory 
shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM
We hope that shareholders find the report’s 
new format useful and informative. 
Our performance in 2014
This year we have focused on the four 
strategic priorities that we outlined in 
our update to the market in April and 
the board believes we are making good 
progress towards achieving these goals. 
The retail marketplace, however, remains 
highly competitive and the profit before tax 
(“PBT”), like-for-like sales and gross margin 
targets set for the annual bonus were not 
achieved and therefore no bonus was paid 
to executive directors in respect of 2014.
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) awards 
granted during 2011 were based 75% on 
EPS growth and 25% on average ROCE 
relative to the cost of capital. The EPS 
element of the award has not triggered 
vesting. ROCE exceeded the cost of capital 
by 4.1%. Therefore, 22% of the awards will 
vest in November 2014. 
Board changes 
Suzanne Harlow, Group Trading Director, 
was appointed to the board on 
11 December 2013; she joined Debenhams 
in 1994 and has held the role of Group 
Trading Director since 2008. Simon Herrick 
left the Company on 7 February 2014. 
On 28 July 2014 the Company announced 
that Matt Smith will join the board as Chief 
Financial Officer upon the satisfaction 
of his contractual obligations at his 
current employer. 
Details of the remuneration arrangements 
pertaining to board changes are set out in 
the annual report on remuneration. 
Reward changes for 2015
The annual salary review date for the 
executive directors was previously 
September of each year. Going forward it 
will be 1 April in line with the new single 
annual review date for the rest of the 
management population. Any increase 
to salaries from 1 April 2015 will be 
disclosed in next year’s annual report on 
remuneration and may take into account 
the movement of the review date.
The Committee has decided to base 
the annual bonus for 2015 entirely on 
underlying PBT in order to simplify the 
plan and to ensure that executives are 
focused on increasing profit. 
During the year, the Committee reviewed 
the performance measures used for the 
PSP awards and, after consultation with 
our largest shareholders, the Committee 
has decided for the 2015 awards to retain 
ROCE, in the form of an underpin to the 
newly introduced financial measures that 
are linked to the business strategy.
The Committee has introduced strategic 
measures in order to align further the 
interests of senior management with our 
key strategic priorities as outlined by the 
Chief Executive at the interim results 
presentation in April 2014. The weighting of 
the measures for 2015 will be underlying 
EPS growth (70%) and strategic measures 
(30%). The strategic measures selected for 
awards to be granted in 2015 (outlined 
below) are equally weighted and financial 
in nature: 
• Group gross margin improvement 
• Online EBITDA growth rate
• UK gross transaction value growth
• International EBITDA growth rate
As mentioned above, the vesting of 
strategic measures will be subject to 
meeting a ROCE underpin (explained in 
more detail later in this report). Further 
details on the rationale for the selection of 
these measures and the EPS performance 
target for awards to be granted in respect 
of 2015 are provided in the annual report 
on remuneration. The financial targets for 
the strategic measures are considered by 
the board to be market sensitive. However, 
details of progress against targets during 
the vesting period will be provided and 
fully disclosed at the time of vesting. 
No changes have been made to the usual 
annual bonus or PSP levels. However, as 
part of Suzanne Harlow’s appointment to 
the board, she will be awarded a PSP award 
of 150% of base salary for 2015 as an 
incentive to drive performance and to 
recognise the increased scope of her role 
on appointment to the board. Suzanne’s 
ongoing remuneration package will consist 
of an annual bonus of 100% of base salary 
and a PSP award of 100% of base salary. 
As part of Matt Smith’s recruitment, he will 
be awarded a PSP award of 200% of base 
salary in 2015. The Committee determined  
that this level of award was appropriate 
to compensate him for awards forfeited on 
leaving his previous employer (no further 
“buyout” awards have been made) and to 
provide an additional incentive to drive the 
performance of the business in the initial 
period of his tenure. Matt’s ongoing 
remuneration package will consist of an 
annual bonus of 100% of base salary and 
a PSP award of 100% of base salary. 
The Committee continues to believe that 
executive remuneration arrangements are 
structured to support the delivery of our 
strategic priorities and no further changes 
are proposed at this time. We will continue 
to keep the structure of remuneration 
arrangements under review.
Dennis Millard
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
55  C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
D I RE C T O R S ’ RE M U N E R A T I O N RE P O R T
R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY
This remuneration report for the year ended 30 August 2014 
complies with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK 
Listing Authority, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 
(as amended) and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (September 2012). 
Link between remuneration and strategy 
Our executive remuneration policy has been designed to support 
our Group strategy: 
• Reward philosophy – Our reward philosophy is that 
remuneration arrangements should be set at a level that is 
considered by the Remuneration Committee to be sufficient to 
recruit and retain individuals of the calibre required to run the 
business without paying more than is necessary to do so. 
• Alignment with our business strategy – Remuneration structures 
are designed to support the business strategy with the majority 
of the remuneration package being linked to the delivery of 
performance, paid in a combination of cash and shares. 
Short-term and long-term performance measures have been 
 
Element 
Purpose and link 
to strategy 
 
Key features/operation
 
What is the maximum potential value?
 
Performance metrics 
Base salary • Supports the recruitment 
and retention of executive 
directors of the calibre 
required to fulfil the  
role without paying more 
than is considered 
necessary to do so
• Rewards executives for the 
performance of their role
• Paid in cash
• Normally reviewed annually with effect from 1 April but may be reviewed  
more or less frequently at the Committee’s discretion
• In determining base salaries, the Committee considers:
 – Pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity and other  
FTSE 350 retailers
 – External market conditions
 – Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group
 – The individual’s skills, knowledge and experience
• Whilst there is no defined maximum salary, any base salary increases 
will normally be in line with the increases awarded to other employees 
of the Group
• However, increases may be made outside of this policy in exceptional 
circumstances, such as:
 – Where a director is appointed on a salary that is at the lower end  
of the market practice range, larger increases may be awarded  
as the executive gains experience to move the salary closer to 
a more typical market level
 – Where there has been a change in the responsibility and 
accountability of the role
 – Where there has been a significant change in market practice
• Details of current salary levels are set out in the annual report 
on remuneration
None
Pension • Provides funds to allow 
executives to save 
for retirement
• Provides a market 
competitive  
retirement benefit
• Incentive and  
retention tool
• In determining pension arrangements, the Committee takes into account relevant 
market practice and practice throughout the Group
• Executive directors are generally provided a cash allowance in lieu of a pension 
provision or a contribution to a defined contribution pension scheme
• However, the Committee may determine that alternative pension provisions will 
operate for new appointments to the board if considered appropriate. If an 
alternative pension arrangement is provided, this will generally be of a similar level 
to current arrangements
• The Chief Executive is a deferred member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan 
and the Group Trading Director continues to be a deferred member in service of the 
Debenhams Executive Pension Plan
• The Chief Executive’s annual cash pension allowance is 20% 
of base salary
• The annual pension contribution for the Chief Financial Officer is 15% 
of base salary
• The Group Trading Director’s annual pension allowance increases 
based on her pensionable years’ service and age. The allowance 
is currently 17% of base salary increasing to 18% upon 20 years’ 
pensionable service and to 23% at age 50. The maximum annual 
allowance of 28% of base salary is payable from age 55
• The Chief Executive ceased to accrue benefits under the Debenhams 
Executive Pension Plan in 2006
• The Group Trading Director continues to be a deferred member in 
service of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan. The plan ceased 
for future service accruals in 2006
None
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
56  selected to be aligned with the delivery of our business 
strategy. Market conditions are also taken into consideration 
when setting pay. 
• Alignment with shareholders – Variable remuneration 
opportunity is generally delivered through the Company’s 
long-term share incentive plans and the cash annual bonus. 
The Committee operates a shareholding guideline policy for 
executive directors which aligns the interests of executives with 
our shareholders and demonstrates the executives’ ongoing 
commitment to the business.
Remuneration policy table for executive directors 
The table below sets out a summary of our remuneration policy for 
executive directors. This policy will be put forward for shareholder 
approval at the AGM on 9 December 2014 and will take effect 
from that date. 
Further information regarding the implementation of the policy 
for 2015 can be found in the annual report on remuneration 
commencing on page 69.
 
Element 
Purpose and link 
to strategy 
 
Key features/operation
 
What is the maximum potential value?
 
Performance metrics 
Base salary • Supports the recruitment 
and retention of executive 
directors of the calibre 
required to fulfil the  
role without paying more 
than is considered 
necessary to do so
• Rewards executives for the 
performance of their role
• Paid in cash
• Normally reviewed annually with effect from 1 April but may be reviewed  
more or less frequently at the Committee’s discretion
• In determining base salaries, the Committee considers:
 – Pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity and other  
FTSE 350 retailers
 – External market conditions
 – Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group
 – The individual’s skills, knowledge and experience
• Whilst there is no defined maximum salary, any base salary increases 
will normally be in line with the increases awarded to other employees 
of the Group
• However, increases may be made outside of this policy in exceptional 
circumstances, such as:
 – Where a director is appointed on a salary that is at the lower end  
of the market practice range, larger increases may be awarded  
as the executive gains experience to move the salary closer to 
a more typical market level
 – Where there has been a change in the responsibility and 
accountability of the role
 – Where there has been a significant change in market practice
• Details of current salary levels are set out in the annual report 
on remuneration
None
Pension • Provides funds to allow 
executives to save 
for retirement
• Provides a market 
competitive  
retirement benefit
• Incentive and  
retention tool
• In determining pension arrangements, the Committee takes into account relevant 
market practice and practice throughout the Group
• Executive directors are generally provided a cash allowance in lieu of a pension 
provision or a contribution to a defined contribution pension scheme
• However, the Committee may determine that alternative pension provisions will 
operate for new appointments to the board if considered appropriate. If an 
alternative pension arrangement is provided, this will generally be of a similar level 
to current arrangements
• The Chief Executive is a deferred member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan 
and the Group Trading Director continues to be a deferred member in service of the 
Debenhams Executive Pension Plan
• The Chief Executive’s annual cash pension allowance is 20% 
of base salary
• The annual pension contribution for the Chief Financial Officer is 15% 
of base salary
• The Group Trading Director’s annual pension allowance increases 
based on her pensionable years’ service and age. The allowance 
is currently 17% of base salary increasing to 18% upon 20 years’ 
pensionable service and to 23% at age 50. The maximum annual 
allowance of 28% of base salary is payable from age 55
• The Chief Executive ceased to accrue benefits under the Debenhams 
Executive Pension Plan in 2006
• The Group Trading Director continues to be a deferred member in 
service of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan. The plan ceased 
for future service accruals in 2006
None
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
57   
Element 
Purpose and link 
to strategy 
 
Key features/operation
 
What is the maximum potential value?
 
Performance metrics 
Benefits • To provide a  
market-competitive  
level of benefits for 
executive directors
• Executive directors have a benefits allowance which can be used to fund  
a range of benefits. The wider management population also receive a cash 
benefits allowance
• Executive directors may participate in any all-employee share plans which may 
be operated by the Company on the same terms as other employees
• Executive directors receive life assurance and an annual health assessment. 
The Chief Executive also receives a financial planning allowance, travel allowance 
and a fuel allowance
• Executive directors may also buy or sell a week’s holiday with the approval of 
the Committee
• Executive directors are eligible to receive a staff discount in line with other  
senior executives
• The Committee may determine that executive directors should receive additional 
reasonable benefits if appropriate, taking into account typical market practice
• Executive directors may be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses and the 
Company may settle the tax incurred in relation to these
• Where an executive director is required to relocate to perform their role, they 
may be provided with reasonable benefits as determined by the Committee 
in connection with this relocation (on either a one-off or ongoing basis), including 
any expatriate benefits such as housing, travel or education allowances
• The overall value of benefits will depend on the individual’s 
circumstances and the cost of providing them by the Company and 
therefore there is no maximum. However, the executive directors’ 
participation in any all-employee share plans will be in line with 
relevant statutory limits
• It is the Committee’s policy to provide benefits at a market 
competitive level taking into account local market practice 
in the location in which the executive director operates
None
Annual bonus • Rewards and incentivises 
the achievement of  
annual objectives which 
are aligned with key 
financial and strategic 
goals and supports 
the enhancement 
of shareholder value
• Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, bonuses are paid in cash 
following the year end
• Bonuses are not pensionable
• Malus provisions apply (see page 62 for further information)
• Bonuses are based on annual performance targets
• The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the bonus award if it does not 
consider that it reflects underlying Company performance but may not exceed 
the maximum policy limit
• Maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary
• The bonus starts accruing from threshold levels  
of performance
• The Committee determines appropriate performance 
metrics to support the annual business strategy, external 
expectations and the enhancement of shareholder value 
on an annual basis
• Typically, 100% of the bonus will be based on financial 
performance targets. However, the Committee retains 
the discretion to alter the performance measures for 
future bonuses if deemed appropriate including the 
introduction of non-financial measures. In such cases 
at least 80% of the bonus will be based on financial 
performance targets
• For 2015 the bonus is based 100% on underlying PBT
• Further information in relation to the performance 
measures for 2015 is set out in the annual report 
on remuneration
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY C O N T I N U ED
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
58   
Element 
Purpose and link 
to strategy 
 
Key features/operation
 
What is the maximum potential value?
 
Performance metrics 
Benefits • To provide a  
market-competitive  
level of benefits for 
executive directors
• Executive directors have a benefits allowance which can be used to fund  
a range of benefits. The wider management population also receive a cash 
benefits allowance
• Executive directors may participate in any all-employee share plans which may 
be operated by the Company on the same terms as other employees
• Executive directors receive life assurance and an annual health assessment. 
The Chief Executive also receives a financial planning allowance, travel allowance 
and a fuel allowance
• Executive directors may also buy or sell a week’s holiday with the approval of 
the Committee
• Executive directors are eligible to receive a staff discount in line with other  
senior executives
• The Committee may determine that executive directors should receive additional 
reasonable benefits if appropriate, taking into account typical market practice
• Executive directors may be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses and the 
Company may settle the tax incurred in relation to these
• Where an executive director is required to relocate to perform their role, they 
may be provided with reasonable benefits as determined by the Committee 
in connection with this relocation (on either a one-off or ongoing basis), including 
any expatriate benefits such as housing, travel or education allowances
• The overall value of benefits will depend on the individual’s 
circumstances and the cost of providing them by the Company and 
therefore there is no maximum. However, the executive directors’ 
participation in any all-employee share plans will be in line with 
relevant statutory limits
• It is the Committee’s policy to provide benefits at a market 
competitive level taking into account local market practice 
in the location in which the executive director operates
None
Annual bonus • Rewards and incentivises 
the achievement of  
annual objectives which 
are aligned with key 
financial and strategic 
goals and supports 
the enhancement 
of shareholder value
• Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, bonuses are paid in cash 
following the year end
• Bonuses are not pensionable
• Malus provisions apply (see page 62 for further information)
• Bonuses are based on annual performance targets
• The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the bonus award if it does not 
consider that it reflects underlying Company performance but may not exceed 
the maximum policy limit
• Maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary
• The bonus starts accruing from threshold levels  
of performance
• The Committee determines appropriate performance 
metrics to support the annual business strategy, external 
expectations and the enhancement of shareholder value 
on an annual basis
• Typically, 100% of the bonus will be based on financial 
performance targets. However, the Committee retains 
the discretion to alter the performance measures for 
future bonuses if deemed appropriate including the 
introduction of non-financial measures. In such cases 
at least 80% of the bonus will be based on financial 
performance targets
• For 2015 the bonus is based 100% on underlying PBT
• Further information in relation to the performance 
measures for 2015 is set out in the annual report 
on remuneration
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
59  C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY C O N T I N U ED
 
Element 
Purpose and link 
to strategy 
 
Key features/operation
 
What is the maximum potential value?
 
Performance metrics 
Performance 
Share Plan 
(“PSP”) 
• Incentivises executives  
to achieve Debenhams’ 
long-term strategy  
and create sustainable 
shareholder value
• Aligns with shareholder 
interests through the 
delivery of shares
• Acts as a retention tool
• Awards normally vest based on performance assessed over a period not shorter 
than three years
• Awards may only vest to the extent the Committee is satisfied that the underlying 
financial performance of the Company over the relevant performance period 
justifies vesting. The Committee may also decrease the final vesting level if it does  
not consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the Company
• Awards can be in the form of free shares or 0.01 pence options. Where awards are  
in the form of 0.01 pence options, participants may have up to six months from 
vesting to exercise awards
• Malus provisions apply (see page 62 for further information)
• Awards may incorporate the right to receive (in cash or shares) the value of the 
dividends that would have been paid on the shares that vest. However, it is not 
the current intention of the Committee that dividend equivalents will be paid 
on shares that vest
• The maximum value of shares over which an individual can be granted 
an award in any one financial year of the Company is normally 200% 
of base salary, although this limit may be increased to 250% of base 
salary in exceptional circumstances. The Committee will, however, 
take into consideration awards made under other plans when 
granting awards under the plan
• Typically 25% of awards vest for threshold levels of performance
• For details of award levels for 2015 see the annual report 
on remuneration
• Awards granted in 2015 will vest subject to a combination 
of underlying EPS and strategic performance measures 
(all of which are financial in nature). The vesting of the 
strategic measures will also be subject to meeting a 
ROCE underpin.
• The Committee retains the discretion to alter the 
performance measures for future awards if it deems 
appropriate. However, the Committee will endeavour 
to consult with the Company’s largest shareholders prior 
to doing so, other than for minor changes
• Strategic measures will account for no more than 30% 
of future awards
• The Committee sets performance targets each year, 
taking into account the business plan, external 
expectations and market practice
• For further information in relation to the performance 
measures, weightings and targets for awards to be granted 
in 2015 see the annual report on remuneration
Executive directors also have a shareholding guideline. 
Further details are provided on page 70 of the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
The table below sets out details of other plans that the Company 
has in place. It is not currently intended that these plans will be 
operated during 2015. However, the Committee retains the 
discretion to operate these plans in exceptional circumstances or 
in future years if it considers it to be appropriate and in the best 
interests of shareholders. Any use of these plans upon recruitment 
of an executive would be within the variable pay limit (excluding 
buyout awards) referred to in the “Recruitment remuneration 
arrangements” section of this report.
 
Element 
Purpose and link to 
remuneration policy 
 
Key features/operation
 
What is the maximum potential value?
 
Performance metrics 
Deferred Bonus 
Matching Plan 
(“DBMP”)
• Incentivises executives 
to achieve Debenhams’ 
long-term strategy and 
create sustainable 
shareholder value
• Aligns executives’ 
interests with shareholders 
through the investment  
of their cash bonus  
into shares
• The Committee can invite participants to invest up to 100% of their net annual 
bonus. The net bonus is used to purchase market shares which are then 
designated “invested shares”
• If the participant remains in employment and retains the invested shares for three 
years, they may receive a matching award of up to the gross amount of the bonus 
deferred subject to performance conditions being met over a period of no less 
than three years
• Matching awards can be in the form of free shares or 0.01 pence options. Where 
awards are in the form of 0.01 pence options, participants have up to six months 
from vesting to exercise awards
• The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the final vesting level if it does not 
consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the Company
• Maximum matching awards may be made up to the equivalent 
of 100% of the executive’s net bonus
• T ypically 25% of the matching award vests for threshold levels 
of performance
• If this plan were operated, appropriate performance 
conditions would be determined by the Committee 
at the time of award and disclosed in the annual report 
on remuneration for that year
Executive  
Share Option  
Plan (“ESOP”)
• Incentivises executives 
to achieve Debenhams’ 
long-term strategy and 
create sustainable 
shareholder value
• Awards would take the form of market value options over ordinary shares in 
the Company
• Awards would be subject to performance assessed over a period of no less than 
three years
• The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the final vesting level if it does not 
consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the Company
• Awards may be exercised once vested for up to ten years following the date of grant
• Options can be granted in the form of unapproved options or HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) approved options (up to the lower of the limit of this policy or the 
prescribed HMRC limit at the date of grant)
• The maximum award that can be made under the plan is 100% of 
base salary (face value of options based on the share price at the date 
of grant). The Committee will take into consideration awards made 
under the PSP when granting awards under the plan
• Awards may be made above this level in exceptional circumstances
• Typically 25% of award vests for target levels of performance
• If this plan were operated, appropriate performance 
conditions would be determined by the Committee at 
the time of award and disclosed in the annual report on 
remuneration for that year
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
60   
Element 
Purpose and link 
to strategy 
 
Key features/operation
 
What is the maximum potential value?
 
Performance metrics 
Performance 
Share Plan 
(“PSP”) 
• Incentivises executives  
to achieve Debenhams’ 
long-term strategy  
and create sustainable 
shareholder value
• Aligns with shareholder 
interests through the 
delivery of shares
• Acts as a retention tool
• Awards normally vest based on performance assessed over a period not shorter 
than three years
• Awards may only vest to the extent the Committee is satisfied that the underlying 
financial performance of the Company over the relevant performance period 
justifies vesting. The Committee may also decrease the final vesting level if it does  
not consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the Company
• Awards can be in the form of free shares or 0.01 pence options. Where awards are  
in the form of 0.01 pence options, participants may have up to six months from 
vesting to exercise awards
• Malus provisions apply (see page 62 for further information)
• Awards may incorporate the right to receive (in cash or shares) the value of the 
dividends that would have been paid on the shares that vest. However, it is not 
the current intention of the Committee that dividend equivalents will be paid 
on shares that vest
• The maximum value of shares over which an individual can be granted 
an award in any one financial year of the Company is normally 200% 
of base salary, although this limit may be increased to 250% of base 
salary in exceptional circumstances. The Committee will, however, 
take into consideration awards made under other plans when 
granting awards under the plan
• Typically 25% of awards vest for threshold levels of performance
• For details of award levels for 2015 see the annual report 
on remuneration
• Awards granted in 2015 will vest subject to a combination 
of underlying EPS and strategic performance measures 
(all of which are financial in nature). The vesting of the 
strategic measures will also be subject to meeting a 
ROCE underpin.
• The Committee retains the discretion to alter the 
performance measures for future awards if it deems 
appropriate. However, the Committee will endeavour 
to consult with the Company’s largest shareholders prior 
to doing so, other than for minor changes
• Strategic measures will account for no more than 30% 
of future awards
• The Committee sets performance targets each year, 
taking into account the business plan, external 
expectations and market practice
• For further information in relation to the performance 
measures, weightings and targets for awards to be granted 
in 2015 see the annual report on remuneration
 
Element 
Purpose and link to 
remuneration policy 
 
Key features/operation
 
What is the maximum potential value?
 
Performance metrics 
Deferred Bonus 
Matching Plan 
(“DBMP”)
• Incentivises executives 
to achieve Debenhams’ 
long-term strategy and 
create sustainable 
shareholder value
• Aligns executives’ 
interests with shareholders 
through the investment  
of their cash bonus  
into shares
• The Committee can invite participants to invest up to 100% of their net annual 
bonus. The net bonus is used to purchase market shares which are then 
designated “invested shares”
• If the participant remains in employment and retains the invested shares for three 
years, they may receive a matching award of up to the gross amount of the bonus 
deferred subject to performance conditions being met over a period of no less 
than three years
• Matching awards can be in the form of free shares or 0.01 pence options. Where 
awards are in the form of 0.01 pence options, participants have up to six months 
from vesting to exercise awards
• The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the final vesting level if it does not 
consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the Company
• Maximum matching awards may be made up to the equivalent 
of 100% of the executive’s net bonus
• T ypically 25% of the matching award vests for threshold levels 
of performance
• If this plan were operated, appropriate performance 
conditions would be determined by the Committee 
at the time of award and disclosed in the annual report 
on remuneration for that year
Executive  
Share Option  
Plan (“ESOP”)
• Incentivises executives 
to achieve Debenhams’ 
long-term strategy and 
create sustainable 
shareholder value
• Awards would take the form of market value options over ordinary shares in 
the Company
• Awards would be subject to performance assessed over a period of no less than 
three years
• The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the final vesting level if it does not 
consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the Company
• Awards may be exercised once vested for up to ten years following the date of grant
• Options can be granted in the form of unapproved options or HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) approved options (up to the lower of the limit of this policy or the 
prescribed HMRC limit at the date of grant)
• The maximum award that can be made under the plan is 100% of 
base salary (face value of options based on the share price at the date 
of grant). The Committee will take into consideration awards made 
under the PSP when granting awards under the plan
• Awards may be made above this level in exceptional circumstances
• Typically 25% of award vests for target levels of performance
• If this plan were operated, appropriate performance 
conditions would be determined by the Committee at 
the time of award and disclosed in the annual report on 
remuneration for that year
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
61  Notes to the policy table 
Malus
• Bonus – The Committee reserves the right to scale back bonuses if there has been a material misstatement of the Group’s audited 
financial results during a prior year. 
• Performance Share Plan – For awards granted in 2014 onwards, the Committee reserves the right to reduce, cancel and/or impose 
further conditions on some or all unvested awards under the PSP in circumstances in which the Committee considers such action is 
appropriate. Such circumstances include, but are not limited to, a material misstatement of the Group’s audited results. 
• Malus provisions do not currently apply to awards under the other long-term incentive plans. However, the Committee retains the 
discretion to introduce such provisions if it considers it appropriate.
The Company’s incentive arrangements do not currently have clawback. The Committee is aware of the provisions of the 2014 UK 
Corporate Governance Code which require clawback provisions to be in place for variable elements of pay with effect from no later than 
the Company’s 2016 financial year. The Committee will consider introducing clawback provisions when a new PSP is implemented in 2016.
Annual bonus performance measures
• The Committee sets annual bonus performance targets annually based on the measures that it feels are the most appropriate for 
the business. Annual bonus targets are set with reference to internal forecasts and market consensus. Information in relation to the 
performance measures used for 2015 has been set out in the annual report on remuneration. 
• The Committee considers that the annual bonus targets for 2015 are market sensitive and have therefore not been disclosed in this 
report. Details of performance against targets and any resulting annual bonus payout will be included in next year’s annual report 
on remuneration. 
Performance Share Plan performance measures 
• For 2015 awards, the Committee has chosen to use a combination of underlying EPS (70%) and strategic measures (30%). The vesting 
of the strategic measures will also be subject to meeting a ROCE underpin. The Committee may use different measures or a different 
balance of measures in future years if it considers that it is appropriate to do so.
• In light of the ongoing challenges in the UK retail sector and our evolving business strategy, the Committee decided that it was 
appropriate to amend the performance measures attached to 2015 PSP awards to ensure that they were fully aligned with this 
strategy and to incentivise management to deliver long-term sustainable value for our shareholders. At the 2014 interim results, 
Chief Executive Michael Sharp set out our strategic priorities in support of the four pillars of our strategy. The financial strategic 
objectives for the PSP have been selected to support these priorities directly. 
• Details of the specific measures, weightings and targets applying to the PSP awards to be made in 2015 are disclosed in the 
annual report on remuneration. 
• Threshold vesting for PSP awards made prior to 2015 is 30%.
Difference from the remuneration policy for all employees
• Debenhams employs a large number of people in a variety of roles across a range of geographies. Our reward framework for the 
business is altered as necessary to suit the needs of the business for different employee groups. Reward packages therefore differ, 
taking into account a number of appropriate factors including seniority, impact on the business and local practice, custom 
and legislation.
Other information supporting the policy table 
• The Committee may amend the terms of awards or the rules of share plans within the scope defined in the rules of the plans.
• For share awards, in the event of a variation of the Company’s share capital or a demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue 
or other event which may, in the Committee’s opinion, affect the current or future value of awards, the number of awards and the 
exercise price applicable to those awards may be adjusted. 
• The Committee may amend the conditions applicable to share awards if it considers that the amended conditions are a fairer 
measure of performance and at least as challenging as the original conditions.
• The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office (including exercising any 
discretions available to it in connection with such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out in this 
report where the terms of the payment were agreed (i) before the policy came into effect or (ii) at a time when the relevant individual 
was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual 
becoming a director of the Company. For these purposes “payments” includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable 
remuneration and an award over shares is “agreed” at the time the award is granted.
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY C O N T I N U ED
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
62  Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios
The charts below set out an illustration of the remuneration policy for 2015. The charts provide an illustration of the proportion of total 
remuneration made up of each component of the remuneration policy and the value of each component.
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each executive director:
Below threshold performance • Fixed remuneration
• No annual bonus payout
• No vesting under the PSP
Mid-range performance • Fixed remuneration
• 50% annual bonus payout
• 50% vesting under the PSP
Maximum performance • Fixed remuneration
• 100% annual bonus payout
• 100% vesting under the PSP
Fixed pay currently comprises the following elements:
Current base 
salary Benefits Pension Total
Chief Executive – Michael Sharp £615,000 £34,999 £123,000 £772,999
Chief Financial Officer – Matt Smith (not employed during 2014) £400,000 £18,375 £60,000 £478,375
Group Trading Director – Suzanne Harlow £400,000 £22,195 £68,000 £490,195
• Base salary is the base salary in place at 1 September 2014. Salary levels may be subject to changes following the annual base salary 
review in early 2015. Any changes will be effective from 1 April 2015. The salary for the Chief Financial Officer will apply from the point 
he joins the Company.
• The benefits figure for the Chief Executive is based on the amount received during 2014 as per the single figure. This reflects his 
annual benefits allowance and the taxable value of other benefits provided during the year. For the Chief Financial Officer and Group 
Trading Director the benefits number is the value of their respective annual benefits allowances. For 2014, the Chief Financial Officer 
was not a member of the board and so did not receive any benefits. The Group Trading Director was only a member of the board for 
part of the year. 
• Pension is based on the cash contribution of 20% of base salary for the Chief Executive, 15% of base salary for the Chief Financial 
Officer and 17% for the Group Trading Director.
• Bonus is based on the ongoing annual policy maximum of 100% of base salary for all executive directors.
• PSP is based on the ongoing usual annual policy maximum of 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% of salary for 
other executive directors. During 2015 the Chief Financial Officer and Group Trading Director will receive higher one-off awards. 
This is not reflected in the chart.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
63  The scenarios below do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends. 
Chief Executive
 Fixed
Maximum performance
Mid-range performance
Below target performance
0 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m 2.0m 2.5m
 Short-term incentives (annual bonus) Long-term incentives (PSP)
33% 27% 40% £2.31m
50% 20% 30% £1.54m
100% £0.77m
  
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
 Fixed
Maximum performance
Mid-range performance
Below target performance
0 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m
 Short-term incentives (annual bonus) Long-term incentives (PSP)
38% 31% 31% £1.28m
54% 23% 23% £0.88m
100% £0.48m
0.5m 1.0m 1.5m
 £1.29m
 Fixed
Maximum performance
Mid-range performance
Below target performance
0
 Short-term incentives (annual bonus) Long-term incentives (PSP)
38% 31% 31%
55% 22.5% 22.5% £0.89m
100% £0.49m
Group Trading Director
Recruitment remuneration arrangements 
When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed executive director, the Committee would seek to apply the 
following principles: 
• The package should be market competitive to facilitate the recruitment of individuals of sufficient calibre to lead the business. At the 
same time, the Committee would intend to pay no more than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent. 
• The structure of the ongoing remuneration package would normally include some or all of the components set out in the policy table 
for executive directors.
• In addition, the Committee has discretion to include any other remuneration component or award which it feels is appropriate taking 
into account the specific circumstances of the recruitment, subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out below. The key terms 
and rationale for any such component would be disclosed as appropriate in that year’s annual report on remuneration.
• Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay opportunities or contractual rights at a previous employer as a result of 
appointment, the Committee may offer compensatory payments or awards, in such form as the Committee considers appropriate 
taking into account all relevant factors including the form of awards, expected value and vesting timeframe of forfeited opportunities. 
When determining any such “buyout” , the guiding principle would be that awards would generally be on a “like-for-like” basis unless 
this is considered by the Committee not to be practical or appropriate.
• The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded (excluding any “buyout” awards referred to above) in respect 
of recruitment is 350% of salary, which is in line with the current maximum limit under the annual bonus and PSP . Where awards are 
made under the ESOP , the value of the award that counts towards this maximum will be calculated on an expected value rather than 
a face value basis.
• Where an executive director is required to relocate from their home location to take up their role, the Committee may provide 
assistance with relocation (either via one-off or ongoing payments or benefits).
• In the event that an internal candidate is promoted to the board, legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including 
pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards. 
To facilitate any buyout awards outlined above, in the event of recruitment the Committee may grant awards to a new executive director 
relying on the exemption in the Listing Rules which allows for the grant of awards, to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment 
of an executive director, without seeking prior shareholder approval or under any other appropriate Company incentive plan.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed non-executive director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the 
policy table for non-executive directors. 
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY C O N T I N U ED
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
64  Executive director service contracts
Notice period
 
Expiry date
• 12 months’ notice by the Company or by the executive director
• Michael Sharp entered into his current service agreement with the Company  
on 3 May 2006
• Matt Smith entered into a service agreement with the Company on 25 July 2014
• Suzanne Harlow entered into her current service agreement with the Company  
on 11 December 2013
• All are rolling contracts with no expiry date
Termination payments
• Payments in lieu of notice will be based on base salary, contractual benefits and any 
accrued but untaken holiday
• Payments in lieu of notice for Michael Sharp and Suzanne Harlow will be paid as a lump 
sum following termination. However, the Committee would seek to apply mitigation in 
respect of the period and amount where appropriate
• Payments in lieu of notice for Matt Smith may, at the Committee’s discretion, be paid 
as a lump sum or in equal monthly instalments which would be subject to mitigation
• Legal fees and outplacement services may also be provided for executive directors 
leaving the business
The service agreements are available to shareholders to view on request from the Company Secretary at the Company’s registered office.
Arrangements for directors leaving Debenhams 
Details of the arrangements in relation to fixed remuneration are set out in the section above. 
Annual bonus 
There is no automatic entitlement to an annual bonus in the year in which the executive director leaves the Group. The Committee 
may determine that an executive director is eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the year of cessation dependent upon the 
circumstances of the executive director’s departure and individual performance. Any such payment would normally continue to 
be subject to performance and pro-rated to take account of the time served during the year. 
Long-term incentives 
The treatment of leavers under our long-term incentive plans is determined by the rules of the relevant plans. 
• 2006 Performance Share Plan – If an individual ceases to be employed by a member of the Group or gives or is given notice 
terminating their employment before the end of the performance period, a participant’s award will usually lapse, unless the 
Committee determines that it will vest, having regard to the performance of the Company and the length of time which has elapsed 
since the date of grant. The Committee may determine that the award will vest at the time of cessation of employment or at the 
“normal” vesting date. The number of shares over which an award may vest will be time pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the 
vesting period that has elapsed on cessation of employment. In the case of nil cost options, the Committee will determine the period 
during which the participant may exercise his or her options.
• 2006 Executive Share Option Plan – If an individual ceases to be employed by a member of the Group, options will lapse unless 
the option holder leaves in “good leaver” circumstances, namely in respect of tax approved options: injury or disability, retirement, 
the sale of their employing entity out of the Group, redundancy or any other reason that the Committee decides and in respect 
of unapproved options, in such circumstances as the Committee may determine. If these “good leaver” circumstances apply, the 
options will be exercisable for a period of six months from the date of cessation, or such other period as the Committee determines. 
Where options become exercisable as a result of the individual’s cessation of employment, the extent to which the options will be 
exercisable will be subject to the performance conditions applicable to the options and will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion 
of the vesting period that has elapsed on cessation of employment. If a participant dies, their representatives shall have 12 months 
from death to exercise their options in full.
• 2006 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan – In the event of cessation of employment with a member of the Group, matching awards 
will usually lapse. However, the Committee may determine that a matching award will vest at the normal time, to the extent that the 
performance conditions have been met and on a time pro-rated basis to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed 
at the time of cessation. In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may determine that matching awards may be released before 
the end of the original performance period to the extent determined by the Committee, having regard to the time pro-rating formula 
described above. In these circumstances, invested shares are released from the plan at the time the related matching award vests. 
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
65  Takeover or merger of the Company
2006 Performance Share Plan – In the event of a takeover or merger of the Company, outstanding PSP awards will vest to the extent 
that performance conditions are satisfied. Where awards vest in these circumstances, they may be pro-rated (on a monthly basis) to 
reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed, unless the Committee determines that a different proportion of the 
award should vest, taking into account Company performance and such other factors as it considers relevant. 
Upon agreement with the acquiring company, the participant may choose to roll over their awards into awards in the acquiring company. 
2006 Executive Share Option Plan – In the event of a change of control of the Company, outstanding ESOP awards will generally 
become exercisable to the extent that performance conditions have been satisfied and the number of shares subject to the options 
will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed (to the nearest whole month) unless the Committee 
determines that a higher proportion of the options should vest. 
Upon agreement with the acquiring company, the participant may choose to roll over their options into options in the acquiring company. 
2006 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan – In the event of a takeover or voluntary winding up of the Company, matching awards will vest 
to the extent that the performance conditions have been met or, if the Committee considers it appropriate, to the extent that the 
performance conditions would have been met at the end of the original performance period, in the Committee’s opinion. Invested 
shares no longer have to be retained. 
Upon agreement with the acquiring company, the participant may choose to roll over their awards into awards in the acquiring company. 
Other corporate events 
2006 Performance Share Plan – If the Company is voluntarily wound up, the Committee may allow awards to vest on the same basis 
as set out above for a takeover. If the Company is, or is expected to be, affected by a demerger, special dividend or other transaction 
which would materially affect the value of awards, the Committee may allow some or all of the outstanding awards to vest to the extent 
the performance conditions applicable to these awards have or are likely to have been met, in the Committee’s opinion.
2006 Executive Share Option Plan – If the Company is, or is expected to be, affected by a demerger, special dividend or other 
transaction which in the Committee’s opinion is likely to affect the current or future value of any options, the Committee may allow 
options to be exercised, taking into account the performance conditions, the period that has elapsed since grant and any other factors 
it considers relevant. If the Company is voluntarily wound up, options may be exercised to the extent that the performance conditions 
have been met.
External appointments for executive directors 
Executive directors may undertake external directorships with the consent of the board. Any proposed external directorships are 
considered by the Nomination Committee to ensure they do not cause a conflict of interest. The executive directors do not currently 
hold any such directorships.
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY C O N T I N U ED
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
66  Remuneration policy table for non-executive directors 
Element
Purpose and link to 
remuneration policy Key features/operation
What is the maximum 
potential value?
Fees • Fees for non-executive 
directors are set at an 
appropriate level to recruit 
and retain directors of a 
sufficient calibre without 
paying more than is necessary 
to do so
• Paid in cash
• Fees for non-executive directors are set 
taking into account the time commitment 
required to fulfil the role and typical 
practice at other companies of a similar 
size and complexity to Debenhams
• The fees for the Chairman’s role are set 
taking into account the time commitment 
of the role, the skills and experience of 
the individual and typical market practice 
for other companies of a similar size 
and complexity
• Our non-executive director fees policy is 
to pay a basic fee for membership of the 
board and additional fees for the Senior 
Independent Director, chairmanship  
of a committee and membership of  
a committee to take into account the 
additional responsibilities and time 
commitment of these roles
• Additional fees may be paid to reflect 
additional board or committee 
responsibilities as appropriate
• Fees are reviewed at appropriate  
intervals by the board
• Fees paid to non-executive 
directors and the non-
executive Chairman will not 
exceed the aggregate limit set 
out in the Company’s articles 
of association, currently 
£1 million
• Fee levels for 2015 are set out 
in the annual report on 
remuneration
Benefits and 
expenses 
• To provide suitable 
arrangements to allow 
non-executive directors 
to discharge their 
duties effectively
• Reasonable costs in relation to travel and 
accommodation for business purposes 
are reimbursed to the Chairman and 
non-executive directors. The Company 
may meet any tax liabilities that may arise 
on such expenses
• The Chairman and non-executive 
directors are eligible for a staff discount 
and an annual health assessment
• The Chairman and non-executive 
directors are not entitled to participate 
in any of the Group’s incentive plans or 
pension plans
• The Chairman and non-executive 
directors have the benefit of directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance and 
provision of indemnity on the same basis 
as other directors and officers of other 
Group companies
• The board may introduce additional 
benefits for the Chairman or non-
executive directors if it is considered 
appropriate to do so
None
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
67  Terms and conditions for the Chairman and non-executive directors 
Nigel Northridge was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 1 January 2010 and became Chairman on 1 April 2010. 
His appointment as Chairman is subject to the terms of a letter of appointment dated 28 January 2010 and his initial appointment was 
for three years ending on 31 March 2013. This was extended by mutual agreement for a further three years to 31 March 2016 and may 
be extended by further terms of three years by mutual agreement. 
The Chairman’s appointment may be terminated by the Company in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and the 
Companies Act 2006 or upon the Chairman’s resignation. In the event that the Chairman’s appointment is terminated early, there will 
be no payment for loss of office or for the unexpired appointment term. The Chairman is permitted to hold other directorships 
provided that any such appointment does not interfere with his position at the Company.
The non-executive directors have letters of appointment from the Company covering matters such as duties, time commitment, fees 
and other business interests. The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three years which may be extended for further 
terms of three years by mutual agreement. Both Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing were appointed for a further three years 
to 31 July 2015 following the end of their initial engagement on 31 July 2012. Mark Rolfe was appointed for a further three years to 
30 September 2016 following the end of his initial engagement on 1 October 2013. Dennis Millard was appointed on 9 May 2006 and 
following two three year terms his appointment has been extended on an annual basis. 
Non-executive director appointments may be terminated by the Company in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association 
and the Companies Act 2006 or upon the director’s resignation. In the event that a non-executive director’s appointment is terminated 
early, there will be no payment for loss of office or for the unexpired appointment term. Dennis Millard’s appointment may be 
terminated by either party giving one month’s notice. Dennis Millard is not eligible for any payment in lieu of notice. 
All appointments are subject to the Company’s Articles of Association and the annual re-election by shareholders. The service 
agreements for non-executive directors are available to shareholders to view on request from the Company Secretary at the 
Company’s registered office.
Considering all-employee remuneration arrangements
When determining remuneration policy and arrangements for the executive directors, the Committee considers pay and employment 
conditions elsewhere in the Group to ensure that pay structures throughout the Group are appropriately aligned and that levels of 
remuneration remain appropriate in this context. 
When considering salary increases for the executive directors, the Committee considers the general level of salary increase across 
the Group. Whilst the Committee does not consult with employees about executive director pay, the Committee is provided with 
an annual update of the Debenhams employee survey which includes questions on their own remuneration. 
The remuneration arrangements for the members of the Executive Committee who are not executive directors fall within the 
Committee’s remit engendering a common approach to the design of reward and determining reward outcomes for the most 
senior people within the organisation.
Considering shareholder views
The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and seeks shareholder views when any significant changes 
are being made to remuneration arrangements. Over the last few years the Committee has consulted with shareholders regarding 
the performance measures for the PSP and the use of the DBMP . The Committee takes into account the views of shareholders when 
formulating and implementing the policy as it has done this year when it consulted with major shareholders on the changes to the PSP 
performance measures.
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
R EM U N ER A T I O N P O LI CY C O N T I N U ED
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
68  This report sets out details of the implementation of the remuneration policy during 2014 and provides details as to how the Committee 
intends to implement the policy during 2015. This part of the report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM. 
This report contains unaudited information except where stated that it is audited.
What did executive directors earn in respect of 2014 and 2013? (audited)
The table below sets out a single figure of remuneration for each executive director for 2014 and 2013. 
2014 2013
Executive 
director 
Base
 salary Benefits
Retirement 
benefits Bonus
PSP
 awards Total
Base
 salary Benefits
Retirement 
benefits Bonus
PSP
 awards Total 
Michael Sharp 
– Chief Executive £615,000 £34,999 £141,500 Nil £207,235 £998,734 £615,000 £36,896 £102,500 Nil Nil £754,396
Suzanne Harlow 
–  Group Trading 
Director
1
£289,743 £11,687 £54,554 Nil N/A £355,984 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Former directors
Simon Herrick  
– former CFO £143,602
2
£6,224 £21,540 Nil Nil £171,366 £410,000 £18,375 £61,500 Nil Nil £489,875
1 
Appointed 11 December 2013.
2 
Includes pensionable holiday pay.
The following provides details of how the single figure for 2014 has been calculated:
• Base salary – The executive directors did not receive a salary increase for 2014. Simon Herrick’s base salary is in respect of the period 
to 2 January 2014. Suzanne Harlow’s base salary is in respect of the period 1 1 December 2013 to 30 August 2014.
• Benefits – Executive directors receive a benefits allowance which can be used to purchase benefits under the Group scheme. 
In addition, the executive directors receive life assurance. The Chief Executive also receives a financial planning allowance, a travel 
allowance and a fuel allowance. The value of the benefits allowance and the additional benefits is included in the table above. The 
Group Trading Director used a part of her benefits allowance (£7 ,692) to purchase an additional five days’ holiday during the year. 
This amount has not been reflected in the above figures.
• Retirement benefits – Michael Sharp is a deferred member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan. The increase in his accrued 
pension, calculated using the methodology set out in the revised remuneration reporting regulations, was £18,500. Michael Sharp 
received a cash contribution in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary (£123,000). Suzanne Harlow is a deferred in service member of 
the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan. The increase in her accrued pension, calculated using the methodology set out in the 
revised remuneration reporting regulations, was £5,298. Suzanne Harlow also received a cash contribution in lieu of pension of 17% 
of base salary (£49,256). Simon Herrick received a cash contribution (£21,540) in lieu of pension of 15% of base salary for the period in 
which he was employed.
• PSPs due to vest in 2014 (in respect of the performance period 4 September 2011 to 30 August 2014) – The PSP value shown 
in the single figure is for the award expected to vest in November 2014. The share price used to calculate the single figure is based 
on the three month average share price to 30 August 2014 (67 .43 pence). 
Performance 
measure Weighting
Threshold
 target 
(30% vests)
Maximum
 target 
(100% vests) Outcome
Vesting 
(% of maximum)
2011 PSP awards
Absolute EPS 
growth per 
annum 75% 6% 12% -6.3% 0%
Average ROCE 
vs the cost  
of capital 25%
Average  
ROCE equal  
to the cost  
of capital
Average  
ROCE equal  
to the cost of 
capital plus 5%
Average ROCE 
exceeded the 
cost of capital 
by 4.1% 22%
Suzanne Harlow also received a PSP award in 2011 but this has not been included in the single figure as it was granted prior to her 
becoming an executive director. 
• Annual bonus for 2014 – The maximum bonus for the year was 100% of base salary. The bonus for the period was based 80% on 
PBT and 20% on a like-for-like sales growth and gross margin percentage matrix. Bonuses start accruing for meeting threshold levels 
of performance, with the maximum bonus only being payable for achieving performance significantly in excess of this level. The PBT 
target set was not met and the like-for-like sales and gross margin performance targets were not achieved. No bonus was therefore 
paid in respect of 2014. 
T HE A NN U A L R E P O R T O N R E M U NE R A T IO N
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
69  Pensions (audited)
Michael Sharp is a deferred member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan. Suzanne Harlow is a deferred in service member of the 
Debenhams Executive Pension Plan. The table below shows the pension accrued at the year end.
Accumulated 
total accrued 
pension at 
30 August 
2014 
(£)
Transfer value 
as at 
30 August 
2014 of 
accrued 
pension as at 
30 August 
2014 
(£)
Transfer value 
as at 
1 September 
2013 of 
accrued 
pension as at 
1 September 
2013 
(£)
Increase 
in accrued 
pension 
during 
the year 
(£)
Increase 
in accrued 
pension 
during 
the year 
(net of 
inflation) 
(£)
Increase in 
transfer value 
during the 
period 
(£)
Michael Sharp 211,476 6,584,718 5,656,919 6,460 925 927,799
Suzanne Harlow 38,895 916,800 772,367 1,279 265 144,433
Michael Sharp participated in the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan (a defined benefit plan) until 2006 when he ceased to participate 
in the plan and is now a deferred member of this scheme. His normal retirement date under this plan is 31 March 2017 . He is not entitled 
to any additional benefits if he retires prior to this date; any benefits drawn early will be actuarially reduced to reflect early retirement. 
He also receives a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution of 20% of base salary. 
Suzanne Harlow participated in the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan until 2006 when it was closed to future accruals and is now 
a deferred in service member of this scheme. Her normal retirement date under this plan is 31 July 2026. She is not entitled to any 
additional benefits if she retires prior to this date; any benefits drawn early will be actuarially reduced to reflect early retirement. 
She also receives a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution of 17% of base salary. 
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year (audited)
No long-term incentive awards were granted during 2014. 
Directors’ shareholdings and share interests (audited)
In order to align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders and to demonstrate the executive directors’ ongoing 
personal financial commitment to the business, executive directors are expected to build and maintain a holding of Debenhams shares 
equal to one times base salary. Executives are expected to retain 50% of any post-tax shares that vest under any share incentive plans 
until this shareholding is reached. The Committee expects executives to have met the shareholding guideline policy by the fifth 
anniversary of their appointment as an executive director (or the introduction of the guidelines, if later). The value of their current 
shareholding shown in the table below has been calculated using the three month average closing share price to the end of August 
2014 and includes the net value of shares vested but not exercised under the Executive Share Option Plan.
Ordinary 
shares held 
as at 
30 August 
2014
Ordinary 
shares held 
as at 
1 September 
2013
Unvested 
awards 
subject to 
performance
Unvested 
options 
subject to 
performance 
Vested 
options not 
exercised
Shareholding 
requirement 
(£) 
Current 
shareholding 
(£)
Requirement 
met? 
Michael Sharp 
– Chief 
Executive 6,460,067
1
6,360,067
1
2,391,314 0 473,961 615,000 4,539,492 Yes
Suzanne Harlow 
– Group Trading 
Director 545,366 545,366
2
689,582 0 169,689 400,000 440,417 Yes
Former 
directors
Simon Herrick 
– CFO 34,900
3
34,900 0 0 0 410,000 N/A N/A
1 
Shareholding includes 374,392 ordinary shares held by The Sharp Discretionary Settlement of which Michael Sharp is a trustee.
2 
Ordinary shares held at appointment to the board on 11 December 2013.
3 
As at date of resignation from the board – 2 January 2014.
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
T H E A N N U A L R E P OR T ON R E MU N E R A T I ON C ON T I N U E D
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
70  Scheme interests (audited)
Performance Share Plan
Director 
Date of 
award
Number 
of shares 
held at 
1 September 
2013
Shares 
awarded 
during 
the year
Shares 
forfeited 
during 
the year
Shares 
exercised 
during 
the year
Number 
of shares 
held at 
30 August 
2014
Market 
value 
on date 
of award
Earliest 
date of 
vesting
Expiry 
date of 
vesting 
period
Michael 
Sharp
1 November
 2011 1,396,973 0 0 0 1,396,973 64.43 1.11.14 1.5.15
1 November
 2012 994,341 0 0 0 994,341 123.7 1.11.15 1.5.16
Suzanne 
Harlow
1 November 
2011 378,346 0 0 0 378,346 64.43 1.11.14 1.5.15
1 November
 2012 311,236 0 0 0 311,236 123.7 1.11.15 1.5.16
Former 
directors
Simon 
Herrick
1 November
 2011 620,877 0 620,877 0 0 64.43 1.11.14 1.5.15
1 November 
2012 331,447 0 331,447 0 0 123.7 1.11.15 1.5.16
Executive Share Option Plan
Date of 
award
Number 
of shares 
held at 
1 September
2013
Shares 
granted 
during 
the year
Shares 
lapsed 
during 
the year
Shares 
vested 
during 
the year
Number 
of shares 
held at 
30 August 
2014
Option 
price
Earliest 
date of 
exercise
Expiry 
date of 
options
Michael 
Sharp
Approved 
scheme 
24 November
 2009 35,108 0 0 0 35,108 85.45 24.11.12 24.11.19
Unapproved
 scheme 
24 November
 2009 438,853 0 0 0 438,853 85.45 24.11.12 24.11.19
Suzanne 
Harlow
Approved 
scheme 
24 November
 2009 35,108 0 0 0 35,108 85.45 24.11.12 24.11.19
Unapproved
 scheme 
24 November
 2009 134,581 0 0 0 134,581 85.45 24.11.12 24.11.19
Payments to past directors (audited)
No payments were made to past directors during the year. 
Payments for loss of office (audited)
Simon Herrick’s service agreement contained a notice period of 12 months. From 2 January 2014 monthly payments in lieu of notice 
commenced, based on a base salary of £410,000, a flexible benefits payment of £18,375 per annum and an annual pension contribution of 
£61,500; a total of £489,875 per annum. He was also provided with life assurance cover. Simon Herrick continues to receive these amounts in 
12 monthly instalments; however, should he receive any payments as a result of alternative employment or provision of services during this 
period, other than in respect of one non-executive position, subsequent instalments will be reduced by the amount of such payments. 
The Company also agreed to a payment of up to £10,000 plus VAT in respect of his legal fees and a £10,000 plus VAT contribution to 
outplacement support. The Committee agreed to these payments to assist in a smooth succession process for the benefit of the business. 
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
71  Simon Herrick did not receive a bonus in respect of 2014. All unvested awards under the PSP were forfeited. 
Total shareholder return performance graph 
The performance graph below shows the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) against the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index over 
the period from 29 August 2009 to 30 August 2014. The General Retailers Index has been chosen as Debenhams has been a member 
throughout the period and it is made up of a broad spectrum of retail competitors (including major general retail listed comparators) 
in the principal product areas in which the Company trades. 
 
 FTSE 350 General Retailers Debenhams
250
200
150
100
50
0
29 Aug 09 28 Aug 10 3 Sep 11 1 Sep 12 31 Aug 13 30 Aug 14
Source: DataStream
Historical Chief Executive pay 
The table below sets out details of the Chief Executive’s pay for the current year and the previous four years and the payout of incentive 
awards as a proportion of the maximum opportunity for each period. The Chief Executive’s pay is calculated as per the single figure of 
remuneration shown on page 69.
2010* 2011* 2012 2013 2014
Single figure of total remuneration £1,477,607 £1,044,515 £1,288,857 £754,396 £998,734
Annual variable element award rates against  
maximum opportunity 100% 33.3% 40% 0% 0%
Long-term incentive vesting rates against  
maximum opportunity N/A N/A
PSP: 32% 
ESOP: 100% N/A 22%
* The Chief Executive position for the period 2009-2011 was held by Rob Templeman. The Chief Executive position for 2012-2014 has been held by the current incumbent 
Michael Sharp who previously held the role of Deputy Chief Executive. 
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive
The change in remuneration from 2013 to 2014 of the Chief Executive and the Group’s UK employee population is shown below. This 
group has been chosen as the comparator group as the majority of Debenhams employees are based in the UK. 
Chief 
Executive
UK 
employees 
(Average FTE)
Base salary 0% 3%
Benefits -5% 9%
Bonus -%* -100%
* No bonus was paid to the Chief Executive in respect of 2013 and 2014. 
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The chart below sets out the amounts paid in 2013 and 2014 in respect of the remuneration of all employees and dividends 
to shareholders. 
 
400
(24%)
(0.5%)
(1.6%)
£m
Proﬁt before tax Dividends declared during the year Overall expenditure on 
remuneration for all employees
300
200
100
0
2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014
C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
T H E A N N U A L R E P OR T ON R E MU N E R A T I ON C ON T I N U E D
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
72  Implementation of the remuneration policy for executive directors in 2015 
Components of remuneration
The following table provides a summary of the different elements of pay that will be operated for 2015. 
Fixed pay Base salary + benefits + pension
Performance-related pay
Short-term performance Long-term performance
Cash bonus one year Performance share plan three year
100% financial 70% EPS growth, 30% strategic measures 
Base salary 
Executive director salaries as at 1 September 2014 are as follows: 
Chief Executive, Michael Sharp £615,000
Chief Financial Officer, Matt Smith* £400,000
Group Trading Director, Suzanne Harlow £400,000
*Salary to be paid upon joining the Company.
The annual salary review date for the executive directors going forward will be 1 April in line with the new single annual review date 
of the rest of the management population and may take into account the movement in the review date.
Annual bonus 
The Committee has decided to base the annual bonus for 2015 entirely on underlying profit before tax in order to simplify the plan and 
to ensure that executives are focused on increasing profit.
Specific targets are not disclosed because they are considered to be market sensitive by the Committee. 
The maximum bonus opportunity will remain at 100% of base salary, payable in cash. 
The bonus will begin accruing for delivering threshold levels of performance with the maximum bonus only being payable on the 
delivery of performance significantly in excess of plan. 
Debenhams’ Performance Share Plan
It is intended that a PSP award will be granted to the Chief Executive of 150% of base salary for 2014, in line with the usual limit. 
For the first year of his appointment, the Chief Financial Officer will be awarded a PSP award of 200% of base salary. The Committee 
determined that this level of award was appropriate to compensate him for awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer (no 
further “buyout” awards have been made) and to provide an additional incentive to drive the performance of the business in the initial 
period of his tenure. His normal annual PSP award will be 100% of base salary.
As part of her appointment to the board, the Group Trading Director will be awarded a 2014 PSP award of 150% of base salary as an 
incentive to drive performance and to recognise the increased scope of her role on appointment to the board. Her normal annual PSP 
award will be 100% of base salary.
In light of both the ongoing challenges within the UK retail sector and our evolving business strategy, the Committee has decided 
that it is appropriate to amend the performance measures attached to 2015 PSP awards to ensure that they are fully aligned with 
our strategy and to incentivise management to deliver long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
73  C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
T H E A N N U A L R E P OR T ON R E MU N E R A T I ON C ON T I N U E D
Going forward, awards will be based 70% on absolute underlying EPS growth targets and 30% on financial measures that underpin our 
strategy. The Committee feels that it is important that EPS is retained as the primary measure for the PSP to ensure management is 
incentivised to continue to drive sustainable earnings improvement and is rewarded for generating bottom line value for shareholders. 
At the 2014 interim results, Chief Executive Michael Sharp set out the strategic priorities in support of our strategy to build a leading 
international, multi-channel brand. Financial strategic objectives for the PSP have therefore been selected to reflect these priorities 
under the four pillars of the strategy. These measures, and their relevance and linkage to the strategy, are as follows:
Strategic measures for 2015: 
Key strategic pillars
Proposed metric 
(7.5% of award each) Rationale 
Delivering a compelling  
customer proportion
Group gross margin improvement We have commenced a programme to refocus our 
approach to promotions which, over time, will result in 
a reduction of the number of days we are on promotion  
as well as improving clarity around value. The result will  
be higher full price sales and lower markdown. This will 
ultimately lead to an increase in Group gross margin which 
the Committee believes is an appropriate measure of the 
success of this strategy.
Increasing availability and choice 
through multi-channel
Online EBITDA growth rate Over the next three years we will be making significant 
changes to our multi-channel fulfilment operations to 
improve convenience and cost effectiveness. This will  
drive sales, allow us to recover a high proportion of  
delivery costs and achieve a significant reduction in 
the cost per unit of fulfilment.
The result of this work will be an improvement in the  
rate of online EBITDA growth which has therefore been 
adopted as a strategic measure.
Focusing on UK retail UK gross transaction value 
growth (UK GTV)
Currently c.10% of our UK store space is sub-optimal in 
terms of sales density. We have set out a space optimisation 
plan to address this by introducing additional choice of 
products and brands in our stores to drive footfall, improve 
sales density and increase total sales. This will enable us to 
improve the return on the store cost base.
The Committee believes UK GTV is an appropriate measure 
as it reflects increased sales through stores and recognises 
the importance of stores in generating multi-channel sales 
through maintaining Debenhams’ profile in the marketplace 
and as locations for click and collect.
Expanding the brand 
internationally
International EBITDA growth rate The international business will be a substantial and  
growing part of Debenhams over next ten years.  
Our existing international activities show that we  
have a credible, exportable proposition which has the 
capacity to generate significant shareholder value.
Through the PSP , management will be incentivised  
to continue to drive profit growth from the  
international business.
The intention is that the precise strategic measures used will be reviewed each year to ensure that they continue to be appropriate and 
aligned with strategy. Each strategic measure will vest independently. 
In order for the award to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Company over the 
performance period is sufficient to justify the vesting of the award and, specifically, vesting of any strategic measure will be subject to a 
ROCE underpin. The definition of ROCE has been refined from previous years and capital employed will include a capitalised value of 
future store rental payments and profitability items on a pre-rental basis. 
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
74  Having reviewed the EPS targets for the PSP the Committee decided to set the target range at 3% per annum (25% vesting) to 10% per 
annum (100% vesting). The Committee considers that these targets are appropriate in the context of the outlook for the UK retail sector 
over the next few years and believes that the current market consensus is at the lower end of this range. 
Each financial strategic measure will be subject to a single performance test (ie each measure will either vest at 0% or in full). Financial 
strategic targets are specific, measurable and the performance hurdle is set at a level which is considered by the Committee to be 
sufficiently stretching. The financial targets for the strategic measures are considered by the board to be market sensitive and therefore 
we will not disclose these measures at the current time. However, indications of performance against strategic targets will be provided 
during the vesting period. We will also disclose the targets in full, along with actual performance against targets, at the time of vesting. 
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (“the Trust“) currently holds 473,537 shares in the Company. 200,000 shares are held in the 
Trust to satisfy a potential award made under the Debenhams 2008 Share Incentive Plan (a plan for employees who are not executive 
directors). Dividends arising on the shares held in the Trust are waived on the recommendation of the Company.
Funding of share schemes
It is the Company’s current intention to satisfy any future requirements of its share schemes in a method best suited to the interests of 
the Company, either by utilising shares held as treasury shares, acquiring shares in the market or issuing new shares. Where the awards 
are satisfied by newly issued shares or treasury shares, the Company will comply with Investment Management Association guidelines 
on shareholder dilution. 
Current levels of shareholder dilution are 0.70% (2013: 0.83%) of share capital.
What did non-executive directors earn in respect of 2014 and 2013? (audited)
The table below sets out the fees payable to each director not performing an executive function in respect of 2014 and 2013.
2014 2013
Fees Benefits Total Fees Benefits Total
Nigel 
Northridge 
Non-executive Chairman, Chairman of 
Nomination Committee, member of 
Remuneration Committee
£175,000 0 £175,000 £175,000 0 £175,000
Dennis  
Millard
Senior Independent Director, Chairman of 
Remuneration Committee, member of Audit 
and Nomination Committees
£65,000 0 £65,000 £65,000 0 £65,000
Martina  
King 
Chairman of sustainability committee, member 
of Remuneration, Audit and Nomination 
Committees
£55,000 0 £55,000 £55,000 0 £55,000
Mark Rolfe Chairman of Audit Committee, member of 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees
£55,000 0 £55,000 £54,971 0 £54,971
Sophie  
Turner Laing 
Member of Remuneration, Audit and Nomination 
Committees
£47,500 0 £47,500 £47,500 0 £47,500
Peter 
Fitzgerald
Member of Audit Committee £42,500 0 £42,500 £38,494 0 £38,494
Stephen 
Ingham 
Member of Remuneration Committee £42,500 0 £42,500 £27,734 0 £27,734
Non-executive directors do not participate in the annual bonus plan or any long-term incentive plans.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
75  C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
T H E A N N U A L R E P OR T ON R E MU N E R A T I ON C ON T I N U E D
The total interests of the Chairman and non-executive directors in the share capital of the Company as at 30 August 2014 are shown below.
Director
Ordinary 
shares held 
as at 
1 September 
2013
Ordinary 
shares held 
as at 
30 August 
2014
Ordinary 
shares held 
as at 
23 October 
2014
Nigel Northridge 100,000 100,000 100,000
Peter Fitzgerald 0 0 0
Stephen Ingham 0 0 0
Martina King 10,000 10,000 10,000
Dennis Millard 69,455 69,455 69,455
Mark Rolfe 30,000 30,000 30,000
Sophie Turner Laing 20,000 20,000 20,000
Note: The information in the table above is audited. 
Implementation of non-executive director remuneration policy in 2015
There were no changes to non-executive directors’ fees with effect from 1 September 2014. 
Fees for the year are as follows: 
• Basic fee – £40,000
• Senior Independent Director – £10,000
• Committee chairmanship fee (Audit and Remuneration) – £10,000
• Committee chairmanship fee (Sustainability) – £7 ,500
• Committee membership fee (per committee) – £2,500
Consideration of matters in relation to directors’ remuneration 
Committee members 
The Committee chairman, Dennis Millard, is joined by Nigel Northridge, Stephen Ingham, Martina King, Mark Rolfe and Sophie Turner 
Laing to form the Committee. Details of the members’ background and experience is provided within their biography on pages 42 
and 43.
Director Position
Number of meetings held 
and attended during the year 
(of those eligible to attend)
Dennis Millard, Committee chairman Senior Independent Director 4/5*
Stephen Ingham Independent non-executive director 5/5
Martina King Independent non-executive director 5/5
Nigel Northridge Independent non-executive Chairman 5/5
Mark Rolfe Independent non-executive director 5/5
Sophie Turner Laing Independent non-executive director 5/5
*Dennis Millard was unable to attend the meeting in June 2014 due to a family bereavement. 
Role of the Committee
The full terms of reference for the Committee, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Company’s website at 
http://debenhamsplc.com. In summary, the Committee has responsibility for determining all elements of the remuneration of the 
executive directors and the Company Secretary together with the provisions of their service agreements, reviewing the bonus structure 
for the Executive Committee, reviewing the appropriateness and relevance of the Company’s remuneration policy (taking into account 
the remuneration arrangements and levels across the Company) and administering all aspects of any share incentives in operation for 
senior management. The remuneration of the non-executive directors is a matter for the Company’s Chairman and the executive 
members of the board.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
76  The Committee’s main activities during the year
• Approved the directors’ remuneration report for 2013
• Reviewed performance against targets for the executive directors’ 2014 bonuses
• Reviewed performance against targets for the executive directors’ 2012 PSP awards 
• Reviewed the executive remuneration strategy for 2015
• Reviewed the operation of the PSP , in particular the performance measures for 2015 
• Approved the executive directors’ bonus plan for 2015
• Agreed the leaver arrangements for Simon Herrick, the former Chief Financial Officer
• Agreed the remuneration package for the new Chief Financial Officer, Matt Smith, and the Group Trading Director, Suzanne Harlow, 
upon her appointment to the board
• Evaluated the performance of the Committee
• Reviewed the revised reporting regulations and prepared a new look directors’ remuneration report
• Consulted with shareholders on certain aspects of the remuneration policy
Performance evaluation of the Committee
This year’s formal evaluation of the Committee was conducted by Lintstock Ltd, an external facilitator.
The Committee considered the results of the review at its meeting in October 2014 and concluded that the Committee continues to be 
effective, uses its time effectively and has the correct composition. The quality of the information it receives was highly rated.
The review identified certain areas where the Committee would benefit from additional support and the Chairman and the Company 
Secretary are to look at these issues.
Advisors to the Committee
In performing its duties, the Committee has received advice from Deloitte LLP (“Deloitte”) who acted as external advisors to the 
Committee throughout the financial year, providing independent advice on directors’ remuneration and share incentives. The fees 
for advice provided to the Committee during the financial year were £39,000. 
Deloitte is one of the founding members of the Remuneration Consulting Group (“RCG“) and complies with the voluntary code 
of conduct in respect of the provision of remuneration consulting services. Deloitte provides industry and comparative employee 
remuneration data to Debenhams’ management. Deloitte also provided unrelated advisory services in respect of corporate and 
employment taxes during the year. 
Deloitte was appointed by the Committee. It is the view of the Committee that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team that 
provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with Debenhams that may impair their independence. The 
Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
During the year, the Committee undertook an evaluation of its advisors and concluded that the advice received is independent.
The Chief Executive and HR Director have attended certain Committee meetings and provided advice to the Committee during 
the year. They are not in attendance when matters relating to their own compensation or contracts are discussed. 
Summary of shareholder voting 
Debenhams remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes. In the event of a 
substantial vote against a resolution in relation to directors’ remuneration, Debenhams would seek to understand the reasons for any 
such vote and would set out in the following annual report and accounts any actions in response to it. 
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our previous report: 
For Against
2013 directors’ remuneration report (December 2013 Annual General Meeting) 99.58% 0.42%
9,629,523 votes were withheld in relation to this resolution (c.0.79% of share capital).
On behalf of the board
Dennis Millard
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
23 October 2014
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
77  C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
D I RE C T O R S ’ RE P O R T
Information Location in annual report
Review of the business,  
principal risks and uncertainties and KPIs
Market overview, Chief Executive’s report, 
KPI’s, risk review and financial review
Strategy Business model and strategy, strategy 
at a glance
Business model Business model and strategy
Future business developments Chief Executive’s report, strategy 
at a glance
Greenhouse gas emissions Resources, relationships and sustainability 
Environmental matters, employees  
and social, community and human  
rights issues (including information  
about the Company’s policies in  
relation to these matters)
Resources, relationships and sustainability, 
directors’ report
Employment policy for disabled  
persons and employee engagement 
throughout the workforce
Directors’ report
Gender diversity of the board Corporate governance report
The Company is required by the Companies 
Act 2006 to include a strategic report within 
the directors’ report. The directors’ report 
of Debenhams plc for the year ended 
30 August 2014 therefore comprises these 
pages and the information referred to in the 
table opposite, all of which are incorporated 
into this report by reference.
The contents of the directors’ report have 
been drawn up and presented in accordance 
with, and in reliance upon, applicable 
English company law and any liability of 
the directors is restricted to the extent 
prescribed by the Companies Act 2006. 
Profit and dividends
The profit after tax for the financial year 
ending 30 August 2014 was £87 .2 million 
(2013: £115.9 million adjusted for IAS 19 
revised). The directors recommend the 
payment of a final dividend of 2.4 pence 
per ordinary share, to be paid on 9 January 
2015 to members on the register at the 
close of business on 5 December 2014. 
This, together with the interim dividend of 
1.0 pence per share paid in July, gives a 
full year dividend of 3.4 pence per share. 
Directors
The following persons were directors of 
the Company during the year ended 
30 August 2014 and, unless otherwise 
stated, at the date of this annual report:
Nigel Northridge 
Michael Sharp 
Suzanne Harlow (appointed 11 Dec 2013) 
Simon Herrick (resigned 2 Jan 2014) 
Dennis Millard 
Peter Fitzgerald 
Stephen Ingham  
Martina King 
Mark Rolfe 
Sophie Turner Laing
The membership of the board and 
biographical details of the directors are 
given on pages 42 and 43. The business 
of the Company shall be managed by the 
board who may exercise all the powers of 
the Company, subject to the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s 
Articles of Association and any shareholder 
resolution. In accordance with the 
Company’s Articles of Association, the 
directors shall be no less than two and no 
more than 25 in number. Directors may be 
appointed by the Company by ordinary 
resolution or by the board. A director 
appointed by the board holds office only 
until the next Annual General Meeting. 
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, 
remove any director from office. The office 
of a director shall be vacated if s/he 
(i) resigns or retires; (ii) becomes bankrupt or 
makes an arrangement or composition with 
his or her creditors generally; (iii) becomes 
physically or mentally incapable of acting 
as a director and may remain so for more 
than three months, or by reason of his or her 
mental health a court has made an order 
that prevents the director from acting and, 
in either case, the board resolves that his or 
her office is vacated; (iv) has been absent for 
more than six consecutive months without 
the board’s permission from meetings of the 
board held during that period and his or her 
alternate director (if any) has not attended in 
his or her place during that period and 
board resolves that his/her office be 
vacated; and (v) receives a notice signed by 
not less than three quarters of the other 
directors stating that that person should 
cease to be a director. Any amendments to 
the Company’s Articles of Association may 
be made in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006 by way of special resolution. 
In accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, all of our directors will 
retire at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting of the Company and offer 
themselves either for election, in the case 
of Suzanne Harlow, or for re-election, in 
the case of all other directors. A formal 
evaluation of the performance of each 
director and of the board has been 
carried out and the performance of each 
of them continues to be effective and to 
demonstrate commitment to his or her role. 
There is more information on the evaluation 
and its outcome within the corporate 
governance report on page 48.
In addition to the indemnity provisions in 
their Articles of Association, the Company 
and other Group companies have entered 
into a direct indemnity agreement with 
each of the directors and certain other 
officers or senior employees of the Group.  
These indemnities constitute qualifying 
indemnities for the purposes of the 
Companies Act 2006 and remain in force at 
the date of approval of this report without 
any payment having been made under 
them. The Company also maintains 
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
which gives appropriate cover for any legal 
action brought against its directors.
No director had, during or at the end  
of the year, any material interest in any 
contract of significance in relation to the 
Group’s business.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
78  Share buyback programme
At the December 2013 Annual General 
Meeting, shareholders authorised the 
Company to purchase up to 122,651,325 
ordinary shares in the market. However, 
on 31 December 2013, the Company 
announced that the share buyback 
programme which commenced in April 
2012 would cease with immediate effect.
As at 30 August 2014 the Company had 
purchased 61,793,402 ordinary shares of 
0.01 pence at a total cost of £60.3 million 
of which 14,351,525 ordinary shares of 
0.01 pence were purchased (representing 
1.1% of the Company’s share capital) at a 
cost of £15.1 million during 2014. All shares 
purchased and retained by the Company 
are held in treasury. 429,108 treasury shares 
were transferred out of treasury during the 
year to satisfy awards granted under the 
Company’s share plans. 
Although the share buyback programme 
has ceased, approval will be sought from 
shareholders at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting to renew its authority to 
purchase shares in the market for a further 
year. This is a standard authority and it is 
the Company’s present intention, should 
shares be bought back, for them to be 
cancelled or retained in treasury pending 
a subsequent sale, cancellation or transfer. 
The Company will only buy back shares if 
the directors believe that it is in shareholders’ 
best interests and will increase earnings 
per share.
Share capital
The issued share capital of the Company 
and the number of shares held in treasury 
as at 30 August 2014 are shown in note 27 
to the financial statements on pages 129 
and 130. In addition to the shares trading 
on the London Stock Exchange, the 
Company operates a level 1 American 
depositary receipt (ADR) programme. 
Each American depositary share (ADS) 
represents four ordinary shares of 0.01 
pence each. 
Voting rights
If voting on a resolution at any general 
meeting of the Company is on a show of 
hands, every member present in person 
has one vote and every proxy appointed 
by one or more members has one vote 
regardless of the number of shares held 
by the shareholder or represented by the 
proxy. On a poll, every shareholder who is 
present in person or by proxy has one vote 
for every share held by that shareholder but 
a shareholder or proxy entitled to more 
than one vote need not cast all his/her 
votes or cast them all the same way. 
No member shall be entitled to vote at any 
general meeting of the Company, either in 
person or by proxy, in respect of any share 
held unless all moneys payable in respect 
of that share have been paid. There are no 
known arrangements which may restrict 
voting rights.
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 
2004 (“the Trust”) holds 473,537 ordinary 
shares in the Company (0.04%). Any voting 
or other similar decisions relating to the 
shares held by the Trust would be taken by 
the trustees, who may take account of any 
recommendations of the Company.
Transfer of shares
Any member may transfer all or any of his 
or her certificated shares by an instrument 
of transfer in any usual form or in any form 
which the board may approve. The board 
may, in its absolute discretion, decline to 
register any instrument of transfer of a 
certificated share which is not a fully paid 
share (although not so as to prevent 
dealings in shares taking place on an 
open and proper basis). The board may 
also refuse to register the transfer of a 
certificated share where the instrument 
of transfer is invalid. There are no known 
arrangements which may restrict the 
transfer of shares.
Significant agreements
There are no significant agreements to 
which the Company is a party which take 
effect, alter or terminate in the event of 
change of control of the Company 
except that:
• The multi-currency revolving credit 
facility dated 18 June 2014 contains 
mandatory prepayment
• The terms and conditions of the 5.25% 
senior notes due 2021 contain a 
requirement for the Company to make 
an offer to re-purchase all of the notes 
at a price equal to 101% of the principal 
amount thereof, plus any accrued 
unpaid interest
• The supplier agreements with certain 
major cosmetic suppliers contain 
termination provisions on change 
of control
Interests in voting rights 
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6(2)(a), the following investor interests have been 
disclosed to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 
30 August 2014:
Shareholder
Number 
of shares
Percentage 
of voting rights
Schroder Investment Management 179,585,845 14.65%
Milestone Resources Group Ltd 89,183,155 7.27%
The Goldman Sachs Group Inc 73,655,413 6.00%
Bestinver Gestión, S.A. 60,554,248 4.94%
LSV Asset Management 59,976,652 4.89%
GIC Private Limited 50,069,986 4.08%
Norges Bank 37,407,430 3.05%
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6 (2)(b), the following notifications have been received 
during the period 31 August 2014 to 10 October 2014:
Date of notification Shareholder
Number 
of shares
Percentage 
of voting rights
2 September 2014
Schroder Investment 
Management 167,887,912 13.69%
3 October 2014
Sports Direct 
International plc 56,381,164 4.6%
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
79  C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E
D I R E C T OR S ’ R E P OR T C ON T I N U E D
There are no agreements providing for 
compensation for directors or employees 
on change of control. Details concerning 
the impact on share options and share 
awards held by directors or employees 
in the event of a change of control are 
set out on page 66 of the directors’ 
remuneration report.
Essential contracts
Debenhams has contractual arrangements 
with many organisations but no one 
contract is so material as to be essential 
to our business, with the exception of the 
warehouse operators and the e-commerce 
platform provider.
Employees
Debenhams directly employs some 28,000 
people in the UK, the Republic of Ireland, 
Bangladesh, Hong Kong and Denmark. 
Debenhams is committed to ensuring that 
employees or applicants for employment 
are treated equally regardless of gender, 
race, ethnic or national origin, religious, 
political or philosophical beliefs, disability, 
marital or civil partnership status, sexual 
orientation, gender reassignment and age. 
Through our equal opportunities policy we 
aim to create an environment that offers all 
employees the chance to use their skills 
and talent. 
As part of the Company’s policy on 
equality of opportunity, decisions on 
recruitment, training, promotion, pay terms 
and conditions and leavers are based solely 
on objective, job-related criteria and 
personal competence and performance. 
The Company seeks wherever possible to 
make reasonable adjustments to ensure 
that an employee who becomes disabled 
during the course of his or her employment 
is able to continue working effectively. This 
includes: providing equipment or altering 
working arrangements; providing 
additional training; re-allocating on a 
temporary or permanent basis some of 
the employee’s duties to other members 
of staff; transferring the employee to a 
suitable alternative role; and adjusting 
working times. Any such adjustment will be 
monitored and reviewed on a regular basis 
to ensure it continues to be effective.
Business information and key messages are 
cascaded to all employees throughout the 
business via personal briefings and email. 
Briefings are also held by the Chief 
Executive and members of the Executive 
Committee to update employees on the 
performance of the Company and the 
Company’s strategy. The Employee 
Consultation Forum, which is attended by 
elected representatives from stores and 
head office, is another medium by which 
employees receive information on the 
Company as well as giving employees the 
opportunity to be consulted on certain 
activities of the business.
Human rights
The Company has a number of policies in 
place to protect and promote employee 
welfare and is committed to supporting all 
human rights in our business operations 
and in our relationships with our suppliers 
and other stakeholders.
Political donations
There were no disclosable expenses made 
during the financial year which fall within 
the definition of a political donation under 
the Political Parties, Elections and 
Referendums Act 2000. It is the Group’s 
policy not to make donations to political 
organisations or independent election 
candidates or incur political expenditure. 
Financial instruments
Debenhams does not enter into financial 
instruments for speculative trade. 
Details of financial instruments entered 
into for underlying risks are set out in 
note 22 on pages 122 and 123 of the 
financial statements.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the directors 
consider that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operation for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason, they 
have adopted the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements.
Corporate governance statement
In accordance with the Financial Services 
Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rule 
(“DTR”) 7 .2.1, the disclosures required by 
DTR 7 .2.2R to DTR 7 .2.7 and DTR 7 .2.10 are 
within the corporate governance report on 
pages 44 to 53 and risk review on pages 26 
and 27 and are therefore incorporated into 
this report by reference.
Disclosure of information 
to auditors
Each of the directors of the Company at 
the time when the directors’ report was 
approved confirms that:
a) So far as the director is aware, there is no 
information needed by the Company’s 
auditors in connection with preparing their 
report of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware; and
b) s/he has taken all the steps that s/he 
ought to have taken as a director in order 
to make herself or himself aware of any 
information needed by the Company’s 
auditors in connection with preparing 
the report and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of 
that information.
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has indicated 
its willingness to continue in office and a 
resolution dealing with its re-appointment as 
auditors of the Company will be proposed at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of Debenhams 
plc will be held at Debenhams’ head office, 
10 Brock Street, Regent’s Place, London 
NW1 3FG on Tuesday 9 December 2014 at 
2.00pm. The notice is given, together with 
explanatory notes, in the booklet which 
accompanies this report.
The directors’ report was approved by a duly 
appointed and authorised committee of the 
board of directors on 23 October 2014 and 
signed by its order by Paul Eardley, 
the Company Secretary.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
80  The directors are responsible for preparing 
the annual report, the directors’ 
remuneration report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to 
prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under the law, the directors 
have elected to prepare the Group 
financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European 
Union (“EU”) and the Company financial 
statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law). Under 
company law, the directors must not 
approve financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
the Company and of the profit or loss of 
the Group for that period. In preparing 
these financial statements, the directors 
are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently
• Make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent
• State whether IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU and applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Group and 
Company financial statements 
respectively
• Prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the  
Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and the directors’ 
remuneration report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for 
maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in 
the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement
Each of the directors, whose names and 
functions are detailed on pages 42 and 43, 
confirms that to the best of his/her 
knowledge:
• The Group financial statements, which 
have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit of the Group
• The strategic report contained in this 
report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of 
the business and the position of the 
Company and the Group, together with 
a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces
• The directors consider that the 
annual report and accounts, taken  
as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and gives shareholders 
the information needed to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
On behalf of the board
Michael Sharp
Chief Executive
23 October 2014
S T A TE M E NT O F D I R E C T O R S ’ 
R E S P O N S I B I L I T I E S
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
81  In this section 
84  Independent auditors’ report to the members 
of Debenhams plc (Group)
90 Consolidated income statement
91  Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
92 Consolidated balance sheet
93  Consolidated statement of changes  
in equity
94 Consolidated cash flow statement
95 Notes to the financial statements
135 Five year record income statements
136  Five year record balance sheets
137  Independent auditors’ report to the  
members of Debenhams plc (Company)
139 Company balance sheet
140  Notes to the Company financial statements
F I NAN C I AL 
S T A T EM EN T S
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
82  F I NAN C I AL 
S T A T EM EN T S
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
83  Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
84 
FINANCIAL ST ATEMENTS 
INDEP E N DENT AU DITORS
’
REPORT TO TH E MEMBERS OF 
DEBENHAMS PLC (GROUP) 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
84 
Report on the Group financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion, Debenhams plc’s Group financial statements (the “financial statements”): 
• Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 August 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year 
then ended; 
• Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the 
European Union; and 
• Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
What we have audited 
Debenhams plc’s financial statements comprise: 
• The consolidated balance sheet as at 30 August 2014; 
• The consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended; 
• The consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended; 
• The consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and 
• The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information. 
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the annual report and accounts (the “annual report”),  
rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. 
Our audit approach 
Overview 
 
  
 
• Overall group materiality: £5.5 million which represents 5% of profit before tax. 
 
• The Group is structured into two operating segments UK and International; 
• We conducted our audit work on both operating segments from the UK with the exception of the 
Danish business (Magasin du Nord), which is in the International operating segment, where the 
audit was performed in Denmark; 
• Our audit work covered both operating segments and accounted for 100% of group revenue and 
100% of group profit before tax.  
Our areas of focus: 
• Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to manual adjustments posted to revenue and the 
cut-off of wholesale invoicing to franchises;  
• Inventory valuation using the retail method and stock provisioning for out of season inventory. 
• Goodwill and store assets impairment assessment; 
• Defined benefit pension plan net liability. 
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
I N D EP EN D EN T A U D I T O R S ’ R EP O R T T O T H E M EM BER S  
O F D EBEN H A M S P L C ( G R O U P ) Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
85 
 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
85 
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). 
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, 
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there is evidence of bias 
by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.  
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and 
effort, are identified as “areas of focus” in the table below together with an explanation of how we tailored our audit to 
address these specific areas. The first two areas of focus are significant risks and the second two are other risks. This is not 
a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.  
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to manual 
adjustments posted to revenue and the cut-off of 
wholesale invoicing to franchises. 
See note 2 to the financial statements for the directors’ 
disclosures of the related revenue recognition accounting 
policy. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of fraud in 
revenue recognition because of the pressure management 
may feel to achieve the planned results. 
The Group’s revenue principally relates to retail trading and 
wholesale trading with franchise partners. 
Retail revenue comprises high volume, low value 
transactions where the principal risk of fraud comes from 
journals and adjustments posted into revenue and therefore 
not subject to the main controls over revenue to cash 
reconciliations. 
The principal risks of fraud for franchise sales come from 
journals and adjustments posted into franchise sales as 
well as the risk of wholesale invoicing to franchises in the 
incorrect period artificially inflating revenue for the 
current year. 
For both retail and franchise revenue we examined journal 
entries and consolidation adjustments to identify unusual or 
irregular items and tested such items by agreeing details to 
supporting documentation.  
In addition, for franchise revenue, we tested a sample of 
sales back to supporting documentation such as cash 
receipts or purchase orders and goods despatched notes  
to check the occurrence and the recording of revenue in the 
correct period. We also assessed the monthly level of sales 
to franchises to identify any unusual patterns around the  
year end, and tested any such items by agreeing details  
to supporting documentation. 
   Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
86 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
’
REPORT TO TH E MEMBERS OF 
DEBENHAMS PLC (GROUP) CONTINUED 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
86 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Inventory valuation using the retail method and stock 
provisioning for out of season inventory  
Refer to pages 52 and 53 (Audit Committee report) and note 
5 to the financial statements for the directors’ disclosures of 
the critical accounting estimates and judgements related to 
the valuation of inventory. 
The valuation of inventory in the UK and Ireland is 
determined using the retail method. This is an industry 
specific accounting method used to derive a weighted 
average product cost. This method contains significant 
assumptions, which can vary between retail entities. The 
methodology is also impacted by the timing of processing 
markdowns which could significantly affect gross margin.  
The ongoing economic situation within the retail sector 
continues to create competition on the high street. This 
could put pressure on the level of out of season stock 
identified for markdown within the Group and on the year 
end stock provisions/markdowns. As such there is a risk 
that the realisable value of stock will be lower than its 
recorded cost. 
We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal 
controls over the inventory valuation process. 
As inventory is valued using the retail method we performed 
a number of specific tests of the operating effectiveness of 
controls and detailed substantive tests over the inputs into 
the inventory valuation calculations including: 
• Testing the controls over the sales price of inventory; 
• Assessing the margin rate applied to the sales price to 
identify any unusual margins, and testing any such items 
by agreeing details to supporting documentation;  
• Testing the margin rate applied to the sales price to 
derive the cost of inventory; 
• Checking the purchase price of inventory used within cost 
of sales to a sample of supplier invoices; and 
• Checking other cost adjustments for example designer 
royalties applied to the inventory margin back to 
supporting documentation.  
We also assessed the level of out of season inventory at the 
year-end, which included:  
• Testing the operating effectiveness of controls in relation 
to classifying stock as current, continuity (inventory with 
 no season) or out of season inventory; and  
• Assessing the spend on mark-downs in the month 
following the year end and the level of out of season 
inventory at the end of this period to assess the 
reasonableness of the judgement involved in the  
markdown provisions applied to the year end  
inventory valuation. 
 
  
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
I N D EP EN D EN T A U D I T O R S ’ R EP O R T T O T H E M EM BER S  
O F D EBEN H A M S P L C ( G R O U P )C O N T I N U ED Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
87 
 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
87 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 
Goodwill and store asset impairment assessment 
Goodwill 
Refer to note 5 to the financial statements for the directors’ 
disclosures of the critical accounting estimates and 
judgements related to the goodwill impairment assessment 
and note 13 for further details on the impairment test. 
Ongoing economic pressures on the high street continue to 
be considered as a trigger for an impairment assessment of 
the underlying value of the £819 million goodwill held by the 
Group which relates primarily to the acquisition in December 
2003 of the Debenhams Group by Debenhams plc. 
Store assets  
Refer to note 14 to the financial statements. 
Ongoing economic pressures on the high street continue to 
be considered as a trigger for an impairment assessment of 
the underlying value of store assets in particular those stores 
that have demonstrated lower profitability in recent years. 
We tested that the impairment model used by management 
is mathematically correct.  
We challenged the directors on the inputs into their 
impairment assessment calculations, including: 
• The directors’ key assumptions for short term growth 
rates, by comparing them to historical results and the 
prospects for the stores, business and industry; 
• The directors’ key assumptions for long term growth rates 
in the forecasts, by comparing them to historical results, 
and economic and industry forecasts; and 
• The discount rate, by assessing the cost of capital for the 
Company and comparable organisations, forming a view 
of risk premiums as appropriate. 
Having challenged these assumptions, we focused further 
discussions with management on stores where there were 
low profit margins or low headroom in the impairment 
assessment where we considered the risk of impairment  
to be greater. 
We also performed sensitivity analysis on the key 
assumptions including the short-term growth rates  
and discount rates. 
Defined benefit pension plans  
Refer to note 5 for the directors’ disclosures on the critical 
accounting estimates and judgements related to the defined 
benefit pension plans and note 23 for detailed disclosures in 
relation to these plans. 
The Group has two defined benefit pension plans which 
comprise total pension assets of £748 million and total 
pension liabilities of £751 million. The valuation of the 
pension liabilities requires significant levels of judgement 
and technical expertise in choosing appropriate 
assumptions. Changes in a number of the key assumptions 
(including inflation, discount rates, and mortality) can have 
a material impact on the calculation of the liability.
We evaluated and tested key assumptions and information 
prepared by the actuaries used in the determination of 
pension obligations, including using our specialist 
knowledge to assess the actuarial calculations. 
We obtained third party confirmations for the existence  
of assets and tested the valuation of plan assets. 
Both schemes are closed to new entrants; we tested the 
accuracy of census data used to calculate the liability at the 
date of each triennial valuation by checking details to the 
Group’s personnel/payroll documentation. The date of the 
last triennial valuation was 31 March 2011 with the results 
included in the 31 March 2012 financial statements. 
 
How we tailored the audit scope 
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, 
and the industry in which the Group operates.  
The Group is structured into two operating segments being, UK and International. The International operating segment 
includes operations in the Republic of Ireland, Denmark, sales to franchises and internet sales made outside of the UK.  
For the purposes of our audit of the Group consolidated position, Magasin du Nord is considered as a separate reporting unit. 
Whilst, based on its size relative to the Group, Magasin du Nord did not require an audit of its complete financial information, 
we deemed this the most appropriate method to gain the necessary audit evidence for the financial statements. The rest of 
the Group as a whole was subject to an audit of its complete financial information as a result of its size. 
All operations were audited from the UK with the exception of Magasin du Nord where we used PwC Denmark, who are 
familiar with the local laws and regulations, to perform this audit work. We determined the level of involvement we needed 
to have in the audit work of PwC Denmark to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been 
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole and that involvement included a conference 
call with PwC Denmark and local management to discuss the findings of the audit.  
   Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
88 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
’
REPORT TO TH E MEMBERS OF 
DEBENHAMS PLC (GROUP) CONTINUED 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
88 
Materiality 
The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and 
extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements 
as a whole.  
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £500,000 
(2013: £500,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. 
Going concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 80 in relation to going concern. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements 
using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to 
remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were 
signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the 
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information 
Companies Act 2006 opinions 
In our opinion: 
• The information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and 
• The information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 44 to 49 with respect to internal control and 
about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
  
Overall group materiality 
£5.5 million (2013: £7.9 million). 
How we determined it 
5% of profit before tax. 
Rationale for benchmark applied 
We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, in the 
absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate. 
• Information in the annual report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility. ‒  Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
‒  Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or 
‒  Is otherwise misleading. 
• The statement given by the directors on page 81,  
in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider the  
annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
members to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge  
of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility. 
• The section of the Annual Report on pages 51 to 53 , as 
required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of 
the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this 
responsibility. 
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
I N D EP EN D EN T A U D I T O R S ’ R EP O R T T O T H E M EM BER S  
O F D EBEN H A M S P L C ( G R O U P )C O N T I N U ED Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
89 
 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
89 
Adequacy of information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
Corporate governance statement 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not 
been prepared by the Company. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed 
our review.  
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the directors 
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.  
This includes an assessment of:  
• Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed;  
• The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
• The overall presentation of the financial statements.  
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, 
substantive procedures or a combination of both.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 30 August 2014 and 
on the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
John Ellis (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
23 October 2014 
  Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
90 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
90 
Earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent (expressed in pence per share) 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
  
 Restated
1
Note
52 weeks 
ended 
30 August  
2014 
£m  
52 weeks
ended 
31 August 
2013
£m
Revenue  3, 4  2,312.7 2,282.2
Cost of sales  (2,033.4) (1,982.6)
Gross profit  279.3 299.6
Distribution costs  (98.5) (97.5)
Administrative expenses  (52.2) (46.7)
Operating profit  6  128.6 155.4
Finance income 8  0.6 1.5
Total finance costs (23.4) (17.9)
 Analysed as:  
 Recurring finance costs 9  (18.9) (17.9)
 Non-recurring finance costs 9 (4.5) –
Profit before taxation  105.8 139.0
Taxation 10  (18.6) (23.1)
Profit for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent 87.2 115.9
Pence  
per share 
Restated
1
Pence 
per share
Basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent 12 7.1 9.2
Diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent 12 7.1 9.2
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
C ON S OL I D A T E D I NC OM E S T A T E M E N T
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
91 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPR EHENSIVE INCOME 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
91 
  
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2).
  Restated
1
Note 
52 weeks 
 ended 
30 August  
2014 
£m  
52 weeks
 ended 
31 August 
2013
£m
Profit for the financial year  87.2 115.9
   
Other comprehensive (expense)/income   
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement  
Remeasurements of pension schemes 23 8.8 30.6
Taxation relating to items which will not be reclassified 10 (1.6) (6.8)
  7.2 23.8
Items that may be reclassified to the income statement  
Currency translation differences (4.2) 3.6
Change in the valuation of available-for-sale investments 15 2.5 (0.8)
(Losses)/gains on cash flow hedges  (24.9) 11.9
Transferred to the income statement on cash flow hedges 9 2.7 3.3
Recycled and adjusted against cost of inventory 21 8.1 (7.6)
Taxation relating to items that may be reclassified 10 3.0 (1.8)
  (12.8) 8.6
Total other comprehensive (expense)/income  (5.6) 32.4
Total comprehensive income for the financial year 81.6 148.3
 
C ON S OL I D A T E D S T A T E M E N T OF C OM P R E H E N S I V E I NC OM E
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
92 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
As at 30 August 2014 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
92 
The financial statements on pages 90 to 134 were approved by the board on 23 October 2014 and were signed on its  
behalf by: 
Michael Sharp 
Chief Executive 
 
Note  
30 August  
2014 
£m  
31 August 
2013
£m
Assets  
Non-current assets  
Intangible assets 13  892.8 876.5
Property, plant and equipment 14  689.2 692.1
Available-for-sale investments  15  3.6 1.1
Derivative financial instruments 22  3.0 1.9
Trade and other receivables 17  15.6 16.8
Retirement benefit surplus 23 6.9 4.6
Deferred tax assets 24  51.0 69.3
 1,662.1 1,662.3
Current assets  
Inventories  16  345.7 357.9
Trade and other receivables 17  74.7 78.3
Derivative financial instruments 22  1.5 7.3
Cash and cash equivalents  18  64.4 27.0
 486.3 470.5
Liabilities  
Current liabilities  
Bank overdraft and borrowings 20  (202.1) (163.1)
Derivative financial instruments 22  (11.4) (2.1)
Trade and other payables 19  (529.3) (545.8)
Current tax liabilities (9.2) (25.3)
Provisions  26  (6.0) (5.6)
 (758.0) (741.9)
Net current liabilities  (271.7) (271.4)
Non-current liabilities  
Bank overdraft and borrowings 20  (223.8) (235.9)
Derivative financial instruments 22  (2.7) (3.7)
Deferred tax liabilities 24  (53.4) (59.1)
Other non-current liabilities 25  (332.7) (322.1)
Provisions  26  (1.1) (1.1)
Retirement benefit obligations 23 (9.3) (24.6)
 (623.0) (646.5)
Net assets 767.4 744.4
Shareholders’ equity  
Share capital 27  0.1 0.1
Share premium account 682.9 682.9
Merger reserve 1,200.9 1,200.9
Reverse acquisition reserve (1,199.9) (1,199.9)
Hedging reserve (7.9) 3.2
Other reserves (9.4) (7.7)
Retained earnings 100.7 64.9
Total equity 767.4 744.4
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S 
C ON S OL I D A T E D B A L A NC E S H E E T
As at 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
93 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
93 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
For a description of the nature and purpose of each reserve, together with an analysis of other reserves, see note 27. 
Note 
Share 
capital and 
share 
premium 
account 
£m
Merger 
reserve 
£m
Reverse 
acquisition 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
 
Other 
reserves  
£m 
Restated
1 
(Accumulated 
losses)/ 
retained 
earnings 
£m 
Restated
1
Total 
equity 
£m
Balance at 1 September 2012 683.0 1,200.9 (1,199.9) (2.6) (10.5) (9.9) 661.0
Profit for the financial year – – – – – 115.9 115.9
Other comprehensive income 
for the financial year – – – 5.8 2.8 23.8 32.4
Total comprehensive income for 
the financial year – – – 5.8 2.8 139.7 148.3
Share-based payment charge 28 – – – – – 1.5 1.5
Share option receipts – – – – – 0.1 0.1
Purchase of treasury shares 27 – – – – – (25.1) (25.1)
Dividends paid 11 – – – – – (41.4) (41.4)
Total transactions with owners – – – – – (64.9) (64.9)
Balance at 31 August 2013 683.0 1,200.9 (1,199.9) 3.2 (7.7) 64.9 744.4
Profit for the financial year – – – – – 87.2 87.2
Other comprehensive 
(expense)/income for the 
financial year 
  
 
–
 
 
–
 
 
– (11.1)
 
 
(1.7) 7.2 (5.6)
Total comprehensive 
(expense)/income for the 
financial year 
 
–
 
–
 
– (11.1) (1.7) 94.4 81.6
Share-based payment credit 28 – – – – – (1.8) (1.8)
Purchase of treasury shares 27 – – – – – (15.1) (15.1)
Dividends paid 11 – – – – – (41.7) (41.7)
Total transactions with owners
 
–
 
–
 
–
 
–
 
– (58.6) (58.6)
Balance at 30 August 2014 683.0 1,200.9 (1,199.9) (7.9) (9.4) 100.7 767.4
 
C O N S O LI D A T ED S T A T EM EN T O F C H A N G E S I N E Q U I T Y
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
94 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
C O N S O L I D A T E D CA S H F L O W S T A T E M E N T 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
94 
 
Note 
52 weeks 
 ended 
30 August  
2014 
£m  
52 weeks
 ended 
31 August 
2013
£m
Cash flows from operating activities  
Cash generated from operations 30 240.5 241.1
Finance income 1.2 0.4
Finance costs  (14.3) (12.9)
Tax paid (20.6) (29.3)
Net cash generated from operating activities 206.8 199.3
Cash flows from investing activities  
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (102.3) (113.7)
Purchase of intangible assets (25.7) (19.6)
Net cash used in investing activities  (128.0) (133.3)
Cash flows from financing activities  
Issue of senior notes 20 225.0 –
Drawdown of revolving credit facility 20 200.0 6.0
Repayment of term loan and revolving credit facilities 20 (410.7) –
Settlement/(repurchase) of term loan facility  13.3 (13.3)
Purchase of treasury shares  (15.1) (25.1)
Dividends paid  11 (41.7) (41.4)
Share option receipts – 0.1
Finance lease payments (2.2) (2.3)
Debt issue costs  (7.1) (0.5)
Net cash used in financing activities (38.5) (76.5)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 40.3 (10.5)
Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 24.1 34.6
Net cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 31 64.4 24.1
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
C O N S O LI D A T ED C A S H FL O W S T A T EM EN T
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
95 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
94 
1 General information 
Introduction 
Debenhams plc (“the Company”) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the 
Companies Act 2006 (Company number 5448421). The address of the registered office is 10 Brock Street, Regent’s Place, 
London NW1 3FG. 
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company. The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together the “Group” or the “Debenhams Group”) is the sale of fashion clothing and accessories, cosmetics and products  
for use in the home. The Group trades from department stores in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and Denmark, on the internet 
and has international franchise stores. 
The Group prepares its financial statements for the financial year ending on the nearest Saturday to 31 August of a given 
calendar year. 
The principal subsidiary undertakings within the Group during the financial year ended 30 August 2014 are disclosed in 
note 33. 
2 Accounting policies 
The Group’s principal accounting policies, as described below, have been consistently applied to all financial years presented, 
unless otherwise stated. A prior year restatement as a result of the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised is 
described on page 102. 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) including International Accounting Standards (“IAS”) and IFRS Interpretations 
Committee (“IFRS IC”) interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting 
under accounting standards as adopted for use in the EU. The consolidated financial statements for the financial years ended  
30 August 2014 and 31 August 2013 have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation  
of available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value 
through the income statement. 
The preparation of the financial statements, in conformity with IFRS, requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reporting amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of revenue and 
expenses during the reporting period. Although these results are based on management’s best knowledge of the amounts, 
events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates (see note 5). 
Consolidation 
The financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of Debenhams plc and all its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries 
include all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies. The existence and 
effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group 
controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which the Group has the power to control.  
They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases. 
On consolidation, inter company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies  
are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset 
transferred. On acquisition, accounting policies of the Company and its subsidiaries have been changed where these have a 
significant impact on the Group’s income statement or balance sheet to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the 
Group. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for 
goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of staff discounts, and is stated net of value added tax and 
other sales-related taxes. Revenue is also adjusted for the fair value of loyalty points awarded. Loyalty points awarded are 
reflected within liabilities until such time as they are redeemed. 
Revenue on department store sales of goods and commission on concession and consignment sales is recognised when 
goods are sold to the customer. Retail sales are usually in cash or by credit or debit card. Internet sales are recognised when 
the goods are despatched to the customer. Revenue from gift cards and gift vouchers sold by the Group is recognised on the 
redemption of the gift card or gift voucher. Revenue from sales to franchisees is recognised when the goods are despatched. 
Revenue from franchise fees is recognised when earned. 
It is the Group’s policy to sell its products to the end customer with a right of return. Accumulated experience is used to 
estimate and provide for such returns at the time of sale. 
  
 
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
96 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
95 
2 Accounting policies continued 
Segmental reporting 
IFRS 8 “Operating segments” requires segment information to be presented based on what is reported to the Chief 
Operating Decision Maker. The Group has identified the Executive Committee as its Chief Operating Decision Maker  
and has identified two operating segments, UK and International. 
Interest recognition 
Finance income and finance costs are recognised in the period to which they relate using the effective interest rate method.  
Dividend distribution 
A final dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Company’s and Group’s financial 
statements in the period in which the dividend is approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised  
when paid. 
Retirement benefit costs 
The Group operates various defined benefit and defined contribution or money purchase schemes for its employees.  
A defined benefit scheme is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on 
retirement. The Group accounts for pensions and other post-employment benefits under IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised.  
The pension scheme surplus or deficit recognised in the balance sheet represents the difference between the fair value  
of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date. This surplus or deficit  
is actuarially calculated on an annual basis using the projected unit credit method. The income statement is charged or 
credited with a net interest expense which is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or 
asset. Administration costs of pension funds are recognised as an expense when the administration services are performed. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income. A retirement benefit 
surplus is only recognised to the extent that it is expected to be recoverable in the future. 
A defined contribution scheme is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a separate entity. 
Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Any contributions unpaid at 
the balance sheet date are included as an accrual as at that date. The Group has no further payment obligations once the 
contributions have been paid. 
Share-based payments 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based awards to certain employees. A fair value for the equity-settled share awards  
is measured at the date of grant. The Group measures the fair value of each award using the Black-Scholes model where 
appropriate. 
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the  
Group’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market vesting conditions.  
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of awards that are expected to vest. Non-market 
performance and service conditions are included in assumptions about the number of awards that are expected to vest.  
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment 
to equity. 
When the awards are exercised, the Company may, if permitted, issue new shares, utilise shares held as treasury shares or 
those held within the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction 
costs (for new share issues) are credited to share capital (at nominal value) and share premium when the awards are exercised. 
Foreign exchange 
a) Functional and presentation currency 
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are 
presented in sterling, which is the Group’s presentation currency. 
  
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
97 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
96 
b) Group companies 
The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency 
are translated into the presentation currency as follows: 
Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet. 
Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of 
the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the 
dates of the transaction. 
Resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated as a separate component  
of equity. 
c) Transactions and balances 
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency at the exchange rates 
prevailing at the dates of the transactions.  
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation, at the balance 
sheet date exchange rate, of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the income 
statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the closing rates ruling at the 
balance sheet date. 
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets such as equities classified as available-for-sale are included in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated as a separate component of equity. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and the translation of inter company 
loans are presented in the income statement within finance income or costs. All other foreign exchange gains and losses are 
presented in the income statement within cost of sales. 
Taxation 
Taxation expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax. Taxation which relates to items recognised in other 
comprehensive income or equity is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity respectively. 
Current tax is based on taxable profits for the financial period using tax rates that are in force during the period. Taxable profit 
differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable  
or deductible in other financial years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets 
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. If deferred tax arises from initial recognition of  
an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither 
accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income  
tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which  
the temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the 
reversals of the temporary differences is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Leased assets 
a) Finance leases 
Leases of assets which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are classified as finance  
leases. Finance leases are classified as a financial liability and measured at amortised cost. Finance leases are capitalised  
at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments  
and depreciated over the useful economic life or the period of the lease. The resulting lease obligations are included 
in liabilities. 
Lease payments are apportioned between finance costs and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate 
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. 
   Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
98 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
97 
2 Accounting policies continued 
b) Operating leases 
All other leases are classified as operating leases. Rentals payable under operating leases, net of lease incentives, are charged 
to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease. 
Where property lease contracts contain guaranteed fixed minimum incremental rental payments, the total committed cost  
is determined and is calculated and amortised on a straight line basis over the life of the lease. 
Business combinations 
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. 
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity 
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. All costs directly attributable to an acquisition are 
expensed to the income statement. 
Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired in a subsidiary are initially measured at their fair values at the 
acquisition date, provided they meet the conditions set out in IFRS 3 Revised “Business combinations”. The excess of cost 
over the Group’s share of identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. If, after reassessment, the cost of 
acquisition is less than the fair value of assets acquired, the excess is immediately recognised in the income statement. 
Intangible assets 
a) Goodwill 
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s 
share of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary. Goodwill on acquisition  
of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortised but tested for impairment annually, or when trigger 
events occur, and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill represents the goodwill for a portfolio of sites which have been allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose 
of impairment testing on the basis of UK and other which is the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal 
management purposes. 
b) Other intangible assets 
Other intangible assets are held at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment. 
Internally generated software costs, where it is clear that the software developed is technically feasible and will be completed 
and that the software generated will generate economic benefit, are capitalised as an intangible asset. Included within 
intangible assets are assets in the course of construction. These assets include directly attributable costs to bring the assets 
into use and may include capitalised borrowing costs. Amortisation is provided at the following rates per annum to write off 
the costs of other intangible assets, less residual value, on a straight line basis from the date on which they are brought 
into use: 
Impairment testing 
Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill or intangible assets not ready for use, are not subject to 
amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. An impairment loss 
is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount 
is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are 
grouped by store, which is the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units).  
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that have been impaired are reviewed at each reporting date for possible reversal  
of the impairment. 
  
Acquired licences and trademarks  Up to 10.0% 
Internally generated software 10.0% to 33.3% 
Purchased software  10.0% to 33.3% 
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
99 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
98 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are held at historic purchase cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for 
impairment. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its 
working condition for its intended use. This may include capitalised borrowing costs. 
Depreciation is provided at the following rates per annum to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less residual 
value, on a straight line basis from the date on which they are brought into use: 
Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in the 
income statement.  
Included within property, plant and equipment are assets in the course of construction. These assets comprise stores  
which are under construction or modernisation, including costs directly attributable to bring the asset into use. Transfers  
to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment are made when the store opens. No depreciation is provided  
on stores or other assets under construction. 
Impairment testing 
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to depreciation and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are 
subject to depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds 
its recoverable amount. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing 
impairment, assets are grouped by store, which is the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-
generating units). Non-financial assets that have been impaired are reviewed at each reporting date for possible reversal of 
the impairment. 
Capitalisation of finance costs 
Finance costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost  
of the asset, gross of tax relief. Qualifying assets are those that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for  
their intended use. 
Available-for-sale investments 
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade-date, being the date on which the Group commits to 
purchase or sell the asset. The Group classifies its investments as available-for-sale financial assets in accordance with IAS 39 
“Financial instruments: recognition and measurement” (“IAS 39”). Available-for-sale financial investments are non-derivative 
assets that are either designated in this category or are not classified in the other financial instrument categories being “Fair 
value through profit or loss” or “Loans and receivables”. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends 
to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus 
any transaction costs and subsequently at fair value. 
The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active (and for 
unlisted securities), the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s 
length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option 
pricing models, making maximum use of market inputs and relying as little as possible on entity-specific inputs. The fair value  
of available-for-sale investments denominated in a foreign currency is calculated in that foreign currency and translated  
at the closing rate at the reporting date. Changes in the fair value of securities classified as “available for sale” are recognised  
in other comprehensive income. 
  
Freehold land  Not depreciated
Freehold buildings 1.0%
Long leasehold land and buildings including landlords’ fixtures and fittings 1.0% or life of lease if shorter 
Short leasehold land and buildings including landlords’ fixtures and fittings Life of lease 
Retail fixtures and fittings  4.0% to 25.0%
Office equipment 10.0% to 12.5%
Computer equipment 10.0% to 33.3%
Vehicles 25.0% or life of lease  Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
100 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
99 
2 Accounting policies continued 
An impairment test is performed annually on the carrying value of each investment. An impairment loss is recognised  
for the amount by which the asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised  
in the income statement. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value primarily using the retail method and represent goods for 
resale. The retail method is an industry specific accounting method used to derive a weighted average product cost. Product 
cost and retail values are aggregated at a departmental level to determine an average margin per department. These margins 
are then applied to the retail value of inventory to derive the cost of the inventory. 
Cost includes all direct expenditure and other attributable costs, net of volume and settlement supplier discounts, incurred in 
bringing inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses. This method intrinsically takes into account any stock loss or 
markdown to goods sold below cost. Concession inventories are not included within inventory held by the Group. 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost less provisions for impairment. 
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect 
all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the 
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate. The movement in 
the provision is recognised in the income statement. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at the bank and other short-term liquid investments with  
original maturities of three months or less.  
Borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at 
amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised  
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability  
for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. 
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs are recognised initially at fair value and are amortised over the term of the facilities using the effective 
interest rate on the committed amount of each facility. 
Debt repurchase 
The nominal value of debt repurchased is accounted for as a loan redemption, reducing net borrowings at the 
balance sheet date. 
Trade payables 
Trade payables, defined as financial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39, are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
All of the trade payables are non-interest bearing. 
Other payables and non-current liabilities 
Included within other payables are lease incentives received from landlords either through developers’ contributions  
or rent-free periods. These incentives are being credited to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term  
of the relevant lease. Other payables also relate to the spreading of charges in respect of leases with fixed annual increments 
in rent (escalating rent clauses) over the term of the relevant lease. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and where  
it is more likely than not an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably 
estimated. Provisions are measured at management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation  
at the balance sheet date. 
 
  
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
101 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
100 
Derivatives 
Derivatives comprise interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair 
value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. The method of 
recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as an effective hedging instrument 
and the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast 
transactions (cash flow hedges). 
At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items  
as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents  
its assessment, both at the inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging 
transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items. 
a) Cash flow hedges 
The effective portion of the changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is 
recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the relevant line  
of the income statement which will be affected by the underlying hedged item. Forward exchange contracts designated  
as cash flow hedges are de-designated and subsequently classified as “held for trading” when the underlying forecast 
transaction is recognised in the financial statements. 
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified and adjusted against the initial measurement of the underlying hedged  
item when the underlying hedged item is recognised on the balance sheet or in the income statement. 
When a hedged instrument expires, is sold or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge 
accounting is discontinued. Any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is held in equity until the forecast 
transaction occurs. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was  
reported in equity is immediately reclassified to the relevant line of the income statement which would have been affected  
by the forecast transaction. 
b) Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify 
for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement within finance costs. 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares in equity are shown as a deduction, net of tax,  
from the proceeds. 
Where the Company purchases its own ordinary shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental 
costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are 
cancelled or reissued. Where such ordinary shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly 
attributable incremental transaction costs together with the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to 
the Company’s equity holders. 
   Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
102 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
101 
2 Accounting policies continued 
New standards and interpretations 
IAS 19 “Employee benefits” has been revised and is effective from periods that commenced on or after 1 January 2013. 
The revised standard has retrospective application and consequently the relevant charges or income in the consolidated 
income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 August 2013 have been 
restated. As a result of the change, the expected return on pension scheme assets and the interest cost on pension scheme 
liabilities are replaced with a net interest expense calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability 
or asset. Administration costs of pension funds are now recognised as an expense when the administration services are 
performed. The table below sets out the changes to comparative amounts.  
There is no change to the retirement benefit obligation or to net assets as a result of the adoption of IAS 19 revised and 
therefore no restatement of the balance sheet is required. In accordance with IAS 1 (amended) “Financial statement 
presentation” a balance sheet as at 1 September 2012 has not been presented. 
The Group has also adopted the following standards and interpretations which became mandatory for the first time during 
the current financial year. The adoption of these standards has had no material impact on the Group.  
• Amendments to IFRS 7 “Financial instruments: Disclosures ‒ offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities”. This 
amendment includes new disclosures to facilitate comparison between those entities that prepare IFRS financial 
statements and those that prepare financial statements in accordance with US GAAP. 
• IFRS 13 “Fair value measurement”. IFRS 13 is effective from periods that commenced on or after 1 January 2013. IFRS 13 
has affected disclosures only and the Group has included the required disclosures in note 22. In accordance with the 
transitional provisions of IFRS 13, the Group has applied the new fair value measurement guidance prospectively and has 
not provided any comparative information for new disclosures. 
Other amendments which apply for the first time in the current financial year and do not have a material impact on the 
consolidated financial information of the Group are IFRS 10 “Consolidated financial statements”, IFRS 11 “Joint 
arrangements”, IFRS 12 “Disclosure of interests in other entities” and IFRIC 21 “Levies”. 
Standards and interpretations in issue, but not yet effective, are not expected to have a material effect on the Group’s net 
assets or results. 
  
 52 weeks to 31 August 2013 
 
Previously 
reported 
£m 
Application  
of IAS 19 
revised 
£m 
Restated 
£m 
Consolidated income statement 
  
Revenue 2,282.2
– 2,282.2 
Cost of sales (1,972.1)
(10.5) (1,982.6)
Gross profit 310.1 (10.5) 299.6
Distribution costs (97.4)
(0.1) (97.5)
Administrative expenses (44.7)
(2.0) (46.7)
Operating profit 168.0 (12.6) 155.4
Finance income 1.5
– 1.5 
Finance costs (15.5)
(2.4) (17.9)
Profit before taxation 154.0 (15.0) 139.0
Taxation (26.1) 3.0 (23.1)
Profit for the financial year 127.9 (12.0) 115.9
Remeasurements of pension schemes 15.6
15.0 30.6 
Taxation relating to the pension schemes which will not be reclassified (3.8)
(3.0) (6.8)
Items that may be reclassified to the income statement 8.6
– 8.6 
Total comprehensive income 148.3
– 148.3 
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
103 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
102 
3 Segmental reporting 
IFRS 8 “Operating segments” requires disclosure of the operating segments which are reported to the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker (“CODM”). The CODM has been identified as the Executive Committee, which includes the executive 
directors and other key management. It is the Executive Committee that has responsibility for planning and controlling 
the activities of the Group. 
The Group’s reportable segments have been identified as the UK and International. The segments are reported to the  
CODM to operating profit level, using the same accounting policies as applied to the Group accounts. Current assets,  
current liabilities and non-current liabilities are not reported to or reviewed by the CODM on the basis of operating  
segment as these are reviewed on a Group-wide basis and therefore these amounts are not presented below. 
Segmental analysis of results 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
Total segmental operating profit may be reconciled to total profit before taxation as follows: 
1
  Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
  
 
UK 
£m 
International  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Financial year ended 30 August 2014  
Gross transaction value  2,275.3 548.6 2,823.9
Concessions, consignments and staff discounts (373.2) (138.0) (511.2)
External revenue 1,902.1 410.6 2,312.7
Operating profit 96.3 32.3 128.6
Other segment items  
– Depreciation  78.9 8.6 87.5
– Amortisation  11.7 1.6 13.3
  
Financial year ended 31 August 2013   
Gross transaction value  2,254.8 522.0 2,776.8
Concessions, consignments and staff discounts (358.9) (135.7) (494.6)
External revenue 1,895.9 386.3 2,282.2
Operating profit – restated
1
 127.2 28.2 155.4
Other segment items  
– Depreciation  75.3 9.1 84.4
– Amortisation  8.7 1.5 10.2
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
Restated
1
31 August 
2013
£m 
Total operating profit 128.6 155.4
Finance income 0.6 1.5
Recurring finance costs (18.9) (17.9)
Non-recurring finance costs (4.5) –
Total profit before taxation 105.8 139.0 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
104 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
103 
3 Segmental reporting continued 
Revenues analysed by country, based on the customers’ location, are set out below: 
Non-current assets, which comprise intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and other receivables excluding financial 
assets analysed by country, are set out below: 
The 31 August 2013 comparatives have been restated to exclude financial assets. 
Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets analysed by operating segment are set out below: 
4 Gross transaction value 
Revenue from concession and consignment sales is required to be shown on a net basis, being the commission received 
rather than the gross value achieved on the sale. Management believes that gross transaction value, which presents revenue 
on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions, consignments and staff discounts, represents a good guide to the overall 
activity of the Group. 
A reconciliation of gross transaction value to external revenue is included in note 3. 
5 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, 
seldom equal the related actual results. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical 
experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the 
circumstances. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below. 
Estimated impairment of goodwill 
The Group tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2. 
The recoverable amount of cash-generating units is determined based on a value-in-use calculation. The method requires 
an estimate of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the net present value of 
the cash flows. Actual outcomes could vary; see note 13 for further details. 
  
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
United Kingdom  1,902.1 1,895.9
Denmark 175.8 157.8
Republic of Ireland 135.5 134.3
Rest of the world 99.3 94.2
Total external revenue 2,312.7 2,282.2
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
United Kingdom 1,532.9 1,515.6
Denmark 23.1 22.1
Republic of Ireland 25.6 30.3
Rest of the world 0.4 0.8
Total non-current assets 1,582.0 1,568.8
 
UK 
£m 
International 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Financial year ended 30 August 2014 109.1
9.8 118.9
Financial year ended 31 August 2013 124.0
9.6 133.6 
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Gross transaction value  2,823.9 2,776.8
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
105 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
104 
Estimated useful life of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
At the date of capitalising property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, the Group estimates the useful life of the 
asset based on management’s judgement and experience. Due to the significance of capital investment to the Group, 
variances between actual and estimated useful economic lives could impact results both positively and negatively. 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value primarily using the retail method and represent goods for 
resale. The retail method is an industry specific accounting method used to derive a weighted average product cost. Product 
cost and retail values are aggregated at a departmental level to determine an average margin per department. These margins 
are then applied to the retail value of inventory to derive the cost of inventory. This method intrinsically takes into account any 
stock loss or markdown to goods sold below cost. Concession inventories are not included within inventory held by the Group. 
Retirement benefits 
The Group’s defined benefit schemes’ pension liability/asset, which is assessed each period by actuaries, is based on 
key assumptions including discount rates, mortality rates, inflation, future salary costs and pension costs. These assumptions, 
individually or collectively, may be different to actual outcomes; refer to note 23 for further details. 
A retirement benefit surplus is only recognised to the extent that it is expected to be recoverable in the future. 
Taxation and deferred taxation 
The Group is subject to income taxes in the UK, the Republic of Ireland, Denmark and Hong Kong. At each financial year end, 
judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues 
based on the best estimates at the balance sheet date. 
Determining the deferred tax on developers’ contributions and other provisions requires an element of judgement. The Group 
recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the best estimate at the balance sheet date. 
Where the final tax outcome of the above matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences 
will impact the current tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such determination is made. The final outcome of 
some of these tax items may give rise to material income statement and/or cash flow movements. 
Share-based payments 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. The fair value determined at the grant date is 
expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period. The fair value is calculated using the appropriate fair value model 
with the estimated level of vesting being reviewed annually by management. The key assumptions of this model are set out 
in note 28. 
6 Operating profit 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
  
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
Restated
1
31 August 
2013
£m 
The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit: 
The amounts of inventory written down during the financial year 10.4 12.0
Cost of inventory recognised as an expense  1,165.0 1,150.2
Employment costs (note 7)  369.2 375.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 14) 87.5 84.4
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 13)  13.3 10.2
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.4 0.2
Operating lease rentals 216.3 206.9
Foreign exchange gains (1.3) (7.9)
Auditors’ remuneration  0.5 0.5 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
106 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
105 
6 Operating profit continued 
Services provided by the Company’s auditors and network firms 
During the financial year the Group obtained the following services from the Company’s auditors and its associates as  
detailed below: 
Other non-audit services for the financial year includes £73,000 relating to the senior notes issue. 
It is cost effective for the Group that such other services are provided by its auditors in view of their knowledge of the  
Group’s affairs. 
7 Employees 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
Information concerning directors’ remuneration, shares and share interests is included in the directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 54 to 77, which forms part of these financial statements. 
Key management compensation 
Members of the Executive Committee (which includes the executive directors) and the non-executive directors are deemed  
to be key management. During the financial year key management consisted of 15 members (2013:13 members).  
  
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Audit services  
Annual audit fees for the Company and the consolidated accounts 0.2 0.2
Other services  
Audit of subsidiary companies 0.1 0.1
Tax advisory services – 0.1
Other non-audit services 0.2 0.1
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
Restated
1
31 August 
2013
£m 
Wages and salaries 334.4 337.6
Social security costs  20.5 21.4
Other pension costs (note 23) 16.1 14.7
Share-based payments (note 28)  (1.8) 1.5
Employment costs  369.2 375.2
 
Number Number 
Average monthly number of employees (including key management): 
– Full time  7,802 8,086
– Part time  20,431 22,077
Total 28,233 30,163
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Short-term employee benefits 3.5 2.9
Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.4
Share-based payments (1.2) 1.1
 2.8 4.4
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
107 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
106 
8 Finance income 
9 Finance costs 
1 
Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
10 Taxation 
Analysis of taxation charge to the income statement for the financial year: 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
  
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Interest on bank deposits  0.2 0.4
Other financing income 0.4 1.1
 0.6 1.5
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
Restated
1
31 August 
2013
£m 
Recurring finance costs  
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 10.9 10.8
Interest payable on senior notes 1.9 –
Cash flow hedges reclassified and reported in the income statement 2.7 3.3
Amortisation of issue costs on loans and senior notes (note 20) 2.0 2.7
Interest payable on finance leases  0.2 0.1
Net interest on net defined benefit pension schemes liability (note 23) 0.6 2.4
Other financing costs 1.2 –
Capitalised finance costs – qualifying assets (note 14) (0.6) (1.4)
 18.9 17.9
Non-recurring finance costs  
Unamortised issue costs written off on repayment of term loan  
and revolving credit facilities (note 20) 4.5 –
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
Restated
1
31 August 
2013
£m 
Current taxation  
Current taxation charge on profit for the financial year 7.7 36.7
Adjustments in respect of prior financial years  (0.8) (10.8)
Current taxation charge  6.9 25.9
Deferred taxation  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 13.0 (5.9)
Pension cost relief in excess of pension charge (0.4) (0.9)
Adjustments in respect of prior financial years 0.1 1.7
Effect of change in current tax rate on the net deferred tax asset recognised at the beginning 
of the financial year (1.0) 2.3
Deferred taxation charge/(credit) (note 24)  11.7 (2.8)
Taxation charge for the financial year  18.6 23.1 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
108 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
107 
10 Taxation continued 
The effective tax rate for the financial year is lower at 17.6% (2013: 16.6% (restated
1
)) than the rate of corporation tax in the UK 
of 22.2% (2013: 23.6%). The differences are explained below: 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
The Finance Act 2013 included legislation reducing the main rate of corporation tax from 23.0% to 21.0% from 1 April 2014 
with a further reduction in the main rate of corporation tax to 20.0% from 1 April 2015. 
The effect of the reduction in the corporation tax rate enacted in the Finance Act 2013 has been to reduce the net deferred 
tax asset recognised at 31 August 2013 by approximately £1.0 million. This £1.0 million decrease has been recognised in line 
with the treatment of the assets and liabilities giving rise to the net deferred tax liability. 
One of the Group’s UK subsidiaries, Debenhams Properties Limited, changed its reporting framework from UK GAAP to FRS 
101 “Reduced disclosure framework” (“FRS 101”) at the beginning of the financial year. FRS 101 is one of the new accounting 
frameworks being adopted by all companies throughout the UK and Ireland. A consequence of the adoption of FRS 101 is that 
income from lease incentives held in that subsidiary is spread over a longer period than previously was the case under UK 
GAAP. This has resulted in a temporary reduction in the current taxation charge in this financial year. 
In addition to the amount (credited)/charged to the income statement, taxation movements recognised to other 
comprehensive income were as follows: 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
  
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
Restated
1
31 August 
2013
£m 
Profit before taxation  105.8 139.0
Profit on ordinary activities at standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 22.2% (2013: 23.6%) 23.5 32.8
Effects of:  
Permanent differences (0.7) –
Overseas tax rates 1.1 0.5
Utilisation of tax losses  (3.7) (4.7)
Non-qualifying depreciation and lease transactions 1.7 1.5
Effect on deferred taxation of the change in current tax rate (2.6) 2.1
Adjustments in respect of prior financial years (0.7) (9.1)
Taxation charge for the financial year  18.6 23.1
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
Restated
1
31 August 
2013
£m 
Taxation relating to items that will not be reclassified to the income statement 
Current taxation   
Pension schemes (2.3) (2.5)
Deferred taxation  
Remeasurements of pension schemes 3.9 9.3
Total taxation relating to items that will not be reclassified to the income statement 1.6 6.8
Taxation relating to items that may be reclassified to the income statement 
Deferred taxation  
(Losses)/gains on cash flow hedges (5.1) 2.7
Transferred to the income statement on cash flow hedges 0.5 0.8
Recycled and adjusted against cost of inventory 1.6 (1.7)
Total taxation relating to items that may be reclassified to the income statement (3.0) 1.8
Total taxation (credit)/charge to other comprehensive income (1.4) 8.6
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
109 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
108 
11 Dividends 
A final dividend of 2.4 pence per share (2013: 2.3 pence per share) was paid during the financial year in respect of the financial 
year ended 31 August 2013, together with an interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share (2013: 1.0 pence per share) in respect of 
the financial year ended 30 August 2014. The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 
30 August 2014 of 2.4 pence per share (2013: 2.4 pence per share), which will absorb an estimated £29.4 million (2013: £29.4 
million) of shareholders’ equity. It will be paid on 9 January 2015 to shareholders who are on the register of members at close 
of business on 5 December 2014. No liability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of the final dividend as it was 
not approved at the balance sheet date. 
12 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year, excluding any shares purchased by the Company and held as 
treasury shares.  
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion 
of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The Group has one class of dilutive potential ordinary shares, those share options 
granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the 
financial year. 
Basic and diluted earnings per share 
 
 
Number 
m 
Number  
m 
Number 
 m 
Number 
m 
Weighted average number of shares 1,227.1 1,227.1 1,255.1 1,255.1
Shares held by ESOP (weighted) (0.3) (0.3) (0.6) (0.6)
Shares issuable (weighted) – 1.9 – 2.1
Weighted average number of shares used in calculating earnings 
per share  1,226.8 1,228.7 1,254.5 1,256.6
 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
  
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Final paid 2.4 pence (2013: 2.3 pence) per £0.0001 share 
– Settled in cash 29.4 28.9
Interim paid 1.0 pence (2013: 1.0 pence) per £0.0001 share 
– Settled in cash 12.3 12.5
 41.7 41.4
 30 August 2014 
Restated
1 
31 August 2013 
 
Basic 
£m 
Diluted  
£m 
Basic  
£m 
Diluted 
£m 
Profit for the financial year after taxation 87.2 87.2 115.9 115.9
 
Pence 
per share 
Pence  
per share 
Pence  
per share 
Pence 
per share 
Earnings per share 7.1 7.1 9.2 9.2 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
110 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
109 
13 Intangible assets 
Expenditure during the financial year on assets in the course of construction, included in software, was as follows: 
Amortisation of intangible assets 
Amortisation on the Group’s intangible assets has been charged to the income statement as follows: 
 
  
 
Goodwill 
£m 
Acquired 
licences and 
trademarks 
£m 
Internally 
generated 
software  
£m 
Purchased 
software  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost   
At 1 September 2012  818.5 7.2 84.3 12.1 922.1
Additions – – 19.3 1.7 21.0
Exchange rate movement 0.5 – 0.5 0.1 1.1
Disposals and write-offs – – (2.8) (0.2) (3.0)
At 31 August 2013 819.0 7.2 101.3 13.7 941.2
Additions – – 23.6 6.4 30.0
Exchange rate movement (0.5) – (0.2) – (0.7)
Disposals and write-offs – – (5.7) (3.2) (8.9)
At 30 August 2014 818.5 7.2 119.0 16.9 961.6
Accumulated amortisation   
At 1 September 2012 – 2.3 46.8 8.1 57.2
Charge for the financial year – 0.7 8.0 1.5 10.2
Exchange rate movement – – 0.4 (0.1) 0.3
Disposals and write-offs – – (2.8) (0.2) (3.0)
At 31 August 2013 – 3.0 52.4 9.3 64.7
Charge for the financial year – 0.7 10.7 1.9 13.3
Exchange rate movement – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Disposals and write-offs – – (5.7) (3.2) (8.9)
At 30 August 2014 – 3.7 57.1 8.0 68.8
Net book value   
At 30 August 2014 818.5 3.5 61.9 8.9 892.8
At 31 August 2013 819.0 4.2 48.9 4.4 876.5
At 1 September 2012 818.5 4.9 37.5 4.0 864.9
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August
2013
£m 
Assets in the course of construction  15.8 15.4
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August
2013
£m 
Included within:  
– Cost of sales 11.0 8.4
– Distribution costs  0.3 0.2
– Administrative expenses  2.0 1.6
 13.3 10.2
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
111 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
110 
Intangible assets includes the following assets held under finance leases: 
Impairment test for goodwill 
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may  
be impaired. Goodwill represents the goodwill for a portfolio of sites, which has been allocated to cash-generating units 
(“CGUs”) according to the level at which management monitors that goodwill. This allocation has been changed in the current 
financial year to align CGUs to the way in which goodwill is now monitored by management. The comparatives have been 
restated to reflect this change. The CGUs are set out below: 
For the purposes of this impairment review, the recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined based on value-in-use 
calculations. These cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five year  
period. The five year plan is built up using management’s previous experience and incorporates management’s view of current 
economic conditions and trading expectations. Management determined sales growth in the five year period to be a key 
assumption. The annual sales growth ranges from 0.0% to 4.0% during the five year period. Cash flows beyond the five year 
period are extrapolated based on the assumption of 2.0% (2013: 2.0%) growth after year five. The growth rates do not exceed 
the long-term average growth rate for the retail sector in which the CGUs operate. The post-tax discount rate used to 
calculate the value-in-use was 7.2% (2013: 7.4%) and reflects the specific risks in the retail business. The pre-tax discount  
rate is 7.6% (2013: 7.6%). 
Management determined the gross margin for each CGU based on performance of individual stores and its expectations  
for the market development. The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry 
reports. The discount rates used are post-tax and risk-free rates. Based on the value-in-use calculations, there is substantial 
headroom against each of the operating segments and a reasonable change in the key assumption used would not cause an 
impairment to goodwill. 
As a result of the impairment review, as at 30 August 2014 no impairment of goodwill has been required (2013: £nil). 
 Purchased software 
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Cost 3.8 1.5
Accumulated amortisation (0.5) (1.3)
Net book value  3.3 0.2
 
    
UK  
£m 
Other  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Goodwill    
At 30 August 2014  793.5 25.0 818.5
At 31 August 2013  793.5 25.5 819.0 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
112 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
111 
14 Property, plant and equipment 
 
  
 Land and buildings   
 
Freehold 
£m 
Long
 leasehold 
£m 
Short leasehold 
fixtures and 
fittings  
£m 
Vehicles, 
fixtures and 
equipment  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost   
At 1 September 2012 1.6 7.1 352.6 882.1 1,243.4
Additions – 0.6 12.2 99.8 112.6
Exchange rate movements – – 1.0 5.5 6.5
Disposals and write-offs – – (0.1) (61.3) (61.4)
At 31 August 2013 1.6 7.7 365.7 926.1 1,301.1
Additions – – 15.0 73.9 88.9
Exchange rate movements – – (1.3) (5.8) (7.1)
Disposals and write-offs – – (0.7) (35.0) (35.7)
At 30 August 2014 1.6 7.7 378.7 959.2 1,347.2
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 September 2012 0.2 0.7 112.1 468.8 581.8
Charge for the financial year – 0.3 15.1 69.0 84.4
Exchange rate movements – – 0.4 3.6 4.0
Disposals and write-offs – – (0.1) (61.1) (61.2)
At 31 August 2013 0.2 1.0 127.5 480.3 609.0
Charge for the financial year – 0.2 15.3 72.0 87.5
Exchange rate movements – – (0.4) (3.8) (4.2)
Disposals and write-offs – – (0.4) (33.9) (34.3)
At 30 August 2014 0.2 1.2 142.0 514.6 658.0
Net book value   
At 30 August 2014 1.4 6.5 236.7 444.6 689.2
At 31 August 2013 1.4 6.7 238.2 445.8 692.1
At 1 September 2012 1.4 6.4 240.5 413.3 661.6
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
113 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
112 
Expenditure during the financial year on assets in the course of construction included primarily in vehicles, fixtures and 
equipment was as follows: 
Property, plant and equipment includes the following assets held under finance leases included primarily in vehicles, fixtures 
and equipment was as follows: 
Contractual commitments at 30 August 2014 were £1.3 million (2013: £3.8 million). 
Capitalised finance costs 
Finance costs capitalised on qualifying assets included in additions amounted to £0.6 million (2013: £1.4 million). Accumulated 
finance costs capitalised included in the cost of property, plant and equipment net of disposals amounted to £2.0 million 
(2013: £1.4 million). The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is 3.3% 
(2013: 3.1%). 
15 Financial assets – available-for-sale investments 
The Group holds 10% (2013: 10%) of the issued shares of Ermes Department Stores Limited (“Ermes”), a company listed 
on the Cyprus Stock Exchange whose shares are quoted in Euros. The market value of the shares at 30 August 2014 was 
£3.6 million (2013: £1.1 million). Ermes is a company that is registered and trades in Cyprus. 
16 Inventories 
  
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Assets in the course of construction  33.7 53.9
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Cost 9.1 9.1
Accumulated depreciation (4.0) (2.7)
Net book value  5.1 6.4
 £m 
At 1 September 2012 1.9
Decrease in the market value charged to the statement of comprehensive income (0.8)
At 31 August 2013 1.1
Increase in the market value credited to the statement of comprehensive income 2.5
At 30 August 2014 3.6
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Items held for resale 345.7 357.9 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
114 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
113 
17 Trade and other receivables 
Other receivables include contractual lease deposits of £15.6 million (2013: £16.6 million). 
At the year end, £22.9 million (2013: £18.1 million) of the trade receivables were denominated in sterling, £0.4 million 
(2013: £0.2 million) in Euros and £2.5 million (2013: £2.2 million) in Danish krone. 
The movement in the allowance for doubtful debts may be analysed as follows: 
Trade receivables which are past their due date but not impaired amount to £4.8 million (2013: £1.9 million). Trade  
receivables which are past their due date are provided based on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of  
goods. At 30 August 2014, £0.5 million (2013: £0.7 million) of trade receivables were past their due date and impaired. 
18 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Non-current  
Other receivables 15.6 16.8
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Current  
Trade receivables 25.8 20.5
Allowance for doubtful debts  (0.5) (0.7)
 25.3 19.8
Other receivables 2.1 1.1
Prepayments and accrued income 47.3 57.4
 74.7 78.3
 £m 
At 1 September 2012 (0.5)
Increase in provision (0.2)
At 31 August 2013 (0.7)
Decrease in provision 0.2
At 30 August 2014 (0.5)
 
30 August  
2014 
£m 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand 64.4 27.0
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
115 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
114 
19 Trade and other payables 
20 Bank overdraft and borrowings 
1 
Revolving credit facility is stated net of unamortised issue costs of £3.1 million (2013: £2.5 million). 
2
  Senior notes include accrued interest of £1.9 million (2013: £nil) and are stated net of unamortised issue costs of £4.4 million (2013: £nil).  
Interest on the senior notes is payable semi-annually. 
3 
Term loan facility is stated net of unamortised issue costs of £nil (2013: £3.7 million). 
On 2 July 2014, Debenhams plc issued £225.0 million of seven year senior notes at a coupon rate of 5.25%. On 2 July 2014, the 
Group cancelled its existing term loan and revolving credit facility and drew down on a new revolving credit facility amounting 
to £425.0 million. This new revolving credit facility is due to expire in October 2018 and contains an option to request an 
extension to October 2019. 
At 30 August 2014, the Group’s drawings under credit facilities outstanding comprised revolving credit facility drawings 
of £200.0 million (2013: £160.9 million revolving credit facility drawings and £236.5 million term loan). 
During the current and prior financial years, the Group has complied with its covenants relating to its credit facilities. 
Refinancing costs of £7.9 million were incurred during the year ended 30 August 2014 in respect of the negotiation of the new 
credit facility and the issue of the senior notes, which will be amortised over the term of the corresponding borrowings at the 
effective interest rate based on the expected amount of those borrowings. The amortisation charge relating to the issue costs 
of the term loan and revolving credit facility was £1.9 million for the year ended 30 August 2014 (2013: £2.7 million) and the 
amortisation charge relating to the issue costs of the senior notes was £0.1 million for the year ended 30 August 2014 (2013: 
£nil). The write-off of unamortised issue costs in relation to the cancelled credit facilities was £4.5 million for the year ended  
30 August 2014. This has been separately disclosed in the income statement. 
  
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Trade payables 326.2 345.0
Other payables 67.0 67.9
Taxation and social security 33.6 24.4
Accruals  98.6 103.7
Deferred income  3.9 4.8
 529.3 545.8
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Current  
Bank overdraft – 2.9
Revolving credit facility
1
 196.9 158.4
Senior notes
2
 1.9 –
Lease obligations 3.3 1.8
Total current borrowings 202.1 163.1
Non-current  
Term loan facility
3
 – 232.8
Senior notes
2
 220.6 –
Lease obligations 3.2 3.1
Total non-current borrowings 223.8 235.9
Total current and non-current borrowings 425.9 399.0 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
116 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
115 
20 Bank overdraft and borrowings continued 
Finance lease obligations 
Finance lease obligations relate mainly to software, vehicles, fixtures and equipment leased under hire purchase contracts. 
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 
The present value of finance lease obligations may be analysed as follows: 
Maturity of borrowings 
The maturities of the Group’s borrowings at carrying value are as follows: 
Interest rates 
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows: 
Borrowing facilities 
The Group has the following undrawn committed facilities available at 30 August 2014, in respect of which all conditions 
precedent had been met as at that date: 
 
  
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Not later than one year 3.5 2.0
Later than one year but not later than five years 3.2 3.2
 6.7 5.2
Interest element of future instalments (0.2) (0.3)
Present value of finance lease obligations 6.5 4.9
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Not later than one year 3.3 1.8
Later than one year but not later than five years 3.2 3.1
 6.5 4.9
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Amounts falling due:  
In one year or less or on demand  202.1 163.1
In more than one year but not more than two years 2.9 1.8
In more than two years but not more than five years 0.3 234.1
In more than five years 220.6 –
 425.9 399.0
 
30 August 
 2014 
 % 
31 August
 2013
 % 
Bank overdraft  N/A 1.88
Term loan facility  N/A 2.24
Revolving credit facility 2.50 2.24
Senior notes 5.25 N/A
Lease obligations  3.52 4.09
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Expiring between two and five years 225.0 217.6
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
117 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
116 
21 Financial risk management 
a) Financial risks and treasury management 
The Group conducts its treasury activities within the remit of a treasury policy, which outlines approved policies, procedures  
and authority levels. The board delegates its responsibility for reviewing and approving treasury policy to the Audit 
Committee. Reports are prepared monthly covering all areas of treasury activity and policy compliance and are reviewed by 
the Chief Financial Officer. The board and Audit Committee receive regular reports covering treasury activities and policy 
compliance. Group treasury manages the Group’s funding requirements and financial risks in line with the agreed treasury 
policies and procedures. 
The Group’s financial instruments, other than derivatives, primarily include borrowings, cash and liquid resources, available-
for-sale assets, trade receivables and trade payables. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage liquidity 
or raise finance for the Group. 
Group treasury uses derivative financial instruments to manage its interest rate risks associated with the Group’s financing  
and currency risk arising from the Group’s operations. The derivatives used are mainly interest rate swaps and forward  
currency contracts. 
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, which include: 
• Funding and liquidity risk 
• Credit risk 
• Foreign exchange risk 
• Interest rate risk 
• Other price risk 
The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise 
potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge 
certain risk exposures. 
The policies and strategies for managing these risks are summarised as follows: 
i) Funding and liquidity risk 
Prudent liquidity risk management implies sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an 
adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of 
the underlying business, Group treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available. 
The Group finances its operations by a combination of retained profits, debt finance and leases. Group treasury monitors 
rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash or working capital facility to meet the 
cash flow and covenant requirements of the Group and the current business plan. 
Surplus cash held by the operating entities over and above balances required for working capital management are transferred 
to Group treasury. Group treasury invests surplus cash in interest bearing current accounts, term deposits, money market 
deposits and marketable securities, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to provide sufficient 
headroom as determined by the above-mentioned forecasts. 
   Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
118 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
117 
21 Financial risk management continued 
a) Financial risks and treasury management continued 
i) Funding and liquidity risk continued 
The table below shows the maturity analysis of the Group’s net contractual undiscounted cash flows in respect of  
non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date. 
 
ii) Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk that the Group may suffer financial loss through default by customers or financial institutions. The Group 
has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Sales to retail customers are made in cash or by credit and debit cards; 
wholesale sales of products to franchisees are made to customers with an appropriate credit history and, where possible, are 
covered by letters of credit and/or credit insurance. Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high credit-
quality financial institutions. The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution. 
The Group’s policy requires that cash surpluses are placed on deposit for no longer than three months and only with 
counterparties with a credit rating of A- or A3 or higher as assigned by Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s respectively. 
Exceptions to this policy require board approval. 
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be £115.5 million (2013: £75.0 million) being the Group’s total financial assets 
as shown in note 22. 
  
 
Less than 
one year 
£m 
One to  
two years  
£m 
Two to  
five years  
£m 
More than 
five years 
£m 
At 30 August 2014   
Non-derivative financial liabilities 
  
Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 
(200.0)
– 
– 
(225.0)
Interest payments due on borrowings 
(12.2) (11.8) (35.4) 
(23.6)
Finance lease liabilities 
(3.5) (2.9) (0.3) 
–
Trade and other payables 
(468.7)
– – –
Derivative financial assets and liabilities 
  
Interest rate swaps 
  
– Net settled derivative contracts – payments (1.5) (1.0) (0.1) 
–
Forward foreign exchange contracts 
  
– Gross settled derivative contracts – receipts 
342.4 198.7 114.9 –
– Gross settled derivative contracts – payments (352.0) (199.8) 
(114.7) –
Total 
(695.5) (16.8) (35.6) (248.6)
 
Less than 
one year 
£m 
One to  
two years  
£m 
Two to  
five years  
£m 
More than 
five years 
£m 
At 31 August 2013   
Non-derivative financial liabilities   
Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities (163.7) – (236.5) –
Interest payments due on borrowings (5.3) (5.3) (6.2) –
Finance lease liabilities (2.0) (1.9) (1.3) –
Trade and other payables (483.0) – – –
Derivative financial assets and liabilities   
Interest rate swaps   
–  Net settled derivative contracts – payments (2.9) (2.2) (2.8) –
Forward foreign exchange contracts   
–  Gross settled derivative contracts – receipts 343.8 84.2 – –
– Gross settled derivative contracts – payments (337.9) (83.2) – –
Total (651.0) (8.4) (246.8) –
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
119 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
118 
iii) Foreign exchange risk 
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily 
with respect to the US dollar, the Euro, the Chinese yuan and the Danish krone. 
To manage the foreign exchange transaction risk, entities in the Group use forward currency contracts transacted by Group 
treasury. Foreign exchange risk arises when commercial transactions are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s 
functional currency. Group treasury is responsible for managing the exposure in each foreign currency by using external 
forward currency contracts with a settlement of up to three (2013: two) years. Forecast cash flows are hedged to the extent that 
those cash flows are deemed highly probable. The Group regularly reviews the need to hedge foreign exchange exposure 
arising from the profits, assets and liabilities of its non-sterling businesses, hedging those exposures to the extent that they 
are considered appropriate for hedging. 
The Group manages foreign exchange translation risk by entering into monthly foreign exchange swap contracts to offset 
month by month currency translation impacts within the Group, where appropriate. 
A loss of £8.1 million (2013: gain of £7.6 million) was reclassified from equity to the income statement within cost of inventory 
during the year in respect of forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges. 
The notional value of open forward foreign exchange contracts at 30 August 2014 was £658.2 million (2013: £420.4 million). 
The net fair value losses on open forward foreign exchange contracts held in the hedging reserve at 30 August 2014 were 
£6.1 million (2013: gains of £5.3 million). This will be recycled and adjusted against the initial measurement of the acquisition 
cost of inventory over the next three years. 
During the current and prior financial years there were no contracts reclassified to “held for trading” due to cash flow hedges  
being ineffective. 
iv) Interest rate risk 
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowing facilities issued at variable rates that expose the Group to cash 
flow interest rate risk. On 2 July 2014 Debenhams plc issued £225.0 million of seven year senior notes at a coupon rate of 
5.25% which reduced the Group’s exposure to cash flow interest rate risk.  
The interest exposure of the Group is managed within the constraints of the Group’s business plan and the financial covenants 
under its facilities. The aim is to reduce exposure to interest rate movements and to take advantage of low interest rates by 
hedging an appropriate amount of interest rate exposure whilst maintaining the flexibility to minimise early termination costs. 
The Group’s interest rate hedging strategy is to achieve a target fixed percentage of 75%, with a 15% tolerance (60% - 90%). 
The impact of movements in interest rates is managed through the use of floating rate debt and interest rate swaps.  
These are usually matched with specific loans for a period of time up to their maturity or call date. 
The Group’s main interest rate exposure is from the floating rate loans under the credit facilities. At the year end the 
percentage of the Group’s total borrowings subject to fixed interest rates (either directly or as a result of hedging) was 100.0% 
(2013: 81.4%). This is temporarily outside the 60% - 90% policy range as a result of the recent refinancing but will revert to 
policy over the next 12 months. 
Interest rate swaps 
The Group’s interest rate swaps switch interest from floating rates to fixed rates. The Group’s interest rate swap portfolio  
is summarised as follows: 
The notional principal amount of interest rate swaps at 30 August 2014 was £200.0 million (2013: £330.0 million). The net gains 
and losses on these swaps, which are deferred in equity, will reverse through interest in the income statement over the life of 
the swaps. During the financial year a loss of £2.7 million (2013: £3.3 million) was reclassified and reported in the income 
statement in respect of interest rate swaps. 
  
 
Notional 
£m 
Rate 
% Maturity 
Interest rate swaps 200.0 1.050% - 1.715% November 2014 to October 2016 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
120 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
119 
21 Financial risk management continued 
a) Financial risks and treasury management continued 
iv) Interest rate risk continued 
Borrowings and cash and cash equivalents 
The interest rate profiles of borrowings after taking account of interest rate swaps, swapped from floating to fixed rates, used 
to manage interest were as follows: 
1
 Unamortised debt issue costs of £7.5 million (2013: £6.2 million) are excluded from the borrowings above. 
Fixed sterling borrowings comprise the hedged portion of the debt facility of £200.0 million (2013: £330.0 million), senior notes 
of £225.0 million (2013: £nil) and finance lease liabilities of £6.5 million (2013: £4.9 million) at 30 August 2014. The weighted 
average interest rate on the fixed rate borrowings as at 30 August 2014 was 4.4% (2013: 3.3%), with the weighted average time 
for which rates are fixed being 4.3 years (2013: 3.2 years). Floating rate borrowings are interest bearing at interest rates based 
on LIBOR. Cash deposits are interest bearing at rates based on LIBID or relevant base rates. Non-interest bearing cash refers 
to cash in stores or in transit. 
Floating rate borrowings have been classified as fixed if there were derivative financial instruments hedging the floating rate 
interest. 
The interest rate profiles of cash and cash equivalents were as follows: 
v) Other price risk 
The Group is exposed to price risk arising from equity investments. 
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to equity price risk at the reporting date. At the 
year end, if the market value of equity investments had been 10% higher/lower, when all other variables were held constant: 
• Net profit would have been unaffected as the equity investments were classified as available-for-sale investments 
 
• Other reserves would decrease/increase by £0.4 million (2013: £0.1 million) for the Group as a result of the changes in the 
fair value of available-for-sale investments 
The above movement in rates is considered to represent reasonable possible changes. Other larger or smaller changes 
are also possible. 
  
 30 August 2014 31 August 2013 
 
Fixed 
£m 
Floating 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Fixed  
£m 
Floating  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Borrowings   
Sterling
1
 (431.5) – (431.5) (334.9) (70.3) (405.2)
 30 August 2014 31 August 2013 
 
Floating 
£m 
Non-interest 
bearing 
£m 
Total 
£m 
 Floating  
£m 
Non-interest 
bearing  
£m 
Total 
£m 
Financial assets   
Sterling 28.5 29.4 57.9 0.1 22.8 22.9
Euro 0.1 2.7 2.8 0.4 1.8 2.2
US dollar 0.6 0.7 1.3 0.1 0.5 0.6
Danish krone 1.2 – 1.2 – – –
Chinese yuan 0.1 – 0.1 0.7 – 0.7
Other 0.1 1.0 1.1 0.2 0.4 0.6
Total financial assets 30.6 33.8 64.4 1.5 25.5 27.0
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
121 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
120 
b) Capital management  
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits to other stakeholders and maintain a structure to optimise the cost of capital. The Group 
defines capital as debt and equity. 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may consider: the amount of dividend paid to shareholders;  
the return of capital to shareholders; the issue or sale of shares; or the sale of assets to reduce debt. 
The Group routinely monitors its capital and liquidity requirements through leverage ratios consistent with industry-wide 
borrowing standards, maintaining suitable headroom to bank facility fixed charge, senior notes and leverage covenants 
together with credit market requirements to ensure financing requirements continue to be serviceable. 
c) Fair value estimates 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows. The fair value of 
forward currency contracts has been determined based on discounted market forward currency exchange rates at the balance 
sheet date. 
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate 
to their book values. In the case of the Group’s loans due in more than one year, the fair value of financial liabilities for 
disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rates 
available to the Group. 
Note 22 shows the carrying value and fair value of financial assets and liabilities. 
d) Sensitivity analysis 
The Group monitors interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk by determining the effect on profit and equity of a range of 
possible changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The range of sensitivities chosen, being 1% movement in the 
interest rate or 5% movement in sterling when compared to US dollar, Chinese yuan, Danish krone and Euro, reflects the 
Group’s view of reasonably possible changes to these risk variables which existed at the year end. 
The table below illustrates the estimated impact on the Group as a result of market movements in interest rates in relation to 
all the Group’s financial instruments. The analysis has been produced assuming no changes in the borrowings and existing 
interest rate swaps portfolio when considering the interest rate movement. 
A 1% decrease in interest rate would result in an equal and opposite change in the income statement and equity respectively. 
The table below illustrates the estimated impact on the Group as a result of market movements in foreign exchange rates 
in relation to all the Group’s financial instruments. 
A 5% strengthening in sterling compared to the US dollar, Euro, Danish krone or Chinese yuan would result in an equal and 
opposite change in the income statement and equity respectively. 
  
 30 August 2014 31 August 2013 
 
Income 
statement
gain/(loss)
£m 
Equity  
gain/(loss) 
£m 
Income 
statement  
gain/(loss)  
£m 
Equity 
gain/(loss)
£m 
1% increase in interest rate 0.3 2.3 (0.7) 7.5
 30 August 2014 31 August 2013 
 Income 
statement 
gain/(loss) 
£m 
 
Equity  
gain/(loss)  
£m 
Income 
statement  
gain/(loss) 
 £m 
 
Equity 
gain/(loss) 
£m 
5% weakening in sterling compared to US dollar (0.4) 20.7 1.6 10.6
5% weakening in sterling compared to the Euro 0.5 (1.0) (0.6) (1.5)
5% weakening in sterling compared to Danish krone 0.5 – (0.4) –
5% weakening in sterling compared to Chinese yuan – 2.2 0.3 1.6 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
122 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
121 
22 Financial instruments 
Financial assets and liabilities by category 
Information regarding the Group’s financial risk management policies has been disclosed in note 21. The following table sets 
out the classification, carrying value and fair value of each class of financial assets and liabilities within the financial statements: 
  
 
Total 
fair value 
£m 
Total
carrying 
value 
£m 
Available- 
for-sale
 £m 
Held for 
trading 
£m 
Derivatives 
designated  
as cash flow 
hedges  
£m 
Loans and 
receivables and 
financial liabilities 
at amortised cost 
£m 
At 30 August 2014   
Assets   
Current assets   
Cash and cash equivalents 64.4 64.4 – – – 64.4
Trade and other receivables 27.4 27.4 – – – 27.4
Forward foreign currency contracts 1.5 1.5 – 0.1 1.4 –
Non-current assets   
Trade and other receivables 15.6 15.6 – – – 15.6
Available-for-sale financial assets 3.6 3.6 3.6 – – –
Interest rate swaps 0.6 0.6 – – 0.6 –
Forward foreign currency contracts 2.4 2.4 – – 2.4 –
Total financial assets 115.5 115.5 3.6 0.1 4.4 107.4
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables (491.8) (491.8) – – – (491.8)
Current borrowings (202.1) (202.1) – – – (202.1)
Interest rate swaps (0.2) (0.2) – – (0.2) –
Forward foreign currency contracts (11.2) (11.2) – (2.8) (8.4) –
Non-current liabilities   
Non-current borrowings (223.8) (223.8) – – – (223.8)
Interest rate swaps (1.2) (1.2) – – (1.2) –
Forward foreign currency contracts (1.5) (1.5) – – (1.5) –
Total financial liabilities (931.8) (931.8) – (2.8) (11.3) (917.7)
Total (816.3) (816.3) 3.6 (2.7) (6.9) (810.3)
At 31 August 2013   
Assets   
Current assets   
Cash and cash equivalents 27.0 27.0 – – – 27.0
Trade and other receivables 20.9 20.9 – – – 20.9
Forward foreign currency contracts 7.3 7.3 – 1.5 5.8 –
Non-current assets   
Trade and other receivables 16.8 16.8 – – – 16.8
Available-for-sale financial assets 1.1 1.1 1.1 – – –
Interest rate swaps 0.7 0.7 – – 0.7 –
Forward foreign currency contracts 1.2 1.2 – – 1.2 –
Total financial assets 75.0 75.0 1.1 1.5 7.7 64.7
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables (516.8) (516.8) – – – (516.8)
Current borrowings (163.1) (163.1) – – – (163.1)
Interest rate swaps (0.5) (0.5) – – (0.5) –
Forward foreign currency contracts (1.6) (1.6) – (0.1) (1.5) –
Non-current liabilities   
Non-current borrowings (235.9) (235.9) – – – (235.9)
Interest rate swaps (3.4) (3.4) – – (3.4) –
Forward foreign currency contracts (0.3) (0.3) – – (0.3) –
Total financial liabilities (921.6) (921.6) – (0.1) (5.7) (915.8)
Total (846.6) (846.6) 1.1 1.4 2.0 (851.1)
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
123 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
122 
There were no material differences between the carrying value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities and 
their fair values at the balance sheet date. 
During the year, as a result of the refinancing referred to in note 20, the Group cancelled £150.0 million of interest rate swap 
contracts with a combined balance sheet liability value of £0.1 million. 
Fair value measurement 
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by  
valuation technique: 
• Level 1 – Quoted prices (unadjusted) based on active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
• Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,  
                either directly (that is, prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) 
• Level 3 – Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data 
The following table shows the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value: 
 
Level 1 
£m 
Level 2  
£m 
Level 3  
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 31 August 2013   
Assets   
Available-for-sale financial assets 1.1 – – 1.1
Derivative financial instruments:  
– Interest rate swaps held as cash flow hedges – 0.7 – 0.7
– Forward foreign currency contracts held as cash flow hedges – 7.0 – 7.0
– Other forward foreign currency contracts – 1.5 – 1.5
Total assets 1.1 9.2 – 10.3
Liabilities   
Derivative financial instruments:  
– Interest rate swaps held as cash flow hedges – (3.9) – (3.9)
– Forward foreign currency contracts held as cash flow hedges – (1.8) – (1.8)
– Other forward foreign currency contracts – (0.1) – (0.1)
Total liabilities – (5.8) – (5.8)
The Group’s policy is to recognise transfers into and out of fair value hierarchy levels as of the date of the event or change in 
circumstances that caused the transfer. There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value 
hierarchy during the year. 
  
 
Level 1 
£m 
Level 2  
£m 
Level 3  
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 30 August 2014   
Assets   
Available-for-sale financial assets 3.6 – – 3.6
Derivative financial instruments:  
– Interest rate swaps held as cash flow hedges – 0.6 – 0.6
– Forward foreign currency contracts held as cash flow hedges – 3.8 – 3.8
– Other forward foreign currency contracts – 0.1 – 0.1
Total assets 3.6 4.5 – 8.1
Liabilities   
Derivative financial instruments:  
– Interest rate swaps held as cash flow hedges – (1.4) – (1.4)
– Forward foreign currency contracts held as cash flow hedges – (9.9) – (9.9)
– Other forward foreign currency contracts – (2.8) – (2.8)
Total liabilities – (14.1) – (14.1) Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
124 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
123 
23 Retirement benefit obligation 
The Group operates defined benefit type pension schemes, being the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan (“DEPP”) and the  
Debenhams Retirement Scheme (“DRS”) (together “the Group’s pension schemes”), the assets of which are held in separate  
trustee-administered funds. Both schemes are established under trust law and each has a corporate trustee that is required 
to run the schemes in accordance with the Scheme’s Trust Deed and Rules and to comply with the Pensions Act 2004 and all 
relevant legislation. Responsibility for governance of the schemes lies with the trustee of each scheme. Each corporate trustee 
is a company whose directors comprise of representatives: 
• Appointed by the Group; and 
• Nominated by scheme members. 
The chair of both corporate trustees is independent from the schemes and from the Group. 
Both pension schemes were closed for future service accrual from 31 October 2006. The closure to future accrual will not affect 
the pensions of those who have retired or the deferred benefits of those who have left service or opted out before 31 October 
2006. Future pension arrangements are provided through a money purchase stakeholder plan in the UK and Hong Kong or a 
defined contribution scheme for the employees in the Republic of Ireland and Denmark. 
In accordance with the recovery plan for the Group’s pension schemes, which is intended to restore the schemes to a fully 
funded position on an ongoing basis, the Group agreed to contribute to the pension schemes £8.9 million per annum  
for the period from 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2022 increasing by the percentage increase in the RPI over the year to the 
previous December. Additionally, the Group has agreed to cover the non-investment expenses and levies of the pension 
schemes, including those payable to the Pension Protection Fund. Employees make no further contributions to the schemes. 
Investment of the schemes’ assets is arranged by AON Hewitt Limited under a delegated consulting service agreement. 
As at 30 August 2014 most of the schemes’ assets are invested in a delegated liability fund or a delegated growth fund. 
Actuarial valuations of the Group’s pension schemes using the projected unit basis were carried out at 31 March 2011 and 
updated as at each relevant year end for the purposes of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” by Towers Watson Limited, a qualified 
independent actuary. The 31 March 2011 actuarial valuation has been used when calculating the IAS 19 “Employee benefits” 
revised valuation at 30 August 2014. The actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2014 is under way. 
By funding its defined benefit pension schemes, the Group is exposed to the risk that the cost of meeting its obligations is 
higher than anticipated. This could occur for several reasons, for example: 
• Investment returns on the schemes’ assets may be lower than anticipated, especially if falls in asset values are not matched 
by similar falls in the value of the schemes’ liabilities; 
• The level of price inflation may be higher from that assumed, resulting in higher payments from the schemes; 
• Scheme members may live longer than assumed; and 
• Legislative changes could lead to an increase in pension schemes’ liabilities. 
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 22 years. 
The major assumptions used by the actuary were: 
  
 
30 August  
2014  
per annum  
% 
31 August 
2013 
per annum 
% 
Inflation assumption 3.1 3.3
General salary and wage increase 3.1 3.3
Rate of increase in pension payments and deferred payments 3.1 3.3 
Pension increase rate 2.9 3.0
Discount rate 3.9 4.6
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
125 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
124 
The inflation assumption is based on the RPI rate as pension increases both in payment and deferment within the schemes are 
set out with reference to this measure. 
At the financial year end, the schemes’ assets were as follows: 
At 30 August 2014, 80.0% (2013: 81.6%) of investments were quoted on a recognised stock exchange or held in cash or assets 
readily convertible to cash and are therefore considered to be liquid. 
The current life expectancies of a pensioner retiring aged 65 underlying the mortality tables for each of the schemes above  
are as follows: 
 30 August 2014 31 August 2013 
 
Years 
Male 
 Years  
Female 
Years  
Male 
Years 
Female 
Debenhams Retirement Scheme  
Member currently aged 65 22.5 24.4 22.4 24.4
Member aged 65 in 15 years 23.5 25.6 23.4 25.5
 
 
 
  
 30 August 2014 31 August 2013 
 
Quoted 
£m 
Unquoted 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Quoted 
£m 
Unquoted 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Assets  
 
 
 
Delegated liability fund 144.5 – 144.5 129.3 – 129.3 
Delegated growth fund 450.8 150.0 600.8 416.7  122.9 539.6 
Legacy holdings – – – – 0.9 0.9 
Cash and other assets 3.1 – 3.1 3.8 – 3.8 
Total market value of assets 598.4 150.0
748.4
549.8 123.8 
673.6 
Present value of scheme liabilities  
(750.8)
 
(693.6)
Net deficit in schemes  
(2.4)
 
(20.0)
Analysed as:  
 
 
 
DEPP scheme surplus  
6.9
 
4.6 
DRS scheme deficit  
(9.3)
 
(24.6)
 30 August 2014 31 August 2013 
 
Years 
Male 
 Years 
 Female 
Years  
Male 
Years 
Female 
Debenhams Executive Pension Plan   
Member currently aged 65  24.6 25.9 24.5 25.8
Member aged 65 in 15 years  25.5 27.0 25.5 27.0 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
126 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
125 
23 Retirement benefit obligation continued 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 
Movement in the net deficit during the financial year is as follows: 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
  
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
Restated
1
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Present value of obligations at start of the financial year 693.6 641.0
Current service cost 1.4 1.3
Interest cost on the defined benefit liability 31.4 29.6
Benefit payments from plan assets (20.4) (23.2)
Remeasurements:  
Losses from changes in financial assumptions 64.2 42.5
Gains from changes in demographic assumptions (13.0) –
Experience (gains)/losses (6.4) 2.4
Present value of obligations at end of the financial year 750.8 693.6
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
Restated
1
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Fair value of pension scheme assets at start of the financial year 673.6 583.7
Interest income on plan assets 30.8 27.2
Benefit payments from plan assets (20.4) (23.2)
Company contributions 10.8 10.4
Remeasurements:   
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in finance costs 53.6 75.5
Fair value of pension scheme assets at end of the financial year 748.4 673.6
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
Restated
1
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Net deficit in the schemes at start of the financial year (20.0) (57.3)
Movement in the financial year: 
– Company contributions 10.8 10.4
– Current service cost (1.4) (1.3)
– Net interest on net defined benefit liability (0.6) (2.4)
– Remeasurements of pension schemes 8.8 30.6
Net deficit in the schemes at end of the financial year (2.4) (20.0)
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
127 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
126 
The table below illustrates the estimated impact on the schemes’ liabilities as a result of movements in the principal 
assumptions used to measure those liabilities. 
A 0.5% reduction in the inflation assumption, a 1.0% increase in the discount rate assumption and a one year reduction in the 
life expectancy assumption would result in an equal and opposite change in the schemes’ liabilities. 
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. 
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be accumulated. When calculating the 
sensitivity of the schemes’ liabilities to significant actuarial assumptions the same method has been applied as when 
calculating the retirement benefit obligations/asset recognised within the balance sheet. 
The contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ending 29 August 2015 amount to £11.0 million. 
Other Debenhams defined contribution schemes 
The Group contributions to other defined contribution schemes during the financial year were £14.7 million  
(2013: £13.4 million). 
24 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 20.0% for the UK 
differences (2013: 22.2% for temporary differences expected to reverse within 12 months of the balance sheet date and 20.0% 
for temporary differences expected to reverse more than one year after the balance sheet date). Local tax rates have been 
used for overseas differences. 
Deferred tax expected to be reversed within 12 months of the balance sheet date: 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is 
probable that these assets will be recovered. 
  
   
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Increase in schemes’ liabilities arising from a 0.5% increase in inflation 58.5 54.0
Increase in schemes’ liabilities arising from a 1.0% reduction in the discount rate 141.3 130.5
Increase in schemes’ liabilities arising from a one year increase in life expectancy 23.1 21.3
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Non-current  
Deferred tax assets  51.0 69.3
Deferred tax liabilities (53.4) (59.1)
 (2.4) 10.2
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Deferred tax assets  2.8 2.8
Deferred tax liabilities (1.9) (5.9)
 0.9 (3.1) Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
128 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
127 
24 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued 
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below: 
Assets 
Developers’ 
contributions 
received 
£m 
Fair value 
losses 
£m 
Other  
provisions  
£m 
Restated
1
 
Retirement 
benefit  
asset  
£m 
Restated
1
Total 
£m 
At 1 September 2012 34.3 2.1 33.6 13.2 83.2
Credited to the income statement 0.1 0.1 4.3 0.3 4.8
Result of the change in the standard rate of 
corporation tax charged to the income statement (4.5) – (4.4) (0.7) (9.6)
Charged to the statement of comprehensive income – (1.2) – (7.9) (9.1)
At 31 August 2013 29.9 1.0 33.5 4.9 69.3
(Charged)/credited to the income statement (11.7) – (3.1) 0.4 (14.4)
Transfer from deferred tax liabilities – (2.0) – (0.9) (2.9)
Prior year adjustment to the income statement – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Credited/(charged) to the statement of 
comprehensive income – 3.0 – (3.9) (0.9)
At 30 August 2014 18.2 2.0 30.3 0.5 51.0
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
Within other provisions is a deferred tax asset of £5.2 million (2013: £4.3 million) in relation to overseas operations which has 
been recognised. In addition to this there is an unrecognised deferred tax asset of £2.6 million (2013: £8.4 million) relating 
to operations in Denmark and the Republic of Ireland. 
  
Liabilities 
Accelerated
 tax 
depreciation
£m 
Fair value  
gains  
£m 
Restated
1
 
Retirement 
benefit  
liability  
£m  
 
Restated
1
Total 
£m 
At 1 September 2012 (62.8) (1.9) – (64.7)
Credited to the income statement 0.9 0.5 0.6 2.0 
Prior year adjustment to the income statement 
(1.7) – – (1.7)
Result of the change in the standard rate of corporation tax 
credited to the income statement 7.3 0.1 (0.1) 7.3
Charged to the statement of comprehensive income – (0.6) (1.4) (2.0)
At 31 August 2013 (56.3) (1.9) (0.9) (59.1)
Credited/(charged) to the income statement 1.9 (0.1) – 1.8 
Transfer to deferred tax assets 
– 2.0 0.9 2.9
Result of the change in the standard rate of corporation tax 
credited to the income statement 1.0 – – 1.0
At 30 August 2014 (53.4) – – (53.4)
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
129 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
128 
25 Other non-current liabilities 
Property lease incentives received from landlords either through initial contributions or rent-free periods are recognised as 
non-current liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Property lease incentives received also relate to the spreading of the charges in respect of leases with fixed annual increments 
in rent (escalating rent clauses) over the term of the relevant lease. 
26 Provisions  
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 
Closure provision 
Relating to one vacated building which was utilised in full during the financial year. 
Promotional activities provision 
Provisions for promotional activities represent the cost to the business of operating an internal cosmetics loyalty scheme, 
cardholder loyalty scheme and the reward scheme in the Republic of Ireland and they are expected to be utilised during  
the next 12 months. 
Other provisions 
The Group’s other provisions relate to dilapidations on properties based upon the directors’ best estimate of the Group’s 
future liability. These provisions are expected to be utilised within the next two years. 
27 Share capital and reserves 
During the financial year ended 30 August 2014, 14,351,525 (2013: 23,882,722) of the above shares were purchased by  
the Company and transferred to treasury. See retained earnings below. 
  
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Property lease incentives received 331.7 320.1
Other non-current liabilities 1.0 2.0
Total other non-current liabilities 332.7 322.1
  
Closure 
provision 
£m 
Promotional 
activities 
£m 
Other  
provisions  
£m 
Total
 £m 
At 31 August 2013 0.1 5.5 1.1 6.7
Charged to the income statement – 18.0 – 18.0
Utilised during the financial year (0.1) (17.5) – (17.6)
At 30 August 2014 – 6.0 1.1 7.1
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Current  6.0 5.6
Non-current 1.1 1.1
 7.1 6.7
 30 August 2014 31 August 2013 
 £ Number £ Number 
Issued and fully paid – ordinary shares of £0.0001 each 
At start of year 128,684 1,286,843,441 128,680 1,286,806,299
Allotted under share option schemes – – 4 37,142
At end of year 128,684 1,286,843,441 128,684 1,286,843,441 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
130 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
129 
27 Share capital and reserves continued 
Employee share trust – interest in share capital 
The number of ordinary shares in the Company held by the Debenhams Retail Employee Trust (“DRET”) was as follows: 
The market value of the shares on 30 August 2014 was £0.3 million for DRET (2013: £0.5 million). The cost of the shares held at 
the year end is £0.4 million (2013: £0.4 million). 
A description of the nature and purpose of each reserve is set out below: 
Share premium account 
On admission to the London Stock Exchange in 2006, the Company issued 358,974,359 shares at £1.95, generating proceeds  
of £700.0 million. Costs directly associated with the issue of the new shares totalled £17.1 million and in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 these costs were set off against the premium generated on issue of the new shares. 
Merger reserve 
The merger reserve of £1,200.9 million exists as a result of the 2005 Group reconstruction. 
Reverse acquisition reserve 
The reverse acquisition reserve exists as a result of the method of accounting for the 2005 Group reconstruction. 
In accordance with International Accounting Standards, the 2005 Group reconstruction has been accounted for  
as a reverse acquisition. 
Hedging reserve 
The hedging reserve represents the change in fair value of all interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts which 
have been designated as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of the changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated 
and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in the relevant line of the income statement which will be affected by the underlying hedged item. 
Other reserves 
The other reserves represent the change in fair value in respect of the Group’s available-for-sale investments (note 15)  
and exchange differences arising as part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation. Other reserves may  
be analysed as follows: 
Retained earnings 
The Company commenced its share buyback programme in April 2012. At 30 August 2014 the Company had purchased 
61,793,402 (2013: 47,441,877) ordinary shares of £0.0001 at a total cost of £60.3 million of which 14,351,525 (2013: 23,882,722) 
ordinary shares of £0.0001 were purchased (representing 1.1% of the Company’s share capital) at a cost of £15.1 million (2013: 
£25.1 million) during the financial year. All shares purchased by the Company were transferred to treasury. During the year 
429,108 (2013: 655,573) treasury shares were transferred out of treasury to satisfy awards granted under the Company’s 
share plans.  
 
30 August 
2014 
Ordinary 
shares  
Number 
31 August 
2013
Ordinary 
 shares 
Number 
Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004  473,537 473,537
 
Translation 
reserve 
£m 
Change in 
fair value  
of available- 
for-sale 
investments 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 September 2012 (8.2) (2.3) (10.5)
Currency translation differences 3.6 – 3.6
Change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments – (0.8) (0.8)
At 31 August 2013 (4.6) (3.1) (7.7)
Currency translation differences (4.2) – (4.2)
Change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments – 2.5 2.5
At 30 August 2014 (8.8) (0.6) (9.4)
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
131 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
130 
28 Share-based payments 
The total (credit)/charge to operating profit relates to the following equity settled schemes: 
The following table reconciles the movement in shares awarded under the Company share schemes and the weighted average 
exercise price (“WAEP”) for the ESOP scheme. Grants under the PSP, SIP and DBMP all comprise a right to acquire shares for 
no or nominal consideration. 
i) Performance Share Plan  
The PSP allows the Company to grant awards of shares to senior management. An award under the PSP will normally vest 
on the third anniversary of date of grant and must be exercised within six months of vesting. No payment is required for the 
grant of an award. An award under the PSP comprises a right to receive free shares or a nil cost option with performance 
conditions attached. 
Awards granted on 1 November 2011 and 1 May 2012 
The vesting of the shares granted under these awards is dependent upon the growth of both EPS and Return on Capital  
Employed (“ROCE”).  
75% of the awards is based upon EPS growth. Where growth is less than 6% per annum over the three year period, this 
element of the awards lapses. Where growth is 6% per annum, 30% of the shares awarded vests; where growth is 12% per 
annum, the EPS element of the awards vests in full. Between these two points, awards vest on a straight line basis between 
30% and 100%. 
The remaining 25% of the awards is dependent upon ROCE. If average ROCE is below the cost of capital over the three year 
period, this element of the awards lapses. If average ROCE is equal to the cost of capital over the three year period, then 30% 
of the shares awarded vests. If average ROCE is equal to the cost of capital plus 5% then the ROCE element of the awards 
vests in full. Between these two points, awards vest on a straight line basis between 30% and 100%. 
  
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) (1.8) 1.3
Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”) 0.1 0.1
Deferred Bonus Matching Plan (“DBMP”) (0.1) 0.1
(Credit)/charge for the financial year  (1.8) 1.5
 DBMP SIP PSP ESOP 
 Number Number Number Number 
WAEP 
Pence 
Outstanding at 1 September 2012 587,283 450,000 7,476,885 831,623 85.5
Granted – 200,000 4,380,833 – –
Exercised – (250,000) (549,358) (143,357) 85.5
Lapsed – – (1,167,435) – –
Forfeited (17,604) (200,000) (406,300) – –
Outstanding at 31 August 2013 569,679 200,000 9,734,625 688,266 85.5
Exercised (384,492) – – (44,616) 85.5
Lapsed (185,187) – – – –
Forfeited – – (1,081,969) – –
Outstanding at 30 August 2014 – 200,000 8,652,656 643,650 85.5
Exercisable   
At 30 August 2014 – – – 643,650 85.5
At 31 August 2013 – – – 688,266 85.5
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)  
At 30 August 2014 – – – 5.25 
At 31 August 2013 – – – 6.25  Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
132 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
131 
28 Share-based payments continued 
i) Performance Share Plan continued 
Awards granted on 1 November 2012 and 1 May 2013 
The vesting of the shares granted under these awards is dependent upon the growth of both EPS and ROCE.  
75% of the awards is based upon EPS growth. Where growth is less than 6% per annum over the three year period, this 
element of the awards lapses. Where growth is 6% per annum, 30% of the shares awarded vests; where growth is 12% per 
annum, the EPS element of the awards vests in full. Between these two points, awards vest on a straight line basis between 
30% and 100%. 
The remaining 25% of the awards is dependent upon ROCE. If average ROCE is below the cost of capital plus 1% over the  
three year period, this element of the awards lapses. If average ROCE is equal to the cost of capital plus 1% over the three 
year period, then 30% of the shares awarded vests. If average ROCE is equal to the cost of capital plus 5% then the ROCE 
element of the awards vests in full. Between these two points, awards vest on a straight line basis between 30% and 100%. 
ii) Executive Share Option Plan  
The ESOP allows the Company to grant options to acquire shares to eligible employees. These options will normally become 
exercisable following a three year performance period, only if and to the extent that the performance conditions to which they 
are subject have been satisfied. Once the options have vested, the employees have a seven year period in which to exercise. 
Options are granted with an exercise price equal to the middle market value of the shares on the day immediately preceding 
the date of grant. The options granted on 24 November 2009 became exercisable in full based on ROCE performance 
exceeding the cost of capital by 7.8% during the applicable performance period. There are no unvested options under  
this plan. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for ESOP share options exercised during the year was 
103.1 pence. 
iii) Share Incentive Plan  
The SIP allows the Company to grant options to key senior managers below board level, whom the Company wishes to retain 
and incentivise in the short to medium term. Once the options have vested the employee has six months in which to exercise. 
Options granted on 6 December 2012 
The option granted 6 December 2012 has a 24 month vesting period based on the employee’s continued employment and 
performance targets specific to the employee’s role within the business and is granted with no exercise price.  
iv) Deferred Bonus Matching Plan  
The DBMP allows the Company to invite eligible employees to invest up to 100% of their net annual bonus earned into shares 
(“invested shares”). If the participant remains in service for three years and retains the beneficial ownership of all the invested 
shares, s/he will, subject to the satisfaction of certain performance conditions, be entitled to a matching share award equal to 
the amount of the pre-tax bonus that has been invested. Once the options have vested they will be released to the employee 
within one month of the vesting date. 
All bonus eligible employees were offered the opportunity to invest up to 50% of their 2010 bonus into invested shares. The 
entitlement to the matching award was subject to the participant retaining beneficial ownership of their invested shares during 
the performance period and to the achievement of the following performance conditions. The Group’s ROCE had to exceed 
the cost of capital by 2% over this period otherwise the options would not vest. The Group’s EPS growth had to then exceed 
6% per annum over the three year period or the options would not vest. If the Group’s EPS growth was 6% or more per annum 
over the three year period 30% of the options would vest; if the growth was 12% or more per annum over the three year 
period, 100% of the options would vest. Between these two points the options would vest on a straight line basis between 30% 
and 100%. 
Of the share options granted under the DBMP in 2010, during the three years to 31 August 2013 the Group’s ROCE condition 
was met in full and the Group’s compound average EPS growth was 9.2% which resulted in 67.5% of share options granted 
under the DBMP in 2010 vesting on 4 November 2013. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for DBMP 
share options exercised during the year was 101.8 pence. 
  
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
133 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
132 
29 Operating lease commitments 
The Group leases department stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating leases. The leases have various terms 
including escalating rent and contingent turnover rent clauses and renewal rights. The Group has pre-emption rights over a 
number of properties, which provides the Group with the right of first refusal to purchase the property in the event the 
landlord chooses to sell. The option price payable for the property in each instance is referenced to current market value 
prevailing at the point of pre-emption. The Group also leases vehicles and fixtures and equipment under non-cancellable 
operating leases. 
30 Cash generated from operations 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
In the cash flow statement, proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment comprise: 
 30 August 2014 31 August 2013 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Other  
£m 
Land and 
buildings  
£m 
 Other 
£m 
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under 
non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:  
Within one year 200.2 1.8 199.9 1.5
Later than one year and not later than five years 843.6 3.0 830.0 2.4
Later than five years and not later than 10 years 1,038.8 – 1,167.7 –
Later than 10 years and not later than 20 years 1,699.3 – 1,698.1 –
Later than 20 years 1,143.9 – 1,214.7 –
 4,925.8 4.8 5,110.4 3.9
 
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
Restated
1
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Profit before taxation 105.8 139.0
Depreciation (note 14)  87.5 84.4
Amortisation (note 13)  13.3 10.2
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.4 0.2
Share-based payment (credit)/charge (note 28)  (1.8) 1.5
Fair value (gains)/losses on derivative instruments (1.1) 2.0
Net movements in provisions (note 26)  0.4 0.3
Finance income  (0.6) (1.5)
Finance costs  23.4 17.9
Pension current service cost 1.4 1.3
Cash contributions to pension schemes (note 23) (10.8) (10.4)
Net movement in other long-term receivables 0.2 3.6
Net movement in other non-current liabilities 10.6 0.2
Changes in working capital  
Decrease/(increase) in inventories  12.4 (25.5)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 2.8 (2.9)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (4.4) 20.8
Cash generated from operations 240.5 241.1
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Net book value  1.4 0.2
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (note 6) (1.4) (0.2)
Cash proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment – – Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
134 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
133 
30 Cash generated from operations continued 
Non-cash transactions 
Other non-cash movements comprise: 
 
30 August 
 2014 
 £m 
31 August
 2013
 £m 
Amortisation of issue costs relating to term loan and revolving credit facilities 1.9 2.7
Amortisation of issue costs relating to senior notes 0.1 –
Write-off of unamortised issue costs relating to cancelled credit facilities 4.5 –
Non-cash movements associated with term loan facility and senior notes 1.2 (0.3)
Non-cash movements associated with finance lease obligations 3.8 0.5
Non-cash transactions 11.5 2.9
31 Analysis of changes in net debt 
32 Contingent liabilities 
The Group is subject to litigation from time to time as a result of its activities. The Group establishes provisions in connection 
with litigation where it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and where it is more likely than 
not an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.  
There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business which if realised are not expected to 
result in a material liability to the Group. 
33 Principal subsidiary undertakings 
The principal subsidiary undertakings of Debenhams plc at 30 August 2014 were as follows: 
* Denotes investments held by the Company. All other investments are held by subsidiary undertakings. 
The Company has taken advantage of section 410(2) of the Companies Act 2006 to list only its principal subsidiary and 
associated undertakings at 30 August 2014 whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally 
affected the financial statements. Unless otherwise stated all of these operate predominantly in the UK. 
All subsidiary companies are consolidated. A full list of subsidiary and other associated undertakings as at 30 August 2014 
will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies. 
 
31 August 
2013
£m 
Cash flow  
£m 
Non-cash  
movements  
£m 
30 August 
2014
£m 
Analysis of net debt   
Cash and cash equivalents  27.0 37.4 – 64.4
Bank overdrafts (2.9) 2.9 – –
Net cash and cash equivalents 24.1 40.3 – 64.4
Debt due within one year (158.4) (36.4) (4.0) (198.8)
Debt due after one year (232.8) 15.9 (3.7) (220.6)
Finance lease obligations due within one year (1.8) 2.2 (3.7) (3.3)
Finance lease obligations due after one year (3.1) – (0.1) (3.2)
 (372.0) 22.0 (11.5) (361.5)
Company 
Share of issued 
ordinary share 
capital and 
voting rights 
Country of 
incorporation 
Country of 
registration Activity 
Debenhams Retail plc 100% UK England Multi-channel retailing
Debenhams Group Holdings Limited* 100% UK England Holding company
Debenhams Retail (Ireland) Limited 100% Ireland Ireland Multi-channel retailing
Aktieselskabet Th. Wessel & Vett Magasin du Nord 
 
100% Denmark Denmark Department store 
retailing
Debenhams Properties Limited 100% UK England Property investment
Debenhams Hong Kong Limited 100% Hong Kong Hong Kong Sourcing of goods
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O TE S T O TH E F I N A N C IA L S T A TE M E NT S C O NT I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
135 
 
FIVE YEAR RECORD INCOME STATEMENTS 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
135 
1
 Restatement relates to the adoption of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised (note 2). 
2
 Prior to the application of IAS 19 “Employee benefits” revised. 
  
 
 
52 weeks 
2014
 £m 
Restated
1
52 weeks 
2013
 £m 
52 weeks 
2012
2
  
£m 
53 weeks 
2011
2
  
£m 
52 weeks 
2010
2
£m 
Gross transaction value 2,823.9 2,776.8 2,708.0 2,679.3 2,564.3 
Revenue 2,312.7 2,282.2 2,229.8 2,209.8 2,119.9 
Cost of sales (2,033.4) (1,982.6) (1,927.5) (1,913.1) (1,829.5)
Gross profit 279.3 299.6 302.3 296.7 290.4 
Distribution costs (98.5) (97.5) (81.0) (70.2) (55.1)
Administrative expenses (52.2) (46.7) (46.3) (42.8) (40.2)
Operating profit before exceptional items 128.6 155.4 175.0 183.7 195.1 
Exceptional items – – –  – (5.4)
Operating profit 128.6 155.4 175.0 183.7 189.7 
Net recurring finance costs (18.3) (16.4) (16.7) (23.4) (49.8)
Non-recurring finance costs (4.5) – – – – 
Profit before taxation 105.8 139.0 158.3 160.3 139.9 
Taxation (18.6) (23.1) (33.0) (43.1) (42.9)
Profit for the financial year attributable  
to owners of the parent 87.2 115.9 125.3 117.2 97.0 
 
FI V E Y E A R R E C OR D I NC OM E S T A T E M E N T S Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
136 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FIVE YEAR RECORD BALANCE SHE ETS 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
136 
 
2014
 £m 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
Assets      
Non-current assets      
Intangible assets 892.8 876.5 864.9 858.1 846.2 
Property, plant and equipment 689.2 692.1 661.6 634.6 676.1 
Financial assets 6.6 3.0 2.7 4.0 8.7 
Trade and other receivables 15.6 16.8 19.3 18.3 17.2 
Retirement benefit surplus 6.9 4.6 – 3.9 – 
Deferred tax assets 51.0 69.3 83.2 75.7 92.0 
Total non-current assets 1,662.1 1,662.3 1,631.7 1,594.6 1,640.2 
Net current liabilities (271.7) (271.4) (267.5) (292.0) (636.5)
Non-current liabilities (623.0) (646.5) (703.2) (643.0) (500.3)
Net assets 767.4 744.4 661.0 659.6 503.4 
Shareholders’ equity      
Share capital 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 
Share premium account 682.9 682.9 682.9 682.9 682.9 
Other reserves (16.3) (3.5) (12.1) (8.3) (3.4)
Retained earnings/(accumulated losses) 100.7 64.9 (9.9) (15.1) (176.2)
Total equity 767.4 744.4 661.0 659.6 503.4 
 
 
 
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
F I V E Y E A R R E C O R D B A L A N CE S H E E T S Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
137 
 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
’
REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC (COMPANY) 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
137 
Report on the Company financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion, Debenhams plc’s Company financial statements (the “financial statements”): 
• Give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 30 August 2014; 
• Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
• Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
What we have audited 
Debenhams plc’s financial statements comprise: 
• The Company balance sheet as at 30 August 2014; and 
• The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information. 
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), rather 
than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as 
audited. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law 
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
Other required reporting 
Consistency of other information 
Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: 
• Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or 
• Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired  
in the course of performing our audit; or 
• Is otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
• Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
• The financial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion 
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance  
with the Companies Act 2006. 
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.  
  
 
I N D EP EN D EN T A U D I T O R S ’ R EP O R T T O T H E M EM BER S  
OF DE B E N H A M S P L C ( C OM P A N Y ) Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
138 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
’
REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEBENHAMS PLC (COMPANY) 
CONTINUED 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
138 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
What an audit of financial statements involves 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of:  
• Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; 
• The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and  
• The overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our 
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. 
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, 
substantive procedures or a combination of both.  
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 30 August 2014. 
John Ellis (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
23 October 2014 
 
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
I N D EP EN D EN T A U D I T O R S ’ R EP O R T T O T H E M EM BER S  
OF DE B E N H A M S P L C ( C OM P A N Y ) C ON T I N U E D Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
139 
 
COMPANY BALANCE SHE ET 
Company number 5448421 
As at 30 August 2014 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
139 
The financial statements on pages 139 to 146 were approved by the Board on 23 October 2014 and were signed  
on its behalf by: 
Michael Sharp 
Chief Executive 
 Note  
30 August  
2014  
£m  
31 August 
2013 
£m 
Fixed assets   
Investments  4  2,248.0 2,248.0
Derivative financial instruments 5 0.6 0.7
  2,248.6 2,248.7
Current assets   
Debtors 6 83.1 89.9
Cash at bank and in hand 7 1.2 0.9
  84.3 90.8
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 8 (815.4) (715.7)
Derivative financial instruments 5  (0.2) (0.5)
  (815.6) (716.2)
Net current liabilities  (731.3) (625.4)
Total assets less current liabilities   1,517.3 1,623.3
Creditors: amounts falling  due after more than one year 9  (220.6) (246.3)
Derivative financial instruments 5 (1.2) (3.4)
  (221.8) (249.7)
Net assets  1,295.5 1,373.6
   
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital 12  0.1 0.1
Share premium account 13  682.9 682.9
Hedging reserve 13  (0.5) (2.5)
Profit and loss accoun t 13  613.0 693.1
Total shareholders’ funds 14  1,295.5 1,373.6
 
C O M P A N Y B A L A N CE S H E E T
Company number 5448421 
As at 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
140 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO TH E COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
140 
1 Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
These financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with UK GAAP using the historical co st 
convention as modified by financial assets and financial liabilities (including derivati ve instruments) at fair value through p rofit or loss. 
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards within the United Kingdom and  
the Companies Act 2006. 
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consis tently for each financial year unless stated otherwise, are se t out below. 
Exemptions 
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presente d  
a profit and loss account for the Company alone. However, the Co mpany’s profit and loss account has been produced for approval  
by the board. 
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 “Related pa rty disclosures” from disclosing related party transactions with entities 
that are wholly owned subsidiaries. 
The consolidated financial statements of t he Group include a consolidated cash flow statement which includes the cash flows  
of the Company.  
Investments 
Investments comprise the Company’s investment in subsidiari es and are shown at cost less any provision for impairment. 
Impairment testing 
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to am ortisation and are tested annua lly for impairment. Assets that are subject  
to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may no t be 
recoverable. An impairment loss is recognis ed for the amount by which the asset’s carr ying amount exceeds its recoverable amoun t.  
The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s net realisable value and value-in-use. 
Borrowings 
All borrowings are stated at the fair value of the consideration received after deduct ion of issue costs. Issue costs, together with interest 
payable, are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the borrowings. Interest payable represents a constant pro portion 
of the balance of capital repayments outstanding. 
Revenue recognition 
a) Interest income 
Interest receivable and interest payable are recognised in the pe riod to which they relate usin g the effective interest method. 
b) Dividend income 
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive paym ent is established. 
Taxation 
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or reco vered) using the tax rates that are in force during the period. 
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where 
transactions or events that result in an ob ligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the 
balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between t he taxable profits and the results as stated in the financial s tatements  
that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessm ents in periods different from those in which they are recognis ed in the 
financial statements. 
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. A deferred ta x asset is regarded as recovera ble and therefore recognised on ly 
when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be taxable profits fro m which the 
future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted. 
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates which are expect ed to apply in the periods in which the timing differences ar e 
expected to reverse, based upon tax rates and laws which have been enacted or substa ntively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Dividend distribution 
A final dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liab ility in the Company’s financial statements  
in the period in which the dividend is approved by the Comp any’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid. 
  
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N OT E S TO T H E C O M P AN Y F I NAN C I AL S T A T E M E N T S
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
141 
 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
141 
Share-based payments 
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. A fair value for the equity-settled share awards i s 
measured at the date of grant. The Compan y measures the fair value of each award us ing the Black-Scholes model where appropriat e. 
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’ s 
estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted fo r the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. At each ba lance sheet 
date, the Company revises its estimates of t he number of awards that are expected to vest. Non-market performance and service 
conditions are included in assumptions about the number of awards that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the re vision 
to original estimates, if any, in the profit and lo ss account, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. 
When the awards are exercised, the Company ma y issue new shares or utilise shares held as treasury shares or within the Debenha ms 
Retail Employee Trust. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital ( at nominal 
value) and share premium when the awards are exercised. 
Where the Company has granted options over the Company’s shares to employees of its subsidiaries, a capital contribution has be en 
deemed made by the Company. This is then recharged to the subsid iary and is based on the fair value of the options issued sprea d over 
the option’s vesting period. 
Foreign exchange 
Transactions denominated in foreign currenc ies are translated into the respective functional currency at the exchange rates pre vailing  
at the dates of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities that are denominate d in foreign currencies are translated into sterling  
at the closing rates ruling at the balance sheet date.  
Derivatives 
The derivative instruments used by the Company to mana ge its interest rate risk are interest rate swaps. 
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remea sured at  
fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as an effectiv e hedging 
instrument and the nature of the item being hedged. The Company designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable for ecast 
transactions (cash flow hedges). 
The Company documents, at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items as  
well as its risk management objectives an d strategy for undertaking va rious hedge transactions. The Company also documents its 
assessment, both at the inception and on an ongoing basis, of w hether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are  
highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items. 
i) Cash flow hedges 
The effective portion of the changes in fair value of derivative s that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recogn ised in 
equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is re cognised immediately in the relevant line of the profit and l oss account 
which will be affected by the underlying hedged item. 
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified and adjusted agai nst the initial measurement of the underlying hedged item when  
the underlying hedged item is recognised on the balance sheet or in the profit and loss account. 
When a hedged instrument expires, is sold or when a hedge no lo nger meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting  
is discontinued. Any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time is held in equity until the forecast transaction o ccurs.  
When a forecast transaction is no longer expe cted to occur, the cumulative gain or lo ss that was reported in equity is immediat ely 
reclassified to the relevant line of the profit and loss account which would have been affected by the forecast transaction. 
ii) Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
Certain derivatives do not qualif y for hedge accounting. Changes in fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualif y for 
hedge accounting are recognised immedi ately in the profit and loss account. 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown as a ded uction,  
net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Where the Company purchases its own ordinary shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental co sts  
(net of income taxes), is deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled or r eissued. 
Where such ordinary shares are subsequently reissued, any consid eration received, net of any directly attributable incremental 
transaction costs together with the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity hold ers. 
   Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
142 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO TH E COMPANY FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
142 
2 Profit and loss account 
A loss of £21.5 million is attributable to shareholders for the financial year en ded 30 August 2014 (2013: £18.3 million).  
The contracts of employment for all the executive directors are held by Debenhams plc. The total cost of employing the director s  
is disclosed in the remuneration report. 
Auditors’ remuneration relating to the audit of the Company fi nancial statements of £0.1 million (2013: £0.1 million) is borne by another 
Group undertaking. Other non-audit service fees payable to the Co mpany’s auditors during the fina ncial year ended 30 August 201 4 
were £73,000 (2013: £nil) and related to the senior notes issue. 
3 Dividends 
A final dividend of 2.4 pence per share (2013: 2.3 pence per share) was paid during the year in respect of the financial year ended  
31 August 2013, together with an interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share (2013: 1.0 pence per share) in respect of the financia l year 
ended 30 August 2014. The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 August 2014 of  
2.4 pence per share (2013: 2.4 pence per share), which will abso rb an estimated £29.4 million (2013: £29.4 million) of sharehol ders’  
funds. It will be paid on 9 January 2015 to shareholders who are on the register of members at close of business on 5 December 2014. 
No liability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of the final dividend as it was not approved at the balance sheet date. 
4 Investments 
Investment in subsidiary undertakings 
In accordance with FRS 11 “Impairment of fixed assets and good will,” the carrying values of the Company’s subsidiary undertakin gs  
have been compared to their recoverable amounts represented by t he value-in-use to the Company. The review has resulted in an 
impairment of £nil (2013: £nil). The discount rate used in the calculation to arrive at the valuation was 7.2% (2013: 7.4%) on a post-tax basis. 
The directors consider that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their discounted future cash flows. The pre-t ax rate was 
7.6% (2013: 7.6%). 
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 30 August 2014 are shown in note 33 of the Debenhams Group  
financial statements. 
  
 
30 August 
 2014  
£m 
31 August
 2013 
£m
Final paid 2.4 pence (2013: 2.3 pence) per £0.0001 share 
– Settled in cash 29.4 28.9
Interim paid 1.0 pence (2013: 1.0 pence) per £0.0001 share 
– Settled in cash 12.3 12.5
 
41.7 41.4
 
Investments 
in subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m
Cost 
At 31 August 2013 and 30 Au gust 2014 3,375.9
Provision for impairment 
At 31 August 2013 and 30 Au gust 2014 1,127.9
Net book value 
At 31 August 2013 and 30 Au gust 2014 2,248.0
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O T E S T O T H E C O M P A N Y F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S C O N T I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
143 
 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
143 
5 Derivative financial instruments 
Information relating to the derivatives hel d by the Company is shown in note 22 to the Debenhams Group financial statements. 
6 Debtors 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, repayable on demand and carry an average rate of interest of 2.5% (2013: 2.5% ). 
7 Cash at bank and in hand 
8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed da te of redemption and either ca rry an average interest rate of 2.5% 
(2013: 2.5%) or are interest free. 
9 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 
 
  
 
30 August 
 2014  
£m 
31 August
 2013 
£m
Non-current assets  
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hed ges 0.6 0.7
Current liabilities  
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hed ges (0.2) (0.5)
Non-current liabilities  
Interest rate swaps – cash flow hed ges  (1.2) (3.4)
 (0.8) (3.2)
 
30 August 
 2014  
£m 
31 August
 2013 
£m
Deferred tax asset (note 11)  0.1 0.7
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 82.9 88.5
Prepayments and accrued income 0.1 0.7
 83.1 89.9
 
30 August 
 2014  
£m 
31 August
 2013 
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 1.2 0.9
 
30 August 
 2014  
£m 
31 August
 2013 
£m
Bank and other borrowin gs (note 10) 198.8 167.5
Amounts owed to Group undertakin gs 615.5 547.3
Accruals and deferred income 1.1 0.9
 815.4 715.7
 
30 August 
 2014  
£m 
31 August
 2013 
£m
Bank and other borrowings (note 10) 220.6 246.3 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
144 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO TH E COMPANY FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
144 
10 Borrowings 
Maturity of debt 
Information relating to the borrowings of the Company is sh own in note 20 of the Debenhams Group financial statements. 
On 2 July 2014, Debenhams plc issued £225.0 million of seven year senior notes at a coupon rate of 5.25%. On 2 July 2014, the G roup 
cancelled its existing term loan and revolving credit facility an d drew down on a new revolving credit facility amounting to £4 25.0 million. 
This new revolving credit facility is due to expire in October 2018 and contains an op tion to request an extension to October 2 019. 
At 30 August 2014 the Company’s drawings und er credit facilities outstanding comprised revolving credit facility drawings of £2 00.0 
million (2013: £170.0 million revolving credit facility drawings and £250.0 million term loan). During the current and prior fi nancial years 
the Company has complied with its cov enants relating to its facilities. 
Refinancing costs of £7.9 million were incurred during the year end ed 30 August 2014 in respect of the negotiation of the new c redit 
facility and the issue of the senior notes, which will be amorti sed over the term of the corresponding borrowings at the effect ive interest 
rate based on the expected amount of those borrowings. The amortisation charge relating to the issue costs of the term loan and 
revolving credit facility was £1.9 million for the year ended 30 August 2014 (2013: £2.7 million) and the amortisation charge r elating to the 
issue costs of the senior notes was £0.1 million for the year end ed 30 August 2014 (2013: £nil). The write-off of unamortised i ssue costs in 
relation to the cancelled credit facilities was £4.5 million for the year ended 30 August 2014. 
11 Deferred taxation 
Deferred tax is calculated in full on all temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 20.0% (2013: 22. 2%) for 
temporary differences expected to reverse wi thin 12 months of the balance sheet date and 20.0% (2013: 20.0%) for temporary diff erences 
expected to reverse more than one year after the balance sheet date for the UK differences. The Finance Act 2013 included legis lation 
reducing the main rate of corporation tax from 23.0% to 21.0% fr om 1 April 2014 with a further reduction in the main rate of co rporation 
tax to 20.0% from 1 April 2015. 
The effect of the reduction in the corporation tax rate enacted in the 2013 Act has been to reduce the net deferred tax asset r ecognised  
at 31 August 2013 by £nil. 
Deferred tax provided on the fair value gains represents the deferred tax on the derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedges. 
 
30 August 
 2014  
£m 
31 August
 2013 
£m
Creditors: amounts falling due within one yea r 
Revolving credit facility  200.0 170.0
Less: revolving credit facility issue costs  (3.1) (2.5)
Senior notes accrued interes t 1.9 –
 198.8 167.5
Creditors: amounts falling due in more than one yea r
Term loan facility  – 250.0
Less: term loan facilit y issue costs – (3.7)
Senior notes 225.0 –
Less: senior notes issue costs  (4.4) –
 220.6 246.3
 
30 August 
 2014  
£m 
31 August
 2013 
£m
Amounts falling due:  
In one year or less or on demand  200.0 170.0
In more than two years but not more than five years – 250.0
In more than five years 225.0 –
 425.0 420.0
 
Fair value
 gains 
£m
At 31 August 2013 – asse t 0.7
Charged to reserves (0.6)
At 30 August 2014 – asset 0.1
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O T E S T O T H E C O M P A N Y F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S C O N T I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
145 
 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
145 
12 Called up share capital 
The Company commenced its share buyback programme in April 20 12. As at 30 August 2014 the Company had purchased 61,793,402 
(2013: 47,441,877) ordinary shares of £0.0001 at a total cost of £60.3 million of which 14,351,525 (2013: 23,882,722) ordinary shares of 
£0.0001 were purchased (representing 1.1% of the Company’s share capital) at a cost of £15.1 million (2013: £25.1 million) duri ng the 
financial year. All shares purchased by the Company were transfe rred to treasury. During the year 429,108 (2013: 655,573) treas ury shares 
were transferred out of treasury to satisfy awar ds granted under the Company’s share plans.  
The number of ordinary shares in the Company held by the Debe nhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 (“DRET”) in connection with the 
Group’s employee ownership plan described is as follows: 
The market value of the shares at 30 August 2014 was £0.3 mil lion for the DRET (2013: £0.5 million). The cost of the shares hel d at the year 
end was £0.4 million (2013: £0.4 million). 
Share option schemes 
At 30 August 2014 the Group had three (2013: four) schemes in op eration: the Performance Share Plan (“PSP”), the Executive Shar e 
Option Plan (“ESOP”) and the Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”) (201 3: the PSP, the ESOP, the SIP and the Deferred Bonus Matching  
Plan (“DBMP”)).  
Of the share options granted under the DBMP in 2010, 67.5% vested on 4 November 2013.  
For further information on these schemes please see no te 28 to the Debenhams Group financial statements. 
13 Reserves 
Share premium account 
On admission to the London Stock Exchange in 2006, the Company issued 358,974,359 shares at £1.95, generating proceeds of £700. 0 
million. Costs directly associated with the issue of the new sh ares totalled £17.1 million and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
these costs were set off against the premiu m generated on issue of the new shares. 
Hedging reserve 
The hedging reserve represents the change in fair value of the in terest rate swaps which have been designated as cash flow hedg es. 
Profit and loss account 
A dividend of £41.7 million (2013: £41.4 million) was paid by the Company during the financial year ended 30 August 2014. 
  
 30 August 2014 31 August 2013
£ Number £ Number
Issued and fully paid – ordinary shares of £0.0001 each  
At start of year 128,684 1,286,843,441 128,680 1,286,806,299
Allotted under share option schemes – – 4 37,142
At end of year 128,684 1,286,843,441 128,684 1,286,843,441
 
30 August  
2014  
Ordinary 
shares  
Number 
31 August
2013 
Ordinary 
shares 
Number
Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 473,537 473,537
Share 
premium  
account  
£m 
Hedging  
reserve  
£m 
Profit and 
loss account 
£m
At 31 August 2013  682.9 (2.5) 693.1
Loss for the financial year – – (21.5)
Cash flow hedges – net fair value gains (net of tax)  – 2.0 –
Employee share ownership plan s – – (1.8)
Purchase of treasury shares (note 12) – – (15.1)
Dividends to shareholders (note 3) – – (41.7)
At 30 August 2014 682.9 (0.5) 613.0 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
146 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
NOTES TO TH E COMPANY FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 
 
 
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
146 
14 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
15 Contingent liabilities 
The Company is subject to litigation from time to time as a result of its activities. The Company establishes provisions in 
connection with litigation where it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and where it is more 
likely than not an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.  
There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of busine ss which if realised are not expected to result 
in a material liability to the Company. 
 
 
30 August 
 2014  
£m 
31 August
 2013 
£m
Loss for the financial year (21.5) (18.3)
Dividends paid (note 3)  (41.7) (41.4)
Accumulated deficit for the year (63.2) (59.7)
Cash flow hedges:  
– Net fair value gains, net of tax 2.0 3.9
Purchase of treasury shares (15.1) (25.1)
Employee share ownership plan s (1.8) 1.5
Net decrease to shareholder s’ funds (78.1) (79.4)
Opening shareholders’ funds  1,373.6 1,453.0
Closing shareholders’ funds 1,295.5 1,373.6
F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S
N O T E S T O T H E C O M P A N Y F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S C O N T I N U E D
For the financial year ended 30 August 2014 ST O R E L I ST
UK
Aberdeen
Altrincham
Ashford
Ayr
Ballymena
Banbury
Bangor 
Barrow
Basildon
Basingstoke
Bath
Bedford
Belfast
Birmingham
Birmingham Fort
Blackburn
Blackpool
Bolton
Bournemouth
Brighton
Bristol
Bromley
Bury
Bury St Edmunds
Cambridge
Canterbury
Cardiff
Carlisle
Carmarthen
Chatham
Chelmsford
Cheltenham
Cheshire Oaks
Chester
Chesterfield
Clapham
Colchester
Coventry
Crawley
Croydon
Derby
Doncaster
Dumfries
Dundee
Dunfermline
East Kilbride
Eastbourne
Edinburgh
Eltham
Exeter
Falkirk
Fareham
Farnborough
Folkestone
Foyleside
Gateshead – 
 Metro Centre
Glasgow
Glasgow Silverburn
Gloucester
Gravesend
Great Yarmouth
Guildford
Hanley
Harrogate
Harrow
Hastings
Haverfordwest
Hemel Hempstead
Hereford
Hounslow
Hull
Ilford
Inverness
Ipswich
Kidderminster
King’s Lynn
Kirkcaldy
Lakeside
Leamington Spa
Leeds – City Centre 
Leeds – White Rose
Leicester
Leith
Lichfield
Lincoln
Liverpool
Livingston
Llandudno
Llanelli
London – Oxford Street
London – Westfield
Luton
Manchester
Manchester – 
 Trafford Park
Mansfield 
Merryhill
Merthyr Tydfil
Middlesbrough
Milton Keynes
Monks Cross
Newbury – Outlet
Newbury – Parkway
Newcastle-upon-Tyne
Newry
Northampton
Norwich
Nottingham
Nuneaton
Oldham
Orpington
Oxford
Perth
Plymouth
Portsmouth
Preston
Reading
Redditch
Romford
Rushmere
Salisbury
Scarborough
Sheffield
Sheffield – Meadowhall
Slough
Southampton
Southend
Southport
Southsea
South Shields
Staines
Stirling
Stockport
Stockton
Stratford-upon-Avon
Sunderland
Sutton
Swansea
Swindon
Taunton
Telford
Torquay
Truro 
Uxbridge
Wakefield
Walsall
Walton
Warrington
Welwyn Garden City
Westwood Cross
Weymouth
Wigan
Wimbledon
Winchester
Witney
Woking
Worcester
Workington
Worthing 
Wrexham
York 
International 
Magasin du Nord
Århus
Copenhagen – Field’s
Copenhagen –  
 Kgs Nytorv 
Lyngby
Odense
Rødovre
Republic of Ireland
Cork – Mahon Point
Cork – Patrick Street
Dublin – Blackrock
Dublin – 
Blanchardstown
Dublin – Henry Street
Dublin – Tallaght
Galway
Limerick
Newbridge
Tralee
Waterford
Franchise stores
Armenia
Yerevan
Azerbaijan 
Baku
Bahrain 
Manama
Bulgaria 
Sofia – Bulgaria Mall
Cyprus 
Apollon
Central
Engomi
Kinyras
Korivos
Ledra
Nicosia
Olympia
Zenon
Czech Republic 
Prague
Egypt 
Alexandria
Estonia 
Tallinn
Iceland 
Reykjavik
India 
Bangalore 
Mumbai
Indonesia 
Jakarta – Senayan City
Karawaci
Kemang Village
Iran 
Mashad
Shiraz
Tehran
Tehran – Jame Jam
Jordan 
Amman
Kuwait 
Airport
Avenues
Gate Mall
Souq Sharq
Latvia
Spice Mall 
Libya 
Tripoli 
Malaysia 
Kuala Lumpur – 
 Star Hill 
Kuala Lumpur – 
 The Curve
Penang
Malta 
Paola
Tigne Point
Pakistan
Karachi
Philippines 
Davao Abreeza Mall
Fairview Terraces
Manila – Glorieta
Manila – Shangri La
Manila – Trinoma
Paeso Santa Rosa
Qatar 
Doha
Russia
Moscow
Saudi Arabia 
Dhahran Mall
Jeddah – Bin Homran
Jeddah – Mall of Arabia
Madinah Al Noor
Mecca Abra Al Bait
Red Sea Mall
Riyadh – Gallery Mall
Riyadh – Granada Mall
Riyadh – Kingdom Mall
Riyadh – Rabwa
Riyadh – Sahara Mall
Turkey 
Istanbul – Cevahir
Istanbul – Mall of 
  Istanbul
UAE 
Abu Dhabi – Dalma
Abu Dhabi – Khalidja 
Mall
Dubai – Deira
Dubai – Dubai Mall 
Dubai – Ibn Battuta
Dubai – Mall of Emirates
Dubai – Mirdiff
Sharjah Sahara Centre
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
147  GL O S S A RY A N D R EFER EN C E S
Concessions
Brands which are sold through our 
stores where the stock belongs to 
a third party concessionaire. They 
are found chiefly in womenswear 
(eg Wallis, Oasis, Warehouse) and 
accessories (eg Tripp luggage).
Core brands
Brands designed and produced 
exclusively by Debenhams. They include 
brands such as The Collection, Mantaray, 
Maine New England and Red Herring. 
They are found in all product categories.
CRM/eCRM
Customer relationship management 
programmes.
Designers at Debenhams
Exclusive diffusion ranges designed 
for Debenhams by leading international 
designers including Jasper Conran, 
John Rocha and Julien Macdonald.
Direct sourcing
Sourcing from suppliers who own all 
or part of the supply chain processes.
Earnings per share (EPS) 
The profit for the year attributable to 
shareholders, divided by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue. 
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, taxation, 
depreciation and amortisation.
Footfall 
The number of people who visit our stores. 
Free cash flow
Cash generated from operations before 
exceptional items less net cash used  
in investing activities.
Gross margin 
Gross transaction value less the cost of 
goods sold, as a percentage of gross  
transaction value.
Gross transaction value (GTV)
Sales (excluding VAT) on a gross 
basis before adjusting for concessions, 
consignments and staff discounts. All 
references to sales in this report refer to 
GTV. All references to revenue refer to 
statutory revenue.
International brands
Brands such as Levi’s, Ben Sherman, 
Clarins and Estée Lauder for which 
Debenhams owns the stock.
International segment
Comprises sales to international franchise 
partners, sales from our stores in Denmark 
and the Republic of Ireland and online sales 
to addresses outside of the UK.
Like-for-like sales
Sales from stores which have been open 
for at least one year plus online sales.
Market share 
The percentage of the market or 
market segment that is being serviced 
by Debenhams. For instance, if 100 
T-shirts were sold a year in the UK and 
Debenhams sold ten of them, it would 
have 10% market share. 
Multi-channel
Multi-channel sales comprise those 
from online, mobile, apps and instore 
ordering as well as those which include 
more than one channel in a single 
shopping journey such as click and collect. 
We use online sales as a measure of the 
growth of the multi-channel business as 
it is the largest of these sales channels.
Own bought brands
Brands for which Debenhams owns the 
stock. They include core brands, Designers 
at Debenhams and international brands.
Own brands
Debenhams’ exclusive brands, comprising 
core brands and Designers at Debenhams.
Reported profit before tax and 
earnings per share
Profit before tax and earnings per share 
calculated after the impact of a non-
recurring £4.5 million write-off of 
unamortised issue costs associated with 
the refinancing of borrowing facilities 
during 2014.
Retail method of inventory 
valuation
An industry specific accounting method 
used to derive a weighted average 
product cost. Product cost and retail 
values are aggregated at department 
level to determine an average margin 
per department. These margins are then 
applied to the retail value of inventory 
in each department to derive the cost 
of inventory.
Terminal stock
The stock, as at the balance sheet date, 
which is classified as previous season or 
older. It is expressed as a percentage of 
total stock measured at retail value.
UK segment
Comprises sales from our UK stores 
and online sales to UK addresses. 
Underlying profit before tax 
and earnings per share
Profit before tax and earnings per share 
calculated before the impact of exceptional 
or non-recurring items. In 2014 there was 
a non-recurring £4.5 million write-off of 
unamortised issue costs associated with 
the refinancing of borrowing facilities 
during 2014.
With thanks to Maureen Hinton of Columino 
and Darren Winder of The Lazarus Partnership.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
148  A DD I T I ON A L I N F OR M A T I ON
Registered office and head office
10 Brock Street 
Regent’s Place 
London NW1 3FG 
Registered in England and Wales 
Company number: 5448421
Financial advisors
Lazard 
50 Stratton Street 
London W1J 8LL
Stockbrokers
Citigroup Global Markets Limited 
Citigroup Centre 
Canada Square 
London E14 5LB
Oriel Securities Limited 
150 Cheapside 
London EC2V 6ET
Solicitors
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 
65 Fleet Street 
London EC4Y 1HS
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and 
Statutory Auditors 
1 Embankment Place 
London WC2N 6RH
Registrars
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex BN99 6DA 
Telephone: 0871 384 2766* 
www.shareview.co.uk
*   Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus 
network extras. Lines are open 8.30am to 
5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Printed in-house by Debenhams
Designed and produced by Luminous
www.luminous.co.uk
Cautionary statement
This report is intended to focus on matters 
which are relevant to the interests of 
shareholders of the Company. The purpose 
of this report is to assist shareholders in 
assessing the strategies adopted and 
performance delivered by the Company 
and the potential for those strategies to 
succeed. It should not be relied on by any 
other party for any other purpose.
Forward-looking statements are made 
in good faith, based on a number of 
assumptions concerning future events 
and information available to directors at 
the time of their approval of this report. 
These forward-looking statements should 
be treated with caution due to the inherent 
uncertainties underlying any such forward-
looking information. The user of this report 
should not rely unduly on these forward-
looking statements, which are not a 
guarantee of performance and which are 
subject to a number of uncertainties and 
other facts, many of which are outside the 
Company’s control and could cause actual 
events to differ materially from those in 
these statements. No guarantee can be 
given of future results, levels of activity, 
performance or achievements. Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
10 Brock Street, Regent’s Place, London NW1 3FG 
www.debenhams.com
