 20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15 20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
An International Veterinary
Pharmaceutical Business
Annual Report and Accounts  
for the year ended 30 June 2011  
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC    Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011 
Pharmaceuticals PLC 20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business 
Dechra is an international pharmaceutical business focused on the veterinary 
market with its key area of specialisation being the development and marketing 
of companion animal products
Our Strategy
­ • ­ T o ­ sustain ­ gr owth ­ and ­ innovate ­ in ­ our ­ Services ­ business; ­ and
• ­ T o ­ continue ­ to ­ develop ­ a ­ high ­ gr owth, ­ cash ­ generative, ­ specialist­
veterinary products business
For more information on our Strategy go to page 8
Dedication:  We are dedicated to delivering products and services that meet 
the highest level of service and quality to our customers
Enjoyment:  We will endeavour to create an environment where our people 
want to come to work and feel part of Dechra
 Courage:­­ W e ­ want ­ a ­ business ­ wher e ­ we ­ dar e ­ to ­ challenge ­ each ­ other ,­
creating better cross-organisational solutions
Honesty:  We will act with integrity and fairness and treat everyone with 
respect
 Relationships:  We see our customers and suppliers as business partners and 
thereby work together to ensure common success
 Ambition:  We shall deliver solid results through our energetic and resilient 
approach
Our Values
For more information on our Values go to page 29
Key Performance Indicators:
The ­ Gr oup ­ utilises ­ KPIs ­ to ­ assess ­ its ­ development­
and progress against its strategy
The ­ KPIs ­ can ­ be ­ found ­ on ­ pages ­ 30 ­ to ­ 31
Risks:
The ­ Gr oup ­ faces ­ risks ­ and ­ uncertainties ­ r elating ­ to­
the achievement of its strategy and objectives
A table setting out the main potential risk areas and 
the controls in place can be found on pages 36 to 37
Forwar d-Looking ­ Statements: ­ This ­ Annual ­ Report ­ contains ­ certain ­ forwar d-looking ­ statements ­ which ­ r eflect ­ the ­ knowledge ­ and ­
information ­ available ­ to ­ the ­ Company ­ during ­ pr eparation ­ and ­ up ­ to ­ the ­ publication ­ of ­ these ­ Accounts. ­ By ­ their ­ very ­ natur e, ­ these­
statements depend upon circumstances and relate to events that may occur in the future and by this very nature involve a degree of 
uncertainty . ­ Ther efor e, ­ nothing ­ in ­ this ­ publication ­ should ­ be ­ construed ­ as ­ a ­ pr ofit ­ for ecast ­ by ­ the ­ Company . 20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
www.dechra.com  
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
Our Business 
Group at a Glance
Product Development
The Product Development and Regulatory Team develop and licence Dechra’s 
own branded veterinary product portfolio of novel and generic pharmaceuticals 
and specialist pet diets
 European Pharmaceuticals
­•­ Dechra Veterinary Products EU (“DVP EU”) 
Sales and marketing of Dechra’s branded veterinary products and 
specialist pet foods to the veterinary profession in Europe
•­ Dales
®
 Pharmaceuticals (“Dales”) 
Licensed manufacturer of veterinary and human pharmaceuticals for DVP EU 
and third party customers
US Pharmaceuticals
•­ Dechra Veterinary Products US (“DVP US”) 
Sales and marketing of Dechra’s branded endocrine, ophthalmic,  
dermatological and equine products into North America
European Pharmaceuticals Revenue
£89.3 million 5.5% up ( 2 0 1 0 :­£ 8 4 . 6­m i l l i o n )
US Pharmaceuticals Revenue
£16.1 million 51.5% up ( 2 0 1 0 :­£ 1 0 . 6­m i l l i o n )
Services
•­ National Veterinary Services (“NVS
®
”) 
UK market leader in the supply of pharmaceuticals, instruments, consumables,  
pet products and added value services to the veterinary profession
•­ NationWide Laboratories (“NWL”) 
Multi-disciplined independent commercial veterinary laboratory
•­ Cambridge Specialist Laboratory Services (“CSLS”) 
Primary and secondary referral specialist veterinary immunoassay 
laboratory
Services Revenue
£296.3 million 3.7% up ( 2 0 1 0 :­£ 2 8 5 . 7­m i l l i o n ) 20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15 20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Pharmaceuticals and Services
Export
Where we Operate
Our Key Strengths
­ •­ Unique­Pr oducts
•­ People­and­Expertise
•­ Strategic­Focus
•­ Inter national­Footprint
•­ Str ong­Financial­Platform
•­ Development­Pipeline
•­ Str ong­Market­Position
•­ Gr owing­Markets
•­ Customer­Satisfaction
•­ Innovation
•­ Fifth­succesive­year­of­double­digit­underlying­ear nings­per­shar e­
growth
­ •­ Str ong­gr owth­fr om­branded­veterinary­pr oducts
•­ Investment­in­pr oduct­pipeline­incr eased
•­ High­cash­inflow­in­second­half
•­ T wo­ear nings­enhancing­acquisitions­completed­and­integrated
•­­Str ong­balance­sheet­with­net­borr owings­0.98­times­underlying­
EBITDA
Our Key Achievements
Pharmaceuticals * Non-underlying items comprise amortisation of acquired intangibles, acquisition expenses, rationalisation costs, 
payments to acquire technology for the research and development programme, impairment charges, loss on 
extinguishment of debt and the unwinding of discounts on deferred and contingent consideration (see notes 4 and 5).
Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  PB 01
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information Our Business
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Highlights
10 11 08 09 07
253.8
304.4
350.0
369.4
389.2
Revenue 
£ million
5.4% up
10 11 08 09 07
16.89
20.81
25.61
29.50
34.33
Underlying Earnings 
per Share*
pence
16.4% up
10 11 08 09 07
16.86
14.20
17.27
19.97
21.33
Earnings per Share
pence
6.8%
up
Profit 
Before Taxation
£ million
10 11 08 09 07
12.6
11.7
16.1
17.7
18.5
4.4%
up
Dividend per Share
pence
10 11 08 09 07
7.50
8.25
9.10
10.50
12.10
15.2%
up
01 Highlights
02 Our Business Model
04 Chairman’s Statement
08 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Key Products and Specialisations
14 Product Development
16 Product Pipeline
18 Introducing the DVP Country Managers
20 European Pharmaceuticals
23 US Pharmaceuticals
24 Services
28 Information Technology and HR
30 Key Performance Indicators
32 Financial Review
35 Risks and Uncertainties
38 Board of Directors
40 Senior Management
42 Corporate Governance
50 Audit Committee Report
53 Directors’ Remuneration Report
63 Social, Ethical and Environmental 
Responsibilities
69 Other Disclosures
73 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
74 Independent Auditor’s Report
76 Consolidated Income Statement
77 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
78 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
79 Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Shareholders’ Equity
80 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
81 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
124 Company Balance Sheet
125 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ 
Funds
126 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
133 Financial History
Our Accounts
Directors’ Report: 
Our Governance
Directors’ Report:  
Our Performance
Our Business
10 11 08 09 07
13.9
19.1
25.0
28.2
31.8
Underlying Operating 
Profit*
£ million
12.9%
up
Operating Profit
£ million
10 11 08 09 07
13.8
14.1
17.7
19.9
21.7
9.3% up
Underlying Profit 
Before Taxation*
£ million
15.4% up
10 11 08 09 07
12.6
16.9
23.4
26.1
30.1
Shareholder Information
134 Shareholder Information
136 Glossary Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  02 03
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business
Our Business Model
RePORtInG SeCtORS
Dechra Activity
Key to our Business Model
2
MANUFACTURING 
lOCATIONS
5
CONSECUTIVE 
YEARS OF 
DOUBlE DIGIT EPS 
GROWTH
4
REPORTING 
SEGMENTS
Dechra in Numbers
Customers
DeCHRA US
DVP US Sales and Marketing 
t echnical Support
Markets and sells our own 
veterinary products across the 
USA and distributes a number of 
our dermatological products to 
Export Partners
PRODUCt 
DeVeLOPMent 
AnD ReGULA tOR y 
Aff AIRS
Provides products for the 
Group through in-house 
development of novel 
pharmaceutcial products, 
generic pharmaceutical 
products, and specialist 
branded pet diets. Further 
products are acquired 
through in-licensing and 
marketing contracts with third 
party suppliers 
Dales and Uldum 
Manufacturing
DeCHRA eU
Manufactures the vast majority of our 
own branded pharmaceutical products 
which are marketed through DVP EU 
and DVP US. Approximately 50% of 
manufacturing revenues are from third 
party toll manufacturing, predominantly 
for human pharmaceutical companies
DVP eU Sales and  
Marketing t echnical Support
Markets and sells our branded 
veterinary products within 13 
European countries and manages 
the relationships with our worldwide 
marketing partners
Partners Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  02 03
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information Our Business
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
35
COUNTRIES WE 
ExPORT TO
38.4
MIllION POUNDS 
IN DIVIDENDS PAID 
OVER 10 YEARS
1,010
GROUP 
EMPlOYEES
14
TRADING 
SUBSIDIARY 
COUNTRIES
200
% EARNINGS 
PER SHARE 
GROWTH OVER 
10 YEARS
nVS Veterinary 
Wholesaler
DeCHRA SeRVICeS
Distributes a range of over  
14,000 products directly to veterinary 
practices utilising its own vehicle 
fleet. NVS supplies pharmaceuticals, 
pet products, consumables and 
accessories and has also developed 
a range of IT solutions to veterinary 
practices 
Our laboratory businesses are first 
and second referral providers of 
histology, pathology, haemotology, 
chemistry and microbiology services 
to veterinary practices
nWL and CSLS
Laboratory Services
Veterinary Wholesalers 
and Distributors
third Party  
Pharmaceutical Companies
Veterinary Practices
Horse 
Owners
Pet 
Owners
farms
export Partners Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  04 05
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Chairman’s Statement
“We believe that we are well positioned to ensure  
future solid growth is maintained and Shareholder  
value enhanced”
Michael Redmond, Chairman
Consistent Double Digit Earnings Growth
The Group has achieved its fifth successive year of double 
digit underlying earnings growth and made significant strategic 
progress during the year. T wo acquisitions, which will be 
earnings enhancing in the first full year of ownership, have 
been completed and integrated into the business, our branded 
products have continued to outperform the market, several 
new products have been launched and our international scope 
has increased. Furthermore, we have continued to make 
advancements with our product development pipeline and have 
increased investment in people and infrastructure to ensure 
growth is sustained in the future.
Financial Highlights
Revenue increased by 5.4% from £369.4 million to £389.2 
million; underlying operating profit increased by 12.9% from 
£28.2 million to £31.8 million. The increase in underlying 
operating margin from 7.6% to 8.2% is a reflection of 
the growth of our high margin pharmaceutical business, 
particularly in the USA.
The underlying net finance expense was £1.8 million 
compared to £2.1 million in 2010. Additional net foreign 
exchange gains of £0.8 million were partially offset by 
interest on additional bank borrowings to finance the 
DermaPet
®
 and Genitrix
®
 acquisitions.
 
Underlying profit before taxation increased by 15.4% from 
£26.1 million to £30.1 million whilst underlying earnings per 
share rose by 16.4% from 29.50 pence to 34.33 pence.
Reported operating profit was £21.7 million (2010: £19.9 million) 
whilst profit before taxation was £18.5 million (2010: £17.7 
million). Reported earnings per share was 21.33 pence (2010: 
19.97 pence).
After a cash outflow in the first half of the financial year, there 
was a strong cash inflow in the second half with net borrowings 
reducing from £49.6 million at 31 December 2010 to £34.1 
million at 30 June 2011. The increase from £6.7 million at  
30 June 2010 is due to the acquisitions made during the year.
Dividend
In line with our progressive dividend policy and our 
confidence in the business, the Directors are recommending 
an increase in the final dividend to 8.40 pence per share 
(2010: 7.20 pence per share). This, together with the interim 
dividend of 3.70 pence per share (2010: 3.30 pence per 
share), makes a total dividend for the year of 12.10 pence 
per share (2010: 10.50 pence per share), a 15.2% increase.
The total dividend is covered 2.6 times by profit after 
taxation after adding back amortisation of acquired 
intangibles (2010: 2.6 times).
The final dividend, which is subject to Shareholder approval at 
the Annual General Meeting to be held on Friday 4 November 
2011, will be paid on 25 November 2011 to Shareholders on 
the Register at 11 November 2011. The date shares become 
ex-dividend is 9 November 2011.
People
There have been no senior management changes during 
the year; however, there have been a number of changes 
in respect of our Non-Executive Board members. Following 
ten years of service, Malcolm Diamond MBE retired as 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee in November 2010. We 
would like to thank Malcolm for his valued support and 
contribution to the business over this period. Dr Chris 
Richards was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive  
Director from 1 December 2010. Chris is currently Chairman 
of Arysta LifeScience Corporation, the world’s largest 
privately owned crop protection company. He brings  
with him over 20 years of international management 
experience. Neil Warner has undertaken the role of Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director and Bryan Morton  
has assumed the role of Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  04 05
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
On behalf of the Board and our Shareholders I would like to 
thank all our employees for their hard work and dedication 
throughout the year.
Corporate Governance
During the year the Board has focused on consolidating the 
medium to long term strategy of the business to ensure that 
the Group continues to deliver and maintain value for our 
stakeholders (detail in respect of this is covered on page 8 
of the Chief Executive’s Review). As Chairman, one of my 
prime roles is to ensure that the Board has the right mix of 
skills and experience to assist the Executive Directors in the 
progression and implementation of this Group strategy.
During the year a detailed internal board evaluation 
programme was undertaken. The process was well received 
by the Directors and a number of constructive suggestions 
were highlighted which should assist in strengthening the 
Board over the coming year. The evaluation highlighted the 
enthusiasm and ambition of the Board to continue to grow 
the business. Further detail in relation to how the evaluation 
was carried out can be found in the Corporate Governance 
Report on page 46.
Prospects
Although footfall through veterinary practices has declined 
and the general economic climate remains uncertain we are 
continuing to demonstrate solid growth in markets in which 
we trade. Our branded product range, the focus of our key 
strategic objective, continues to grow strongly.  
To sustain this growth we have increased investment in 
product development, extended the geographies in which 
we operate, acquired complementary businesses and 
increased the number of people within sales and marketing.  
We believe, therefore, that we are well positioned to ensure 
future solid growth is maintained and Shareholder value 
enhanced.
Michael Redmond
Chairman
6 September 2011 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  06 07
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Dermatology
It is estimated that around 20% of all 
small animal veterinary consultations 
relate to dermatological problems, i.e. 
skin diseases, allergies, otitis externa, 
seborrhoeic dermatitis and surface 
pyoderma are amongst the most 
commonly diagnosed dermatological 
conditions.
What is Otitis Externa?
It is inflammation of the skin of the external ear canal. 
Many factors can contribute to this disease including 
irritation caused by allergic skin disease, ear mites, 
foreign bodies, and secondary infection with bacteria 
or yeasts. As so many factors are involved, this disease 
can be challenging to manage; some cases require 
repeat treatment and/or a long term management plan. 
Ear cleaning can form a vital part of the management of 
this disease.
Dogs and cats with otitis externa usually show signs 
of obvious pain or discomfort. They scratch and shake 
their heads and there is also often a smelly discharge 
from their ears. The disease is easily diagnosed by 
examining the animal and inspecting the ear canal. Vets 
will also often examine a swab taken from the ear (under 
a microscope), before selecting the appropriate therapy.
Canaural
®
, Dechra’s branded prescription 
pharmaceutical, is licensed for the treatment of  
otitis externa in both dogs and cats. It is effective 
against microbes most commonly associated with 
otitis externa and ear mites.
What is Seborrhoeic Dermatitis? 
This is a condition where an overgrowth of the normally 
present yeasts and bacteria occurs resulting in dandruff 
like flaking. It is usually caused by an underlying primary 
problem such as an allergy, endocrine disease or 
parasites. This is a very itchy disorder with red inflamed 
scaly skin; affected animals can also have a strong 
unpleasant odour.  
Diagnosis of the disease is generally easy, based on 
an examination of a skin sample under a microscope.  
Diagnosis of the underlying disorder can be more 
difficult, sometimes impossible. Treatment therefore may 
need to be long term to prevent recurrence. Malaseb
®
 
shampoo is licensed for the treatment of dogs with 
seborrhoeic dermatitis.
What is Surface Pyoderma? 
It is a bacterial infection on the surface of the skin, 
most commonly seen in dogs. There are two distinct 
types:
l  Acute moist dermatitis: the root cause is 
unclear, but is often a trauma, such as a flea bite, 
that causes the dog to lick, scratch or chew its 
skin, resulting in an intensely itchy, red inflamed 
area with a sticky discharge matting the fur. 
l  Skin fold dermatitis: common in obese dogs and 
breeds with prominent skin folds. Lesions develop 
in the fold as a result of friction between the skin 
surfaces often causing the skin inside the fold to be 
itchy, red and malodorous.
 
Diagnosis is normally based on the clinical signs 
identified. Clipping the hair and washing the affected 
areas are important to increase skin ventilation and 
remove any debris. However, appropriate antibiotic 
therapy, such as Dechra’ s unique pharmaceutical 
Fuciderm® Gel, will target the bacterial infection.
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Case Study Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  06 07
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  08 09
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Chief Executive’s Review
“Dechra has performed strongly, and for the fifth 
consecutive year, produced double digit earnings per share 
growth. This success is a reflection of the strength of the 
Group and the ongoing delivery of the underlying strategy”
Ian Page, Chief Executive
Introduction
The Group has continued to make good financial and 
strategic progress during the year. The markets in most of 
the countries in which we trade have demonstrated growth, 
although there has been a decline in footfall through veterinary 
practices, especially in the companion animal sector. This 
decline has been offset in the UK by reasonably strong 
growth in the livestock sector and by a significant increase in 
veterinary products being purchased online as price conscious 
consumers look to reduce the costs of animal welfare; Dechra, 
in our UK distribution business, is currently underweight in 
both these low margin sectors. Within these market dynamics 
and against the background of continued global economic 
uncertainty, Dechra has performed strongly and, for the fifth 
consecutive year, produced double digit underlying earnings 
per share growth. This success is a reflection of the strength 
of the Group and the ongoing delivery of the underlying 
strategy. Furthermore, we have continued to invest in our 
infrastructure and product development pipeline and have 
made two earnings enhancing acquisitions to ensure we are 
well positioned to maintain good future growth prospects.
Our Strategy for Delivering  
and Maintaining Value
The Group has a clear strategy for growth by providing 
novel and specialist products together with innovative 
services to the veterinary profession. Additionally, 
we provide contract manufacturing services to other 
pharmaceutical companies.
Products
The primary strategic objective of the Group is to develop a 
high growth, cash generative veterinary products business.  
This is achieved by increased market shares of existing 
products and increasing the depth of the product range by:
l pharmaceutical development of novel companion animal 
and equine products;
l approval of pharmaceutical generic products;
l the continued development and innovation of our 
branded pet diets; and
l acquiring or in-licensing specialist pet products which 
can be marketed through existing sales and customer 
channels.
Furthermore, we are:
l increasing geographical coverage through the creation 
of our own subsidiaries in countries where we are not 
currently represented; and
l improving and developing sales growth through our 
export partners in non-subsidiary territories.
Services
The key strategic objectives in this segment are to:
l continue improving logistics excellence;
l maintain or reduce operating costs as a percentage of 
sales;
l improve our service offerings relative to our competitors; 
and
l position the businesses so that our customers and 
ourselves are best placed to take advantage of a 
changing marketplace.
Manufacturing
The key strategic objective of manufacturing is to 
effectively and economically produce our own veterinary 
pharmaceutical product range. However, we have been 
successful in developing a contract manufacturing business 
by strategic implementation of:
l therapeutic sector specialisation;
l provision of a full service, from formulation and 
development through to manufacturing and packaging; 
and
l the ability to offer our customers a wide range of scale, 
dosage forms and packaging formats. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  08 09
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Acquisitions
Two acquisitions were completed in the period.
DermaPet
DermaPet, a Florida based dermatological business, was 
acquired in October 2010 for a potential total consideration 
of US$64.0 million. The acquisition strengthened 
our position as a leader in the worldwide veterinary 
dermatological market. As a result, we have been able 
to significantly increase our US sales and marketing 
capabilities. DermaPet has now been fully integrated 
into DVP US and expected sales and cost synergies 
are beginning to be realised. We have modernised the 
packaging and are presenting it in Dechra livery. The Group 
has also identified opportunities to increase sales and 
geographical coverage of this range within Europe.
Genitrix
In December 2010 we completed the acquisition of 
Genitrix, a privately owned veterinary company with a range 
of products complementary to Dechra’s, for a potential 
total consideration of £6.4 million. The Genitrix brands are 
currently sold exclusively within the United Kingdom. The 
rationalisation of the business was completed at the end of 
January 2011 with the closure of their warehouse and office 
facility. A number of the Genitrix sales team have been 
appointed within the Dechra Group and cost synergies are 
now being realised.  
The main future strategic objective is to extend the Genitrix 
product range into other EU territories. Libromide®, a 
recently approved canine epilepsy product for the UK, is 
being taken through Mutual Recognition to gain approval 
throughout Europe. Two other products, Xeno® and RIP 
Fleas®, are also being considered for launch in other 
selected territories. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  10 11
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Case Studies
Webinars
During 2011 we launched Felimazole
®
 and 
Vetoryl
®
 throughout Dechra’s nordic sales and 
marketing subsidiaries.
t o improve the levels of diagnosis of feline 
hyperthyroidism and canine Cushing’s syndrome 
(for the conditions which Vetoryl and Felimazole are 
used to treat, see page 11) across Denmark, finland, 
norway and Sweden, we developed a programme of 
webinars.  
We worked with two globally renowned veterinary endocrinologists, 
who led a series of Dechra branded web-based seminars. These 
were attended in real time, by veterinarians from across the Nordics, 
accessing the presentation via the internet from their own computers. 
The audience watched the presentations and listened to the speakers 
and also participated in interactive question and answer sessions.
This new service was well received by our customers. A considerable amount 
of positive feedback about the quality of the presentations and the convenience 
of this medium was received from veterinarians. In total, 645 participants 
attended four webinars in February and March 2011. In addition, a recording 
of the webcasts is available to veterinary professionals to view through the 
Dechra Veterinary Products website, www.dechra.com. There have been 
1,400 viewings to date. 
Following the success of these initial webinars a programme 
of similar events has been rolled out across Europe; there are 
now several webcasts available on the website. Over 600 
vets in the UK registered for a new webinar on otitis in June 
this year. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  10 11
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
endocrinology
endocrinology describes all diseases arising from 
disorders of the endocrine system. these include 
total failure of hormone production, underproduction 
of a hormone, or overproduction of a hormone by an 
endocrine gland.
What is Feline Hyperthyroidism?
It is the most common endocrine disorder in middle-aged and older cats. It is caused by the overproduction of 
thyroid hormones and occurs when either one or both thyroid lobes enlarge.
Thyroid hormones (T4 and T3) regulate the body’s rate of metabolism so cats with hyperthyroidism have an 
excessive amount of these hormones in the blood. This dramatically increases their metabolic rate and often 
results in weight loss, despite the cat having a ravenous appetite.
Diagnosis is usually very straightforward. In the majority of cases, a veterinary surgeon will be able to feel the 
enlarged thyroid lobe(s) in the neck. Blood samples taken from a cat will usually confirm the diagnosis.
Regular treatment with Dechra’s branded prescription medicine Felimazole reduces the production of thyroid 
hormones, returning the cat to its normal euthyroid state.
What is Hyperadrenocorticism or Cushing’s Syndrome?
The condition is usually seen in older dogs and is one of the most commonly diagnosed canine endocrine disorders. 
It occurs when a dog is exposed to high levels of the hormone cortisol in the blood.
Cortisol, which is released from the adrenal glands, is controlled by the hormone ACTH which is produced by the 
pituitary gland. Dogs with Cushing’s syndrome have a tumour either in their pituitary gland or 
in their adrenal glands, both of which result in excessive amounts of cortisol. Over time, the 
clinical signs of Cushing’s syndrome will develop, which can include excessive drinking 
and urination, a ravenous appetite, a pot belly and hair loss.  
Diagnosis can be complex; blood tests that assess the capacity of a dog’s adrenal 
glands to produce cortisol are routinely used to support diagnosis. 
Treatment with Vetoryl, Dechra’s leading global product, reduces the level of cortisol 
in a dog’s blood by inhibiting the production of cortisol. As Vetoryl does not cure 
Cushing’s syndrome (the tumour is usually still present), in the majority of cases 
treatment must be continued for the rest of the life of the animal.   Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  12 13
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Key Products and Specialisations
Dermatology
Canaural was first licensed in 1975 and is 
still the leading first line treatment for otitis 
externa in cats and dogs in several EU territories. Canaural, 
which is now registered in 27 countries, can also be used in 
conjunction with our leading ear cleaning product CleanAural®.
Fuciderm, licensed in 1995, is the only licensed product for 
the treatment of surface pyoderma in dogs, such as acute 
moist dermatitis and intertrigo. It is a key product within our 
dermatology range, selling into 23 countries.
Malaseb was first licensed in 1996 and is still the market 
leading medicated shampoo for cats and dogs. It is 
used to treat skin diseases caused by Malassezia and 
Staphylococcal infections.
Animax®, licensed for the treatment of skin conditions in 
dogs and cats, is only approved in the United States. The 
marketing rights for this product were acquired in May 2007.
DermaPet, acquired in October 2010, is a range of 
shampoos, conditioners and ear products to treat numerous 
skin and ear conditions in dogs and cats. Key brands are 
Triz, Malacetic and Malaket.
endocrinology
Endocrine disorders are a key 
focus for the business with a number of licensed products 
treating a range of chronic diseases. The two leading 
brands are Vetoryl and Felimazole.
Vetoryl is a novel product for the treatment of Cushing’s 
syndrome (excess cortisol or hyperadrenocorticism) 
in dogs. It is marketed internationally and is the only 
recognised licensed efficacious veterinary product for the 
treatment of Cushing’s syndrome around the world.
Felimazole was the first veterinary licensed product for 
the treatment of feline hyperthyroidism. Originally licensed 
in the UK in 2002, Felimazole was then licensed in the 
EU in 2005, the US in 2009 and has subsequently been 
approved in Australia and Canada.
equine Medicine
We have a wide range of licensed products supporting the 
equine veterinarian. The leading product with the highest 
sales is Equipalazone® which is licensed in five major EU 
countries.
Equipalazone was first licensed in a sachet presentation in 
1972 and subsequently in a paste and injection. It is still the 
leading non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) for the 
treatment of musculoskeletal disorders, such as lameness 
due to acute and chronic laminitis in the horse.
Equidone® Gel was approved in 2010 for the treatment 
of fescue toxicity in horses. This niche product is targeted 
specifically at the US market.
Ophthalmology
Ophthalmology is an area of veterinary medicine where 
we have a number of leading products including licensed 
pharmaceuticals, unlicensed care products and instruments.
Fucithalmic® Vet, licensed in 1993, is the only licensed 
product available for the treatment of conjunctivitis 
associated with Staphylococcal infections. It is highly 
effective because of its unique sustained release formulation 
that ensures prolonged retention within the eye. It is currently 
licensed in 21 countries.
We also market a range of ophthalmic and otic products 
in the USA, the long term marketing rights of which were 
acquired in May 2007. There are six products in the range, 
most of which are the only veterinary licensed products in  
the American market.
The product range is unique as it is entirely focused on companion animals and horses. The majority of our key products 
are novel or have clear marketing advantages over competitor products. Most of our branded range have market leading 
positions in the majority of territories in which we operate. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  12 13
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Critical Care
Dechra has a wide range of products that support emergency 
medicine including licensed pharmaceuticals, wound treatments, 
consumables and instruments all predominantly sold in the UK. 
The leading range of products is the Vetivex® brand. 
The Vetivex range of infusion fluids are licensed for the 
treatment of dehydration. They are widely used to meet 
normal fluid and electrolyte requirements when fluids cannot 
be given orally, such as during surgery. 
Libromide, acquired as part of the Genitrix acquisition as 
outlined earlier, was approved in 2010. It is the only licensed 
product of its type which is used in combination with other 
pharmaceuticals for the management of epilepsy in dogs.
Generics
Several generic products are registered within the United 
Kingdom; this basket of products is marketed under the 
Dechra Veterinary Essentials® brand. A number of products 
are also registered in Europe; we are in the process of in-
licensing and registering additional products to extend our 
branded generic range within this territory.
Pet Diets
Dechra has two main cat and dog diet product ranges, 
both branded Specific®, which are sold exclusively through 
veterinary practices. Therapeutic diets, which represent 70% of 
diet sales, provide optimum levels of nutrition in areas such as 
diabetes, arthritis and urinary, kidney, liver and heart problems. 
Life stage diets, which represent 30% of diet sales, provide 
premium quality daily nutrition for healthy dogs and cats.
Care
The Care range comprises unlicensed products which 
complement our pharmaceutical range. They are available 
over the counter within veterinary practices. The three key 
products are CleanAural, a non-irritant cleaner suitable for 
frequent use in ears producing excess wax, Neutrale™, a 
range of specialist shampoos for skin conditions in dogs, and 
Lubrithal®, an eye lubricant for cats and dogs. 
Marketing Agreements
A number of products are also sold through our global 
subsidiaries under marketing agreements with:
l Eurovet to market Domidine®, Sedator® and Atipam® 
in the UK and Ireland;
l Orthogen to market Irap® in the USA;
l Peptech Animal Health Pty Limited (“Peptech”) to market 
Ovuplant® in the USA, Canada and EU; and
l Krka to market Rycarfa® in the EU. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  14 15
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
The Business and its Markets
Dechra operates under four segments:
l Product Development;
l european Pharmaceuticals which comprises Dechra 
Veterinary Products Europe (“DVP EU”) and Dales 
Pharmaceuticals (“Dales”);
l US Pharmaceuticals comprising Dechra Veterinary 
Products US (“DVP US”); and
l Services comprising National Veterinary Services (“NVS”) 
and our Laboratories, NationWide Laboratories (“NWL”) 
and Cambridge Specialist Laboratory Services (“CSLS”).
The Group employs 1,010 people, operates out of 14 
countries and exports products globally.
Product Development
The ongoing development of our specialist branded 
veterinary exclusive products is a key part of the Group’s 
future growth plans.
Development Strategy
The Group has a strategic programme to increase its  
product portfolio. The main criteria for assessing a product’s 
potential for inclusion in the development pipeline are:
l risk adjusted return on investment;
l market potential and future growth opportunities;
l geographical scope;
l target species; and
l the ability to sell and market through existing distributor 
and veterinary customer channels.
Our product development is concentrated in three areas:
l Prescription only veterinary medicines (“POMs”) 
for dogs, cats and horses. We target products in 
specialist therapeutic areas and focus on novel ideas in 
underserved markets. Most of our projects utilise existing 
pharmaceutical entities that are typically used within the 
human market and therefore the majority of product 
creation is development and not research based.
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Product Development
“Our product pipeline continues to deliver novel pharmaceuticals,  
generic pharmaceuticlas, line extensions, approvals of existing products  
into new territories and new innovative pet diets” Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  14 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
l Therapeutic pet diets for dogs and cats. Products are 
formulated and trialled to provide optimum nutrition for 
animals diagnosed with various medical conditions.
l Unlicensed medicines, shampoos and supplements for 
dogs, cats and horses. These products, on the whole, 
are intended for veterinary recommendation and in most 
cases will complement the therapeutic areas in which 
our POMs are targeted.
Development Achievements
The Group has continued to increase investment in product 
development with an 11.9% increase in expenditure over 
the corresponding period last year. The development team 
has been increased to 25 people who are located in the 
United States, United Kingdom and Denmark. Dosage form 
development work is conducted in the UK; regulatory work 
is conducted in the UK and Denmark and the majority of 
safety and efficacy trials are controlled by our US team.  
There have been several approvals within the year:
l Equidone Gel, a specialist novel equine product, in the US;
l Vetoryl, the Group’s largest product, in Japan;
l 10mg Vetoryl, which increases dosing options, in 
Australia;
l Felimazole 2.5mg, low dose preparation, approved in 
the Nordics;
l Malaseb, our dermatological product, recently licensed 
in mainland Europe is now approved in Norway;
l Clavudale®, an antibiotic generic, throughout Europe 
via the Mutual Recognition procedure;
l Urilin®, a bitch incontinence product, throughout 
Europe via the Mutual Recognition procedure;
l Rycarfa, a flavoured analgesic tablet, in the EU;
l Alvegesic®, an analgesic injection, in the UK; and
l Fiprodog®, a generic flea product in the UK.
Alvegesic, Rycarfa and Fiprodog are products which 
were gained through licensing agreements with European 
partners.
We have also achieved a number of other regulatory 
successes including:
l the transfer of the Marketing Authorisations of the 
Genitrix products and Vetoryl from our previous EU 
marketing partners to Dechra;
l the regulatory changes needed to transfer the 
manufacturing of Canaural and Fuciderm in-house;
l work has begun on the difficult regulatory task of 
transferring the ophthalmic products, acquired from 
Nycomed for the US market last year, into a new 
manufacturer.
Three new diet ranges have been developed:
l Canine Omega Support Diet: an effective support for 
a number of clinical conditions including the treatment 
of allergic dermatitis and for recovery from cancer and 
canine heart failure;
l Feline Crystal Diet: a newly formulated cat diet 
optimised for the long term prevention of struvite 
crystals and prevention of recurrence of struvite crystals 
and uroliths; and
l a certified organic range which are the first organic diets 
targeted for sale through veterinary practices. These are 
palatable and nutritionally balanced diets for healthy pets. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  16 17
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Product Pipeline
As can be demonstrated by the achievements outlined earlier in this report, our product pipeline continues to deliver novel 
pharmaceuticals, generic pharmaceuticals, line extensions, approvals of existing products into new territories and new 
innovative pet diets.
New Chemical Entities
Development of new molecules to the veterinary profession is ongoing. Significant progress has been made on an equine 
lameness product, with both the safety and efficacy studies being completed. Unfortunately, there has been a six month delay as 
we have had to change the outsourced manufacturer. All other novel products, outlined in the following table, continue to make 
progress. We have, over the period, conducted two ‘proof of concept’ studies, one of which, a canine dermatological product, 
has been added to the development programme. We have reached contractual agreement for exclusive use of a novel patented 
human pharmaceutical for this dermatological product and for a second application in another key therapeutic sector.
Species therapeutic Category t arget Approval
Equine Lameness 2013
Canine Endocrine 2014
Feline Endocrine 2015
Feline Gastrointestinal 2014
Canine Dermatological TBD
Species therapeutic Category t arget Approval
Canine Epilepsy 2011
Equine/Canine Euthanasia 2012
Canine/Feline/Equine Pain Management 2012
Canine/Feline Pain Management 2013
Feline Endocrine 2013
Feline Endocrine TBD
Generics and Unlicensed Products
A number of generic products that complement our existing range or are sold within our key therapeutic sectors are under 
development. Reformulation, improvement and innovation in our unlicensed products are also ongoing.
At maturity these products should cumulatively generate £25 million to £30 million revenue annually.
At maturity these products should cumulatively generate £4 million to £5 million revenue annually. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  16 17
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Species
Canine/Feline
Canine
Feline
Feline
Canine/Feline
Canine/Feline
 Product
Senior wet diets
Endocrine
Gastrointestinal
Joint
Hypo allergenic
Novel
t arget 
Launch 
Date
2011
2011
2011
2012
2013
2014
Project
Completion of maintenance wet food range
New therapeutic dry diet for endocrine support
New therapeutic dry and wet diet for gastrointestinal support
New therapeutic dry and wet diet for joint support
Development of new hypo allergenic diets based on
alternative protein sources
Use of bioactive peptides in therapeutic diets
Pet Diets
Development of novel therapeutic pet diets continues and numerous formulation changes to improve efficacy and 
palatability are ongoing. We have also signed a contract with Biomarine, a Norwegian government funded project, to 
research the use of bioactive peptides in the treatment and prevention of diseases in pets. This project puts Dechra in the 
frontline of research into innovative ingredients for the next generation of therapeutic pet foods.
A novel product Specific CED Endocrine Support is in the final stages of development. The product is an innovative 
therapeutic diet to support the medical treatment of adult dogs with endocrine disorders including the treatment of diabetes 
and Cushing’s syndrome.
In the autumn, a re-optimised wet food range will be introduced in flexible cans with a new design. The maintenance wet 
food range will be extended with a senior wet food version (Specific CGW Senior) for dogs as well as cats (Specific FGW 
Senior). The senior diets give our customers the choice to feed their pets a healthy and palatable diet which helps to 
prevent geriatric diseases. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  18 19
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Introducing the DVP Country Managers
Mette Trige commenced work in 2001 as a sales 
representative and was appointed Country Manager of 
Denmark in 2006. She specialised in molecular genetics, 
nutrition and physiology at the Faculty of Life Sciences at 
the University of Copenhagen, graduating in 1994.
Mette t rige MSc 
email: info.dk@dechra.com 
web: www.dechra.dk 
Denmark
Mike Eldred was appointed as President of the US 
operations in 2004. Details of his previous professional 
experience can be found on page 41.
Mike eldred 
email: info@dechra.com 
web: www.dechra-us.com 
United States
Bob Parmenter was appointed in July 2008 as the Country 
Manager of the UK and Eire. He has over 41 years’ 
experience in the animal health business, of which 38 
years were spent with ICI Animal Health (subsequently 
Intervet/Schering Plough). Bob joined the board of NOAH 
in 2002 and was appointed its Chairman in April 2010.
Bob Parmenter 
email: info.uk@dechra.com 
web (UK): www.dechra.co.uk 
web (eire): www.dechra-eu.com 
UK & eire
Jesper Graff started work for the Group in 1991 and was 
appointed the Country Manager of Spain and Portugal 
in 1998. He has over 15 years’ experience in the animal 
health business. Jesper was previously an officer in the 
army. He graduated from Copenhagen Business School 
and obtained an MBA IESE in Spain.
Jesper Graff BBA  MBA  IESE 
email: info.es@dechra.com 
web: www.dechra.es  
Spain & Portugal
Florence Lasvergères was appointed as the Country 
Manager of France in June 2007. She graduated as a 
veterinary surgeon from Alfort Vet School in 1988, and 
obtained a Masters in marketing from ESSEC-IMD. 
Florence has over 21 years’ experience in the animal 
health business in various positions including regulatory, 
sales, marketing and management, successively with 
SmithKline Beecham, Upjohn and Pharmacia. She is also 
an active member of the French Office of Animal Health 
(SIMV) board.
florence Lasvergères DVM  MBA   
email: info_fr@dechra.com 
web: www.dechra.fr  
france
Dechra Veterinary Products currently operates out of 14 
countries, each of which is headed up by a Country Manager 
whose background encompasses a wealth of animal health 
knowledge and experience. These managers are integral to 
the success of the sales and marketing of our products in 
their countries. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  18 19
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Carina Kjellberg started in 2000 and was appointed as 
the Country Manager of Sweden in 2005. She has over 
20 years’ experience in the animal health business, 11 of 
which were working as a veterinary nurse.
Carina Kjellberg 
email: info.se@dechra.com 
web: www.dechra.se  
Sweden
Henri Hilden was appointed as the Country Manager of 
Finland in December 2007. He graduated as a veterinary 
surgeon in both Sweden and Finland, in 1984 and 1988 
respectively. Henri has over 19 years’ experience in the 
animal health business in management positions for Orion 
Corporation Animal Health, Intervet Animal Health Finland, 
Veter Animal Health and Merial Norden A/S.
Henri Hilden DVM 
email: info.fi@dechra.com 
web: www.dechra.fi 
finland
Ad van Beysterveldt was appointed as the Benelux 
Country Manager (Belgium, Netherlands & Luxemburg) in 
January 2011. Ad has more than 25 years’ experience in 
the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of which was with 
Bristol-Myers Squibb. He has also worked for Cephalon 
and EUSA Pharma and has worked in several European 
countries, the USA and Asia Pacific region in senior 
management positions. 
Ad van Beysterveldt 
email: info.nl@dechra.com 
web: www.dechra.nl 
Benelux
Dr Michael Hemprich started work with Dechra in 
September 2006 as Business Development Manager; in 
addition to this role, in 2010 he was appointed the Country 
Manager for Germany. He has over 15 years’ experience 
in the animal health business, having worked for LAB 
Development Intl in Montreal, Canada, Intervet Innovation 
GmbH and Bremer Pharma GmbH, mainly within Regulatory 
Affairs, Product Development and Business Development. 
Dr Michael Hemprich MRCVS   
Dr.med.vet 
email: info.de@dechra.com 
web: www.dechra-eu.com 
Germany 
Sverre Aasgaard started work with the Group in 1980 
and has worked in various roles; he was appointed as the 
Country Manager of Norway in 2005. Sverre has over 23 
years’ experience in the animal health business. In 2006 
he was appointed Honourable Member of the Norwegian 
Veterinary Association, being one of only two non-
veterinarians to receive this award.
Sverre Aasgaard 
email: info@dechra.no 
web: www.dechra.no 
norway Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  20 21
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
European Pharmaceuticals: This segment comprises DVP EU and Dales.
ed t orr
Managing Director
Carsten Jeppesen
Chief of logistics
Roeland Meijers
Director of Diets
Giles Coley
European Pharmaceutical 
Sales & Export Director
Gwenda Bason
European Marketing 
Director
What we do
This business unit markets and sells our own branded 
veterinary products within 13 European countries and 
manages the relationships with our worldwide marketing 
partners.
Operational Structure
The business has an operating board of five senior managers. 
Finance, IT , pre-wholesale logistics, marketing and HR are 
centred in Uldum, Denmark and Hadnall, England.  
We have nine country managers operating out of Denmark, 
Finland, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, 
Sweden and the UK. Ireland and Portugal are managed out 
of the UK and Spain respectively.  
We currently employ 73 representatives across these 
territories. DVP EU employs 214 people.
Our Market
Our customers are small animal and equine veterinary 
surgeons, predominantly operating out of commercial 
veterinary practices. European companion animal veterinary 
markets are currently only realising inflationary growth as 
footfall in most territories is declining due to the worldwide 
economic difficulties. Internet pharmacies, especially 
in the UK, are demonstrating stronger levels of growth 
as consumers look to reduce the cost of pet and horse 
ownership. Animal numbers in the major territories have 
remained static in the period being reported. The UK is 
currently our largest market with approximately eight million 
cats, seven million dogs and one million horses.
Key Strengths
We are unique in having a veterinary exclusive range of products 
with a clear focus on companion animals and horses. The 
majority of our products are novel and, on the whole, are used 
to treat medical conditions for which there is often no other 
effective solution. Our key marketing benefit, especially on diets, 
is that our products are only sold to veterinary practices.
Achievements
Third party European marketing contracts, which were 
negotiated prior to the development of our own sales and 
marketing infrastructure, have now been terminated. Vetoryl 
and Felimazole have been marketed in-house through our 
Nordic subsidiaries since January 2011 and have now been 
transferred into Dechra livery for sale through our other 
mainland European subsidiaries since July 2011. We will also 
commence the in-house marketing of Canaural, Fuciderm 
Gel and Fucithalmic Vet into Germany and Belgium and also 
our Specific range of pet diets into Belgium. In Germany 
these products will be distributed in Dechra livery through our 
existing partner, Selectavet. In Belgium we have created a new 
business unit which will be managed out of the Netherlands by 
a newly appointed Benelux manager, with sales and technical 
support staff being appointed within the country. The benefit of 
marketing products through our own subsidiaries is a significant 
increase in the retained gross margin for the Group. The full 
impact of this will be realised in our financial year ending 
30 June 2012.
DVP eU Management t eam Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  20 21
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Following the closure last year of our pre-wholesale warehouse 
in Shrewsbury, England, we have relocated our UK sales, 
marketing, technical and regulatory teams to a new single site. 
This environmentally sensitive office facility provides excellent 
working conditions for our employees and reflects the growth 
and development of our pharmaceutical business.
Pharmaceutical sales increased by 9% in the period.  
There were a number of product launches through our own 
subsidiaries and through our worldwide marketing partners:
l a low dose 2.5mg Felimazole launched in the Nordics;
l Alvegesic launched in Denmark, Sweden and France 
following its successful introduction into the UK last year;
l Vetoryl launched in Japan through our partner Kyoritsu 
Seiyaku Corporation;
l Fiprodog and Fiprocat®, generic flea products, were 
launched in the UK;
l Rycarfa was launched just after the year end in the UK, 
France, Germany and Spain; and
l preparations are being made to launch Clavudale and 
Urilin across the EU following their recent approvals.
We have successfully integrated the new products from the 
Genitrix and DermaPet acquisitions and are at an advanced 
stage of introducing them in Dechra livery. The DermaPet 
range, which was previously only marketed in the UK and 
Nordic regions, is also being prepared for launch in other 
subsidiary territories.
Our Specific pet diets have outperformed the competitors in 
most territories in which we operate and have grown 8% over 
the period. This has been achieved by our unique position 
of veterinary exclusivity and by keeping price increases to 
a minimum. Raw material costs, however, have increased 
significantly over the period resulting in a margin performance 
slightly below last year. The canine and majority of feline diets 
have been successfully transferred into a new manufacturer, 
resulting in improved quality and palatability. The Feline Crystal 
diet, Canine Omega Support diet and Organic range, outlined 
under Product Development, have been successfully launched.  
Following an agreement to license the formulation, brands 
and technical support of our Specific therapeutic diets to a US 
marketing and manufacturing company, the first two products 
were launched in June 2011. The products are manufactured 
and sold by iVet under the Specific brand into the extensive 
American market. Dechra will receive a royalty on all sales. The 
therapeutic diets have also been launched through a marketing 
partner in South Korea, a fast developing market. Specific 
therapeutic diets are also currently being launched in the UK 
and a number of major practices have agreed to market the 
range. This is a pleasing opening as we begin to establish the 
brand in this highly competitive market. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  22 23
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
European Pharmaceuticals continued
Mike Annice
Managing Director
Kirsty Ireland
Finance Director
Steve Dewar
Operations Director
Gareth Davies
Sales and Marketing 
Director
Andrew Parkinson
Quality Director
Dales Management t eam
What we do
Dales manufactures the vast majority of our own branded, 
licensed pharmaceutical products which are marketed 
through DVP , but also derives approximately 50% of its 
revenues from third party toll manufacturing, predominantly 
for human pharmaceutical companies. This is Dechra’s only 
significant source of revenue not derived from the veterinary 
market.
Operational Structure
The business has an operating board of five senior 
managers. The majority of manufacturing is located in 
Skipton, England and employs 200 people. There is also 
a small manufacturing facility in Uldum, Denmark which 
employs 26 people.
Our Market
The primary customer for Dales is DVP EU. Our toll 
manufacturing customers are, in the main, small or mid sized 
UK based pharmaceutical companies.
Key Strengths
Our ability to be flexible on batch size is a major advantage, 
especially when introducing new pharmaceuticals. Another 
key strength is our ability to produce several dosage 
formats such as tablets, capsules, liquids, creams, gels 
and powders and our ability to package these products in 
numerous formats. We are also able to provide a full service 
for third party customers including product formulation, trial 
batch manufacturing, validation, production and packaging.
Achievements
Total overall production in the year increased by 1.2% over 
the corresponding period last year. However, contract 
manufacturing decreased by 6.5% due to a planned 
reduction in production by our biggest customer. Five 
new contracted products were introduced with a further 
three products in formulation for future manufacturing for 
third party customers. We have successfully transferred 
the manufacturing of Fuciderm and are in the process of 
transferring Canaural into Dales. These key DVP products 
were previously outsourced. Throughout the year we have 
improved our service level, increased yields, reduced 
waste and have therefore exceeded productivity targets.  
FDA inspections have been conducted within the year 
and the control points raised have been remedied. We 
hope to receive notification of compliance and be able to 
manufacture Vetoryl for the US market imminently. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  22 23
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Mike eldred
President, US Operations
Doug Hubert
Vice-President, 
Sales and Marketing
Dana fertig
Veterinary Technical 
Services Manager
DVP US Management t eam
What we do
DVP US markets and sells our own veterinary products 
across the USA.
Operational Structure
The business has an operating board of three senior 
managers, all of whom have in depth experience of 
the American veterinary market. Finance, HR and pre-
distributor logistics are all currently outsourced. Our 
business is located in Kansas City, USA and employs 33 
people, 22 of whom are field based sales representatives.
Our Market
Our customers are small animal and equine veterinary 
surgeons, predominantly operating out of commercial 
veterinary practices. The USA is the world’s largest 
veterinary market and represents a significant growth 
opportunity for Dechra. Over 62% of US households own 
a pet which equates to 73 million homes. Additionally, 
the number of pets is increasing with a current estimated 
population of 86 million cats, 78 million dogs and 8 million 
horses.
Key Strengths
Our key pharmaceuticals, which are the focus of the 
majority of our sales and marketing efforts, are unique and 
are the first licensed products to treat the conditions for 
which they are recommended.
Achievements
Revenue in the year was 51.5% higher than the previous 
year and includes the DermaPet acquisition completed in 
October 2010. Underlying growth, on a like for like basis 
at constant currency, was 3.6%. This strong growth has 
allowed us to significantly increase our infrastructure with 
additional marketing, operational and sales representatives 
being employed in the year. Further sales and technical 
support staff are also currently being recruited.
Sales of Vetoryl, our key product, increased by 30% in 
the year to US$8.6 million. Almost 13,000 veterinary 
clinics have purchased Vetoryl. A report from an external 
audit demonstrated that Cushing’s syndrome is being 
under diagnosed and that education and training is 
essential for future growth. During the year, 56 meetings 
were conducted by our two technical veterinarians with 
almost 1,600 attendees. We also sponsored ten meetings 
with external key opinion leader speakers with over 400 
attendees. We are in the process of hiring two additional 
field veterinarians to increase our educational programme.  
We continue to experience unregulated sales of Trilostane, 
the active principal ingredient in Vetoryl, through illegal 
compounding. We have invested a significant amount of 
funds to lobby senators on Capitol Hill in an attempt to 
force the FDA to take action against compounders. We are 
now looking to work with other animal health companies to 
continue this lobbying.
In December 2010 we successfully launched Equidone Gel 
to US equine veterinarians following its full approval by 
the FDA. 
Supply issues remain with our otic and ophthalmic 
products from our third party suppliers, having a negative            
US$2 million impact on like for like sales; however, progress 
is being made on the transfer, validation and re-registration 
of these products into a new facility. We hope to be able to 
re-launch the major products in 2012.
US Pharmaceuticals Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  24 25
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Services: This segment comprises NVS and our Laboratories, NWL and CSLS
Martin Riley
Managing Director
Dan Shipman
Finance Director
Steven Williams
Operations Director
Caitrina Harrison
Sales and Marketing 
Director
Colin Higham
Buying Director
nVS Management t eam
What we do
NVS is the UK market leader, as measured in terms of 
market share, in the supply and distribution of veterinary 
products to veterinary practices and other approved 
outlets. NVS stock a range of over 14,000 products, 
including pharmaceuticals, pet products, consumables 
and accessories. NVS has also developed a range of IT 
solutions for veterinary practices.
Operational Structure
The business is managed by an operating board of five 
experienced directors. NVS employs 455 people across the 
UK, 111 of whom are delivery drivers.   
The centralised inventory held in Stoke-on-Trent, England is 
picked and packed throughout the afternoon and evening 
and then distributed overnight to nine trunking depots via 
HGVs. Van drivers are employed locally at these depots to 
distribute the goods directly to our customers. NVS has 
developed an advanced communication system for its 
customers and through this 85% of orders arrive at NVS 
automatically with no human input required.
Our Market
Our principal customers are UK veterinary practices of all 
types: small animal, equine, farm animal and mixed species 
practices. Footfall through UK veterinary practices has 
declined in the year, although the overall market continues 
to demonstrate growth, predominantly from inflation. The 
consolidation of veterinary practices into large corporate 
groups seen over recent years has continued within the 
period, putting pressure on margins and cash flow.  
Key Strengths
NVS offers very high levels of service, a large range and 
depth of stock and a reliable next day national delivery 
service. It also supplies a range of business solutions for 
veterinary practices including practice management software, 
benchmarking systems and marketing and business support. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  24 25
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
NVS Network
Stoke-on-Trent
Larkhall
Carlisle
Wetherby
Mildenhall
Hertford
Swanscombe Bracknell
Tiverton
Gloucester
Aberdeen
Achievements
NVS has retained its market share above 40%; however, 
with growth of 3.9% over last year, we have slightly 
underperformed market growth relative to our competitors 
as we supply a smaller percentage of our sales into the 
higher growth food animal production and online pharmacy 
sectors. These sectors offer relatively low margins. We did, 
however, outperform the market in the fourth quarter with 
growth of 6.4%. 
The most significant achievement in the year was the 
successful implementation of a new integrated IT system 
across the business which went live on 1 July 2011. Very 
few problems were encountered and virtually no supply 
issues were experienced by our customers. The second 
phase of implementation has now commenced, which 
will allow us to focus on improving management data and 
providing new services to customers.
Further cost savings as a percentage of sales were 
recognised in the year due to investment in new pallet 
picking technology and efficiencies gained by shift changes 
in the warehouse. Further efficiencies will be gained as we 
increase the efficiency of the picking circuit and improve 
utilisation of our distribution system.
We have continued to develop our own label disposable 
product range, branded the Valu range. Further development 
in this range is planned in the new financial year.
Our business partnership relationship with our customers 
has continued; new services have been launched such 
as mystery shopping to ascertain practices customer 
relationship skills, stock-taking services via vPOD, NVS 
Online, which personalises self-service practice data 
provision and we have developed strategies with practice 
management software suppliers to improve stock control 
integration and efficiencies within veterinary practices.  Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  26 27
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Services continued
Dr Peter Graham
Managing Director
Jamie Whitwam
Business Development 
Manager
Mark Davies
Sales and Marketing 
Manager
Paul Sandland
Finance Director
Laboratories Management t eam
What we do
NWL is a first referral veterinary laboratory. We provide 
histology, pathology, haematology, chemistry and 
microbiology services to veterinary practices. CSLS 
provides secondary referral services with our key area of 
expertise being endocrinology. CSLS also provides precise 
assays which support the dosage regimes and patient 
monitoring of DVP’s key products, Vetoryl and Felimazole.
Operational Structure
The Laboratories, employing 75 people, are run by an 
operational board of three senior managers and are 
supported by the Group Financial Controller who also sits 
on this board. NWL is located in Poulton-le-Fylde, Leeds 
and Swanscombe, and CSLS is located in Sawston, 
England. Samples are received on a daily basis via post, 
couriers and our own collection service. Where the science 
allows, a same day or next day results service is provided.  
Our Market
NWL’s customers are UK commercial veterinary practices.  
We have historically provided support to companion 
animal practices; however, in the last two years we have 
introduced an increased range of large animal and equine 
services. CSLS provides some first level support similar to 
NWL to UK veterinary practices; however, their major area 
of specialisation is in very precise endocrine assays which 
it supplies directly to veterinary practices and other first 
referral laboratories.
Key Strengths
We offer a high quality service with a very experienced team 
of veterinary pathologists who provide a fully interpreted 
results service on all samples received.
Achievements
It has been a very difficult year for laboratory services. 
As expected, expensive diagnostic procedures have 
reduced significantly due to lower footfall through veterinary 
practices. We have, however, recently launched the 
FUJI Film Dry Chemistry Analyser which is a system that 
allows simple diagnostic testing of blood within veterinary 
practices. During the year, we have 24 analysers placed in 
practice.  The main revenue driver is the repeat orders of 
disposable test slides which are used within the machines. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  26 27
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  28 29
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Major changes and improvements in the Group’s 
technology capabilities have been implemented in the 
period.
Drug Monitoring
During the period, the Regulatory team have implemented 
an electronic pharmaceutical monitoring and reporting 
system which can communicate adverse reactions 
electronically to the FDA in the USA.
ERP Systems
NVS, our veterinary distributor, successfully implemented a 
new ERP system provided by IFS on 1 July 2011. The new 
system will provide enhanced management information, 
improve the interface with other Group reporting systems 
and create operational flexibility upon which we can develop 
new services.
An Oracle system was implemented at our UK manufacturing 
business, Dales, two years ago. This was also successfully 
implemented at our Danish manufacturing site in November 
2010. A programme has commenced to roll out Oracle 
across the entirety of our European Pharmaceutical segment 
businesses and eventually into DVP US.
Our Laboratories have identified a new IT system, Autoscribe, 
which is targeted to be implemented within the current 
calendar year.
Customer Solutions and Ordering Platform
We currently market two veterinary practice management 
systems through our veterinary distributor, NVS. Vetcom
®
 
Open, our most advanced system which is developed 
through a partnership agreement, has made significant 
programming and functionality advancements and now 
has competitive benefits over other market leading 
systems. Vetcom Windows, our in-house developed 
introductory practice management system, has also been 
modernised and developed ready for re-launch. Work has 
now commenced on updating vPOD, our hand-held stock 
control and ordering terminal, to allow it to operate on 
android hardware.
NVS has also updated Indices, a system which allows 
our veterinary customers to benchmark their performance 
against comparable practices on both a regional and 
national basis. The new system is faster and easier to 
use and has significantly enhanced functionality allowing 
veterinary practices greater access to business information.
Communication Tools
Within Dechra Veterinary Products we have continued to 
invest in state of the art online communication tools. We are 
one of the leading companies within the veterinary industry 
to offer educational webinars. Since inception we have 
conducted six online webinars in the UK with over 1,000 
attendees and four in the US with over 500 attendees.
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Information Technology and HR Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  28 29
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
In addition to webinars we offer online continued 
professional development courses branded the Dechra 
Academy. We have approximately 9,000 registrations from 
veterinarians and veterinary nurses for this educational 
programme.
Our Dechra Veterinary Product websites are constantly 
being updated with technical and clinical information. All 
of the Genitrix and DermaPet products have now been 
integrated onto the DVP EU and US websites. We are 
also currently updating this site into other languages. The 
German site launch is imminent; the French and Spanish 
translations are in progress.
An e-newsletter is now distributed monthly to over 7,000 
veterinary professionals within the UK. This medium is 
used to provide up-to-date product and Dechra Academy 
information.
HR
The Group HR Director, supported by a steering group of 
senior managers, has defined the principles of standards 
and behaviour to achieve and promote a high performance 
culture. These criteria have become known as the Dechra 
Values, a summary of which are outlined in the Corporate 
and Social Responsibility section of this report on pages 
65 and 66. The steering group has also developed a 
performance management mechanism incorporating 
the Dechra Values which will be used annually to review 
employees and provide a basis for future reward and 
development. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  30 31
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
financial Method of Calculation t arget 2011 Performance five y ear Record 
Revenue from key pharmaceutical 
products
Global revenue from our top five products To achieve annual revenue 
growth of at least 10%
The KPI was exceeded during the year with a growth rate of 12.8% being 
achieved. Vetoryl and Felimazole grew particularly strongly
Revenue from specialist pet diets Global revenue from the Specific brand of pet diets To achieve annual revenue 
growth of at least 6%
Despite increasingly competitive markets a growth rate of 8.1% was achieved
Underlying operating margin 
before product development cost
Underlying operating profit before product development 
expenditure expressed as a percentage of Group revenue
To achieve an underlying 
operating margin before 
product development costs 
of 10% in the medium term
Further progress towards the medium term target was made with the increased 
operating margin from our US business making a strong contribution
Cash conversion rate Cash generated from operations before tax and interest 
payments as a percentage of operating profit before 
amortisation of acquired intangibles
To achieve an annual cash 
conversion rate of at  
least 100%
The target rate of 100% has not been achieved this year principally due to 
additional payment terms being offered to certain large NVS customers
Return on capital employed 
(“ROCE”)
Underlying operating profit as a percentage of average 
operating assets utilised. Operating assets exclude cash 
and cash equivalents, borrowings, tax and deferred tax 
balances
To achieve a return on 
capital employed which 
exceeds the pre-tax  
weighted average cost of 
capital of the Group (“WACC”)
Although ROCE fell slightly in 2011 due to the acquisitions made in the period 
the figure is still well ahead of the WACC of the Group
non-financial Method of Calculation t arget 2011 Performance five y ear Record
Pharmaceutical product 
development pipeline
Number of products from the pipeline or in-licensed into at 
least one major territory with long term revenue potential 
of at least £0.5 million
One new diet or range 
extension launched in the 
EU, two new pharmaceuticals, 
each launched in at least
one key market
Three novel diets launched and three pharmaceutical products launched within 
the EU
Health and safety performance Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate (“LTAFR”): all 
accidents resulting in absence or the inability of 
employees to conduct the full range of their normal 
working activities for a period of more than three working 
days after the day when the incident occurred normalised 
per 100,000 hours worked 
Zero preventable accidents There has been an increase in the total number of accidents during the year 
from 14 to 15. None of these accidents have resulted in a work related fatality  
or disability. More detail in relation to this can be found in the Social, Ethical and 
Environmental Responsibilities report on pages 64 to 68
Employees Employee turnover calculated as number of leavers during 
the period as a percentage of the average total number of 
employees in the period
Moving Annual Turnover 
(“MAT”) rate of less than 
15%
The MAT increased from last year’s 15.88% to 19.03%. A reorganisation within 
our NVS warehouse and a higher than normal number (21) of retirements has 
contributed to this year’s MAT target not being met. More detail in relation to this 
can be found in the Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities report on 
pages 64 to 68
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  30 31
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
financial Method of Calculation t arget 2011 Performance five y ear Record 
Revenue from key pharmaceutical 
products
Global revenue from our top five products To achieve annual revenue 
growth of at least 10%
The KPI was exceeded during the year with a growth rate of 12.8% being 
achieved. Vetoryl and Felimazole grew particularly strongly
Revenue from specialist pet diets Global revenue from the Specific brand of pet diets To achieve annual revenue 
growth of at least 6%
Despite increasingly competitive markets a growth rate of 8.1% was achieved
Underlying operating margin 
before product development cost
Underlying operating profit before product development 
expenditure expressed as a percentage of Group revenue
To achieve an underlying 
operating margin before 
product development costs 
of 10% in the medium term
Further progress towards the medium term target was made with the increased 
operating margin from our US business making a strong contribution
Cash conversion rate Cash generated from operations before tax and interest 
payments as a percentage of operating profit before 
amortisation of acquired intangibles
To achieve an annual cash 
conversion rate of at  
least 100%
The target rate of 100% has not been achieved this year principally due to 
additional payment terms being offered to certain large NVS customers
Return on capital employed 
(“ROCE”)
Underlying operating profit as a percentage of average 
operating assets utilised. Operating assets exclude cash 
and cash equivalents, borrowings, tax and deferred tax 
balances
To achieve a return on 
capital employed which 
exceeds the pre-tax  
weighted average cost of 
capital of the Group (“WACC”)
Although ROCE fell slightly in 2011 due to the acquisitions made in the period 
the figure is still well ahead of the WACC of the Group
non-financial Method of Calculation t arget 2011 Performance five y ear Record
Pharmaceutical product 
development pipeline
Number of products from the pipeline or in-licensed into at 
least one major territory with long term revenue potential 
of at least £0.5 million
One new diet or range 
extension launched in the 
EU, two new pharmaceuticals, 
each launched in at least
one key market
Three novel diets launched and three pharmaceutical products launched within 
the EU
Health and safety performance Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate (“LTAFR”): all 
accidents resulting in absence or the inability of 
employees to conduct the full range of their normal 
working activities for a period of more than three working 
days after the day when the incident occurred normalised 
per 100,000 hours worked 
Zero preventable accidents There has been an increase in the total number of accidents during the year 
from 14 to 15. None of these accidents have resulted in a work related fatality  
or disability. More detail in relation to this can be found in the Social, Ethical and 
Environmental Responsibilities report on pages 64 to 68
Employees Employee turnover calculated as number of leavers during 
the period as a percentage of the average total number of 
employees in the period
Moving Annual Turnover 
(“MAT”) rate of less than 
15%
The MAT increased from last year’s 15.88% to 19.03%. A reorganisation within 
our NVS warehouse and a higher than normal number (21) of retirements has 
contributed to this year’s MAT target not being met. More detail in relation to this 
can be found in the Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities report on 
pages 64 to 68
9.5
8.9
8.1
7.1
6.1
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
%
% 82.8
100.8
112.5
94.2
103.3
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
%
21.6
22.6
19.4
23.3
37.5
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Products
6
5
3
3
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
6
33.2
29.4
23.6
15.3*
10.6*
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
£ million
* Canaural and Fuciderm acquired in January 2008
27.6
25.6
22.7
n/a*
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
£ million
9.9*
* Diets range acquired in January 2008
0.82
0.75
n/a*
n/a*
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
LTAFR
0.94
* Information not collected for these years
% 19.03
15.88
n/a*
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
19.81
29.7
* Information not collected for these years Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  32 33
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Financial Review
Group Performance
Financial Highlights
Underlying Results Reported Results
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Change
%
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Change
%
Revenue 389,237 369,369 5.4 389,237 369,369 5.4
Gross profit 88,361 80,625 9.6 88,361 80,625 9.6
% of revenue 22.7% 21.8% 22.7% 21.8%
Distribution costs (17,659) (16,242) (8.7) (17,659) (16,542) (6.8)
Selling, general and 
administrative expenses (33,658) (31,527) (6.8) (43,763) (39,551) (10.6)
Research and development 
expenses (5,221) (4,666) (11.9) (5,221) (4,666) (11.9)
Operating profit 31,823 28,190 12.9 21,718 19,866 9.3
% of revenue 8.2% 7.6% 5.6% 5.4%
Profit before taxation 30,069 26,056 15.4 18,514 17,732 4.4
Taxation (7,321) (6,619) (4,380) (4,575)
Profit after tax 22,748 19,437 14,134 13,157
Earnings per share 34.33p 29.50p 16.4 21.33p 19.97p 6.8
Operating cash flow before 
interest and tax payments 25,374 26,662 (4.8) 25,374 26,662 (4.8)
Cash conversion rate 82.8% 100.8% 82.8% 100.8%
Free cash flow 9,294 9,938 (6.5) 9,294 9,938 (6.5)
Tax rate 24.3% 25.4% 23.7% 25.8%
t otal dividend per share 12.10p 10.50p 15.2 12.10p 10.50p 15.2
net borrowings 34,091 6,701 34,091 6,701
Analysis of Revenue and Underlying Operating Profit Growth
Revenue
Underlying  
Operating Profit
£’000 % £’000 %
Year ended 30 June 2010 369,369 28,190
Organic growth at constant currency 14,574 3.9 1,194 4.2
Impact of acquisitions 6,558 1.8 2,722 9.7
Impact of foreign currency movements (1,264) (0.3) (283) (1.0)
year ended 30 June 2011 389,237 5.4 31,823 12.9
   
“Revenue from US Pharmaceuticals grew by 51.5% in the 
year with the biggest single contributor being the DermaPet 
product lines which were acquired in October 2010”
Simon Evans, Group Finance Director Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  32 33
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Revenue
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Change
%
european 
Pharmaceuticals
Own branded 
pharmaceuticals 48,614 44,695 8.8
Diets 27,621 25,559 8.1
Third party contract 
manufacturing 10,772 11,524 (6.5)
Instruments, consumables 
and equipment 2,280 2,859 (20.3)
t otal european 
Pharmaceuticals 89,287 84,637 5.5
US Pharmaceuticals 16,107 10,634 51.5
Services
Veterinary wholesaling 291,180 280,385 3.9
Laboratories 5,078 5,285 (3.9)
t otal Services 296,258 285,670 3.7
Inter-segment (12,415) (11,572)
t otal revenue 389,237 369,369 5.4
Group revenue increased by 5.4% compared to last year.  
During the year the Group acquired DermaPet Inc., based 
in Florida, and Genitrix Limited, based in the UK. These two 
acquisitions contributed 1.8% of growth in revenue. Currency 
fluctuations had a negative impact on revenue of 0.3%.
Within the European Pharmaceuticals segment, own 
branded pharmaceuticals performed robustly with most of 
our key brands showing solid growth. As disclosed in the 
KPI table, our leading five brands achieved growth of 12.8% 
compared to last year.
Diets revenues grew by 8.1% overall. Some pressure on 
revenue was experienced in the second half of the financial 
year as economic conditions in a number of European 
countries weakened.
As expected, contract manufacturing revenues were 
6.5% lower than last year due to a planned reduction 
in production for our biggest single third party contract. 
However total production levels increased due to higher 
volumes of our own products.
Revenue from US Pharmaceuticals grew by 51.5% in the 
year with the biggest single contributor being the DermaPet 
product lines which were acquired in October 2010. Vetoryl 
also achieved good growth whilst there was an initial 
contribution from Equidone, our equine product launched 
in December 2010. As, previously reported, issues with a 
third party supplier meant that sales of our ophthalmic and 
otic ranges were approximately US$2 million lower than the 
previous year.
Within our Services segment, our UK veterinary wholesaler, 
NVS, achieved revenue growth of 3.9% in the financial year 
with some acceleration of this growth rate achieved in the 
fourth quarter. Revenue from our Laboratories business was 
down by 3.9% reflecting the difficult market.
Gross Profit
Gross profit for the Group was up by 9.6% from £80.6 million 
to £88.4 million with the gross margin increasing by 90 basis 
points. This was predominantly driven by increased revenue 
from higher margin pharmaceuticals. Diets gross margin fell 
slightly as raw material costs and currency impacted results. 
The gross margin achieved by our wholesaler, NVS, was 
broadly stable compared to last year. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  34 35
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Financial Review continued
Underlying Distribution Costs
Distribution costs increased by 8.7% from £16.2 million to 
£17.7 million. As well as increased volumes, the main factor 
in this increase was fuel costs, which was mitigated by 
efficiency savings.
Underlying Selling, General and 
Administrative (“SG&A”) Expenses
Underlying SG&A expenses increased by 6.8% compared 
to 2010. The majority of this increase occurred in our US 
business as a result of further investment in sales people to 
support the DermaPet products and in line with our growth 
strategy.
Research and Development Expenses
Research and development expenditure was up by 11.9% 
from £4.7 million to £5.2 million. This increased expenditure 
supports our product development programme, further 
details of which are given on pages 14 to 17.
Underlying Operating Profit
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Change
%
European 
Pharmaceuticals 22,506 21,412 5.1
US Pharmaceuticals 4,838 1,311 269.0
Services 13,087 13,103 (0.1)
Research and 
development (5,221) (4,666) (11.9)
Central costs (3,387) (2,970) (14.0)
Underlying operating 
profit 31,823 28,190 12.9
Underlying operating profit of European Pharmaceuticals 
rose by 5.1% during the year (6.5% at constant currency).  
The main driver of this increase was the performance of our 
own branded pharmaceuticals although the improvement 
in profit was constrained by a lower diets gross margin and 
reduced contract manufacturing revenues.
Our US business’s underlying operating profit grew by 
269.0% with the acquisition of DermaPet making a major 
contribution to this result. The strong increase in Vetoryl 
revenues also contributed.
Within Services, NVS achieved an increase in operating 
profit with operating margin being maintained. This was 
offset by a significant reduction in the profitability of the 
Laboratories with the reduction in revenue having an 
amplified impact on the bottom line.
Underlying Net Finance Expense
Underlying net finance expense was £1.8 million compared 
to £2.1 million in 2010. The net finance expense benefited 
from a £1.0 million gain on foreign exchange (2010: £0.2 
million gain), although this was partially offset by interest on 
additional borrowings to fund the acquisitions of DermaPet 
and Genitrix.
Underlying Profit Before Taxation
Underlying profit before taxation rose from £26.1 million to 
£30.1 million, an increase of 15.4%.
Non-underlying Items
Non-underlying items in the year comprised amortisation of 
intangibles acquired as a result of business combinations 
together with one off costs related to the acquisitions of 
DermaPet and Genitrix including the resulting refinancing.  
Full details are shown in notes 4 and 5 to the financial 
statements. The Directors believe that highlighting these 
items separately gives a better understanding of the 
performance of the Group. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  34 35
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Taxation
The effective tax rate on underlying earnings was 24.3% 
(2010: 25.4%). This included a credit of £0.4 million (2010: 
£0.1 million) in respect of prior years. Going forward, the 
Group will benefit from the planned reductions in the UK 
corporation tax rate.
Earnings Per Share and Dividend
Underlying earnings per share increased by 16.4% from 
29.50 pence to 34.33 pence, the fifth successive year of 
double digit growth.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.40 pence per 
share which, when added to the interim dividend of 3.70 
pence per share already paid, gives a total dividend for the 
year of 12.10 pence compared to 10.50 pence in 2010.
The total dividend is covered 2.6 times (2010: 2.6 times) 
by profit after taxation after adding back amortisation of 
acquired intangibles.
Cash Flow
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
EBITDA 33,615 29,283
Share-based payments charge 830 817
Changes in working capital (9,071) (3,438)
Cash generated from operations 25,374 26,662
Net interest (2,629) (2,208)
Taxes paid (5,034) (6,124)
Capital expenditure (4,090) (2,721)
Proceeds of asset sales 2 —
Repayment of borrowings (4,329) (5,671)
Free cash flow 9,294 9,938
Acquisitions (33,047) —
Net new borrowings 29,556 —
Issue of share capital 541 589
Dividends (7,221) (6,195)
Foreign currency effects (129) 353
net cash flow (1,006) 4,685
The cash conversion rate in 2011 was 82.8% (2010: 
100.8%) with the reduction due principally to additional 
payment terms being offered to certain large NVS  
customers.
Financial Position at the Year End
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
non-current assets
Intangible assets 125,098 80,371
Property, plant and equipment 7,721 7,673
132,819 88,044
Working capital 32,494 21,486
Deferred and contingent 
consideration (14,055) —
Current tax liability (5,391) (4,105)
Deferred tax liability (13,443) (12,496)
Net borrowings (34,091) (6,701)
net assets 98,333 86,228
Intangible assets and net borrowings increased compared to 
last year due to the two acquisitions made during the period. 
The balance sheet remains strong with net borrowings having 
reduced by £15.6 million since 31 December 2010. The net 
borrowings at 30 June 2011 of £34.1 million are comfortably 
affordable, representing only 0.98 times underlying EBITDA.
Of the increase in working capital, £1.5 million was as a result 
of the acquisitions. Inventory levels were increased in the first 
half of the financial year to ensure continuity of supply during 
the transfer of our diet range to a new manufacturer. This was 
partially reversed in the second half. The remaining increase 
was due to higher revenues and additional payment terms 
that NVS offered to a major customer.
Bank Facilities
Details of the Group’s bank facilities are shown in note 20 
to the financial statements. These facilities were refinanced 
during the year in order to fund the acquisition of DermaPet.  
The new facilities run through to 2014. There was 
substantial headroom on all covenants during the year.
Risks and Uncertainties
As we have stated in previous reports, the Group, like every 
business, faces risks and uncertainties in both its day-to-day 
operations and through events relating to the achievement 
of its long term strategic objectives. The Board has ultimate 
responsibility for risk management within the Group and 
there is an ongoing and embedded process of assessing, 
monitoring, managing and reporting on significant risks faced 
by the separate business units and by the Group as a whole. 
More detail in relation to this process can be found within the 
Corporate Governance section on pages 42 to 49.
The table on the following page highlights the main potential 
risks to the Group strategy, as identified by the Board, and 
the controls put in place in order to mitigate the said risks:  Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  36 37
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Financial Review continued
Strategy Risk How we mitigate the risk
t o sustain growth from our core businesses The failure of a major customer or supplier l The business units monitor the financial status of both key customers and suppliers and maintain regular contact with them
 (including face to face meetings)
l  Where it becomes evident that issues in relation to manufacturing/supply may arise alternative suppliers are identified and detailed
 plans drafted. Where a manufacturing transfer is required stock is built up in order to avoid/mitigate an out of stock situation
l  In respect of manufacturing, a “second sourcing” project for key materials has been established and maintained
l  All contracts with suppliers and customers are reviewed from both a commercial and legal perspective to ensure that assignment of
 the contract is allowed should there be a change of control of either of the contracting parties
Failure to meet regulatory requirements under 
which we operate thereby disrupting our operations 
and our product manufacture pipeline/loss of key 
products due to regulatory changes
l  The Group always strives to exceed regulatory requirements and ensures that its employees have detailed experience and
 knowledge of the regulations
l  All businesses have clearly established quality systems and procedures in place
l  Regular contact is maintained with all relevant regulatory bodies in order to build/strengthen relationships and ensure good
 communication lines
l  The regulatory and legal teams remain constantly updated in respect of proposed/actual changes in order to ensure that the
 business is equipped to deal with and adhere to such changes
l  Where any changes are identified which could affect our ability to continue to market and sell any of our products a response team
 is created in order to mitigate such risk and to retain effective communication with the relevant regulators
l  External consultants are utilised to audit our manufacturing systems prior to any major inspection
Loss of key personnel l  Succession planning is given consideration by the Board and, where deemed necessary, Key Man Insurance is in place
l  In 2009 the Group HR Director developed and implemented a leadership development programme for the senior management
 team in order to further strengthen the retention of the individuals. This programme is ongoing and includes the involvement of
 personal coaches
l  A Performance and Development Review process is in the early stages of implementation
Fuel shortage/logistics failure l  Standard operating procedures have been drafted in respect of fuel emergencies/failures of the courier company (the latter in
 respect of the Laboratories only) to provide a daily service. Such standard operating procedures are regularly reviewed in order to
 ensure they remain effective
l  Delivery routes are constantly monitored by the operations department in order to ensure that they remain effective, economic 
 and efficient
l  Routine ongoing maintenance of the automated picking circuit at NVS and ensuring that all critical components are held on site
t o continue to develop a high growth, cash generative specialist 
veterinary products business 
Competitor product launched against one of our 
leading brands
l  Product improvement plans and marketing strategies are reviewed on a regular basis
l  Where competitor products are launched a response strategy is established and followed by our marketing team to highlight any
 unique selling points or competitive advantages or to position our products defensively to minimise competitor impact
l  Market research is conducted in order to allow the marketing team to better understand customer needs and ensure that our
 products fulfil the identified requirements
l  Any product patents are monitored and consideration given to the formulation of a defensive strategy towards the end of the life of
 the patent
Revenue from recently launched new products 
failing to meet expectations
l  In respect of all new product launches a detailed marketing plan is established. Progress against the plan is constantly monitored
l  The Group ensures that it has detailed market knowledge and retains close contact with customers through its sales teams which
 are consistently trained to a high standard
l  Alongside the marketing plan the sales team receives training on the product, its benefits and all available technical information
Failure of clinical trials l  Before major costly efficacy studies are initiated, smaller proof of concept studies are conducted to study the effects of the drug on
 target species and for the target indication
The main potential risk areas identified by the Board are as follows: Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  36 37
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Directors’ Report: Our Performance
Strategy Risk How we mitigate the risk
t o sustain growth from our core businesses The failure of a major customer or supplier l The business units monitor the financial status of both key customers and suppliers and maintain regular contact with them
 (including face to face meetings)
l  Where it becomes evident that issues in relation to manufacturing/supply may arise alternative suppliers are identified and detailed
 plans drafted. Where a manufacturing transfer is required stock is built up in order to avoid/mitigate an out of stock situation
l  In respect of manufacturing, a “second sourcing” project for key materials has been established and maintained
l  All contracts with suppliers and customers are reviewed from both a commercial and legal perspective to ensure that assignment of
 the contract is allowed should there be a change of control of either of the contracting parties
Failure to meet regulatory requirements under 
which we operate thereby disrupting our operations 
and our product manufacture pipeline/loss of key 
products due to regulatory changes
l  The Group always strives to exceed regulatory requirements and ensures that its employees have detailed experience and
 knowledge of the regulations
l  All businesses have clearly established quality systems and procedures in place
l  Regular contact is maintained with all relevant regulatory bodies in order to build/strengthen relationships and ensure good
 communication lines
l  The regulatory and legal teams remain constantly updated in respect of proposed/actual changes in order to ensure that the
 business is equipped to deal with and adhere to such changes
l  Where any changes are identified which could affect our ability to continue to market and sell any of our products a response team
 is created in order to mitigate such risk and to retain effective communication with the relevant regulators
l  External consultants are utilised to audit our manufacturing systems prior to any major inspection
Loss of key personnel l  Succession planning is given consideration by the Board and, where deemed necessary, Key Man Insurance is in place
l  In 2009 the Group HR Director developed and implemented a leadership development programme for the senior management
 team in order to further strengthen the retention of the individuals. This programme is ongoing and includes the involvement of
 personal coaches
l  A Performance and Development Review process is in the early stages of implementation
Fuel shortage/logistics failure l  Standard operating procedures have been drafted in respect of fuel emergencies/failures of the courier company (the latter in
 respect of the Laboratories only) to provide a daily service. Such standard operating procedures are regularly reviewed in order to
 ensure they remain effective
l  Delivery routes are constantly monitored by the operations department in order to ensure that they remain effective, economic 
 and efficient
l  Routine ongoing maintenance of the automated picking circuit at NVS and ensuring that all critical components are held on site
t o continue to develop a high growth, cash generative specialist 
veterinary products business 
Competitor product launched against one of our 
leading brands
l  Product improvement plans and marketing strategies are reviewed on a regular basis
l  Where competitor products are launched a response strategy is established and followed by our marketing team to highlight any
 unique selling points or competitive advantages or to position our products defensively to minimise competitor impact
l  Market research is conducted in order to allow the marketing team to better understand customer needs and ensure that our
 products fulfil the identified requirements
l  Any product patents are monitored and consideration given to the formulation of a defensive strategy towards the end of the life of
 the patent
Revenue from recently launched new products 
failing to meet expectations
l  In respect of all new product launches a detailed marketing plan is established. Progress against the plan is constantly monitored
l  The Group ensures that it has detailed market knowledge and retains close contact with customers through its sales teams which
 are consistently trained to a high standard
l  Alongside the marketing plan the sales team receives training on the product, its benefits and all available technical information
Failure of clinical trials l  Before major costly efficacy studies are initiated, smaller proof of concept studies are conducted to study the effects of the drug on
 target species and for the target indication
The main potential risk areas identified by the Board are as follows: Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  38 39
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Michael Redmond †•
Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Aged 67, Michael joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in April 2001, and was appointed Chairman 
in July 2002. He has extensive pharmaceutical industry experience having begun his career with Glaxo and 
through senior positions with Schering Plough Corporation. In 1991, he joined Fisons plc and in 1993 was 
appointed to the Board as Managing Director of the Group’s Pharmaceuticals Division. Michael left Fisons in 
1995 following its takeover by RPR. In November 2009, Michael was appointed Chairman of Abcam PLC, 
an AIM listed company, where he had previously held the post of Deputy Chairman (appointed February 
2009).
Ed Torr
Managing Director of Dechra Veterinary Products Europe
Aged 51, Ed joined NVS as Sales Director in 1997 and was appointed Managing Director of Arnolds 
and Dales in 1998. He was appointed Development Director in 2003 and Managing Director of Dechra 
Veterinary Products Europe in January 2008, following completion of the acquisition of VetXX®. Prior to 
joining the Group, he worked within the animal healthcare sector for a number of companies including ICI, 
Wellcome and Alfa Laval Agri.
Simon Evans, BCom, ACA
Group Finance Director
Aged 47, Simon qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1988 and spent seven years at KPMG. He joined 
NVS in 1992 and was appointed Group Finance Director in 1997 following the MBO. He played a major role 
in the management buy-out of the Group from Lloyds Chemists in 1997 and its subsequent listing on the 
London Stock Exchange in 2000.
Ian Page
Chief Executive
Aged 50, Ian joined NVS at its formation in 1989. He was also part of the MBO in 1997. In 1998, he 
was appointed Managing Director at NVS. He joined the Board in 1997 and became Chief Executive 
in November 2001. Ian has played a key role in the development of the Group’s growth strategy. Prior 
to joining the Company, he gained extensive knowledge and experience through various positions he 
held within the pharmaceutical and veterinary arena. In October 2010 he was appointed Non-Executive 
Chairman of Sanford DeLand Asset Management Limited.
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Board of Directors Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  38 39
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Zoe Goulding, LLB (Hons)
Company Secretary and Solicitor
Aged 37, Zoe was appointed as Company Secretary in July 2007. She qualified as a solicitor in April 2000. 
Prior to joining the Group she worked at Eversheds LLP and Brammer plc.
Bryan Morton, BSc, MBA *†•
Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
Aged 55, Bryan joined the Board in January 2010. Bryan has extensive experience in the pharmaceutical 
industry, largely with Merck & Co. Inc. and Bristol Myers Squibb where he has held positions of 
responsibility within marketing, sales, business development and general management. He was previously 
the CEO of Zeneus Pharma, which he founded in 2003 and which was subsequently sold in late 2005. 
Bryan is the President and Chief Executive Officer of EUSA Pharma, a specialist pharmaceutical company, 
which he founded in 2006. He is Chairman of the stem cell company ReNeuron, as well as Chairman of the 
medical device business Aircraft Medical Ltd and sits on the Global Advisory Board at Pilgrim Software Inc, 
which is focused on the life sciences sector.
Neil Warner, BA, FCA, MCT *†• 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee
Aged 58, Neil joined the Board in May 2003. He was Finance Director at Chloride Group PLC, a position he held 
for 14 years until its acquisition by Emerson Electric Co. Prior to this, Neil spent six years at Exel PLC (formerly 
Ocean Group PLC and acquired by Deutsche Post in December 2005) where he held a number of senior posts 
in financial planning, treasury and control. He has also held senior positions in Balfour Beatty PLC (formerly BICC 
Group plc), Alcoa and PricewaterhouseCoopers. In February 2011 Neil was appointed Non-Executive Director 
and Chair of the Audit Committee of Vectura Group plc, a product development company focused on the 
development of a range of inhaled therapies, principally for the treatment of respiratory diseases. He is also Non-
Executive Chairman of Enteq Upstream plc, a specialist reach and recovery products and technologies provider 
to the upstream oil and gas services market, a post he has held since 26 May 2011.
Dr Christopher Richards, MA, D.Phil *†•
Non-Executive Director
Aged 57, Chris joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in December 2010. He is Chairman of Arysta 
LifeScience Corporation, having been appointed its President and Chief Executive Officer from 2004 
to 2009. Arysta is a Japan-domiciled international company, developing and marketing crop protection 
products in more than 125 countries worldwide. Before joining Arysta, Chris spent 20 years in international 
management and leadership roles with Syngenta Crop Protection and its predecessor companies. In 
February 2011 Chris was appointed Non-Executive Director of Bio Products Laboratory Ltd, a company 
which manufactures a wide range of plasma products.
*  Member of the Audit Committee
†  Member of the Remuneration Committee
•  Member of the Nomination Committee Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  40 41
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Senior Management
Dr Susan Longhofer, DVM, MS, DipACVIM
Product Development and Regulatory Affairs Director
Aged 53, Susan joined the Group in June 2005. She has 22 years’ industry experience in development and 
worldwide registration of animal health pharmaceuticals, having worked for multinational corporations including 
Virbac Corporation, Heska Corporation and Merck Research Laboratories. Her veterinary degree is from T exas 
A&M University and her MS is from the University of Wisconsin, Madison. She was awarded Diplomate status 
in the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine in 1992. She has held a number of Academic and 
Professional Honours including membership on the Board of Directors of the American Heartworm Society and 
the Executive Council of the American Academy of Veterinary Pharmacology and Therapeutics (AAVPT). She is 
currently the Secretary of AAVPT .
Barbara Johnson, Chartered MCIPD
Group HR Director
Aged 50, Barbara joined the Group in April 2008. Prior to this she gained 19 years’ human resources 
management experience within the food and drink industry covering manufacturing, retail, wholesale and 
distribution. Barbara has previously worked for Allied Domecq plc, Geest plc and Nicholl Food Packaging 
Limited. Prior to joining private industry, Barbara served for ten years in the British Army.
Martin Riley
Managing Director, National Veterinary Services
Aged 47, Martin was appointed Managing Director of NVS in 2005. A graduate of the Welsh Agricultural 
College in Aberystwyth, Martin has extensive knowledge of the animal healthcare and veterinary sectors. 
Before joining the Group, he previously held several senior positions over an 18 year period with the 
pharmaceutical manufacturer Merial Animal Health.
Paul Sandland, MAAT, FCCA
Group Financial Controller
Aged 32, Paul was appointed as Group Financial Controller of Dechra and Finance Director of NationWide 
Laboratories and Cambridge Specialist Laboratory Services in January 2010. He qualified as a Chartered 
Certified Accountant in 2005. Paul spent five years post qualification at KPMG, during which time he was 
part of the team which advised the Group on its acquisition of VetXX in 2008.   Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  40 41
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Mike Annice, BSc (Hons), MRPharmS
Managing Director, Dales Pharmaceuticals
Aged 51, Mike graduated from The School of Pharmacy at Aston University in 1980. Prior to joining Dales 
in 1990 as Site Manager, he worked within the Hospital Pharmacy Service, Glaxo and SSS International 
(formerly Cupal Pharmaceuticals). He was appointed Technical Director at the time of the Group’s MBO. 
Mike was appointed Managing Director at Dales in March 2002.
Mike Eldred, BA, MBA
President, US Operations, Dechra Veterinary Products
Aged 41, Mike was appointed in November 2004 to head up the Group’s sales and marketing drive in the 
United States. He has over 17 years’ professional experience in the US animal health sector, having held 
senior positions in business development, sales and operations at Virbac Corporation, and international 
marketing and operational positions at Fort Dodge Animal Health. Mike began his career with Sanofi Animal 
Health where he managed the pharmaceutical and biological production planning activities.
Dr Peter Graham, BVMS, PhD, CertVR, DipECVCP , MRCVS
Managing Director of NationWide Laboratories and Cambridge Specialist 
Laboratory Services 
Aged 43, Peter was appointed Managing Director of NationWide Laboratories and Cambridge Specialist 
Laboratory Services in 2003. Peter graduated from the University of Glasgow Vet School in 1989, where 
he remained as Small Animal House Physician and Research Scholar until 1995. During this period he was 
awarded the RCVS Certificate in Veterinary Radiology and a PhD on the Epidemiology and Management of 
Canine Diabetes Mellitus. He contributed to the initial commercialisation of biochemistry and endocrinology 
lab services at the University of Glasgow. Between 1995 and 2002, Peter was Assistant Professor at the 
world’s largest specialist veterinary endocrinology laboratory in Michigan State University, USA, leading 
it as Section Chief from 2000. He was awarded Diplomate of the European College of Veterinary Clinical 
Pathologists in 2002. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  42 43
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Corporate Governance
The Board recognises its accountability to Shareholders and is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance. In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
“Code”) throughout the period under review except in respect of the composition of its Audit Committee. For the majority of 
the year the Audit Committee consisted of three independent Non-Executive Directors, in line with the Code. However, from 
the date of Malcolm Diamond’s retirement until the appointment of Dr Chris Richards (a period of less than four weeks) the 
Audit Committee consisted of only two independent Non-Executive Directors. It should be noted that the Audit Committee 
did not meet during this period. 
The Board has discussed the various changes which have been recommended by the Code, in particular the 
recommendations relating to the annual re-election of directors and the externally facilitated evaluation of the Board every 
three years. As the Company is no longer a constituent member of the FTSE 350 it does not need to comply with these 
two new recommendations; however, the Board will always seek to comply with the Code where it determines that to do 
so would be beneficial to the Company and its Stakeholders. In relation to the annual re-election of all directors, the Board 
concluded that given the changes to the board composition over the past 18 months (i.e. one Non-Executive retiring and 
the appointment of two new Non-Executives) it would not be conducive to the effective management of the development 
of the Company’s strategy to comply with the recommendation for annual re-election this year. The Board will however 
keep the matter under review during the forthcoming year. In respect of the recommendation for an externally facilitated 
evaluation of the Board every three years, the Board has reassessed its current evaluation process and a number of 
changes have been made. However, a decision has been taken that an external evaluation will not be carried out this year; 
this decision will be reviewed annually. Further detail in respect of these decisions is provided below.
Application of the Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code
The Code sets out the main and supporting principles of good governance for companies. The following report details how 
the Company has applied the principles of the Code to its activities.
Directors
The Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and provides entrepreneurial leadership within an embedded 
framework which allows for the ongoing assessment and management of risk. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to 
the Board, which covers areas such as strategy, corporate structure, financial reporting and controls, approval of material contracts, 
internal controls, corporate governance and delegation of authority. The schedule was reviewed during the 2010/2011 financial 
year and updated in line with best practice guidelines. In addition the Board focused on the existing financial controls imposed on 
executives to ensure that these were at the requisite levels so as not to hinder day-to-day administration of the business but to 
ensure adequate internal control. The Board has also begun a review of the delegated authorities within the businesses, and as a 
matter of best practice the schedule of matters and delegated authorities will be reviewed on an annual basis.
At least one week prior to all board meetings an agenda and supporting documentation is circulated to the Board. Every 
meeting agenda comprises reports from the following individuals:
l Chief Executive;
l Group Finance Director;
l Managing Director of each Business Unit;
l Group HR Director; and
l Product and Regulatory Affairs Director.
In addition, twice a year the Board receives detailed health, safety and environmental reviews encompassing the UK, European 
and US businesses plus activities of the Transport Risk and Sustainability Committees. Three times a year the Board receives a full 
risk assessment review for discussion; this is following detailed risk reviews in each of the business units. Other ad hoc material 
relating to specific projects, legal and regulatory matters are included as necessary. The reports ensure that the Board is informed 
and updated on all major items of strategic planning, business performance, personnel, investments and significant policy issues; 
this allows the Board to continuously monitor the progress of the business and provides transparency across all areas within the 
Group. As in previous years, the senior management team were invited to attend board meetings on a quarterly basis and in the 
intervening period if required, enabling the Board to explore specific issues in detail when required.  Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  42 43
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
In January the Board carried out a review of the Group strategy. As a result of the review an annual strategic agenda has 
been drawn up and approved by the Board. This agenda will ensure that key strategic objectives are discussed on a 
regular basis. A list of operational areas including topics such as business development, marketing, product development, 
human resources and IT are now diarised as agenda items for strategic consideration at future board meetings. As a result, 
members of the senior management team will be individually invited to attend specific board meetings rather than as a 
group (with the number of group meetings reduced accordingly). This will provide the Board with an opportunity to speak 
with the senior managers on a one to one basis and gain a more in-depth understanding of their specific business units/
area of responsibility.
Ten times a year the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director attend the board meetings of the businesses which make 
up the four operating segments (excluding the US). The meetings are chaired by the Chief Executive and allow him and 
the Group Finance Director the opportunity to obtain detailed information into the progress being made and any issues 
being faced by the individual business units. In relation to the US, the Chief Executive ensures that he meets with the US 
management team at least three times a year and obtains regular updates from the DVP US President, Mike Eldred. Key 
operational information obtained from these meetings is fed back to the Board.
The Chief Executive along with the Product Development and Regulatory Affairs Director also chair at least two product 
development meetings per year. Representatives from marketing and manufacturing departments generally attend the 
meeting thereby allowing the product pipeline to be comprehensively reviewed.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors meet prior to each board meeting which allows them time to review and 
discuss any matters arising from the agenda without the Executive Directors being present.
The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to board committees, including the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees. The terms of reference for each of these committees are available on the Company’s website 
or on request from the Company Secretary. The Board also appoints committees on an ad hoc basis to approve specific 
projects as deemed necessary.
The Board is scheduled to meet 11 times per annum with additional meetings called if necessary, including two meetings 
where a review of the full year and half-year results are prioritised. No additional meetings were required during the 
2010/2011 financial year.
Attendance at the board and nomination committee meetings during the year to 30 June 2011 was as follows (details of 
attendance at the audit and remuneration committee meetings is provided on pages 50 and 53 respectively):
Name
Board
(11 Meetings)
Nomination
(3 Meetings)
Michael Redmond 11 3
Malcolm Diamond 4/4† 3
Bryan Morton 11 3
Dr Chris Richards 7/7* 0/0*
Neil Warner 11 3
Ian Page 11 n/a
Simon Evans 11 n/a
Ed Torr 11 n/a
Note: n/a denotes that the Director is not a member of this committee, but may attend by invitation.
*  Actual attendance/maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date of appointment.
† Actual attendance/maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date of retirement. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  44 45
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Following the board meetings the Company Secretary ensures that an accurate record of the meeting is made which 
is circulated to the Board as soon as possible after the meeting. Should Directors have concerns of any nature which 
cannot be resolved within the board meeting, they have the right to ensure their view is recorded in the minutes. Further, 
on resignation, should a Non-Executive Director have any concerns, the Chairman would invite him to provide a written 
statement for circulation to the Board.
The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors’ and Officers’ insurance in respect of legal action against Directors.
Chairman and Chief Executive
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, Michael Redmond, and the Chief Executive, Ian Page. The 
Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effective working of the Board and ensures that each Director, in particular 
the Non-Executive Directors, is able to make an effective contribution to the Board. The Chief Executive is responsible for 
the management of the Company, implementing policies and proposing strategy.
During the financial year under review, the Chief Executive was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of Sanford DeLand 
Asset Management Limited (“Sanford”). The Board considered whether this would impact materially on his current time 
commitment as Chief Executive of the Group and whether it could give rise to any conflict. As Ian Page is not involved in 
any investment decision made by Sanford it was not considered that any conflict would arise nor would there be any impact 
on his time commitment. Further details in relation to the appointment can be found in the Remuneration Report.
The Chairman, at the time of his appointment, did meet and continues to meet the independence criteria set out in the 
Code. Having held a non-executive position within Dechra for over nine years the Chairman is to present himself for re-
election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The Nomination Committee (excluding the Chairman) has reviewed 
his appointment in detail and considers that he continues to lead the Board effectively, at all times maintaining his 
independence and providing an invaluable contribution and insight to the Board gained from his extensive experience within 
the pharmaceutical sector. The Nomination Committee also reviewed the Chairman’s current time commitments particularly 
in light of his position as Chairman of Abcam plc. After consideration the Nomination Committee determined that this would 
not adversely impact his time commitment as Chairman of the Group and that he would continue to fulfil his role to the 
highest standards.
Board Balance and Independence
The Board consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, three other Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors 
(including the Chief Executive). Taking into account the provisions of the Code, the Board has determined that during the 
year under review each of the Non-Executive Directors remained independent and free from any relationships which could 
compromise their independent judgement.
Malcolm Diamond retired from his position as Non-Executive Director at the 2010 Annual General Meeting. On Malcolm 
Diamond’s retirement, Neil Warner was appointed Senior Independent Director. He is available to Shareholders in respect of 
any concerns they may have where contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve the issues or for which such 
contact is inappropriate.
The Nomination Committee recognises the importance of ensuring the refreshment of the Board and of ensuring that the 
Non-Executive Directors provide the right mix of skill, expertise and experience to assist the Executive Directors in achieving 
the Group strategy. As reported in the 2010 Annual Report an independent recruitment consultant was retained to aid the 
Nomination Committee in the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director. As a result, on 1 December 2010,  
Dr Chris Richards was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees. 
At the commencement of the recruitment process an objective role description was agreed by the Nomination Committee 
which encompassed the requirements of the Board and the Group not only in terms of the skill and knowledge required but 
also diversity. The recruitment consultant was specifically requested to seek both female and male candidates who satisfied the 
role description; unfortunately no female candidates were highlighted. It should be noted that, although neither of the two Non-
Executive Directors appointed during the past 18 months had previous PLC experience, they were appointed for their wide 
ranging international experience and knowledge which is deemed a key attribute required to progress the Group strategy. 
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Corporate Governance continued Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  44 45
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
In response to the recent communication from Lord Davies in respect of women on boards it should be noted that the 
Board will continue to recruit in line with the requirements of the Board and ensure that the correct mix of skills and 
experience is maintained. Although there are currently no female board members, 37.0% of the senior management team, 
15.8% of the subsidiary executive boards and 41.7% of the overall workforce are female. In terms of recruitment for the next 
Non-Executive Director replacement (due to retirement) female candidates will be specifically requested.
The Board considers that all the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and free of any business or 
other relationship which could materially interfere with or compromise their ability to exercise independent judgement. This 
independence of mind provides them with the ability to challenge decisions and think strategically.
The details of the Board of Directors are shown on pages 38 and 39. 
Conflicts of Interest 
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting the Shareholders approved a resolution to amend the current Articles of Association so 
as to enable the Directors to authorise any actual or potential conflict of interest which could arise in line with the Companies 
Act 2006. There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict. 
Firstly, only independent Directors (i.e. those who have no interest in the matter being considered) will be able to take the 
relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be 
most likely to promote the Company’s success. The Directors will also be able to impose limits or conditions when giving 
authorisation if they think this to be appropriate. During the financial year under review no actual conflicts have arisen.
Nomination Committee
The Board has an established Nomination Committee to lead the process for board appointments and to make 
recommendations to the Board. During the period the Nomination Committee comprised Michael Redmond (Chairman), 
Malcolm Diamond (resigned 5 November 2010), Bryan Morton, Dr Chris Richards (appointed 1 December 2010) and Neil 
Warner. The Chairman would not chair the committee meeting if it was dealing with the appointment of a successor to the 
Chairman. Details of the work carried out by the Nomination Committee during the financial year have already been detailed 
in this report.
 
The Nomination Committee normally meets once a year. However two additional meetings have been held during the 
financial year in view of the appointment of Dr Chris Richards. 
The terms of reference set out the Nomination Committee’s role and the authority delegated to it by the Board. The terms of 
reference have been reviewed during the year and a copy is available on the Company website at www.dechra.com. They 
include the following responsibilities:
l to oversee the plans for management succession;
l to recommend appointments to the Board;
l to evaluate the effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors; and
l to consider the structure, size and composition of the Board generally.
Other significant commitments of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors were disclosed to the Board before 
appointment and the Board is also notified of any subsequent changes. Of the Executive Directors only Ian Page holds a 
Non-Executive Directorship (as detailed earlier in this report). The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors 
will continue to be available for inspection at the Company’s registered office. Both the letters of appointment of the Non-
Executive Directors and the service contracts of the Executive Directors will be on display at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  46 47
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Corporate Governance continued
Information and Professional Development
The Directors are supplied in a timely manner with all relevant documentation and financial information to assist them in the 
discharge of their duties. This includes information on the Company’s operational and financial performance. At least one 
board meeting per year is held at one of the Group’s operational sites to enable the Directors to update and maintain their 
knowledge and familiarity with the Group’s operations. Board meetings were held at the DVP UK offices in Shrewsbury in 
January and at Dales, Skipton in June, where the Board had an opportunity to be shown around the respective facilities and 
meet with employees. 
Any newly appointed Directors are provided with comprehensive documentation aimed at providing information in relation 
to the remit and obligations of the role, current areas under consideration for the Board and the latest broker reports. New 
Directors are also offered the opportunity to visit the various business units in order to allow them the opportunity to meet 
with the executive teams and to be shown around the operations. On an ongoing basis Directors are encouraged to keep up 
to date on all matters relevant to the Group and attend briefings and seminars as appropriate. The Company Secretary also 
provides briefings where necessary for the Directors that cover a number of legal and regulatory changes and developments 
relevant to the Directors’ areas of responsibility. The Company Secretary and Chairman are aware of the requirement to 
regularly review and agree with each Director their training needs. It is currently considered that the briefings provided at board 
meetings satisfy such needs; however this will be reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Each Director is entitled on request to receive information to enable him to make informed judgements and adequately 
discharge his duties. In addition, all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and 
senior managers, and may take independent professional advice at the Company’s expense in connection with their 
duties. The Company Secretary is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring that all board and committee meetings are 
properly conducted and Directors receive all appropriate information prior to meetings to enable them to make an effective 
contribution. Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Performance Evaluation
In previous years the board evaluation process had been based on a general discussion by the Board covering a number 
of topics detailed to them by the Company Secretary. However, this process has been reviewed in light of the current 
sentiment in relation to performance evaluation and the need for more detailed disclosure. As a result the Chairman and 
Company Secretary developed a discussion document covering areas such as (i) board composition; (ii) strategy review 
process; (iii) the format of board meetings and the decision process; (iv) training and development; (v) the performance of 
the Board and the individual Directors; (vi) Corporate Governance; (vii) leadership and culture; and (viii) risk assessment. 
The discussion document was approved by the Board and the Chairman scheduled interviews with each of the Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors and Company Secretary. The evaluation of the Chairman was undertaken by the Senior 
Independent Director. The results of the internal evaluation were presented to the Board at a meeting in August 2011. 
Overall, it was concluded that the Board and its committees were effective and it was agreed that the recent changes in 
respect of the Non-Executive Directors had been successful in aligning the board skill set with the business and its strategy 
going forward. However a number of recommendations were made in respect of the running of the Board and it was agreed 
the Chairman and Company Secretary would oversee their implementation during the 2011/2012 financial year.
Re-election
On appointment, Directors are required to seek election at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment. One-
third of the Board are required to retire from office by rotation at the Annual General Meeting subject to all Directors having 
submitted themselves for re-election every three years. At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Dr Chris Richards, who 
was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2010, will offer himself for election; both Ian Page and Neil Warner will retire 
by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and will seek re-election. In addition, Mike Redmond who has 
served as a Non-Executive Director for more than nine years will also offer himself for re-election. The Board has rigorously 
reviewed the performance of Ian Page, Neil Warner and Michael Redmond and strongly supports their re-election and 
recommends that the Shareholders vote in favour of these resolutions. 
Remuneration
Details of Directors’ remuneration are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report at pages 53 to 62. This report details 
the Company’s compliance with the Code’s requirements with regard to remuneration matters.  Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  46 47
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Accountability and Audit
Financial Reporting
The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects through the 
Chairman’s Statement and the Directors’ Report.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in connection with the Financial Statements are explained in 
the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities and the Independent Auditor’s Report on pages 73 to 75.
Going Concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position 
are set out in the Business Review on pages 8 to 37. The principal risks that may affect the Group’s future performance are 
set out on pages 36 and 37.
During the year being reported, trading has continued to be robust with an improvement in profitability being achieved. On 
the acquisition of DermaPet in October 2010 the Group refinanced its bank facilities which now comprise:
l a term loan of £36 million repayable over four years
l a revolving credit facility of £28 million committed until 30 September 2014
l an overdraft facility of £10 million renewable on 31 August 2012
The Group also had cash balances of £30.5 million at 30 June 2011. The overdraft facility is expected to be renewed on the 
renewal date although it is not normally used for the Group’s day-to-day cash requirements.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing these annual financial statements.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Directors are responsible for maintaining the Group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness 
from both a financial, operational and compliance perspective. The system of internal control aims to safeguard the 
Company’s assets, ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, ensure compliance with statutory and regulatory 
requirements and ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of operations including the assessment and management of risk. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and 
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has a well established, ongoing and embedded framework of internal financial and operational control for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group. Every four months the Board carries out a thorough 
review of relevant risk areas and systems of internal control. The review is structured by business area and key risk strategy 
and is based upon a summary of information prepared and reviewed by the business units’ executive team on an ongoing 
basis. This framework has been in place throughout this year under review, and has continued up to the date of approval of 
the Annual Report. The Board has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the internal controls for the year ended  
30 June 2011. Further detail in respect of the risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the mitigating action being 
taken can be found on pages 36 and 37.
The Group’s key systems of control include:
• Management Structure
 The Group is organised into four operating segments within which there are a number of business units. Each business 
unit has its own managing director and executive team; there are clear reporting lines and delegated authorities in place. 
 Key functions such as tax, treasury, insurance, legal and personnel are controlled centrally. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  48 49
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
• Management Accounting Systems
 The finance department has ensured that a detailed management accounting system is in operation which allows 
the Board and management transparency in terms of financial and operational performance, measured against key 
performance indicators (set at both business unit and Group level). Detailed management accounts are prepared on a 
monthly basis covering all areas of the business; these are reviewed by the relevant business units at their management 
meetings and by the Board on a monthly basis thereby allowing any material variances to be discussed and any 
necessary action taken on a timely basis. Detailed forecasts are prepared and discussed in detail on a quarterly basis; 
these are then escalated to the Board for consideration and approval.
 The finance department maintain a financial policies manual which covers central and divisional management. The 
manual is reviewed at least annually and is also updated whenever reporting standards, legislation or internal commercial 
reasons dictate. Any changes to the policies are communicated throughout the Group’s finance department. The finance 
department also holds a bi-annual internal conference at which a full technical update, tailored specifically to the Group’s 
commercial needs, is presented by the Auditor. During the 2010/2011 financial year a conference was held in November 
and April, both of which concentrated on the upcoming IFRSs and the implications of the new Senior Accounting Officer 
legislation.
 Business unit management certify on a quarterly basis that key financial controls have been performed and that 
significant risks have been identified. 
• Business Plans
 Business plans provide a framework from which annual budgets and forecasts are agreed with each business unit, 
including financial and strategic targets against which business performance is monitored. The plans are reviewed by 
executive management, and then by the Board for ultimate approval. Actual performance during the financial year is 
monitored monthly against budget, forecast and previous year. 
• Investment Approval
 The Group has clear requirements for the approval and control of expenditure. Strategic investment decisions involving 
both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to formal detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set 
by the Board. Capital expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels determined by the Board.
• Development Expenditure
 The Group has a transparent and established process for evaluating and monitoring the level of development 
expenditure incurred. As with all other business units the Regulatory Department agrees an annual budget which 
receives approval from the Board and performance against which is monitored on an ongoing basis. The Regulatory 
Department re-evaluates all projects at least twice a year (and reports all material decisions and changes to the Board). 
When evaluating projects a number of measurement criteria are considered including the products’ expected net 
present value and return on investment. 
• Whistle-blowing Policy
 The Company has a whistle-blowing policy in place which establishes a confidential channel of communication for 
employees to bring matters of concern about the running of the business to the attention of senior management. 
Upon being notified of such a concern, the policy sets out a defined process which must be followed which allows a 
full investigation to take place and, where necessary, corrective action to be taken. The Audit Committee reviews the 
whistle-blowing policy on an annual basis.
• Business Ethics Policy
 In line with the recently introduced Bribery Act 2010 all current policies have been reviewed in order to ensure 
compliance with the legislation.
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Corporate Governance continued Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  48 49
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Audit Committee and Auditor
Information relating to the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 50 to 52. This details the 
Company’s compliance with the Code’s requirements in respect of audit matters. 
Responsibility for monitoring the Group’s system of internal control rests with the Board. It is assisted by the Audit 
Committee which reviews the half-year and annual reports provided to Shareholders, the audit process and the systems of 
internal control and risk management. 
The Auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts. They independently and 
objectively review management’s reporting of the Group’s consolidated results and financial position. In addition, they 
review the systems of internal control and the data contained in the Annual Report and Accounts to the level necessary for 
expressing their audit opinion.
Relations with Shareholders
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders
Relationships with Shareholders receive high priority and a rolling programme of meetings between Institutional 
Shareholders and Executive Directors are held throughout the year. These meetings are in addition to the annual and half-
year results presentations and the Annual General Meeting and seek to foster mutual understanding of the Company’s and 
Shareholders’ objectives. Such meetings are conducted in a format to ensure protection of share price sensitive information 
that has not already been made generally available to the Company’s Shareholders. Similar guidelines also apply to 
communications between the Company and parties such as financial analysts, brokers and the press. The Company also 
organises site visits on a periodic basis.
Feedback is collated by the Company’s brokers after both the annual and half-year results and presentations. The feedback 
is then circulated to the Board for review and consideration; in addition the Board is provided with a monthly market 
summary report which reports on share price movements and share register movements. 
The annual and half-year results presentations are available to private investors via the Company’s website. The Company 
views the website as an important investor relations tool, and is continually updating the website in line with best practice, 
ensuring that information relating to the Company and its activities is easily accessible. 
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting
All members of the Board are scheduled to attend the Annual General Meeting and the Chairmen of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer Shareholders’ questions at that meeting. Notice of 
the meeting, together with the Annual Report and Accounts, is posted to Shareholders not less than 20 working days prior 
to the date of the Annual General Meeting. The information sent to Shareholders includes a summary of the business to be 
covered at the Annual General Meeting, where a separate resolution is prepared for each substantive matter. When a vote is 
taken on a show of hands, the level of proxies received for and against the resolution and any abstentions are disclosed at 
the meeting and will be made available as soon as practicable after the meeting on the Company website at www.dechra.
com. The notice of meeting and an announcement relating to the total number of shares in respect of which Shareholders 
are entitled to exercise voting rights are made available on the Company’s website the day after the notice of meeting is 
posted to Shareholders. At the Annual General Meeting there will be an opportunity, following the formal business, for 
informal communications between Shareholders and Directors. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  50 51
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Audit Committee Report
Role and Responsibilities
The main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee (the “Committee”) are set out in the written terms of reference 
which are available on the Company website at www.dechra.com. The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed on 
an annual basis and during the 2010/2011 financial year this took place at the February meeting. Following this review the 
terms of reference were updated in line with best practice guidelines. The main responsibilities of the Committee are:
l  to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, reviewing the annual and half-year reports in detail 
to ensure they present a balanced assessment of the Company’s position and prospects which is understandable to 
Shareholders and potential investors;
l  to review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls and risk management systems as described on pages 36 
and 37 and, in conjunction with the Auditor, consider the accounting policies adopted by the Company;
l  to oversee the relationship with the Auditor. The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment 
of the Auditor, approves their remuneration and their terms of engagement, monitors their independence and objectivity, 
monitors the effectiveness of the audit process and sets the policy for non-audit work;
l  to make recommendations to the Board on the requirement for an internal audit function.
In the performance of its duties the Committee has access to the services of the Auditor and is at liberty to obtain outside 
professional advice as necessary. During the year, no legal or independent professional advice was sought. The Auditor also 
has direct access to the Committee Chairman outside the formal committee meetings.
Membership, Meetings and Attendance
The membership of the Committee and meeting attendance is stated in the table above. Malcolm Diamond retired in 
November 2010 and the Committee are pleased to welcome Dr Chris Richards as its most recent member. The Board 
considers that Neil Warner has recent and relevant financial experience as recommended by the UK Corporate Governance 
Code as a result of his financial background. He has held a number of financial positions throughout his career including 
latterly Finance Director of Chloride Group PLC (a position he held from 1997 until end December 2010) and as Chairman  
of the Audit Committee of Vectura Group plc (to which he was appointed in February 2011).
The Auditor attends meetings of the Committee other than when their appointment or performance is being reviewed. The 
Chief Executive, Chairman, Group Finance Director and other senior finance staff attend as and when appropriate. The 
Committee has discussions at least once a year with the Auditor without management being present.
Member Independent
Meetings 
eligible  
to attend
Meetings
attended
Neil Warner Yes 3 3
Malcolm Diamond (retired  
5 November 2010) Yes 1 1
Bryan Morton Yes 3 3
Dr Chris Richards (appointed 
1 December 2010) Yes 2 2
Secretary 
Zoe Goulding
.
neil Warner , Chairman of the Audit Committee, reports on the Audit Committee’s activities during 2010/11 Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  50 51
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Activities during 2010/2011
The Committee met three times during the year, timed to coincide with the financial reporting timetable of the Company. The table 
below sets out a number of the matters which were discussed (and where necessary approved) at the three meetings:
Meeting Matters discussed/approved at the meeting
September 2010 l Auditor’s report on the 2009/2010 financial results
 l Draft preliminary statement
 l Draft Annual Report
 l External audit effectiveness
 l Audit Committee effectiveness review
 l Auditor independence confirmation
 l Level of non-audit fees
 l Going concern confirmation
 l Internal controls
 l Proposed final dividend
 l Auditor representation letter
February 2011 l Auditor’s report on the half-year results
 l Draft half-year report and announcement
 l Terms of reference
 l Interim dividend
 l Going concern confirmation
 l Senior Accounting Officer requirement
 l Auditor representation letter
 l Level of non-audit fees
 l Requirement for an internal audit function
May 2011 l Audit strategy for the year ended 30 June 2011 (including timetable, scope and fees)
 l Auditor independence
 l Group business risks
 l Company expectations of audit
Internal Control and Internal Audit Function
The Board retains overall responsibility for establishing the systems of internal control and monitoring their ongoing 
effectiveness and also for the identification and management of risk. The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness 
of the Group’s internal control activities and further detail in respect of the internal controls are provided within the Corporate 
Governance Section (on pages 47 and 48). The requirement for an internal audit function was discussed at the committee 
meeting in February. Given the current systems of internal controls discussed within the Corporate Governance Report and 
taking into consideration the present size of the Group, the Committee currently believes that an internal audit function is  
not required.
Auditor Independence and Non-Audit Fees
The Auditor annually confirms their policies on ensuring audit independence and provides the Committee with a report on 
their own audit and quality procedures. This report was reviewed during the audit strategy meeting held in May 2011 and 
the Committee remains satisfied of the Auditor’s independence.  Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  52 53
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Audit Committee Report continued
During the year the Committee appointed a new Group Audit Engagement Director, Graham Neale, who succeeded Simon 
Purkess. This appointment was carried out in line with the ethical standards of the Audit Practices Board which recommend 
that this appointment is rotated every five years. The Committee is pleased to report that the handover to the new Group 
Audit Engagement Director went smoothly and the transition was properly and effectively managed.
With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by the Auditor, the Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of 
such services do not impair their independence or objectivity. When considering the use of the Auditor to undertake non-
audit assignments, the Chief Executive and Group Financial Director do at all times give consideration to the provisions of 
The FRC Guidance on Audit Committees with regard to the preservation of independence.
The policy in respect of non-audit fees was reviewed and amended during the year ended 30 June 2009, whereby it was 
agreed that the non-audit fee be capped at 50% of the audit fee. Prior approval of the Committee is required should non-
audit fees exceed the cap and an explanation of the reasons for exceeding the limit is provided to the Committee, who 
assess the qualification, expertise, independence and objectivity of the Auditor prior to granting approval.
The Committee believes that there are certain non-audit services where it is appropriate for the Group to engage the 
Auditor. During the year, these primarily included acquisition due diligence and certain taxation services. This is consistent 
with the ethical standard recommended by the Accounting Practices Board.
A summary of audit and non-audit fees in relation to the year is provided in note 6 to the Group’s financial statements. All 
non-audit work has been approved by the Committee.
Effectiveness Review
During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness through a process led by the Committee Chairman. The 
Committee considered that it acted transparently and given the number of committee and board meetings scheduled 
throughout the financial year, maintained a thorough understanding of the Group and its business. The Committee also 
considered it had the skills to perform its responsibilities. The results of the review were advised to the Board. 
The performance, cost and independence of the Auditor is reviewed annually by the Committee, together with a review 
of the level of service provided by the Auditor to the Group. Based on the Committee’s review of the performance of the 
Auditor and on the planning and execution of the annual audit, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a 
resolution to reappoint KPMG be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Neil Warner
Chairman – Audit Committee
6 September 2011 Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  52 53
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
The Remuneration Report is presented in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) and the Large 
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008 (the “Regulations”). In accordance with the Regulations the report is 
divided into two sections, unaudited and audited information. The audited 
information commences on page 60.
The Board is responsible overall for the Group’s remuneration policy and the 
setting of the Non-Executive Directors’ fees, although the task of determining 
and monitoring the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and 
agreeing the Chairman’s fee level has been delegated to the Remuneration 
Committee (the “Committee”).
This report will be submitted at the 2011 Annual General Meeting for the approval of the Shareholders. 
Membership
The Committee consists exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors and comprised during the financial year: 
Member Independent
Meetings eligible 
to attend
Meetings 
attended
Bryan Morton Yes 3 3
Michael Redmond Yes 3 3
Malcolm Diamond (retired 5 November 2010) Yes 1 1
Neil Warner Yes 3 3
Dr Chris Richards (appointed 1 December 2010) Yes 2 2
Secretary 
Zoe Goulding
The Chief Executive attended all meetings held during the financial year in order to assist on matters concerning 
remuneration of other senior executives within the Group; however, the Chief Executive was not present during the part of 
the meetings where his own remuneration was discussed. 
Responsibilities
The Committee has its own terms of reference, which are approved by the Board. These are reviewed on an annual basis to 
ensure that they continue to adhere to best practice guidelines. During the 2010/2011 financial year this review took place 
at the February meeting. Copies can be obtained via the Company website at www.dechra.com. The Committee Chairman 
and the Company Secretary are available to Shareholders to discuss the remuneration policy.
The Committee is responsible for determining, on behalf of the Board, the framework of remuneration for the Executive 
Directors and for ensuring and reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Bryan Morton, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, reports on the Remuneration Committee’s activities during 2010/11 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  54 55
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
In particular, the terms of reference authorise the Committee to:
l make recommendations to the Board on Executive remuneration;
l determine on behalf of the Board specific remuneration packages and conditions of employment for Executive Directors;
l determine targets for any performance related pay schemes operated by the Company; and
l determine the policy for and scope of any pension arrangements for the Executive Directors.
Meetings
The Committee met three times during the year and members’ attendance at the meetings can be found on page 53. The 
table below sets out a number of the matters which were discussed (and where necessary approved) at the three meetings:
Date Subject Matter
September 2010 l  Approval of Director bonuses
 l  Approval of satisfaction of performance condition in respect of the LTIP
 l  Review of Committee effectiveness
 l  Discussion of the LTIP awards to be granted to Executives and Senior Management
February 2011 l  Discussion regarding Directors’ remuneration
 l  Discussion of share option allocation
 l  Approval of share option exercise and achievement of target
 l  Review of terms of reference
June 2011 l  Confirmation of Executive Directors’ salary
 l  Review and confirmation of executive bonus arrangements for 2011/2012
 l  Chief Executive benchmarking review
Advisers
During the year the Committee received advice on the remuneration of senior executives from the Chief Executive and the 
Group HR Director. Advice was also received from the Company Secretary, Hewitt New Bridge Street and DLA Piper (UK) 
LLP in relation to the operation of the Company’s share-based incentive plans. Hewitt New Bridge Street has no other 
connection with the Company. DLA Piper (UK) LLP are the Company’s lawyers and were involved in the updating of the 
Company Share Scheme rules which were approved by the Shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Effectiveness Review
During the year, the Committee reviewed its effectiveness through a process led by the Committee Chairman. The 
Committee considered it had the skills and experience necessary to perform its responsibilities, which was strengthened by 
the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director. These findings were advised to the Board.  Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  54 55
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Remuneration Policy and Practice
Non-Executive Directors
The Board aims to recruit and retain Non-Executive Directors of a high calibre with the requisite experience required to 
achieve success for the Company and its Shareholders. The fees of the Chairman are determined by the Committee and 
the fees of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board following a recommendation from both the Chief 
Executive and the Chairman. It should be noted that neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive Directors take part in 
the determination of their own remuneration. Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee with additional fees paid for the 
chairing of Committees. During the financial year under review the Non-Executive Directors’ fees increased by 3%. Taking 
into account the current market sentiment in relation to increases in Non-Executive fees and in the light of pay increases 
across the Group, it has been agreed to increase the fees by 2% for the 2011/2012 financial year. The annual fee level for 
2011/12 is therefore:
Office
2011/12
Fee
£’000
Chairman 84
Non-Executive Director 38
Remuneration Committee Chairmanship additional fee 3
Audit Committee Chairmanship additional fee 3
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Company’s share schemes, incentive schemes or 
pension schemes.
Executive Directors
Dechra’s policy on Executive Directors’ remuneration is to provide remuneration packages that:
l  attract, retain and incentivise Executives of the calibre required to ensure that the Group is managed successfully to the 
benefit of Shareholders;
l  provide appropriate alignment between Dechra’s strategic goals, Shareholder returns and executive reward;
l  have a competitive mix of base salary and short and long term incentives with a significant proportion of the package 
determined by stretching targets linked to Dechra’s performance; and
l  are consistent with corporate governance best practice guidelines so long as the Committee believes that compliance 
with such guidelines is in the best interest of Shareholders.
During the period under review the HR Director, assisted by a steering group consisting of representatives from around 
the Group, developed a Performance and Development Review (“PDR”) process. The PDR will measure an individual’s 
performance in three distinct categories: Accountabilities, Values and Objectives. In respect of the Executive Directors the 
Accountability element will provide for measurement of their ability to drive the Group strategy forward, thereby ensuring that 
an element of future remuneration is aligned to strategy. The PDR process has been approved by the Board and is currently 
being rolled out over a six month period to a pilot group which includes the Executive Directors and senior managers. It is 
intended that Objectives for the pilot group will be agreed by the end of September 2011 and Accountabilities by the end of 
December 2011. The pilot PDR will then take place from March to May 2012 and a full 12 month PDR cycle will commence 
in July 2012. This will result in the 2013/2014 remuneration increases for those groups being dependent on the results of 
the review.
The Committee has a policy of reviewing Executive remuneration every two years. The last review took place during spring/
summer 2010; following the review the Committee concluded that the value of the Executive Directors’ remuneration 
packages remained below median. However, taking into account market sentiment and also pay increases across the 
Group a 3% pay increase was awarded for 2010/2011 and a number of changes were made to the bonus arrangements. 
The bonus arrangements remain unchanged for 2011/2012 and details of the parameters of the scheme are provided in the 
table on the next page along with the key elements of the Executive Directors’ remuneration for 2011/2012.  Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  56 57
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Policy 2011/2012
Base Salary 
The Committee always considers
(i) remuneration packages payable to  Taking into account the market sentiment at the time and the pay
 employees employed in comparable  increases across the Group, the Committee agreed that base
 companies; and  salaries be increased by 2% with effect from 1 July 2011 to
(ii) pay increases within the Group  
 more generally Ian Page — £375,064
  Simon Evans — £235,755
  Ed Torr — £225,039
Pensions
The Company operates a Group  The Company will contribute 14% of salary on behalf of the Executive 
Stakeholder personal pension scheme  Directors. During the year HMRC reduced the annual allowance 
which has been effective since  to £50,000 per annum. As a result, it was agreed by the Committee 
1 July 2005 that in the case of Ian Page any employers’ contribution above this limit 
  will be paid in lieu
Benefits in Kind
Provided on a market competitive bases The Company provides the use of a fully expensed car, medical cover and life  
  assurance scheme
Annual Bonus
The executive bonus scheme rewards  Due to the continuing challenging budget and market conditions the executive 
Executive Directors for achieving operating  bonus scheme for 2011/12 financial year will be as in 2010/2011 
efficiencies and profitable growth in the  
relevant year by reference to challenging  Therefore, a payment of 10% of salary is triggered on achievement of 95% 
but achievable operational targets  of budget and payment of 90% of salary on achievement of 110% of budget. 
determined at the beginning of the  In between these two parameters the achievement of budget triggers a  
financial year payment equivalent to 50% of base salary as indicated in the graph below
  A further 10% of salary can be earned based on the achievement of personal  
  objectives
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
90 95 100 105 110 115
Bonus earned (% of salary)
% achievement of budgeted adjusted profit before tax Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  56 57
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Policy on External Appointments
The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies 
and that this can help broaden the skills and experience of a Director. Executive Directors are normally permitted to accept 
external appointments with the approval of the Board.
The only Executive DIrector to hold an external appointment is Ian Page. He was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of 
Sanford DeLand Asset Management Limited, an asset management company, on 7 October 2010. He has agreed to waive 
his fee for the first year of appointment.
Long Term Incentive Arrangements and Share Schemes
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
Awards under the LTIP have been made since 2008. The Committee considers that the LTIP provides a clear link between 
the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the creation of value for Shareholders by rewarding the Executive Directors 
for the Company’s performance in terms of relative Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”).
The LTIP allows the Executive Directors and selected senior executives of the Company to receive a conditional award of 
performance shares worth up to 150% of base salary (200% of salary in exceptional circumstances). Options granted to 
the Executive Directors on 22 December 2010 were granted to a value equivalent to 100% of their base salary. The annual 
award is generally granted in September/October; however, by reason of a close period imposed due to the acquisitions of 
DermaPet Inc. and Genitrix Limited the grant was delayed until December.
Vesting of performance shares will normally occur provided that:
(a) the participant is still employed by the Group at the end of the three year vesting period; and
(b) to the extent that the pre-set performance targets have been satisfied over the three year performance period which will 
run from the start of the financial year within which the award is granted. Performance targets for the grant during the 
financial year ended 30 June 2011 are:
(1) an ‘underpin’ condition based on the Company’s adjusted diluted earnings per share performance — no awards will 
vest if the Company’s adjusted diluted earnings per share has not grown by at least RPI +3% per annum over the 
performance period;
(2) the Company’s TSR performance — assuming that the underpin is achieved, vesting of the awards will be 
determined by the Company’s TSR performance compared to the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index at the 
start of the performance period. The TSR will be calculated by comparing average performance over three months 
prior to the start and end of the performance period. Vesting will be on the following basis:
TSR Performance Vesting Percentage
Below median 0%
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata vesting based on the Company’s ranking in the comparator group
Upper quartile 100%
Executive Incentive Plan (“EIP”)
Prior to the adoption of the LTIP in November 2008, the Company operated an Executive Incentive Plan. No further options 
can be granted under the EIP; details of the remaining options exercised during the financial year pursuant to the EIP and 
the attaching performance conditions can be found on page 61 of this report.
Company Share Option Scheme and Savings Related Share Option Scheme
The Company also operates an Approved Share Option Scheme, an Unapproved Share Option Scheme and a Savings 
Related Share Options Scheme (“SAYE”). Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the SAYE but are not entitled to 
participate in the Approved Share Option Scheme or the Unapproved Share Option Scheme by reason of their participation 
in the LTIP and EIP . As reported in the 2010 Annual Report each of these share option schemes expired in autumn 2010. 
A resolution in respect of the renewal of the three schemes was approved by the Shareholders at the 2010 Annual General 
Meeting and initial awards under the schemes were made during the financial year. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  58 59
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Total Shareholder Return Graph
The graph below shows the TSR performance of the Company over the past five financial years compared with the TSR 
over the same period for the FTSE Small Cap Total Return Index. Throughout the 2010/2011 financial year the Company 
has been a constituent member of the FTSE Small Cap Index; for this reason it is considered that the TSR performance of 
the FTSE Small Cap Index be represented in this report.
Directors’ Shareholdings
The beneficial interests of the Directors in office and their families in the share capital of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC as at 
30 June 2011 were as follows:
Name
Ordinary
Shares
no.
2011
Ordinary
Shares
No.
 2010
Michael Redmond 56,475 56,475
Ian Page 726,282 707,731
Simon Evans 882,689 860,537
Ed Torr 411,381 401,489
Bryan Morton — —
Dr Chris Richards 4,000 —
Neil Warner 4,191 2,691
There have been no changes in the holdings of the Directors between 30 June and 6 September 2011.
Total Shareholder Return — 5 Years
DECHRA TSR
FTSE SMALL CAP
June 06
Dec 06
June 07
Dec 07
June 08
Dec 08
June 09
Dec 09
June 10
Dec 10
June 11
260
240
220
200
180
160
140
20
120
100
80
60
40
0
Value (£) Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  58 59
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Share Ownership Guidelines
In line with best practice, there are formal share ownership guidelines for Executive Directors requiring them to retain at 
least half of any share awards vesting as shares (after paying any tax due on the shares) until they have a holding of Dechra 
shares worth at least 100% of their base salary. Currently, all of the Executive Directors’ shareholdings equate to over 100% 
of their base salary (please see table below):
Name
Ordinary
Shares
No.
Ordinary
Shares
£’000*
Salary
£’000
Ian Page 726,282 3,564 368
Simon Evans 882,689 4,332 231
Ed Torr 411,381 2,019 221
*  Calculated using the share price as at 30 June 2011. 
In September 2010, the Board adopted formal share ownership guidelines for Non-Executive Directors, whereby Non-
Executive Directors are required to acquire the equivalent of 50% of their annual fee by the third anniversary of their 
appointment to the Board. With the exception of Bryan Morton, the Non-Executive Directors’ shareholdings equate to over 
50% of their annual fee.
Name
Ordinary
Shares
No.
Ordinary
Shares
£’000*
% of
Salary
Michael Redmond 56,475 27 338.0
Bryan Morton — — —
Dr Chris Richards 4,000 20 53.1
Neil Warner 4,191 21 51.4
*  Calculated using the share price as at 30 June 2011. 
Contracts of Services
Details of the Executive Directors’ service contracts/Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are set out below:
Notice Period
Name Commencement date Director Company
Michael Redmond 25 April 2001 12 months 12 months
Ian Page 1 September 2008 6 months 12 months
Simon Evans 6 February 2009 6 months 12 months
Ed Torr 6 February 2009 6 months 12 months
Bryan Morton 8 January 2010 12 months 12 months
Dr Chris Richards 1 December 2010 12 months 12 months
Neil Warner 2 May 2003 12 months 12 months
There are no expiry dates applicable to either Executive or Non-Executive Directors’ service contracts. The Company 
may, in its absolute discretion at any time after written notice has been given by either party, lawfully terminate the service 
contract by paying to the Director an amount equal to his basic salary entitlement for the unexpired period of notice (subject 
to a deduction at source of income tax and National Insurance contributions). In the event that the service contract is 
terminated before the end of any financial year, the Director shall not be entitled to any bonus in respect of that financial 
year. Non-Executive Directors have a service contract for an initial 12 month period which is thereafter terminated by either 
party giving 12 months’ notice. Non-Executive Directors’ compensation is confined to 12 months’ remuneration. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  60 61
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Individual Directors’ eligibility for the various elements of compensation is set out below:
Name Salary & Fees Bonus Benefits
Michael Redmond 12 months n/a n/a
Ian Page 12 months Nil 12 months
Simon Evans 12 months Nil 12 months
Ed Torr 12 months Nil 12 months
Bryan Morton 12 months n/a n/a
Dr Chris Richards 12 months n/a n/a
Neil Warner 12 months n/a n/a
Where applicable, payment of this compensation would be in full and final settlement of all claims other than in respect 
of share options or awards and pension arrangements. In an appropriate case the Directors would have regard to the 
departing Director’s duty to mitigate loss, except in the event of dismissal following a change of control of the Company. 
Other than as described above, there are no express provisions within the Directors’ service contracts for the payment of 
compensation or liquidated damages on termination of employment. No compensation payments were made to Executive 
or Non-Executive Directors during the year.
Audited Information
The Auditor is required to report on the information contained in the remainder of this report.
Summary of Remuneration
     Salaries  Other t otal Total
     & Fees Bonuses Benefits 2011 2010
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
executive Directors
Ian Page      368 221 30 619 543
Simon Evans     231 139 26 396 349
Ed Torr     221  132 15 368 323
non-executive Directors
Michael Redmond      82 — —  82 80
Malcolm Diamond (retired 5 November 2010)   15 — —  15 39
Bryan Morton     40 — — 40 17
Dr Chris Richards (appointed 1 December 2010)  22 — — 22 —
Neil Warner      40 — — 40 39
     1,019 492 71 1,582 1,390
Executive bonuses for the year ended 30 June 2011 (as reflected in the table above) were determined as follows:
l  Profit performance — 10% of salary payable upon the achievement of 95% of Group profit target rising to 90% of salary 
payable upon the achievement of 110% of Group profit target. Actual performance reflected 100% of the profit target 
resulting in a payment worth 50% of salary.
l  Personal objectives — up to an additional 10% of salary was payable to Executive Directors upon the achievement of 
personal objectives. 
l    Actual performance resulted in total bonus payments worth 60% of salary. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  60 61
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Executive Incentive Plan
Awards made under the Executive Incentive Plan are as follows:
   Number   number  Share price Share price
   of shares Granted Exercised of shares  at date at date
  Award at 30 June during during at 30 June Performance of award of exercise
  date 2010  the year the year 2011 period pence pence
Ian Page  2008 37,975 — (37,975) — 2007–2010 386 509.50
Simon Evans  2008 22,152 — (22,152) — 2007–2010 386 509.50
Ed Torr  2008 20,253 — (20,253) — 2007–2010 386 509.50
Awards under the EIP vest based on Dechra’s TSR performance over a three year performance period starting on 1 July 
prior to date of grant relative to the FTSE Small Cap Total Return Index with 30% of awards vesting for median performance 
rising to 100% for upper quartile performance. No awards vest unless the Committee is satisfied with the underlying 
financial performance of the Company over the performance period. Following the approval of the Long Term Incentive Plan 
at the 2008 Annual General Meeting no further options have been granted under the EIP .
During the financial year awards granted in 2008 became exercisable. Independent verification by Hewitt New Bridge Street 
showed that the Company’s TSR performance for the three year period to 30 June 2010 was in the top quartile of the FTSE 
Small Cap Total Return Index. The Committee also determined that the underlying financial performance of the Company 
over the performance period had been satisfactory. The full award was therefore exercisable. There are now no further 
awards under the EIP to be exercised.
Long Term Incentive Plan
Awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan are as follows:
    Number   number  Share price
    of shares Granted Exercised of shares  at date
   Award at 30 June during during at 30 June Performance of award
   date 2010 the year the year 2011 period pence
Ian Page   19 Nov 2008 92,593 — — 92,593 2008–2011 391.75
   24 Sept 2009 86,861 — — 86,861 2009–2012 404.10
   22 Dec 2010 — 72,241 — 72,241 2010–2013 514.00
    179,454 72,241 — 251,695
Simon Evans   19 Nov 2008 58,201 — — 58,201 2008–2011 391.75
   24 Sept 2009 54,599 — — 54,599 2009–2012 404.10
   22 Dec 2010 — 45,409 — 45,409 2010–2013 514.00
    112,800 45,409 — 158,209
Ed Torr   19 Nov 2008 55,556 — — 55,556 2008–2011 391.75
   24 Sept 2009 52,117 — — 52,117 2009–2012 404.10
   22 Dec 2010 — 43,344 — 43,344 2010–2013 514.00
    107,673 43,344 — 151,017
The performance conditions attaching to the Long Term Incentive Plan are explained on page 57. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  62 63
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Independent verification has also recently been sought from Hewitt New Bridge Street in respect of the satisfaction of the 
performance targets for awards which will vest in November 2011. The ‘underpin’ condition (the Company’s adjusted 
earnings per share has grown by at least RPI plus 3% per annum over the performance period) has been met and it has 
been confirmed that the Company’s TSR performance for the three year period to 30 June 2011 falls between the median 
and upper quartile of the FTSE Small Cap Total Return Index. The awards therefore will partially vest on their maturity date. 
The aggregate gain made by the Executive Directors on share options exercised during 2011 was £408,459  
(2010: £461,663). 
SAYE Scheme
Directors’ entitlements under the SAYE Scheme are as follows:
 Market price   At    At
  at date Exercise  30 June    30 June
 Award of grant Price Exercise 2010 Exercised Granted Lapsed 2011
 date pence pence dates number number number number number
Ian Page 13 Oct 2008 387 343 Dec 2013 4,883 — — — 4,883
Simon Evans 13 Oct 2008 387 343 Dec 2013 4,883 — — — 4,883
Ed Torr 13 Oct 2008 387 343 Dec 2013 1,119 — — — 1,119
 12 Oct 2009 445 332 Dec 2014 1,640 — — — 1,640
     12,525 — — — 12,525
Share Price
The middle market price for the Company’s shares on 30 June 2011 was 490.75p and the range of prices during the year 
was 382.0p to 551.0p.
Pension Entitlement
All Executive Directors were members of the Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Group Stakeholder personal pension scheme 
throughout the year. Contributions made by Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC on behalf of the Executive Directors during the 
year are based on a percentage of pensionable salary and were paid as follows:
      Contributions Contributions
      2011 2010
     Age £’000 £’000
Ian Page     50 51 50
Simon Evans     47 32 31
Ed Torr     51 31 30
      114 111
From 6 April 2011, the annual allowance for tax relief on pension savings for individuals reduced to £50,000. Since this 
became effective Ian Page has elected to receive a salary supplement in lieu of the employer contribution over and above 
the £50,000 limit.
By order of the Board
Bryan Morton
Chairman – Remuneration Committee
6 September 2011
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  62 63
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities
A responsible approach to our stakeholders and the wider community is seen by the Board to be fundamental to the 
Group. The conduct of the Group towards social, environmental, ethical and health and safety issues is recognised to have 
an impact on our reputation and the implementation and improvement of policies and systems is ongoing.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) and continues to be committed to 
developing and implementing appropriate policies to create and maintain long term value for Shareholders. Sound business 
ethics help to minimise risk, ensure legal compliance and enhance Company efficiency. 
The Sustainability Committee (the “Committee”) was set up in October 2009 and has its own terms of reference, which 
were approved by the Board in July 2010. Copies can be obtained from the Company Secretary or via the Company’s 
website at www.dechra.com. The Committee is chaired by Ed Torr, the nominated Director responsible for environmental 
policy, and its members are representatives from each of the business units. The Company Secretary is secretary to the 
Committee. The Committee has met twice this year.
The Committee is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group social, ethical and environmental policy. The 
following report details how we have applied the main principles of this policy, a full copy of which can be obtained from the 
Company Secretary or via the Company website. 
Social Responsibilities
The Board recognises that the Group has a responsibility to its stakeholders and therefore encourages the business units to 
contribute to the social and economic welfare of the local communities in which they operate. It recognises that by taking 
voluntary action in this area it is helping to protect and develop its own business.
The Committee had reviewed the way in which donations (either in the form of money or stock) are made by the business 
units to charities and as a result has established a Group Donations Policy, which became effective 1 July 2011. From  
this date, each business unit has discretion to allocate funds to local community groups, employee nominated charities  
and/or animal welfare charities. In addition, the Group will donate annually to three charities, being an animal welfare charity, 
an environmental charity and an employee nominated charity. We will provide details in respect of these donations in next 
year’s report.
Below is a selection of what has taken place during the 2010/2011 financial year:
Animal Welfare
l NVS has teamed up with The Blue Cross; one of the UK’s leading animal charities, collecting bags of clothing and  
bric-a-brac from participating veterinary practices throughout the UK and delivering them to The Blue Cross shops.  
During the year, this joint venture has raised £100,000 worth of income towards helping sick and homeless animals in 
the care of The Blue Cross.
l As in previous years, the businesses have donated obsolete and/or short dated stock, damaged products and 
consumables to various charities, ensuring that such stock is not provided to charities where the donation-in-kind could 
be sold to third parties. DVP UK donated over £11,000 worth of medical supplies to the Worldwide Veterinary Service, 
a UK registered charity committed to improving the treatment and welfare of all animal species throughout the world. 
In addition DVP continued to provide assistance to a charity called Help the Street Cats of Morocco which it has been 
involved with since 2006 providing supplies of Sedator, Alvegesic and Atipam. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  64 65
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities continued
Environment
l As in previous years Dechra has maintained its investment in the Corporate Membership Scheme for the Staffordshire 
Wildlife Trust (the “Trust”) donating £2,000. The continued support provided by the Company has assisted the Trust to 
continue with their education, conservation and community projects throughout Staffordshire. As in the previous year 
head office employees and representatives from NVS assisted the local community in a litter pick at Parrot’s Drumble, an 
area of ancient woodland situated adjacent to the NVS warehouse in Talke Pits. 
l DVP EU has agreed to donate DKK0.02 for every kilowatt per hour used for the period 2011 to 2015 to Energreen ApS 
for the construction of new green energy production facilities within Denmark.
Other
l Each year DVP EU nominates to a Danish charity. This year they donated DKK3,000 to the Danish Cancer Foundation. 
Furthermore, as reported in the previous Annual Report, DVP EU has continued its sponsorship of three children through 
SOS Children’s Villages, and in addition DVP EU has provided sponsorship to the University of Munich, totalling €3,000.
l NWL has continued its links with local schools by offering a number of work experience placements to four children from 
local schools and two veterinary students.
Health and Safety Policy
The Group attaches great importance to the health and safety of its employees and the public. The management are 
responsible and committed to the maintenance, monitoring and promotion of a policy of health and safety at work to ensure 
the care and well-being of its employees and on-site visitors. All of its UK sites are registered with the British Safety Council.
Each unit within the Group has an active Health and Safety Committee comprising representatives from both management 
and employees. The workforce nominates employee representatives. These committees meet on a regular basis to carry out 
a review of risk assessments and standard operating procedures as well as investigating any concerns raised by individual 
employees. Each site has the requisite number of employees trained in health and safety legislation.
Race for Life
Tracy Beech, Melanie Vanhuls, Rachel Horton, Carol Allen, 
Claire Owen and Helen Hall all took part in the ‘Race for 
Life’ event on 22 May at the agricultural showground in 
Shrewsbury. They completed the 5k course generating 
sponsorship of £515 and with DVP UK matching 
sponsorship, making a grand total of £1,031.
Donna Louise Trust Foundation
Danny Roberts of NVS handing over a cheque for £540 
to the ‘Donna Louise Trust Foundation’, the donation was 
raised from the sale of damaged goods to NVS employees. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  64 65
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
The Group commenced reporting Lost Time Accident Frequency Rates (“LTAFR”) as a non-financial key performance 
indicator during the 2008/2009 reporting year. The LTAFR is a calculation of all injuries that would be statutorily reportable 
under Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations (“RIDDOR”), normalised per 100,000 hours 
worked. This measure provides information to help monitor and control accidents and injuries to the workforce and is 
widely used as a key performance indicator throughout industry. Over the course of the last twelve months the number of 
accidents has increased from 14 to 15. None of these accidents have resulted in a work related fatality or disability. It is 
hoped to reduce the number of accidents during the 2011/2012 financial year. More detail in relation to this and other non-
financial key performance indicators can be found on pages 30 and 31.
Any material health and safety issues or incidents which occur are discussed in detail at both the monthly business unit 
board meetings and the PLC board meetings. The discussions include details of the incident that took place and also 
details of any remedial action which has been taken in order to mitigate or prevent a recurrence of the incident. Twice a year 
a comprehensive health and safety report is presented at each of the business unit board meetings and then reported to the 
PLC board meeting the following month for discussion and review by the Directors. 
The Transport Risk Committee assesses risks relating to the Group fleet and establishes control procedures, including 
regular licence checks of all individuals who are able to drive company vehicles, investigations into all accidents and a 
disciplinary procedure for speeding offences. During 2010 this committee introduced an online driver risk assessment for all 
company car and commercial vehicle drivers. The results of the assessment enabled the Company to identify any drivers at 
risk and to provide further training to those drivers. The drivers identified as requiring driver development training have now 
undertaken the training and this has been positively received. All new company car and commercial vehicle drivers as part of 
their induction must complete the online driver risk assessment. All company car and commercial drivers will be reassessed 
every three years. The Transport Risk Committee has reviewed the company car policy during the year with the aim of 
reducing its impact on the environment, resulting in a reduction in the selection of cars to be made available to employees 
and reducing the overall CO
2
 limit for all cars to 160 CO
2
/km. This committee has met four times during the year. All issues 
raised by this committee are reviewed by the Board as part of the bi-annual health and safety review. 
Simon Evans is the nominated Director responsible for Health and Safety policy.
Employees
We recognise that the success of the Group is dependent on our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain skilled 
employees. The Group commenced reporting labour turnover as a non-financial KPI during the 2008/2009 reporting year, 
and this is measured using the standard formula:
Total number of leavers over a period
5 100
Average total number employed over period
The Group has established a target of no more than 15% Moving Annual Turnover; during the 2010/2011 financial year 
we achieved 19.03% (2010: 15.88%). The main cause of this increase is attributed to the restructure of the warehouse 
operation within NVS where numbers of hourly paid employees have dropped from 387 to 349 over the financial year, a 
reduction of 38 posts.
In October 2010 a steering group was established to review how the management of both individual and team performance 
is undertaken throughout the Group, with a view to establishing a process that adds value to the business. The steering 
group was chaired by the Group HR Director and consisted of representatives from around the Group. They considered 
ways of improving performance, developing individuals and teams and managing behaviour that is consistent across the 
Group and providing support to managers. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  66 67
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities continued
The group determined the underlying principles and standards of behaviour that are needed to achieve and promote a 
high performance culture and as a result have developed a performance and development review (PDR) process that 
incorporates:
l a set of behavioural standards that are linked to Group core values;
l a mechanism to annually review team members; and
l a route for team member development.
As a result, the Dechra Values were launched in June 2011 throughout the business, a summary of which can be found on 
the inside front cover and further information can be obtained via the Company’s website at www.dechra.com. Further detail 
in relation to the PDR process can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 55.
The Board fully endorses these values and believe that they encapsulate Dechra’s business ethics and set standards that all 
employees wish to achieve and ultimately exceed. 
Dales is registered with ‘Investors in People’ and takes on a number of apprentices each year via the Modern 
Apprenticeship Scheme. Such employees are assisted in achieving National Vocational Qualifications (“NVQ”) as part of 
their apprenticeship, usually work-based but also involving literacy and numeracy modules. During the year one further 
apprentice has been employed and is currently studying for the NVQ Level 2 Business and Administration. In addition the 
following qualifications have been obtained during the current financial year; NVQ Level 2 in Performing Manufacturing 
Operations and Team Leading, Diploma in Operations Management and A Level Chemistry. 
At NVS, one employee has completed NVQ Level 3 in T eam Leading and one employee has gained CIM Professional Diploma 
in Marketing, whilst two employees are studying for NVQ Level 2 in Customer Services and three for Level 2 in Business and 
Administration.
It is the Company’s policy to provide equal recruitment and other opportunities for all employees, regardless of age, sex, 
sexual orientation, religion, race or disability. The Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled people, where 
they adequately fulfil the requirements of the role. Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy 
whenever practicable to provide continuing employment under the Company’s terms and conditions and to provide training 
and career development whenever appropriate. 
The Group has encouraged employees to share in the growth of the Company through eligibility to participate in the SAYE Scheme. 
The SAYE Scheme is offered to UK employees only, with 17.38% of the UK workforce participating in the 2010 grant (2009: 
18.83%); the decrease in participants this year can be explained by HMRC’ s decision to reduce the three year scheme interest rate 
to nil. The SAYE Scheme has been established for over ten years and has a consistently high take up rate. The graph below shows 
the percentage of employees who have taken up the SAYE Scheme over the last five years. 
13/10/2006 17/10/2007 13/10/2008 12/10/2009 13/12/2010
25.00
20.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
0.00
Percentage take-up (Eligible Employees)
Percentage take-up
Grant Dates Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  66 67
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Business Ethics
The Board expects all of the Group’s business activities to be conducted in accordance with the highest standards of ethical 
conduct and in full compliance with all applicable national and international legislation; in doing so we aim to maintain a 
reputation for acting responsibly and with integrity.
The Board has formalised its expectations in respect of business conduct into a policy known as The Code of Business 
Conduct (the “Code”). The Code aims to set a standard of conduct which applies throughout the Group and ensures, 
amongst other things, that:
l all third parties are treated fairly, openly and honestly;
l our employees do not accept or offer bribes, facilitation payments or other inducements; and 
l employees must avoid direct and indirect conflicts of interest (and where this is not possible, the employee must follow 
the procedure set out in the Code in order to ensure that the employee is removed from the position of conflict as soon 
as possible).
Written confirmation of adherence to the Code and notification of any conflicts, by all relevant employees, takes place 
annually. 
A whistle-blowing policy is also in place whereby employees may report, in confidence, any suspected wrongdoings within 
the business where they feel unable to discuss any such issue directly with local management. Details of the whistle-bowing 
policy are contained within the Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Employment Handbook and on the Company website at www.
dechra.com. 
Environmental Policy
The Group recognises the importance of good environmental controls. It is the Group’s policy to comply with environmental 
legislation currently in place, adopt responsible environmental practices and give consideration to minimising the impact 
of its operations on the environment. During 2010 the Committee confirmed the Group KPIs as energy consumption, fuel, 
travel and waste. The Committee members were tasked with collating data relating to the KPIs internally for a 12 month 
period with a view to gaining an understanding of whether or not these were the correct KPIs for the Group. The Committee 
has yet to meet to discuss these in detail and any decision will be reported in next year’s report. In terms of fuel, waste and 
travel we can report the following changes: 
 
Fuel
In respect of fuel, the number of company car vehicles with a CO
2
 limit of more than160 CO
2
/km has been reduced. NVS 
fleet policy ensures that CO
2
 emissions are taken into consideration when procuring new delivery vehicles in order to ensure 
that low emission vehicles are sourced. Generally, delivery vehicles are replaced every three years via leasing agreements and 
alternative fuel vehicles are always considered on the replacement anniversary. During the year the HGV fleet speed limiters 
have been fixed to 53 miles per hour which will assist in reducing the amount of fuel consumed by the fleet and should also 
assist in reducing carbon emissions. The average miles per gallon as at the end of June 2011 and June 2010 were as follows: 
2011 2010
HGV Fleet 9.60 9.32
Transit 32.57 32.07
The HGV fleet complies with the Euro 5 standard, a European regulation which sets emission limits for each category of 
pollutant emissions, such as carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and combined emissions of hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides.  Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  68 69
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Travel
In respect of travel, use of the video-conference facilities is recommended as priority over travel. During the previous 
financial year, video-conference facilities were installed in NVS, Denmark and Dales with a satellite function at Shrewsbury. In 
the US video-conference facilities are provided by a third party. Whilst the Committee appreciates that face to face meetings 
are beneficial it is hoped that the use of the video-conference facilities can reduce the number of flights. 
Waste Recycling
In respect of waste, the Group is a registered member of a compliance scheme in respect of the Waste Packaging 
Obligations Regulations. In addition, NVS operates a recycling programme which ensures that all trunking depots (see page 
25) return their general waste to the main depot at Stoke-on-Trent. The general waste is then sorted for collection by third 
party waste management companies. Dales also actively monitors its recycling rates. Dales continues to comply with, and 
exceed, effluent discharge standards into local water supplies, which is regularly monitored by Yorkshire Water Authority. 
Standard operating procedures are in place to ensure that all contaminated waste is disposed of under strict controls. 
Furthermore, all exhaust air is fully filtered from the manufacturing unit before discharge. DVP EU is legally obliged to submit 
an annual report to the Danish Ministry of Environment in respect of its environmental impact.
Glass 
(tonnes)
Cardboard 
(tonnes)
Plastic 
(tonnes)
Aluminium cans 
(tonnes)
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Dales 8.7 10.4 30.6 28.6 15.8 15.6 — —
NVS — — 276.1 280.3 18.4 16.5 0.03 0.5
DVP EU — — 18.5 15.5* 9.1 9.0*† — —
* Data collated on a calendar year basis. 
†  Plastic and metal.
DVP EU also monitors:
l Annual energy consumption: In 2010 energy consumption totalled 1,748 MWh (compared to 1,519 MWh in 2009). The 
increase is primarily due to an increase in energy consumption processes in manufacturing.
l Water: In 2010 water usage totalled 2,372 m
3
 (compared to 2,382 m
3
 in 2009). Although there has been a slight 
decrease in usage compared to the previous year, over a five year period the usage has remained relatively stable.
During 2008/2009 Dales implemented and embedded the lean manufacturing strategy into its operations, thereby assisting 
the business in achieving a decrease in the time between placement of the customer order and end product shipment. 
The implementation of the lean manufacturing strategy into the business has provided concrete results to date; specifically 
the time taken for a product to travel through the manufacturing cycle (from raw materials to stores as a finished product) 
has reduced during the financial year from an average of 19 to 16 days. Currently 20 employees are working towards a 
certificate in Lean Manufacturing (Business Improvement Techniques), which will bring the total trained at the business to 
200. Dales continues to work towards achievement of its ISO 140001 status.
The Group continues to review its environmental controls and encourage its own staff, suppliers and customers to achieve 
similar standards.
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities continued Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  68 69
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Other Disclosures
Principal Activities and Business Review
The Company acts as a holding company to all the Group’s subsidiaries. The Group operates under four segments split 
between Pharmaceuticals and Services. 
Pharmaceuticals comprise three segments:
l  European Pharmaceuticals: markets and sells licensed branded pharmaceuticals and specialist pet foods to the 
veterinary profession in Europe. It is a licensed manufacturer of both Dechra’s own branded products and products for 
third party customers.
l  US Pharmaceuticals: markets and sells a range of endocrine, ophthalmic, dermatological and equine products into 
North America.
l  Research and Development: develops and licenses Dechra’s own branded veterinary product portfolio of novel and 
generic pharmaceuticals and specialist pet diets.
The fourth segment, Services, distributes veterinary products, including pharmaceuticals, specialist pet diets and 
instruments to veterinary practices within the United Kingdom. It also provides histology, pathology, haematology, chemistry 
and microbiology services to veterinary practices.
The Chairman’s Statement and the Directors’ Business Review can be found on pages 4 to 37 and include:
l  a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group;
l  an analysis of the development and performance of the Company’s business during the financial year;
l  the position of the Company’s business at the end of the financial year; 
l  main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Company’s business; 
and
l  financial and non-financial key performance indicators used to measure the Group’s performance.
Results and Dividends
The results for the year and financial position at 30 June 2011 are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 76 
and Consolidated Statement of Financial Position on page 78. The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 
8.40 pence per share which, if approved by Shareholders, will be paid on 25 November 2011 to Shareholders registered at 
11 November 2011. The date the shares will become ex-dividend is 9 November 2011. An interim dividend of 3.70 pence 
per share was paid on 7 April 2011, making a total dividend for the year of 12.10 pence (2010: 10.50 pence). The total 
dividend payment is £8,039,000 (2010: £6,953,000).
Research and Development
The Group has a structured development programme with the aim of identifying and bringing to market new pharmaceutical 
products. Investment in development is seen as key to further strengthen the Group’s competitive position. Further information 
in relation to product development can be found on pages 14 to 17. The expense on this activity for the year ended 30 June 
2011 was £5,221,000 (2010: £4,666,000) and a further £1,025,000 (2010: £955,000) was capitalised as development costs.
Payment to Suppliers
The Company does not follow any code of practice or standard regarding the payment of suppliers but seeks to agree the 
terms of payment with suppliers prior to the placing of business and it is the Company’s policy to settle liabilities by the 
due date. At 30 June 2011, the Group had an average of 60 days (2010: 71 days) purchases outstanding in creditors. The 
Company has an average of nil days (2010: nil days) purchases outstanding in creditors. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  70 71
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Other Disclosures continued
Acquisitions
The acquisitions during the year under review are as follows:
Date of  
Acquisition Detail  Consideration
October 2010 DermaPet Inc. Florida based business  The maximum cash consideration
  which develops and markets for the acquisition is as follows:
  a range of dermatological  l  US$43.2 million paid on completion;
  preparations for the US and  l  Payments of US$1.0 million due on the  
  overseas companion animal  second and fourth anniversaries of the  
  markets  completion date;
    l  US$15.0 million payable between the  
    second and sixth anniversaries of  
    completion if DermaPet achieves  
    revenues in excess of US$15.0 million  
    in any rolling 12 month period  
    commencing on the first anniversary of  
    completion;
   l  If revenues on the same criteria exceed  
    US$20.0 million, a further US$5.0  
    million will become due
December 2010 Genitrix Limited Privately owned veterinary company  Initial cash consideration of £5.4 million.   
  with a range of equine and companion A further £0.8 million is payable on  
  animal products complementary achievement of specific milestones
  to Dechra’s
Share Capital
The issued share capital of the Company for the year is set out in note 22 to the Accounts on page 114. As at the end of 
the financial year, 66,449,659 fully paid ordinary shares were in issue which included 359,584 ordinary shares issued during 
the year in connection with the exercise of options under the Company’s share option schemes. 
The holders of shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Company’s Report and Accounts, 
to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights. There are no 
restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of shares in the Company, nor are there any requirements to obtain 
prior approval in respect of any transfer of shares. The Directors are not aware of any agreements which limit the transfer of 
shares or curtail voting rights attached to those shares. 
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 5 November 2010, the Company was authorised to purchase up 
to 6,611,045 of its ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 30 June 2010. 
No shares were purchased under this authority during the financial year. A resolution will be put to Shareholders at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew this authority for a further period of one year. Under the proposed authority 
shares purchased may be either cancelled or held in treasury. 
The Directors require authority from Shareholders to allot unissued share capital to the Company and to disapply 
Shareholders’ statutory pre-emption rights. Such authorities were granted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting and 
resolutions to renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Substantial Interests in Voting Rights
In accordance with the requirements in the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority, the Company had been notified of the following interests exceeding the 3% notification threshold as at the 
end of the financial year and a date not more than one month before the date of the notice of the Annual General Meeting. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  70 71
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
 30 June 2011 16 August 2011
      Aggregate   Aggregate
      Voting   Voting
      Rights Percentage Rights Percentage
Schroder Investment Management    15,580,099 23.45 15,260,483 22.97
Legal & General Investment Management    4,074,728 6.13 4,048,028 6.09
Aberdeen Asset Management     3,011,807 4.53 3,095,914 4.66
Invesco Perpetual     2,941,957 4.43 2,927,796 4.41
Rathbones      2,657,311 4.00 2,612,411 3.93
Newton Investment Management    2,236,125 3.37 2,442,947 3.68
Threadneedle Investments     2,226,900 3.35 2,258,900 3.40
BlackRock Investment Management    2,138,083 3.22 2,136,819 3.22
Change of Control/Significant Agreements
As detailed in the Going Concern Statement on page 47 the Group has bank facilities with the Lloyds Banking Group (the 
“Bank”). Under the terms of these facilities the Bank can give notice to the Company to repay all amounts outstanding 
under the facilities and cancel the commitments where there is a change of control of the Company. No other agreements 
that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid are considered to be 
significant in terms of their potential impact on the business as a whole.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that provides compensation for loss of office or employment 
resulting from a takeover, other than the Company share schemes. Under such schemes outstanding options and awards normally 
vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
The Directors consider that there are no contracted or other arrangements, such as those with major suppliers, which are 
likely to influence, directly or indirectly, the performance of the business and its values. Furthermore, there are no contracts 
of significance subsisting during the financial year between any Group undertaking and a controlling Shareholder or in which 
a Director is or was materially interested.
Directors
The constitution of the Board and its committees, together with biographical notes on the Directors, is shown on pages 38 
and 39. Details of Directors’ attendance at board and committee meetings and a statement on board evaluation are set out 
in the Corporate Governance Report, Audit Committee Report and Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 49, 50 and 53.
During the financial year Malcolm Diamond retired from his position as Non-Executive Director. Dr Chris Richards was 
appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 December 2010, under the Company’s Articles of Association he 
will offer himself for re-election as a Director at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
Under the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Mike Redmond who has served as a Non-Executive Director 
for more than nine years will offer himself for re-election as a Director at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Company Articles of Association require one-third of the Board to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and 
also if they have held office for more than 36 months since appointed or last elected. Therefore, Ian Page and Neil Warner 
retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. Further detail in respect of the proposed re-elections 
can be found in the enclosed Circular to Shareholders.
The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 58. 
During the year no Director had a disclosable material interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company or any of 
its subsidiaries. Information in relation to the Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
The Articles of Association state that a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the Shareholders or by the 
Directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board but so that the total number of Directors does 
not exceed the maximum number of Directors allowed pursuant to the Articles of Association. The maximum number of 
Directors currently allowed pursuant to the Articles of Association is ten. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  72 73
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance
Other Disclosures continued
The Articles of Association also state that the Board of Directors is responsible for the management of the business of the 
Company and in doing so may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provision of relevant legislation and 
the Company’s constitutional documentation. The powers of the Directors set out in the Articles of Association include those 
in relation to the issue and buy-back of shares.
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability
The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors’ and Officers’ insurance whereby Directors are indemnified against 
liabilities to third parties to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006. The Directors also benefited from qualifying 
third party indemnity provision in place during the financial year and at the date of this report. A copy of the indemnity 
provision will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The contracts of employment or letters of appointment of the Directors and employees of the Company do not provide for 
compensation for loss of office that occurs because of a takeover.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the  
Financial Statements
The statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements can be found on 
page 73.
Charitable Contributions
Charitable donations made during the year in support of charitable causes in the local communities in which the Group 
operates and those of interest to its employees amounted to £6,234 (2010: £6,695). Further details of donations made by 
the Group are given on pages 63 to 68.
Political Donations and Expenditure
No political donations were made during the year ended 30 June 2011. The Group has a policy of not making any 
donations to political organisations or independent election candidates or incurring political expenditure anywhere in the 
world as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Auditor
A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their 
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Audit Information
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of the approval of the Directors’ Report confirms that, so far as he is 
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all steps that he 
ought to have undertaken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Auditor is aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting
The 2011 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 1.00 pm on 4 November 2011 at Investec Bank plc,  
2 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QP . The notice of meeting, which includes special business to be transacted at the 
Annual General Meeting, is included within the Circular accompanying this Annual Report, together with an explanation of 
the resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
By order of the Board
Zoe Goulding 
Company Secretary
6 September 2011 Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  72 73
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Our Accounts Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Directors’ Report: Our Governance Our Business
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect 
of the Annual Report and Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing 
each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
l  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
l  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
l  for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by  
the EU;
l  for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements; and
l  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company 
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement Required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules
We confirm to the best of our knowledge:
1  The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
2  The management report, which comprises the Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
  
Ian Page Simon Evans
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
6 September 2011 6 September 2011 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  74 75
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of  
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
We have audited the financial statements of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC for the year ended 30 June 2011 which comprise 
the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash 
Flows, the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Parent Company Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds 
and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial 
statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law 
and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an Auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by 
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 73, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/
scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion:
l the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at  
30 June 2011 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
l the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
l the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice;
l the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
l the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
l the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
l       the information given in the Corporate Governance statement set out on pages 42 to 49 with respect to internal control 
and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structure is consistent 
with the financial statements. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  74 75
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
Matters on which we are required to Report by Exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
l adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
l the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
l certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
l we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
l a Corporate Governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
l the Directors’ statement, set out on page 47, in relation to going concern; 
l the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 42 to 49 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
l certain elements of the report to Shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
G Neale (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B4 6GH
6 September 2011 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  76 77
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 30 June 2011
      2011   2010
      Non-    Non-
       underlying   underlying
      items*    items*
     Underlying  (notes 4 & 5) Total Underlying  (note 5) Total
    Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue   2 389,237 — 389,237 369,369 — 369,369
Cost of sales   (300,876) — (300,876) (288,744) — (288,744)
Gross profit   88,361 — 88,361  80,625 — 80,625
Distribution costs   (17,659) — (17,659) (16,242) (300) (16,542)
Administrative expenses   (38,879) (10,105) (48,984) (36,193) (8,024) (44,217)
Operating profit  2 31,823 (10,105) 21,718  28,190 (8,324) 19,866
Finance income   3 2,144 — 2,144 1,632 — 1,632
Finance expense  4 (3,898) (1,450) (5,348) (3,766) — (3,766)
Profit before taxation  6 30,069 (11,555) 18,514 26,056 (8,324) 17,732
Income tax expense  8 (7,321) 2,941 (4,380)  (6,619) 2,044 (4,575)
Profit for the year attributable to
owners of the parent   22,748 (8,614) 14,134  19,437 (6,280) 13,157
Earnings per share
Basic   10   21.33p    19.97p
Diluted   10   21.26p    19.89p
Dividend per share (interim paid
and final proposed for the year) 9   12.10p    10.50p
*  Non-underlying items comprise amortisation of acquired intangibles, acquisition expenses, rationalisation costs, 
payments to acquire technology for the research and development programme, impairment charges, loss on 
extinguishment of debt and the unwinding of discounts on deferred and contingent consideration. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  76 77
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
For the year ended 30 June 2011
         2011 2010
         £’000 £’000
Profit for the period       14,134 13,157
Other comprehensive income:
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges    (684) 593
Cash flow hedges recycled to income statement     670 —
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations    3,411  (1,949)
Net loss on hedge of net investment in foreign operations     —  (1,300)
Recycled to income statement      —  (512) 
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income    (4)  249
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to owners of the parent   17,527 10,238
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  78 79
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
At 30 June 2011
Our Accounts
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
         2011 2010
        Note £’000 £’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets      11 125,098 80,371
Property, plant and equipment     12 7,721  7,673
Total non-current assets      132,819 88,044
Current assets
Inventories       15 40,760 34,819
Trade and other receivables     16 66,293  51,162
Cash and cash equivalents     17 30,496 31,502
Total current assets       137,549  117,483
Total assets       270,368 205,527
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings      20 (8,502) (20,441)
Trade and other payables      18 (74,559) (64,495)
Deferred and contingent consideration     27 (500) —
Current tax liabilities      19 (5,391) (4,105)
Total current liabilities       (88,952) (89,041)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings      20 (56,085) (17,762)
Deferred and contingent consideration     27 (13,555) —
Deferred tax liabilities      14 (13,443) (12,496)
Total non-current liabilities      (83,083)  (30,258)
Total liabilities       (172,035)  (119,299)
Net assets       98,333  86,228
EQUITY
Issued share capital      22 664  661
Share premium account       63,559  63,021
Hedging reserve       (294)  (276)
Foreign currency translation reserve      4,751  1,340
Merger reserve       1,770  1,770
Retained earnings       27,883  19,712
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent    98,333  86,228
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 6 September 2011 and are signed on its behalf by:
 
Ian Page  Simon Evans
Director Director
Company number: 3369634 Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  78 79
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity
For the year ended 30 June 2011
 Attributable to owners of the parent
       Foreign
    Issued Share  currency
    share premium Hedging translation Merger Retained
    capital account reserve reserve reserve earnings Total
Year ended 30 June 2010 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 July 2009  656 62,437 (703) 4,686 1,770 11,840 80,686
Profit for the period   — — — — — 13,157 13,157
Effective portion of changes in fair value
of cash flow hedges, net of tax — — 427 — — — 427
Foreign currency translation differences
for foreign operations, net of tax  — — — (2,041) — — (2,041)
Net loss on hedge of net investment  
in foreign operations, net of tax — — — (936) — — (936)
Cash flow hedges recycled to income  
statement, net of tax  — — — (369) — — (369)
Total comprehensive income  — — 427 (3,346) — 13,157 10,238
Transactions with owners
Dividends paid  — — — — — (6,195) (6,195)
Share-based payments   — — — — — 910 910
Shares issued  5 584 — — — — 589
Total contributions by and  
distributions to owners   5 584 — — — (5,285) (4,696)
At 30 June 2010  661 63,021 (276) 1,340 1,770 19,712 86,228
Year ended 30 June 2011
At 1 July 2010  661 63,021 (276) 1,340 1,770 19,712 86,228
Profit for the period   — — — — — 14,134 14,134 
Effective portion of changes in fair value
of cash flow hedges, net of tax — — (506) — — — (506)
Foreign currency translation differences
for foreign operations, net of tax  — — — 3,411 — — 3,411
Cash flow hedges recycled to income  
statement, net of tax  — — 488 — — — 488
Total comprehensive income — — (18) 3,411 — 14,134 17,527
Transactions with owners    
Dividends paid  — — — — — (7,221) (7,221)
Share-based payments   — — — — — 1,258 1,258
Shares issued  3 538 — — — — 541
Total contributions by and  
distributions to owners   3 538 — — — (5,963) (5,422)
At 30 June 2011  664 63,559 (294) 4,751 1,770 27,883 98,333
Hedging Reserve
The hedging reserve represents the cumulative fair value gains or losses on derivative financial instruments for which cash 
flow hedge accounting has been applied.
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional 
currency other than Sterling and exchange gains or losses on the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net 
investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Merger Reserve
The merger reserve represents the excess of fair value over nominal value of shares issued in consideration for the 
acquisition of subsidiaries where statutory merger relief has been applied in the financial statements of the Parent Company. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  80 81
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 30 June 2011
         2011 2010
        Note £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the period       14,134  13,157
Adjustments for:
Depreciation       1,535  1,509
Amortisation and impairment      10,362 7,908
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment      1 —
Finance income       (2,144)  (1,632)
Finance expense       5,348 3,766
Equity-settled share-based payment expense      830 817
Income tax expense       4,380  4,575
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital    34,446  30,100
Increase in inventories       (4,814)  (3,126)
Increase in trade and other receivables      (12,408) (3,833)
Increase in trade and other payables      8,150 3,521
Cash generated from operating activities before interest and taxation   25,374  26,662
Interest paid       (3,586)  (3,214)
Income taxes paid       (5,034)  (6,124)
Net cash inflow from operating activities      16,754  17,324
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment     2 —
Interest received       957  1,006
Acquisition of subsidiaries      (33,047) —
Purchase of property, plant and equipment      (1,280) (1,243)
Capitalised development expenditure      (1,025) (955)
Purchase of other intangible non-current assets      (1,785)  (523)
Net cash outflow from investing activities      (36,178)  (1,715)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital      541  589
New borrowings       68,000  —
Expenses of raising new borrowings      (944)  —
Repayment of borrowings      (41,829) (5,671)
Resetting of foreign currency borrowings      320  456
Dividends paid       (7,221)  (6,195)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities     18,867  (10,821)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents     (557)  4,788
Cash and cash equivalents at start of period      31,502  26,817
Exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents     (449)  (103)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period     30,496 31,502
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net borrowings
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents     (557)  4,788
Repayment of borrowings      41,829  5,671
New borrowings       (68,000) —
Expenses of raising new borrowings      944  —
Exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents     (449) (103)
Retranslation of foreign borrowings      254  (1,230)
Other non-cash changes       (1,411)  (300)
Movement in net borrowings in the period      (27,390)  8,826
Net borrowings at start of period      (6,701)  (15,527)
Net borrowings at end of period     24 (34,091)  (6,701) Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  80 81
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Accounting Policies
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom. The consolidated financial statements of 
the Group for the year ended 30 June 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries.
(a) Statement of Compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. The Company has elected to 
prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP and they are separately presented 
on pages 124 to 132.
(b) Basis of Preparation
The Group’s business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in the Business Review on pages 8 to 37. The Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.  
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial 
statements.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand. They are 
prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, except where International Financial 
Reporting Standards require an alternative treatment. The principal variations relate to derivative financial 
instruments, cash settled share-based transactions and contingent consideration that are stated at fair value.
The preparation for consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the use of accounting 
estimates and for management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting 
policies. These judgements and estimates are based on historical experience and management’s best knowledge 
of the amounts, events or actions under review and the actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates. 
Areas involving a high degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are 
significant to the consolidated financial statements, are, where necessary, disclosed separately.
 Critical Judgements in applying the Group’s Accounting Policies and Key Sources 
of Estimation Uncertainty
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, the Directors have made the following judgements 
and estimates that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. The 
key sources of estimation uncertainty which may cause a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities are also discussed below:
 Impairment of Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangible Assets
The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite life assets are impaired at least on an annual basis. This 
requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which they are allocated. Estimating the 
value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating 
unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. 
Further detail on the assumptions used in determining value in use calculations is provided in note 13. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  82 83
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
 Valuation of Intangible Assets
 Product rights and customer relationships that are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination are 
stated at fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
 Fair value at the date of acquisition reflects management’s judgement of the fair value of the individual intangible 
asset calculated by reference to the net present value of future benefits accruing to the Group from the utilisation 
of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
 
 Impairment of Receivables
The Group has estimated impairment of receivables by assessing recoverability of amounts due on a customer 
by customer basis. As described in note 21, credit risk is not highly concentrated with the exception of corporate 
veterinary practices and veterinary wholesalers. If the receivables due from one of these large customers proved 
to be irrecoverable then an additional impairment provision may be required.
Capitalisation of Development Costs
The Group applies judgement when assessing the probability that regulatory approval will be achieved for 
development projects and that those projects are commercially viable. This enables management to ascertain 
whether the criteria for the capitalisation of development costs have been met. 
 
 Contingent Liability
Please refer to note 28.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards
The following standards and interpretations are applicable to the Group and have been adopted in 2011 as they 
are mandatory for the year ended 30 June 2011.
l Amendments to IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ — removes the requirement to present segment information 
for total assets unless regularly reported to the chief operating decision-maker. Since the changes are 
presentational only there has been no impact on profit or net assets.
l Amendment to IAS 17 ‘Leases’ — allows a lease of land with an indefinite economic life to be classified as a 
finance lease when relevant criteria are met. This amendment has not had a material impact on the Group’s 
2011 consolidated financial statements.
l Amendments to IAS 32 ‘Classification of Rights Issues’ — requires that rights, options or warrants to 
acquire a fixed number of the entity’s own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are equity 
instruments if the entity offers the rights options or warrants pro-rata to all of its existing owners of the same 
class of its own non-derivative equity instruments. This amendment has not had a material impact on the 
Group’s 2011 consolidated financial statements.
l IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments’ — deals with how entities should 
measure equity instruments issued in a debt for equity swap. This amendment has not had a material 
impact on the Group’s 2011 consolidated financial statements.
In addition to the above, amendments to a number of standards under the annual improvements project to 
IFRS, which are mandatory for the year ended 30 June 2011, have been adopted in the year. None of these 
amendments have had a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
  Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  82 83
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
1. Accounting Policies continued 
New Standards and Interpretations not yet Adopted
The following standard and interpretation has been published, endorsed by the EU, and is available for early 
adoption, but has not yet been applied by the Group in these financial statements.
l IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures (revised 2009)’ — makes changes to the definition of a related party. 
Application of this standard is required for periods starting on or after 1 January 2011. The amendments 
are not expected to have a material impact and will become mandatory for the Group’s 2012 consolidated 
financial statements.
(c) Basis of Consolidation
 Subsidiary Undertakings
Subsidiary undertakings are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They cease to 
be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control. All subsidiary undertakings have been consolidated.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group 
companies are eliminated on consolidation.
The financial statements of all subsidiary undertakings are prepared to the same reporting date as the Company.
(d) Foreign Currency Translation
(i) Functional and Presentational Currency
 The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Group’s presentational currency 
and are rounded to the nearest thousand, except where it is deemed relevant to disclose the amounts to the 
nearest pound. Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using 
the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency).
(ii) Foreign Currency Translation
 Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing 
at the dates of the transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
recognised in the income statement, with the exception of differences on transactions that are subject to 
effective cash flow hedges, which are recognised in other comprehensive income. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  84 85
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
(iii) Foreign Operations
 The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to Sterling at the closing rate at the reporting 
date. The income and expenses are translated to Sterling at the average rate for the period being reported. 
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income in the foreign currency 
translation reserve, a separate component of equity. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and 
liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated 
exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income 
statement in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
(e) Accounting for Financial Assets, Derivative Financial Instruments and  
Hedging Activities
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: held for trading financial assets and loans 
and receivables. The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
Management determine the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with IAS 39 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for 
financial assets other than those held at fair value through the income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have 
been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Gains and losses 
(both realised and unrealised) arising from changes in the value of financial assets held at fair value through the 
income statement are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group 
of financial assets is impaired. 
Held for Trading Financial Assets
This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value 
through the income statement at inception. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally 
for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management. Derivatives that do not qualify for 
hedge accounting are also categorised as held for trading. Held for trading financial assets are recognised and 
subsequently carried at fair value. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  84 85
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
1. Accounting Policies continued
Derivative Financial Instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. In 
accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative 
purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are 
remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
Cash Flow Hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are recognised in 
other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, 
changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated 
or exercised, then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income remains there until the forecast transaction occurs. When the hedged 
item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the carrying 
amount of the asset when it is recognised. In other cases, the amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income is transferred to the income statement in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Trade Receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less provision for impairment. A provision 
for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be 
able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is 
recognised in the income statement in operating expenses.
Trade and Other Payables
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Borrowings and Borrowing Costs
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred. Borrowings 
are subsequently stated at amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and 
the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective 
interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of 
the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  86 87
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction, or production of qualifying assets, which are 
assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of 
those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use. All other borrowing costs 
are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
(f) Property, Plant and Equipment
 Owned Assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation (see below) and 
impairment losses (see accounting policy (j)).
 Leased Assets
Leases under the terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are 
classified as finance leases. Assets acquired by finance leases are stated at an amount equal to the lower of 
their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of each 
part of an item of property, plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated. Assets in the course of construction 
are not depreciated until the date the assets become available for use. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
l freehold buildings 25 years
l short leasehold buildings period of lease
l plant and fixtures 3–10 years
l motor vehicles 4 years
The residual value, if not insignificant, is reassessed annually.
(g) Intangible Assets
 Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill represents amounts 
arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. In respect of business acquisitions that have 
occurred since 1 July 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair 
value of the separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which 
represents the amount recorded under previous GAAP . The classification and accounting treatment of business 
combinations that occurred prior to 1 July 2004 were not reconsidered in preparing the Group’s opening IFRS 
balance sheet at 1 July 2004.
For acquisitions prior to 1 July 2009, costs directly attributable to business combinations formed part of the 
consideration payable when calculating goodwill. Adjustments to contingent consideration, and therefore the 
consideration payable and goodwill, are made at each reporting date until the consideration is fully determined.
Acquisitions after this date fall under the provisions of ‘Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations (2009)’. For these 
acquisitions, transaction costs, other than share and debt issue costs, are expensed as incurred and subsequent 
adjustments to the fair value of consideration payable are recognised in the income statement. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  86 87
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
1. Accounting Policies continued
Contingent consideration is measured at fair value. 
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is not amortised but is allocated to 
cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment.
Research and Development Costs
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge 
and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense is incurred.
The Group is also engaged in development activity with a view to bringing new pharmaceutical products to 
market. Internally generated costs of development are capitalised in the consolidated statement of financial 
position unless those costs cannot be measured reliably or it is not probable that future economic benefits will 
flow to the Group, in which case the relevant costs are expensed to the income statement as incurred. Due to 
the strict regulatory process involved, there is inherent uncertainty as to the technical feasibility of development 
projects often until regulatory approval is achieved, with the possibility of failure even at a late stage. The Group 
considers that this uncertainty means that the criteria for capitalisation are not met unless it is highly probable that 
regulatory approval will be achieved and the project is commercially viable.
Where development costs are capitalised, the expenditure includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an 
appropriate proportion of overheads.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Acquired Intangible Assets
Intangible assets recognised as a result of a business combination are stated at fair value at the date of 
acquisition less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Other Intangible Assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
impairment losses. Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and other intangibles is recognised in the income 
statement as an expense is incurred.
Subsequent Expenditure
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic 
benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 
intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite. Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are 
systematically tested for impairment at each consolidated statement of financial position date. Other intangible 
assets are amortised from the date that they are available for use. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
l software 5 years
l capitalised development costs 5–10 years or period of patent
l patent rights Period of patent
l marketing authorisations Indefinite life
l product rights Period of product rights
l customer relationships 10 years Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  88 89
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
(h) Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling 
price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in, first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring 
the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition. In the case of manufactured inventories 
and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
(i) Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on 
demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash 
equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
(j) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed at each consolidated statement of financial position 
date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s 
recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use. In assessing value 
in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset 
that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-
generating unit to which the asset belongs.
For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the 
recoverable amount is estimated at each consolidated statement of financial position date and when there is an 
indication that the asset is impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds 
its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating units (group of units), and then to reduce the carrying 
amount of the other assets in the units (group of units) on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to 
determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’ s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
(k) Dividends
Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are approved by the Company’s Shareholders or, in the case 
of an interim dividend, when the dividend is paid. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  88 89
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
1. Accounting Policies continued
(l) Employee Benefits
Pensions
The Company operates a Group stakeholder personal pension scheme for certain employees. Obligations for 
contributions are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Dechra Veterinary Products SAS and Dechra Veterinary Products BV participate in State run pension arrangements. 
These are not considered to be material to the Group financial statements and are accounted for as defined 
contribution schemes, with contributions being recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Share-based Payment Transactions
The Group operates a number of equity settled share-based payment programmes that allow employees to acquire 
shares of the Company. The Group also operates a Long Term Incentive Plan and an Executive Incentive Plan for 
Directors and Senior Executives.
The fair value of shares or options granted is recognised as an employee expense over the vesting period on a straight-
line basis in the income statement with a corresponding movement to equity reserves. Fair values are determined by 
use of an appropriate pricing model and are determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted. The 
amount to be expensed over the vesting period is adjusted to reflect the number of awards for which the related 
service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised 
as an expense is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance 
conditions at the vesting date.
At each consolidated statement of financial position date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of share 
incentives that are expected to vest. The impact of the revisions of original estimates, if any, is recognised in the 
income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves, over the remaining vesting period.
The fair values of grants under the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Executive Incentive Plan have been 
determined using the Monte Carlo simulation model.
The fair values of options granted under all other share option schemes have been determined using the Black–
Scholes option pricing model.
National Insurance contributions payable by the Company on the intrinsic value of share-based payments at the 
date of exercise are treated as cash settled awards and revalued to market price at each consolidated statement of 
financial position date.
(m) Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of goods sold and services provided to external customers, net of value added 
tax, rebates, promotions and returns. For both Pharmaceuticals and Services, revenue from the sale of goods is 
recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to 
the buyer. This is normally when the buyer takes delivery of the goods. 
For services provided, revenue is recognised when the contractual service has been provided to the customer. 
No revenue is recognised where the recovery of the consideration is not probable or where there are significant 
uncertainties regarding associated costs or the possible return of goods. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  90 91
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
1. Accounting Policies continued
(n) Leases
Operating Leases
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement evenly over the period of the 
lease, as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Finance Leases
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding 
liability using the effective interest method.
(o) Net Financing Costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, unwinding of discount on provisions, interest 
receivable on funds invested, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement 
(see accounting policy (e)) and gains or losses on the retranslation of financial assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues. The Group capitalises 
borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of 
the cost of that asset. The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income 
statement using the effective interest rate method.
(p) Basis of Charge for Taxation
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current and deferred taxes are recognised in the 
income statement except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items recognised directly in 
equity or in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the consolidated statement of financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable 
in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the consolidated statement of financial position liability method and represents 
the tax payable or recoverable on most temporary differences which arise between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes (the tax 
base). Temporary differences are not provided on: goodwill that is not deductible for tax purposes; the initial 
recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and do not arise from a business 
combination; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of 
realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, and is based upon tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the consolidated statement of financial position date. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  90 91
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
1. Accounting Policies continued
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is not probable that 
the related tax benefit will be realised against future taxable profits. The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets 
are reviewed at each consolidated statement of financial position date.
Current and deferred tax credits received in respect of share-based payments are recognised in the Income 
Statement to the extent that they do not exceed the standard rate of taxation on the Income Statement charge 
for share-based payments. Credits in excess of the standard rate of taxation are recognised directly in equity.
(q) Earnings per Share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is 
calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary Shareholders of the Company by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit 
attributable to ordinary Shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue, for the effects 
of all potential dilutive ordinary shares, which comprise share options granted to employees.
The Group has also chosen to present an alternative EPS measure, with profit adjusted for non-underlying items. 
A reconciliation of this alternative measure to the statutory measure required by IFRS is given in notes 4 and 5.
2. Operating Segments
The Group has four reportable segments, as discussed below, which are based on information provided to the Board 
of Directors, which is deemed to be the Group’s chief operating decision maker. Several operating segments which 
have similar economic characteristics have been aggregated into the reporting segments.
The Services segment comprises National Veterinary Services, NationWide Laboratories and Cambridge Specialist 
Laboratory Services. The segment services UK veterinary practices in both the companion animal and livestock sectors.
The European Pharmaceuticals segment comprises Dechra Veterinary Products EU and Dales Pharmaceuticals. Dales 
manufactures the vast majority of our own branded licensed pharmaceutical products, which are marketed through 
DVP EU. The segment operates internationally and is unique in having its sole area of specialisation in companion 
animal products.
The US Pharmaceuticals segment consists of Dechra Veterinary Products US which sells companion animal 
pharmaceuticals into that territory.
The Pharmaceuticals research and development segment includes all of the Group’s pharmaceutical research and 
development activities.
There are varying levels of intersegment trading. Intersegment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  92 93
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
2. Operating Segments continued
Reconciliations of reportable segment revenues, profit or loss and liabilities and other material items:
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Revenue by segment
Services — total        296,258  285,670
  — intersegment       (190) (195)
European Pharmaceuticals — total      89,287 84,637
     — intersegment     (12,225) (11,377)
US Pharmaceuticals        16,107 10,634
          389,237 369,369
Operating profit/(loss) by segment
Services         13,087  13,103
European Pharmaceuticals       22,506 21,412
US Pharmaceuticals        4,838  1,311
Pharmaceuticals research and development     (5,221)  (4,666)
Segment operating profit       35,210 31,160
Corporate and other unallocated costs      (3,387) (2,970)
Underlying operating profit       31,823 28,190
Amortisation of acquired intangibles      (8,938)  (6,580)
Rationalisation costs        (474)  (1,096)
Acquisition costs        (693) —
Impairment of intangible assets      —  (230)
Payment to acquire technology for research and development programme   — (418)
Total operating profit        21,718  19,866
Finance income        2,144 1,632
Finance expense        (5,348)  (3,766)
Profit before taxation        18,514  17,732
Total liabilities by segment
Services         (58,337) (51,386)
European Pharmaceuticals       (14,465)  (11,954)
US Pharmaceuticals        (13,837)  (557)
Pharmaceuticals research and development     (654)  (567)
Segment liabilities        (87,293)  (64,464)
Corporate loans and revolving credit facility     (63,814)  (37,156)
Corporate accruals and other payables      (2,094)  (1,078)
Current and deferred tax liabilities      (18,834) (16,601)
          (172,035)  (119,299)
Additions to intangible non-current assets by segment
Services         158  136
European Pharmaceuticals       8,244  497
US Pharmaceuticals        40,056 —
Pharmaceuticals research and development     1,212  845
          49,670  1,478 Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  92 93
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
2. Operating Segments continued
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Additions to Property, Plant and Equipment by segment
Services         280  142
European Pharmaceuticals       874  813
US Pharmaceuticals        63  288
Pharmaceuticals research and development     86 —
          1,303  1,243
Depreciation and amortisation by segment
Services         438  448
European Pharmaceuticals       9,091 8,251
US Pharmaceuticals        1,961 182
Pharmaceuticals research and development     407  306
          11,897  9,187
Geographical Information
The following table shows revenue based on the geographical location of customers:
         2011  2010
        2011 Non-current 2010 Non-current
        Revenue assets Revenue assets
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
UK       305,737  29,156  305,992 20,981
Rest of Europe      56,452  66,954  49,451 67,033
USA       16,107  36,709  10,634 30
Rest of World      10,941  —  3,292 —
        389,237  132,819  369,369 88,044
No customer accounted for more than 10% of total Group revenues.
3. Finance Income
          2011 2010
Recognised in profit or loss       £’000 £’000
Finance income arising from:
— Cash and cash equivalents       1,113  894
— Loans and receivables       32  112 
— Foreign exchange gains       999  626
          2,144  1,632 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  94 95
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
4. Finance Expense
          2011 2010
Underlying        £’000 £’000
Finance expense arising from:
— Financial liabilities at amortised cost      3,898 3,365
— Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss     — 401
Underlying finance expense       3,898 3,766 
 
Non-underlying          
Loss on extinguishment of debt      1,256 — 
Unwinding of discounts on deferred and contingent consideration    194  —
Non-underlying finance expense      1,450 —
Total finance expense        5,348 3,766
5. Non-underlying Items
Non-underlying items comprise:
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired as a result of business combinations   8,938  6,580
Rationalisation costs        474 1,096
Expenses of the acquisition of DermaPet Inc.     585 —
Expenses of the acquisition of Genitrix Limited     108  —
Payment to acquire technology for research and development programme   —  418
Impairment of intangible asset       —  230
          10,105 8,324
Rationalisation costs in 2011 relate to the integration of DermaPet Inc. and Genitrix Limited.
Rationalisation costs in 2010 relate to the closure of our pharmaceutical warehouse in Shrewsbury and transfer of all 
pre-wholesale logistics to our facility in Uldum, Denmark. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  94 95
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
6. Profit Before Taxation
The following items have been included in arriving at profit before taxation:
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense     298,105  285,609 
Impairment of inventories included in above figure     558  292
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
— owned assets        1,288 1,202
— under finance leases        247  307
Amortisation of intangible assets      10,362  7,678
Impairment of patent rights       —  230
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment     1 —
Impairment of receivables       573  280
Operating lease rentals payable      3,905  3,150
Research and development expenditure as incurred     5,221  4,666
Auditor’s remuneration        1,087  409
Analysis of total fees paid to the Auditor:
Audit of these financial statements      42  51
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation    185  212
Other services pursuant to legislation      51 14
Other services relating to taxation      237  132
Other services relating to acquisitions      572 —
          1,087  409
7. Employees
The average numbers of staff employed by the Group during the year, which includes Directors, were:
          2011 2010
          Number Number
Manufacturing        221  238
Distribution        409  432
Administration        375 351
          1,005  1,021
The costs incurred in respect of these employees were:
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries        27,712  26,137
Social security costs        3,036  2,792
Other pension costs        1,552 1,340
Share-based payments charge (see note 23)     948  910
          33,248  31,179
Related party transactions — the remuneration of key management was as follows:
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries (including benefits in kind)     2,569 2,136
Social security costs        337  273
Other pension costs        190  182
Share-based payments charge      586  537
Non-Executive Directors’ fees       200 175
          3,882 3,303 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  96 97
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
7. Employees continued
Key management comprises the Board and the senior management team.
Details of the remuneration, shareholdings, share options and pension contributions of the Executive Directors are 
included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 62.
The Group operates a stakeholder personal pension scheme for certain employees and contributed between 4% and 
14% of pensionable salaries. The Group also participates in State run pension arrangements for certain employees 
in Dechra Veterinary Products SAS and Dechra Veterinary Products BV. Total pension contributions amounted to 
£1,552,000 (2010: £1,340,000).
8. Income Tax Expense
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Current tax — UK corporation tax     4,551 3,678
   — overseas tax at prevailing local rates    2,134 2,626
   — adjustment in respect of prior years    (728)  (92)
Total current tax expense       5,957 6,212
Deferred tax — origination and reversal of temporary differences   (1,874) (1,637)
   — adjustment in respect of prior years    297 —
Total deferred tax expense       (1,577)  (1,637)
Total income tax expense in the income statement     4,380  4,575
The tax on the Group’s profit before tax differs from the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 27.5% (2010: 28%). 
The differences are explained below:
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Profit before taxation        18,514  17,732
Tax at 27.5% (2010: 28%)       5,091  4,965
Effect of:
— depreciation on assets not eligible for tax allowances    8 8
— disallowable expenses       450  48
— (over)/under-recovery of deferred tax on share-based payments    (28) 40
— research and development tax credits      (50) (60)
— differences on overseas tax rates      (165)  (334)
— adjustments in respect of prior years      (431)  (92)
— non-taxable income        (495) —
Total income tax expense       4,380 4,575
  Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  96 97
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
8. Income Tax Expense continued
Tax Recognised Directly in Equity
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Deferred tax on effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges   (4)  (166)
Corporation tax on net loss on hedge of net investment in foreign operations   —  364
Deferred tax on currency translation      —  (92)
Corporation tax on amount recycled to income statement    —  143
Tax recognised in statement of comprehensive income    (4)  249
Corporation tax on equity settled transactions     193  313
Deferred tax on equity settled transactions      166  (220)
Total tax recognised in equity      355  342
The 2011 Budget on 23 March 2011 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 23% over a period of 
four years from 2011. The first reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% (effective from 1 April 2011) 
was substantively enacted on 20 July 2010, and further reductions to 26% (effective from 1 April 2011) and 25% 
(effective from 1 April 2012) were substantively enacted on 29 March 2011 and 5 July 2011 respectively.
This will reduce the Company’s future current tax charge accordingly and further reduce the deferred tax liability at  
30 June 2011 (which has been calculated based on the rate of 26% substantively enacted at 30 June 2011) by £14,000.
It has not yet been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the announced further 2% rate reduction, although this will 
further reduce the Company’ s future current tax charge and reduce the Company’ s deferred tax liability accordingly. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  98 99
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
9. Dividends
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Final dividend paid in respect of prior year but not recognised as a liability in
that year: 7.20p per share (2010: 6.10p)      4,764  4,000
Interim dividend paid: 3.70p per share (2010: 3.30p)     2,457  2,195
Total dividend 10.90p per share (2010: 9.40p) recognised as distributions to equity holders  
in the period        7,221  6,195
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2011: 8.40p per share (2010: 7.20p)  5,582  4,758
Total dividend paid and proposed for the year ended 30 June 2011: 12.10p per share  
(2010: 10.50p)        8,039  6,953
In accordance with IAS 10 ‘Events After the Balance Sheet Date’, the proposed final dividend for the year ended  
30 June 2011 has not been accrued for in these financial statements. It will be shown as a deduction from equity in 
the financial statements for the year ending 30 June 2012.
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2010 is shown as a deduction from equity in the year ended 
30 June 2011.
10. Earnings per Share
Earnings per ordinary share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after 
taxation for each financial period by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
          2011 2010
          Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share
— Underlying*        34.33  29.50
— Basic         21.33  19.97
Diluted earnings per share
— Underlying*        34.22  29.39
— Diluted         21.26  19.89
The calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share are based upon:
          £’000 £’000
Earnings for underlying basic and underlying diluted earnings per share   22,748  19,437
Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share     14,134  13,157
          No. No.
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share   66,253,477  65,896,462
Impact of share options        221,013 241,438
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share   66,474,490  66,137,900
* Underlying measures exclude non-underlying items as defined on the consolidated income statement. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  98 99
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
11. Intangible Assets
       Develop-  Marketing 
       ment Patent authori- Acquired
     Goodwill Software costs rights sations intangibles Total
     £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 1 July 2009   21,105 2,097 4,914 2,783 853 68,879 100,631
Additions    — 447 955 76 — — 1,478
Disposals    — (1) — — — — (1)
Foreign exchange adjustments (609) (21) (13) — — (2,120) (2,763)
At 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010 20,496 2,522 5,856 2,859 853 66,759 99,345
Additions    — 964 1,025 821 — — 2,810
Acquisitions through business 
combinations   2,171 — 184 — — 44,505 46,860
Disposals    — — — — — — —
Foreign exchange adjustments 1,582 62 37 — — 3,738 5,419
At 30 June 2011   24,249 3,548 7,102 3,680 853 115,002 154,434
Amortisation
At 1 July 2009   — 497 623 111 — 9,835 11,066
Charge for the year   — 257 611 230 — 6,580 7,678
Impairment loss   — — — 230 — — 230
At 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010 — 754 1,234 571 — 16,415 18,974
Charge for the year   — 316 881 227 — 8,938 10,362
At 30 June 2011   — 1,070 2,115 798 — 25,353 29,336
Net book value
At 30 June 2011   24,249 2,478 4,987 2,882 853 89,649 125,098
At 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010 20,496 1,768 4,622 2,288 853 50,344 80,371
At 30 June 2009   21,105 1,600 4,291 2,672 853 59,044 89,565
 
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Contracted capital commitments      609  948
Software assets in the course of construction included above    857  1,031
Goodwill is allocated across cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from that business combination. Key 
assumptions made in this respect are given in note 13. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  100 101
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
11. Intangible Assets continued
In accordance with the disclosure requirements of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ the components of acquired intangibles 
are summarised below:
         Product  Customer
         Rights Relationships Total
         £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost 
At 1 July 2009       68,502 377 68,879
Acquisitions through business combinations    — — —
Disposals        — — —
Foreign exchange adjustments     (2,120) — (2,120)
At 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010     66,382 377 66,759
Acquisitions through business combinations    44,505 — 44,505
Disposals        — — —
Foreign exchange adjustments     3,738 — 3,738
At 30 June 2011       114,625 377 115,002
Amortisation
At 1 July 2009       9,757 78 9,835
Charge for the year       6,542 38 6,580
At 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010     16,299 116 16,415
Charge for the year       8,900 38 8,938
At 30 June 2011       25,199 154 25,353
Net book value
At 30 June 2011       89,426 223 89,649
At 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010     50,083 261 50,344
At 30 June 2009       58,745 299 59,044 Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  100 101
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
11. Intangible Assets continued
The amortisation charge is recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement.
The principal assets within acquired intangibles are the product rights recognised on the acquisitions of Dechra 
Veterinary Products Holding A/S, DermaPet Inc. and Genitrix Limited. The carrying value of these assets at 30 June 
2011 was £87.6 million with a remaining amortisation period of 6½ years, 14½ years and 9½ years respectively. The 
other significant assets within acquired intangibles are the product rights recognised on the acquisition of Pharmaderm 
Animal Health. The carrying value at 30 June 2011 was £1.9 million with a remaining amortisation period of 11 years.
During the course of 2010 management abandoned one of their equine development projects due to disappointing 
results from clinical trials. This resulted in management assessing the carrying value of acquired patent rights relating 
to the project. An impairment loss of £230,000 was recognised based on a value in use calculation and represents full 
impairment of the intangible. This impairment is classified within ‘non-underlying items’ in the income statement.
The principal asset within patent rights comprises payments to acquire the right to develop and market Trilostane,  
the active ingredient of Vetoryl Capsules, for animal health applications in the USA and Canada. The carrying value 
at 30 June 2011 was £1.7 million with a remaining amortisation period of 7½ years. The addition during the year 
comprised a payment for the rights to Equidone which was launched in the US during the year. The amortisation 
period is 10 years.
£822,000 of the marketing authorisations relate to the Vetivex range of products. The Vetivex marketing authorisations 
are regarded as having indefinite useful economic lives and have not been amortised. Ownership of the marketing 
authorisations rests with the Group in perpetuity. There are not believed to be any legal, regulatory or contractual 
provisions that limit their useful lives. Vetivex is an established range of products which are relatively simple in nature 
and there are a limited number of players in the market. Accordingly, the Directors believe that it is appropriate that the 
marketing authorisations are treated as having indefinite lives for accounting purposes. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  102 103
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
12. Property, Plant and Equipment
       Freehold Short
       land and leasehold Motor Plant and
       buildings buildings vehicles fixtures Total
       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 July 2009     2,326 2,932 201 9,524 14,983
Additions      — 395 — 848 1,243
Disposals      — — — — — 
Foreign exchange adjustments   (70) — — (31) (101)
At 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010   2,256 3,327 201 10,341 16,125
Additions      1 65 — 1,214 1,280
Acquisitions through business combinations  — — 4 19 23
Disposals      — (10) — (240) (250)
Foreign exchange adjustments   190 — — 93 283
At 30 June 2011     2,447 3,382 205 11,427 17,461
Depreciation
At 1 July 2009     196 1,019 201 5,527 6,943
Charge for the year     138 231 — 1,140 1,509
Disposals      — — — — —
At 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010   334 1,250 201 6,667 8,452
Charge for the year     137 216 — 1,182 1,535
Disposals      — (10) — (237) (247)
At 30 June 2011     471 1,456 201 7,612 9,740
Net book value
At 30 June 2011     1,976 1,926 4 3,815 7,721
At 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010   1,922 2,077 — 3,674 7,673
At 30 June 2009     2,130 1,913 — 3,997 8,040
Net book value of assets held under finance leases
At 30 June 2011     — 40 — 568 608
At 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010   — 47 — 751 798
At 30 June 2009     — 55 — 970 1,025
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Assets in the course of construction included above     —  104
Contracted capital commitments      77  382 Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  102 103
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
13. Impairment Reviews
Goodwill, indefinite life assets and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually, or 
more frequently if there are indications that amounts might be impaired. The impairment test involves determining the 
recoverable amount of the relevant asset or cash-generating unit, which corresponds to the higher of the fair value less 
costs to sell or its value in use. 
Value in use calculations are performed by forecasting the future cash flows attributable to the asset being tested (or 
the relevant cash-generating unit in respect of goodwill). The forecast cash flows are discounted at an appropriate rate 
as described below.
Projected future cash flows have been derived from the business plan for the three years ending 30 June 2014 
extrapolated by applying a growth rate of 5% (2010: 5%) per annum up to year five and thereafter a growth rate of 0% 
(2010: 1%) per annum into perpetuity which is considered to be consistent with the long term average growth rate for the 
industry.
The business plan has been formulated based on various factors, including market growth forecasts, the experience of 
the impact of previous recessions and existing product growth. These factors reflect past experience of the Group and 
where applicable are consistent with external sources of information.
The pre-tax discount rates have been estimated using the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, which is adjusted 
for consideration of market information, and risk adjusted dependent upon the specific circumstances of each asset or 
cash-generating unit.
Value in use calculations were performed at 30 June 2011 for the following assets:
(a) Goodwill
 2011 2010
         Pre-tax  Pre-tax
        Carrying discount  Carrying discount
        value rate value rate
Cash-generating unit      £’000 % £’000 %
Dechra Veterinary Products EU    19,085 9.87  15,644 10.95
Dechra Veterinary Products US    312  10.65 — — 
Laboratories      2,621  10.83 2,621 11.15
Dales       2,231  9.62 2,231 11.14
(b) Indefinite Life Assets
 2011 2010
         Pre-tax  Pre-tax
        Carrying discount  Carrying discount
        value rate value rate
Asset       £’000 % £’000 %
Vetivex licences      822  9.87 822 10.98
In all cases there was significant headroom between the carrying value and the value in use and no impairment 
provision is therefore required. An increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 1% would still not result in the requirement 
for an impairment provision. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  104 105
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
14. Deferred Taxes
(a) Recognised Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets Liabilities Net
      2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Intangible assets    — — (14,204) (13,217) (14,204)  (13,217)
Property, plant and equipment  — — (550)  (556) (550)  (556)
Inventories     478 548 — — 478  548
Receivables    41  49 — — 41  49
Payables     161  173 (230) (93) (69)  80
Share-based payments    861 600 — — 861  600
      1,541 1,370 (14,984)  (13,866) (13,443)  (12,496)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset to the extent that there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities.
(b) Unrecognised Deferred Tax 
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred tax 
liabilities have not been recognised is £nil (2010: £295,000). The estimated unprovided deferred tax liability in relation 
to these temporary differences is £nil (2010: £73,000).
There are no unrecognised deferred tax assets in relation to losses.
(c) Movements During the Year
          Foreign Balance at
      Balance at Recognised  Recognised exchange 30 June
      1 July 2009 in income Acquisitions in equity adjustments 2010
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Intangible assets    (15,391) 1,643 — — 531 (13,217)
Property, plant and equipment  (521) (35) — — — (556)
Inventories     520 28 — — — 548
Receivables    (98) 240 — (93) — 49
Payables     427 (180) — (167) — 80
Trading losses    91 (91) — — — —
Share-based payments    788 32 — (220) — 600
      (14,184) 1,637 — (480) 531 (12,496)
          Foreign Balance at
      Balance at Recognised  Recognised exchange 30 June
      1 July 2010 in income Acquisitions in equity adjustments 2011
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Intangible assets    (13,217) 1,699 (1,546) — (1,140) (14,204)
Property, plant and equipment  (556) 6 — — — (550)
Inventories     548 (70) — — — 478
Receivables    49 (8) — — — 41
Payables     80 (145) — (4) — (69)
Share-based payments    600 95 — 166 — 861
      (12,496) 1,577 (1,546) 162 (1,140) (13,443) Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  104 105
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
15. Inventories
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables      5,170 4,129
Work in progress        371  336
Finished goods and goods for resale      35,219 30,354
          40,760  34,819
16. Trade and Other Receivables
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Trade receivables        62,212  48,293
Other receivables        2,492  1,524
Prepayments and accrued income      1,589  1,345
          66,293  51,162
17. Cash and Cash Equivalents
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Cash at bank and in hand       30,496  26,502
Short term deposits        — 5,000
          30,496  31,502 
18. Trade and Other Payables
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Trade payables        63,213  56,465
Other payables        4,770  2,991
Derivative financial instruments      397  573
Other taxation and social security      3,827  2,707
Accruals and deferred income       2,352  1,759
          74,559  64,495
19. Current Tax Liabilities
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Corporation tax payable        5,391  4,105 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  106 107
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
20. Borrowings
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Current liabilities:
Bank loans        8,000  20,000
Finance lease obligations       502  441
          8,502  20,441
Non-current liabilities:
Bank loans        55,746  17,500
Finance lease obligations       339  729
Arrangement fees netted off       —  (467)
          56,085  17,762
Total borrowings        64,587  38,203
On 21 October 2010, the Group refinanced its existing bank facility, which gave rise to a loss on extinguishment of 
debt of £1,256,000. The Group’s revised borrowing facilities comprise a term loan of £40 million payable over four 
years, a £28 million revolving credit facility committed until 30 September 2014, an overdraft facility of £10 million 
(currently unutilised) renewable on 31 August 2012 and various finance lease obligations.
At the year end, the Group had the following unutilised borrowing facilities:
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Bank overdraft facility        10,000 10,000
Revolving credit facility        254 —
The term loan, revolving credit and overdraft facilities are secured by a fixed and floating charge on the assets of the 
Group. Interest is charged at 2.75% over LIBOR in respect of the term loan and revolving credit facility and 2.75% over 
base rate in respect of the overdraft facility. No covenants have been breached during the year ended 30 June 2011.
The maturity of the bank loans and overdrafts is as follows:
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Payable:
Within one year        8,000  20,000
Between one and two years       8,000  5,000
Between two and five years       47,746  12,500
Due after five years        — —
          63,746  37,500 Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  106 107
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
20. Borrowings continued
The minimum lease payments and the present value of minimum lease payments payable under finance lease 
obligations are:
   Present Value of
  Minimum Lease  Minimum Lease
  Payments Payments
        2011 2010 2011 2010
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year      543 510  502  447
Between one and two years     343  488  335  453
Between two and five years     4  283  4  270
Total minimum lease payments    890  1,281  841  1,170
Future finance charges      (49)  (111)  — —
Present value of lease obligations    841  1,170  841 1,170
Further information on the interest profile of borrowings is shown in note 21.
21. Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash deposits, bank loans and overdrafts, finance lease obligations, 
derivatives used for hedging purposes and trade receivables and payables.
Treasury Policy
The Group reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of Sterling profits. The role of the Group’s treasury activities is 
to manage and monitor the Group’s external and internal funding requirements and financial risks in support of the 
Group’s corporate activities.
Treasury activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors.
The Group uses a variety of financial instruments, including derivatives, to finance its operations and to manage market 
risks from these operations. Derivatives, principally comprising forward foreign currency contracts, foreign currency 
options and interest rate swaps, are used to hedge against changes in foreign currencies and interest rates.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes and the Group’s treasury 
policies specifically prohibits such activity. All transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks 
arising from underlying business activities, not for speculation.
Capital Management
The capital structure of the Group consists of net borrowings and Shareholders’ equity. At 30 June 2011, net 
borrowings were £34.1 million, whilst Shareholders’ equity was £98.3 million. 
The Group maintains a strong capital base so as to maintain investors’, creditors’ and market confidence and to 
sustain future development of the business. The Group monitors both the demographic spread of Shareholders, as 
well as the return on capital, which the Group defines as total Shareholder return.
The Group manages its capital structure to maintain a prudent balance between debt and equity that allows sufficient 
headroom to finance the Group’s product development programme and appropriate acquisitions. Current economic 
conditions mean that it is more difficult and expensive to obtain finance via borrowings. It is therefore the policy of the 
Board to reduce borrowings over time. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  108 109
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
21. Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures continued
The Group operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies established in the markets in which the Group 
trades. The Group’s operating subsidiaries are generally cash generative and none are subject to externally imposed 
capital requirements.
There are financial covenants associated with the Group’s borrowings which are cash flow cover, interest cover, net 
debt to EBITDA and consolidated net worth. The Group comfortably complied with these covenants in 2011 and 
2010. There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. 
Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in the development of new products as well as to make the routine 
outflows of capital expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of maturing debt.
The Group’s policy is to maintain borrowing facilities centrally which are then used to finance the Group’s operating 
subsidiaries, either by way of equity investments or loans.
Financial Risk Management
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
l  liquidity risk
l  market risk
l  credit risk
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, and the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for measuring and managing risk.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet liabilities as they fall due. Cash forecasts 
identifying the liquidity requirements of the Group are produced quarterly. These are reviewed to ensure sufficient 
financial headroom exists for at least a 12 month period.
The Group manages its funding requirements through the following lines of credit:
l £36 million term loan
l  £28 million revolving credit facility
l  £10 million working capital facility
l  various finance leases
The Group’s undrawn borrowing facilities at 30 June 2011 are detailed in note 20.
Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates or interest rates, will affect the 
Group’s income or the value of its holding of financial instruments. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  108 109
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
21. Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures continued
Interest Rate Risk Management
The majority of the Group’s borrowings bear interest at floating rates linked to base rate or LIBOR and are 
consequently exposed to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Group has hedged interest rate risk on its term loan by means of an interest rate swap arrangement whereby the 
Group’s exposure to fluctuations in LIBOR is fixed at a rate of 1.6875% on the term loan and 1.185% on the revolving 
credit facility. The amount of the term loan and revolving credit outstanding at 30 June 2011 was £63.7 million. The 
hedge is in place until 31 December 2013 and the amount hedged matches the repayment profile of the loan.
Foreign Exchange Risk Management
Foreign currency transaction exposure arising on normal trade flows is not hedged. The Group matches receipts and 
payments in the relevant foreign currencies as far as possible. To this end, bank accounts are maintained for all the 
major currencies in which the Group trades. Translational exposure in converting the income statements of foreign 
subsidiaries into the Group’s presentational currency of Sterling is not hedged.
The Group also hedges selectively expected currency cash flows outside normal trading activities, principally using 
foreign currency options.
Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet 
its contractual obligations.
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be £92,708,000 (2010: £79,795,000) which is the total carrying value 
of the Group’s financial assets.
Cash is only deposited with highly rated banks.
The Group offers trade credit to customers in the normal course of business. Trade and bank references are obtained 
prior to extending credit. The financial statements of corporate customers are monitored on a regular basis.
The principal customers of the Services segment are UK veterinary practices. The customer base is diverse and, with 
the exception of the largest corporate accounts, the failure of a single customer would not have a material adverse 
impact on the Group’s financial results.
The principal customers of the Pharmaceuticals segments are European and US wholesalers. The failure of a large 
wholesaler could have a material adverse impact on the Group’s financial results.
The largest customer of the Group accounted for approximately 13.1% of gross trade receivables at 30 June 2011 
(2010: 9.4%). No customer accounted for more than 10% of total Group revenues.
Receivables are written off against the impairment provision when management considers the debt to be no longer 
recoverable. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  110 111
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
21. Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures continued
Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities
The following table presents the carrying amounts and the fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 
30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010.
The following assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
l Cash and cash equivalents — approximates to the carrying amount.
l Forward exchange contracts — based on market price and exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
l Currency options and interest rate floor and ceiling — based upon the amount that the Group would receive or pay  
  to terminate the instrument at the balance sheet date, being the market price of the instrument.
l Receivables and payables — approximates to the carrying amount.
l Bank loans and overdrafts — based upon discounted cash flows using discount rates based upon facility rates  
  renegotiated after the  30 June 2010 year end.
l  Finance lease obligations — based upon discounted cash flows using discount rates based upon the Group’s cost 
of borrowing at the balance sheet date.
Analysis of Financial Instruments
The financial instruments of the Group are analysed as follows:
  2011 2010
        Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
        value value value value
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets  
Cash and cash equivalents     30,496  30,496 31,502 31,502
Held for trading financial assets
— derivatives designated as hedges    — — — —
— other derivatives      — — — — 
        — — — — 
Loans and receivables
— trade receivables      62,212  62,212  48,293 48,293 
— other receivables within the scope of IAS 39   — — — —
        62,212  62,212  48,293 48,293 
Total financial assets      92,708  92,708  79,795 79,795 
Financial liabilities
Bank loans and overdrafts     (63,746)  (62,026)  (37,033) (36,155)
Held for trading financial liabilities
— derivatives designated as hedges    (397)  (397)  (384) (384)
— other derivatives      —  —  (189) (189)
Finance lease liabilities      (841)  (799)  (1,170) (1,260)
Trade payables      (63,213)  (63,213)  (56,465) (56,465)
Total financial liabilities      (128,197) (126,435)  (95,241) (94,453)
Net financial liabilities      (35,489)  (33,727)  (15,446) (14,658) Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  110 111
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
21. Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures continued
Fair Value Hierarchy
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been 
defined as follows:
l Level 1 — quoted prices (unadjusted) in active market for identical assets or liabilities.
l Level 2 — inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either  
  directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
l Level 3 — inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
        Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
30 June 2011      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Derivative financial liabilities     — (397) — (397)
        Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
30 June 2010      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Derivative financial liabilities     — (573) — (573)
Credit Risk — Overdue Financial Assets
The following table shows financial assets which are overdue and for which no impairment provision has been made:
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Overdue by:
 Up to one month        3,731  2,403
 Between one and two months      1,276  613
 Between two and three months      1,005  419
 Over three months        1,764  730
          7,776 4,165
The movement in the impairment provision was as follows:
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
At start of period        2,383  2,502
Impairment provision recognised      716  87
Impairment provision utilised       (188)  (206)
At end of period        2,911  2,383 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  112 113
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
21. Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures continued
Liquidity Risk — Contracted Cash Flows of Financial Liabilities
The following table shows the cash flow commitments of the Group in respect of financial liabilities excluding 
derivatives at 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010. Where interest is at floating rates, the future interest payments have 
been estimated using current interest rates:
        Bank Loans
        and  Finance Trade
        Overdrafts Leases Payables Total
At 30 June 2011      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Carrying value      (63,746) (841) (63,213) (127,800)
Future interest      (2,825) (49) — (2,874)
Total committed cash flow     (66,571) (890) (63,213) (130,674)
Payable:
Within 6 months      (4,532) (271) (63,213) (68,016)
Between 6 months and 1 year    (4,573) (271) — (4,844)
Between 1 and 2 years      (8,932) (344) — (9,276)
Between 2 and 3 years      (12,645) (4) — (12,649)
Between 3 and 4 years      (35,889) — — (35,889)
Between 4 and 5 years      — — — —
Over 5 years      — — — —
        (66,571) (890) (63,213) (130,674)
        Bank Loans
        and  Finance Trade
        Overdrafts Leases Payables Total
At 30 June 2010      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Carrying value      (37,033) (1,170) (57,482) (95,685)
Arrangement fees netted off     (467) — — (467)
Future interest      (958) (111) — (1,069)
Total committed cash flow     (38,458) (1,281) (57,482) (97,221)
Payable:
Within 6 months      (17,744) (271) (57,482) (75,497)
Between 6 months and 1 year    (2,659) (248) — (2,907)
Between 1 and 2 years      (5,258) (488) — (5,746)
Between 2 and 3 years      (5,178) (274) — (5,452)
Between 3 and 4 years      (5,100) — — (5,100)
Between 4 and 5 years      (2,519) — — (2,519)
Over 5 years      — — — —
        (38,458) (1,281) (57,482) (97,221)
The contractual undiscounted cash flows in respect of derivative financial instruments are as follows:
  2011 2010
        Receivables Payables Receivables Payables
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Due:
Within 6 months      — 108 — 384
Between 6 months and 1 year    — 114 — —
Between 1 and 2 years      — 175 — —
        — 397 — 384
  Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  112 113
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
21. Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures continued
The Group has a contractual obligation to pay £108,000 (2010: £384,000) under its interest rate swap arrangement 
covering the period from 1 July to 30 September 2011.
With the exception of the above disclosed, there are no other assets that have been impaired during the year.
Foreign Currency Exposure
The Sterling equivalents of financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at 30 June 2011 and  
30 June 2010 were:
        Danish  US
        Krone Euro Dollar Other
At 30 June 2011      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets
Trade receivables      1,877 3,514 4,320 5,858
Other receivables      168 30 — 232
Cash balances      1,675 786 1,163 2,622
Derivatives       — — — —
Other financial assets      480 103 — 133
        4,200 4,433 5,483 8,845
Financial liabilities
Bank loans and overdrafts     — (3,997) (27,746) —
Finance leases      — (406) — —
Trade payables      (3,225) (1,141) (167) (284)
Other financial liabilities      (3,286) (1,479) — (1,090)
        (6,511) (7,023) (27,913) (1,374)
Net balance sheet exposure     (2,311) (2,590) (22,430) 7,471
        Danish  US
        Krone Euro Dollar Other
At 30 June 2010      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Financial assets
Trade receivables      4,542 3,033 1,374 1,267
Other receivables      — — — 532
Cash balances      1,367 737 948 475
Derivatives       — — — —
Other financial assets      — — — —
        5,909 3,770 2,322 2,274
Financial liabilities
Bank loans      — (744) (1,595) —
Finance leases      — (862) — —
Trade payables      (9,734) (858) (462) (1,001)
Derivatives       — — — —
        (9,734) (2,464) (2,057) (1,001)
Net balance sheet exposure     (3,825) 1,306 265 1,273 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  114 115
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
21. Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures continued
Sensitivity Analysis
Interest Rate Risk
A 2% increase in interest rates compared to those ruling at 30 June 2011 would reduce Group profit before taxation 
by £281,000 (2010: £300,000).
Foreign Currency Risk
The Group has significant cash flows and net financial assets and liabilities in Danish Krone, US Dollar and Euro.
The following table shows the impact on the Group’s profit before taxation and net assets of a 10% appreciation of 
Sterling against each of these currencies:
          Profit before Net
          taxation assets
          £’000 £’000
Danish Krone        (2,195) (5,926)
US Dollar         (2,504) (2,287)
Euro         (723) (723)
Hedges
Cash Flow Hedges
The Group has entered into an interest rate swap on the term loan of £40.0 million and the revolving credit facility of 
£28 million. The Group has designated this a cash flow hedge. The risk being hedged is the variability of cash flows 
arising from movements in interest rates. No ineffectiveness arose on the hedge.
The hedge is in place until 30 September 2013. The amounts recognised in equity are recycled to the income 
statement to offset gains and losses in the period in which the cash flows occurs.
The amount recognised in equity in the year ended 30 June 2011 was a liability of £294,000 including an income tax 
credit of £103,000 (2010: £276,000 including an income tax credit of £107,000).
22. Share Capital
 Ordinary shares of 1p each
  2011 2010
        £’000 No. £’000 No.
Allotted, called up and fully paid at start of year   661 66,090,075 656 65,581,924
New shares issued      3 359,584 5 508,151
Allotted, called up and fully paid at end of year   664 66,449,659 661 66,090,075
 
The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital. At the 
2009 Annual General Meeting, Shareholders approved a resolution whereby all provisions relating to the Company’s 
authorised share capital were removed from the Company’s constitutional documents. 
During the year 359,584 new ordinary shares of 1p (2010: 508,151 new ordinary shares of 1p) were issued following 
the exercise of options under the Executive Incentive Plan, and the Approved, Unapproved and SAYE Share Options 
Schemes. The consideration received was £542,000 (2010: £589,000). The holders of ordinary shares are entitled 
to receive dividends as declared or approved at General Meetings from time to time and are entitled to one vote per 
share at such meetings of the Company. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  114 115
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
23. Share-based Payments
During the year, the Company operated the Unapproved Share Option Scheme, the Approved Share Option Scheme, 
the Long Term Incentive Plan, the Executive Incentive Plan and the Save As You Earn (“SAYE”) Share Option Scheme 
as described below:
Unapproved and Approved Share Option Schemes
Under these Schemes, options are granted to certain Executives and employees of the Group (excluding Executive 
Directors) to purchase shares in the Company at a price fixed at the average market value over the three days prior to 
the date of grant. For the options to vest, there must be an increase in earnings per share of at least 12% above the 
growth in the UK Retail Prices Index (RPI) over a three year period. Once vested, options must be exercised within ten 
years of the date of grant.
Executive Incentive Plan
Under this plan Executive Directors and selected Senior Executives have previously been awarded shares in the 
Company subject to a Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance target. No awards have been made under this 
plan since 30 June 2008.
The TSR target measures the Company’s TSR performance against the FTSE Small Cap Index over a three year 
measurement period (commencing at the beginning of the financial year in which the awards are made). One hundred 
per cent of the shares on plans set up prior to 30 June 2008 will vest if the Company achieves an upper quartile 
performance, 30% of the shares vest at median performance and awards vest on a straight-line basis for performance 
in between. No shares vest if performance is below median.
In addition, awards will only vest if, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the performance of the Company 
has been satisfactory.
Long Term Incentive Plan
For awards granted after 30 June 2008 under this plan, vesting is dependent firstly on an earnings per share target. 
No awards will vest unless underlying diluted earnings per share has grown by at least 3% per annum above the 
retail prices index over the three year measurement period. Provided this condition is met, then the number of 
shares that vest depends on the Company’s TSR performance against the FTSE Small Cap Index over the three 
year measurement period. One hundred per cent of the shares vest if the Company achieves an upper quartile 
performance, 25% of the shares vest at median performance and awards vest on a straight-line basis for performance 
in between. No shares vest if performance is below median.
SAYE Option Scheme
This Scheme is open to all UK employees. Participants save a fixed amount of up to £250 per month for either three, 
five or seven years and are then able to use these savings to buy shares in the Company at a price fixed at a 20% 
discount to the market value at the start of the savings period. The SAYE options must ordinarily be exercised within 
six months of the completion of the relevant savings period. The exercise of these options is not subject to any 
performance criteria. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  116 117
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
23. Share-based Payments continued
Year ended 30 June 2011
      Exercise At    At
      price 1 July    30 June
     Exercise per share  2010 Exercised Granted Lapsed 2011
     Period Pence Number Number Number Number Number
Unapproved Share Option Scheme
22 April 2002*   2005–2013 153.50 3,500 (2,000) — — 1,500
11 April 2003*   2006–2013 58.50 2,500 — — — 2,500
19 March 2007*   2010–2017 289.00 21,135 (3,549) — — 17,586
2 April 2008*   2011–2018 366.00 45,038 (6,155) — (3,000) 35,883
10 October 2008   2011–2018 397.00 33,500 — — — 33,500
30 March 2009   2012–2019 415.00 54,921 — — — 54,921
1 March 2010   2013–2020 456.00 52,854 — — — 52,854
28 February 2011   2014–2021 503.00 — — 60,688 — 60,688
          213,448 (11,704) 60,688 (3,000) 259,432
Approved Share Option Scheme
2 April 2004*   2007–2014 134.50 19,000 (9,000) — — 10,000
3 December 2004*   2007–2014 180.00 16,667 (15,000) — — 1,667
5 April 2005*   2008–2015 202.50 31,000 (8,000) — — 23,000
15 March 2006*   2009–2016 252.00 61,000 (25,000) — — 36,000
19 March 2007*   2010–2017 289.00 105,665 (43,764) — (3,000) 58,901
2 April 2008*   2011–2018 366.00 67,962 (12,845) — (2,000) 53,117
10 October 2008   2011–2018 397.00 2,500 — — — 2,500
30 March 2009   2012–2019 415.00 23,079 — — — 23,079
1 March 2010   2013–2020 456.00 33,146 — — — 33,146
28 February 2011   2014–2021 503.00 — — 23,312 — 23,312
          360,019 (113,609) 23,312 (5,000) 264,722
Executive Incentive Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan
29 February 2008   2011–2012 — 152,472 (152,472) — — —
19 November 2008   2011–2012 — 327,272 — — — 327,272
24 September 2009   2012–2013  — 277,758 — — — 277,758
22 December 2010   2013–2014 — — — 235,841 — 235,841
          757,502 (152,472) 235,841 — 840,871
SAYE Option Scheme 
18 October 2005   2008–2010 204.00 19,410 (18,779) — (631) —
12 October 2006   2009–2013 195.74 27,681 — — — 27,681
17 October 2007   2010–2014 280.00 139,562 (63,020) — (7,251) 69,291
13 October 2008   2011–2015 343.00 109,435 — — (4,294) 105,141
12 October 2009   2012–2016 332.00 137,993 — — (20,567) 117,426
13 December 2010   2013–2017 409.00 — — 112,743 (7,343) 105,400
          434,081 (81,799) 112,743 (40,086) 424,939
Total         1,765,050 (359,584) 432,584 (48,086)  1,789,964
Weighted average exercise price   183.3p 150.9p 204.3p 336.1p 190.8p
* Total share options exercisable at 30 June 2011 are 240,154. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  116 117
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
23. Share-based Payments continued
Year ended 30 June 2010
      Exercise At    At
      price 1 July    30 June
     Exercise per share  2009 Exercised Granted Lapsed 2010
     Period Pence Number Number Number Number Number
Unapproved Share Option Scheme
14 September 2000   2003–2010 120.00 7,000 (7,000) — — —
22 April 2002   2005–2012 153.50 6,500 (3,000) — — 3,500
11 April 2003   2006–2013 58.50 3,500 — — (1,000) 2,500
19 March 2007   2010–2017 289.00 26,139 (5,004) — — 21,135
2 April 2008   2011–2018 366.00 48,038 (3,000) — — 45,038
10 October 2008   2011–2018 397.00 33,500 — — — 33,500
30 March 2009   2012–2019 415.00 54,921 — — — 54,921
1 March 2010   2013–2020 456.00 — — 52,854 — 52,854
       179,598 (18,004) 52,854 (1,000) 213,448
Approved Share Option Scheme
2 April 2004   2007–2014 134.50 30,000 (9,000) — (2,000) 19,000
3 December 2004   2007–2014 180.00 16,667 — — — 16,667
5 April 2005   2008–2015 202.50 54,500 (18,500) — (5,000) 31,000
15 March 2006   2009–2016 252.00 112,000 (48,000) — (3,000) 61,000
19 March 2007   2010–2017 289.00 149,861 (39,196) — (5,000) 105,665
2 April 2008   2011–2018 366.00 69,962 — — (2,000) 67,962
10 October 2008   2011–2018 397.00 2,500 — — — 2,500
30 March 2009   2012–2019 415.00 23,079 — — — 23,079
1 March 2010   2013–2020 456.00 — — 33,146 — 33,146
       458,569 (114,696) 33,146 (17,000) 360,019
Executive Incentive Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan
14 September 2006   2009–2010 — 216,128 (216,128) — — —
29 February 2008   2011–2012 — 152,472 — — — 152,472
19 November 2008   2011–2012 — 327,272 — — — 327,272
24 September 2009   2012–2013 — — — 277,758 — 277,758
       695,872 (216,128) 277,758 — 757,502
SAYE Option Scheme
15 October 2004   2007–2009 124.00 69,025 (69,025) — — —
18 October 2005   2008–2010 204.00 20,357 — — (947) 19,410
12 October 2006   2009–2013 195.74 118,794 (89,274) — (1,839) 27,681
17 October 2007   2010–2014 280.00 144,291 (518) — (4,211) 139,562
13 October 2008   2011–2015 343.00 115,440 (506) — (5,499) 109,435
12 October 2009   2012–2016 332.00 — — 147,522 (9,529) 137,993
       467,907 (159,323) 147,522 (22,025) 434,081
Total      1,801,946 (508,151) 511,280 (40,025) 1,765,050
Weighted average exercise price   169.3p 63.4p 172.5p 276.2p 183.3p
The weighted average exercise price of options eligible to be exercised at 30 June 2011 was 293.2p (2010: 240.3p).
For options exercised during the year, the weighted average market price at the date of exercise was 503p (2010: 
443p). The weighted average remaining contractual lives of options outstanding at the consolidated statement of 
financial position date was four years (2010: four years). Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  118 119
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
23. Share-based Payments continued
Outstanding options on all Executive Incentive, Approved and Unapproved plans prior to 30 June 2008 were 
exercisable at 30 June 2011. 
No options issued under SAYE plans were exercisable at 30 June 2011.
As allowed by the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 and IFRS 2, included above are options over shares that have not 
been recognised in accordance with IFRS 2 as the options were granted before 7 November 2002.
The fair values for shares granted under the Unapproved, Approved and SAYE Option Schemes have been calculated 
using the Black–Scholes option pricing model. The fair values of shares awarded under the Executive Incentive Plan and 
the Long Term Incentive Plan have been calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model which takes into account the 
market-based performance conditions attaching to those shares.
The assumptions used in calculating fair value are as follows:
Executive Incentive Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan
Date of grant        22/12/10 24/9/09
Number of shares awarded       235,841 277,758
Share price at date of grant       514.00p 404.10p
Exercise price        Nil Nil
Expected life        3 years 3 years
Risk-free rate        1.60% 1.91%
Volatility         39% 31%
Dividend yield        2.04% 2.25%
Fair value per share        322p 236p
Unapproved and Approved Share Option Schemes
Date of grant          28/2/11 1/3/10
Number of shares awarded          84,000 86,000
Share price at date of grant          507.5p 455p
Exercise price          503p 456p
Expected life          5 years 5 years
Risk-free rate          2.65% 2.84%
Volatility          36% 33%
Dividend yield          2.07% 2.00%
Fair value per share          149p 124p Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  118 119
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
23. Share-based Payments continued
Save as You Earn Option Scheme
Date of grant        22/12/10 12/10/09
Number of shares awarded       112,743 147,522
Share price at date of grant       507p  445p
Exercise price        409p  332p
Expected life
— three year scheme        3.25 years 3.25 years
— five year scheme        5.25 years 5.25 years
— seven year scheme        7.25 years 7.25 years
Risk-free rate
— three year scheme        1.46% 1.87%
— five year scheme        2.24% 2.55%
— seven year scheme        2.90% 3.03%
Volatility         36% 33%
Dividend yield        2.07% 2.04%
Fair value per share
— three year scheme        165p 134p
— five year scheme        181p 156p
— seven year scheme        201p 148p
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over its entire 
trading history.
National Insurance contributions are payable by the Company in respect of some of the share-based payments. These 
contributions are payable on the date of exercise based on the intrinsic value of the share-based payments and are 
therefore treated as cash settled awards. The Group had an accrual at 30 June 2011 of £229,000 (2010: £142,000), 
of which £15,000 (2010: £80,000) related to vested options. The total charge to the Income Statement in respect of 
share-based payments was:
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Equity settled share-based transactions      830  817
Cash settled share-based transactions      118 93
          948  910
 
The above charge to the Income Statement is included within administrative expenses. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  120 121
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
24. Analysis of Net Borrowings
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Bank loans        (63,746) (37,033)
Finance leases and hire purchase contracts     (841)  (1,170)
Cash and cash equivalents       30,496 31,502
Net borrowings        (34,091)  (6,701)
25. Operating Leases
At the balance sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum rentals payable under non-
cancellable operating leases as follows:
 Land and buildings Other assets Total
      2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Within one year    1,219 1,200  1,278  1,512  2,497  2,712 
Between one and five years   4,062 4,159  1,234 1,494  5,296  5,653 
In five years or more    3,472 1,582  —  5  3,472  1,587 
      8,753 6,941  2,512  3,011  11,265  9,952
The Group leases properties, plant, machinery and vehicles for operational purposes. Property leases vary in length up 
to a period of 25 years. Plant, machinery and vehicle leases typically run for periods of up to 5 years. 
26. Foreign Exchange Rates
The following exchange rates have been used in the translation of the results of foreign operations.
         Closing rate  Closing rate
         at 30 June Average at 30 June
         2010 rate 2011
Danish Krone       9.0983 8.614 8.256
Euro        1.2214 1.1556 1.1070
US Dollar        1.4961 1.5745 1.6073
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  120 121
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
27. Acquisitions
Acquisition of DermaPet Inc.
On 22 October 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of DermaPet Inc., a Florida based business which 
develops and markets a range of dermatological preparations, including shampoos, conditioners and ear products, for 
the US and overseas companion animal markets. These veterinary products are marketed and distributed through the 
same channels as Dechra’s current US product portfolio.
The acquisition of DermaPet Inc. increases Dechra’s US presence and complements its EU range in this key strategic 
therapeutic category.
           Provisional
          Book value fair value
           £’000 £’000
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Identifiable assets
Trade and other receivables        1,084 1,084
Inventory         384 384
Identifiable intangible assets       — 38,909
Identifiable liabilities
Overdraft         (1) (1)
Trade and other payables       (216) (216)
Net identifiable assets       1,251 40,160
Goodwill          326
Total consideration         40,486
Satisfied by:
Cash          27,519
Deferred consideration         1,163
Contingent consideration arrangement       11,804
Total consideration transferred       40,486
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration         27,519
Add: bank overdraft         1
            27,520
 
The fair values shown above are provisional and may be amended if information not currently available comes to light.
The fair value of the financial assets includes trade receivables with a fair value of £1,076,000. 
The fair value adjustment in relation to intangible assets recognises product rights in accordance with IFRS 3.
The goodwill of £326,000 arising from the acquisition consists of the assembled workforce and increased geographical 
presence in the US. The goodwill and identified intangibles are expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The deferred consideration arrangement requires payments of US$1,000,000 to be paid on the second and fourth 
anniversaries of the completion date. The contingent consideration arrangement requires that if DermaPet Inc. achieve 
revenue in excess of US$15,000,000 in any rolling 12 month period commencing on the first anniversary of completion 
and ending on the sixth anniversary of completion, contingent consideration of US$15,000,000, which has been 
reassessed between the date of acquisition and the year end and remains unadjusted, will become payable. If revenue 
on the same criteria exceed US$20,000,000, a further US$5,000,000 will become due.
Acquisition related costs (included in non-underlying operating expenses) amounted to £585,000. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  122 123
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Accounts
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
27. Acquisitions continued
DermaPet Inc. contributed £4,993,000 revenue and £1,986,000 operating profit to the Group’s profit for the period 
between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date.
DermaPet Inc. has now been fully integrated into DVP US and its results are reported within the US Pharmaceuticals 
segment.
Acquisition of Genitrix Limited
On 1 December 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Genitrix Limited. The acquisition of Genitrix 
Limited, a veterinary pharmaceuticals company based in Billingshurst, UK, is consistent with our strategy to grow our 
domestic and international pharmaceutical business.
           Provisional
          Book value fair value
           £’000 £’000
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed
Identifiable assets
Intangible assets        184 184
Property, plant and equipment      27 23
Trade and other receivables        326 326
Inventory         217 217
Cash and cash equivalents       59 59
Identifiable intangible assets       — 5,596
Identifiable liabilities
Trade and other payables       (318) (318)
Deferred tax liabilities        (36) (1,546)
Net identifiable assets       459 4,541
Goodwill          1,845
Total consideration         6,386
Satisfied by:
Cash          5,586
Contingent consideration arrangement       800
Total consideration transferred       6,386
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration         5,586
Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired      (59)
            5,527
 
The fair values shown above are provisional and may be amended if information not currently available comes to light.
The fair value of the financial assets includes trade receivables with a fair value of £290,000. 
The fair value adjustment in relation to intangible assets recognises product rights in accordance with IFRS 3.
The goodwill of £1,845,000 arising from the acquisition consists of the assembled workforce and associated technical 
expertise. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The contingent consideration arrangement, which has been reassessed between the date of acquisition and the year 
end and remains unadjusted, requires payment of £800,000 to be paid on the achievement of specific milestones. 
Genitrix Limited has now been fully integrated into DVP EU and its results are reported within the European 
Pharmaceuticals segment. Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  122 123
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
27. Acquisitions continued
Acquisition related costs (included in non-underlying operating expenses) amounted to £108,000.
Genitrix Limited contributed £1,565,000 revenue and £736,000 operating profit to the Group’s profit for the period 
between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date.
If the acquisitions of DermaPet Inc. and Genitrix Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial year, 
Group revenues for the period would have been £393,754,000 and underlying pre-tax profit would have been 
£31,263,000.
28. Contingent Liability
The Danish tax authorities are continuing their investigation into the tax return of Dechra Veterinary Products Holding 
A/S (formerly VetXX Holding A/S) for the period ended 31 December 2005, a period prior to the acquisition of the 
company. They are seeking to reduce the tax losses arising in this year by DKK17.5 million. They have also indicated 
that they will be investigating the tax returns for 2006, 2007 and 2008. The Directors believe that there are strong 
arguments to resist this claim. However, should the dispute be lost, the deferred tax asset recognised on acquisition 
would be reduced by approximately £1.3 million.
29. Related Party Transactions
Subsidiaries
The Group’s ultimate Parent Company is Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC. A listing of all principal subsidiaries is shown 
within the financial statements of the Company on page132.
Transactions with Key Management Personnel
The details of the remuneration, Long Term Incentive Plans, shareholdings, share options and pension entitlements of 
individual Directors are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 62. The remuneration of key 
management is disclosed in note 7.
30. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
The Group has no off balance sheet arrangements to disclose as required by S410A of the Companies Act 2006. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  124 125
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
         2011 2010
        Note £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Investments      iii 132,119  114,188
         132,119 114,188 
Current assets
Debtors (includes amounts falling due after more than one year of £2,417,000 
(2010: £2,961,000))      iv 39,873 20,726
Cash at bank and in hand      2  5,007
         39,875  25,733
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year     v (43,866)  (49,775)
Net current liabilities       (3,991)  (24,042)
Total assets less current liabilities      128,128  90,146
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year    v (55,746)  (17,101)
Net assets       72,382  73,045
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital      viii 664  661
Share premium account      ix 63,559  63,021
Hedging reserve      ix (294)  (276)
Profit and loss account      ix 8,453 9,639
Total equity Shareholders’ funds      72,382  73,045
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 6 September 2011 and are signed on its behalf by:
 
Ian Page  Simon Evans
Director Director
Company number: 3369634
Our Accounts
Company Balance Sheet
At 30 June 2011 Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  124 125
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
         2011 2010
         £’000 £’000
At start of period       73,045  75,801
Profit for the financial year      5,132  1,606 
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges    (506)  427
Cash flow hedges recycled to profit and loss account      488 —
Share-based payments charge      903  817
Dividends paid       (7,221)  (6,195)
New shares issued       541  589
At end of period       72,382  73,045
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
For the year ended 30 June 2011 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  126 127
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
(i) Principal Accounting Policies of the Company
Accounting Principles
The Company Balance Sheet has been prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivatives which are 
stated at fair value in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006.
Basis of Preparation
No Profit and Loss Account is presented for the Company as permitted by Section 408(2) and (3) of the Companies 
Act 2006. The profit dealt with in the accounts of the Company was £5,132,000 (2010: £1,606,000). Fees paid to 
KPMG Audit Plc and its associates for audit and non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the 
individual Financial Statements of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC because the Group Financial Statements are required 
to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any impairment losses. Where the consideration for the 
acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking includes shares in the Company to which the provisions of section 612 of the 
Companies Act 2006 apply, cost represents the nominal value of the shares issued together with the fair value of any 
additional consideration given and costs. Where investments are denominated in foreign currencies they are treated as 
monetary assets and revalued at each balance sheet date.
Derivative Financial Instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. In 
accordance with its treasury policy, the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative 
purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial 
instruments are stated at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value of instruments that do not qualify 
for hedge accounting is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The fair value of interest rate swaps, floors and ceilings is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay 
to terminate the instrument at the balance sheet date. The fair value of forward exchange contracts and options is their 
quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
Hedging
Cash Flow Hedges
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are recognised directly 
in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are 
recognised as profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, 
then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains 
there until the forecast transaction occurs. When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in 
equity is transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when it is recognised. In other cases, the amount recognised in 
equity is transferred to profit or loss in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Cash Flow Statement
As the ultimate holding company of the Group, the Company has relied upon the exemption in FRS 1 (Revised) not to 
present a cash flow statement as part of its financial statements.
Our Accounts
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  126 127
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
(i) Principal Accounting Policies of the Company continued
Dividends
Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are approved by the Company’s Shareholders or, in the case of 
an interim dividend, when the dividend is paid.
Dividends receivable from subsidiaries are recognised when either received in cash or applied to reduce a creditor 
balance with the subsidiary.
Interest-bearing Borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption 
value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Related Parties
Under FRS 8 the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose related party transactions with other Group 
undertakings as they are all wholly owned within the Group and are included in the Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Transactions with Key Management Personnel
There were no material transactions with key management personnel except for those relating to remuneration (see 
notes 7 and 29 of the Consolidated Financial Statements) and shareholdings.
Transactions with Other Related Parties
There are no controlling Shareholders of the Company. There have been no material transactions with the Shareholders 
of the Company.
Employee Benefits
(i) Pensions
The Company operates a Group stakeholder personal pension scheme for certain employees. Obligations for 
contributions are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account as incurred.
(ii) Share-based Payment Transactions
The Company operates a number of equity settled share-based payment programmes that allow employees 
to acquire shares of the Company. The Company also operates an Executive Incentive Plan and a Long Term 
Incentive Plan for Directors and senior executives.
The fair value of shares or options granted is recognised as an employee expense on a straight-line basis in the 
profit and loss account with a corresponding movement in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and 
spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares or options (the 
vesting period). The fair value of the shares or options granted is measured using a valuation model, taking into 
account the terms and conditions upon which the shares or options were granted. The amount recognised as 
an expense in the profit and loss account is adjusted to take into account an estimate of the number of shares 
or options that are expected to vest together with an adjustment to reflect the number of shares or options that 
actually do vest except where forfeiture is only due to market-based conditions not being achieved.
The fair values of grants under the Executive Incentive Plan and the Long Term Incentive Plan have been 
determined using the Monte Carlo simulation model. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  128 129
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
(i) Principal Accounting Policies of the Company continued
The fair values of options granted under all other share option schemes have been determined using the Black–
Scholes option pricing model.
 
National Insurance contributions payable by the Company on the intrinsic value of share-based payments at the date 
of exercise are treated as cash settled awards and revalued to market price at each balance sheet date.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recharges the expense to 
those subsidiaries.
Foreign Currency
Foreign currency transactions are translated into Sterling using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the 
transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date. Foreign exchange 
gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing 
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax is measured 
on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences 
reverse and is provided in respect of all timing differences which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet 
date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’. 
Financial Guarantee Contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within 
its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, 
the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the 
Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
(ii) Directors and Employees
Total emoluments of Directors (including pension contributions) amounted to £1,696,000 (2010: £1,501,000). 
Information relating to Directors’ emoluments, share options and pension entitlements is set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 62.
Our Accounts
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  128 129
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
(iii) Fixed Asset Investments
           Shares in 
           Subsidiary
           Undertakings
           £’000
Cost
At 1 July 2010         114,188
Additions          17,931
At 30 June 2011         132,119
Net book value
At 30 June 2011         132,119
At 30 June 2010         114,188
A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is given in note (x).
Additions represent the acquisition of Genitrix Limited and a further investment in Dechra Investments Limited (a 
subsidiary company). 
Where subsidiaries are acquired for shares, or a combination of shares and cash, statutory merger relief has been 
applied and accordingly cost includes the nominal value of shares issued.
(iv) Debtors
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings     36,836  18,319
Group relief receivable        2,248  1,658
Deferred taxation (see note (vii))      639  574
Other debtors        98  63
Prepayments and accrued income      52  112
          39,873  20,726
Included in debtors are amounts of £639,000 (2010: £574,000) due after more than one year relating to deferred 
tax assets. Of the amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings, £1,778,000 is due after more than one year (2010: 
£2,387,000).
(v) Creditors
   Falling due
   within one year
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Bank loans and overdrafts (see note (vi))      31,564  48,150
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings      9,930  503
Other creditors        868 44
Derivative financial instruments      397  383
Other taxation and social security      79  72
Accruals and deferred income       1,028  623
          43,866  49,775
In accordance with FRS 21 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet Date’, the proposed final dividend for the year ended  
30 June 2011 of 8.40p per share has not been accrued for in these financial statements. It will be shown in the 
financial statements for the year ending 30 June 2012. The total cost of the proposed final dividend is £5,582,000. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  130 131
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
(v) Creditors continued
   Falling due after
   more than one year
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Bank loans (see note (vi))       55,746  17,033
Other creditors        —  68
          55,746  17,101 
(vi) Borrowings
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Borrowings due within one year
 Bank overdraft        23,564  28,150
 Bank loan        8,000  20,000
          31,564  48,150
Borrowings due after more than one year
Aggregate bank loan instalments repayable:
 between one and two years       8,000  5,000
 between two and five years       47,746  12,500
 after five years        — —
          55,746  17,500
Arrangement fees netted off       —  (467)
          55,746  17,033
Total borrowings        87,310 65,183
The bank loans, revolving credit and overdraft facilities are secured by a fixed and floating charge on the assets of the 
Group. Interest is charged at 2.75% over LIBOR on the bank loan and revolving credit facility and 2.75% over base 
rate on the bank overdraft. No covenants have been breached during the year ended 30 June 2011.
The Company guarantees certain borrowings of other Group companies, which at 30 June 2011 amounted to 
£773,000 (2010: £1,058,000).
(vii) Deferred T ax
           £’000
At 1 July 2010         574
Transfer to profit and loss account       65
Transfer to equity         —
At 30 June 2011 (included in debtors)       639
The amounts provided for deferred taxation at 26% (2010: 28%) are as follows:
          2011 2010
          £’000 £’000
Short term timing differences       639 574
Our Accounts
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  130 131
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
(viii) Called up Share Capital
   Ordinary Shares 
   of 1p each
Issued share capital        £’000 No.
Allotted, called up and fully paid at 1 July 2010      661 66,090,075
New shares issued        3 359,584
Allotted, called up and fully paid at 30 June 2011     664 66,449,659
  
During the year, 359,584 new ordinary shares of 1p were issued following the exercise of options under the Executive 
Incentive Plan and the Approved, Unapproved and SAYE share option schemes. The consideration received was 
£542,000.
Share Options
Details of outstanding share options over ordinary shares of 1p at 30 June 2011 under the various Group share option 
schemes are shown in note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(ix) Reserves
         Share  Profit
         premium Hedging and loss
         account reserve account
         £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 July 2010       63,021 (276) 9,639
New shares issued       538 — —
Profit for the financial year      — — 5,132
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges   — (506) —
Cash flow hedges recycled to profit and loss account    — 488 —
Dividend (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements)   — — (7,221)
Share-based payments charge     — — 903
At 30 June 2011       63,559 (294) 8,453 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  132 133
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
(x) Subsidiary Undertakings
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC is the ultimate parent and controlling party of the Group.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company, all of which are wholly owned, are:
       Country of
Company     Incorporation Principal Activity
Operating Subsidiaries
Dechra Limited§    England & Wales Wholesaler, marketer and manufacturer of  
        pharmaceuticals; Wholesaler and marketer of  
        veterinary products, instruments and equipment;  
        Provider of veterinary laboratory services
Dechra Veterinary Products A/S Denmark Marketer and manufacturer of veterinary  
        pharmaceuticals and pet diets
Dechra Veterinary Products Limited¶ England & Wales Marketer of veterinary pharmaceuticals and pet diets
Dechra Veterinary Products OY¶ Finland Marketer of veterinary pharmaceuticals and pet diets
Dechra Veterinary Products SAS¶ France Marketer of veterinary pharmaceuticals and pet diets
Dechra Veterinary Products AS¶ Norway Marketer of veterinary pharmaceuticals and pet diets
Dechra Veterinary Products SLU¶ Spain Marketer of veterinary pharmaceuticals and pet diets
Dechra Veterinary Products AB¶ Sweden Marketer of veterinary pharmaceuticals and pet diets
Dechra Veterinary Products BV¶ The Netherlands Marketer of veterinary pharmaceuticals and pet diets
Dechra Veterinary Products LLC** USA Distributor of veterinary products
Other Subsidiaries
Anglian Manufacturing Chemists Limited# England & Wales Non-trading
Anglian Pharma Manufacturing Limited‡ England & Wales Holding Company
Anglian Pharma Limited   England & Wales Holding Company
Arnolds Veterinary Products Limited* England & Wales Non-trading
Cambridge Specialist Laboratory 
  Services Limited†    England & Wales Non-trading
Dales Pharmaceuticals Limited* England & Wales Non-trading
Dechra Investments LimitedΩ  England & Wales Holding Company
Genitrix Limited    England & Wales Non-trading
Leeds Veterinary Laboratories Limited England & Wales Non-trading
National Veterinary Services Limited* England & Wales Non-trading
North Western Laboratories Limited England & Wales Holding Company
Veneto Limited    England & Wales Holding Company
DermaPet, Inc.††    USA Non-trading
Except where indicated the share capital held by the Company consists of ordinary shares only
* 100% of ordinary share capital held by Veneto Limited. Voting preference shares held by Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Employee Benefit Trust.
Ω 100% of both ordinary and preference share capital is held by Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC.
§ 100% of ordinary share capital held by Dechra Investments Limited.
†  100% of ordinary share capital held by North Western Laboratories Limited.
‡  100% of ordinary share capital held by Anglian Pharma Limited.
#  100% of ordinary share capital held by Anglian Pharma Manufacturing Limited.
¶  100% of ordinary share capital held by Dechra Veterinary Products A/S.
**  100% of ordinary share capital held by Dechra Limited.
††  100% of ordinary share capital held by Dechra Veterinary Products LLC.
Our Accounts
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  132 133
Directors’ Report: Our Performance Directors’ Report: Our Governance Shareholder Information
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Our Business Our Accounts
      2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Consolidated income statement
Revenue     389,237 369,369 349,964 304,371 253,803
Underlying operating profit   31,823  28,190  24,971 19,142 13,876
Underlying profit before taxation   30,069  26,056  23,406 16,853 12,646
Underlying profit after taxation   22,748  19,437  16,759 12,185 8,866
Underlying earnings per share — basic (pence)   34.33  29.50  25.61 20.81 16.89
              — diluted (pence)  34.22  29.39  25.40 20.64 16.66
Dividend per share (pence)   12.10  10.50  9.10 8.25 7.50
Average number of employees   1,005  1,021  1,012 889 747
Consolidated statement of financial position
Non-current assets    132,819  88,044  97,605 99,652 18,828
Working capital     32,494  21,486  17,548 17,284 13,264
Deferred and contingent consideration   (14,055) — — — —
Current tax liabilities    (5,391)  (4,105)  (4,756) (2,824) (2,464)
Deferred tax liabilities    (13,443)  (12,496)  (14,184) (15,316) (147)
Net (borrowings)/cash    (34,091)  (6,701)  (15,527) (26,997) 1,027
Shareholders’ funds    98,333  86,228  80,686 71,799 30,508
Consolidated cash flow
Cash flow from operating activities   25,374  26,662  27,557 16,053 14,328
Net interest paid    (2,629)  (2,208)  (1,851) (2,802) (1,169)
Tax paid     (5,034)  (6,124)  (3,227) (3,041) (2,895)
Capital expenditure    (4,090)  (2,721)  (3,634) (2,112) (5,325)
Acquisitions    (33,047) — — (65,151) (717)
Equity dividends paid    (7,221)  (6,195)  (5,565) (4,420) (3,595)
Financing     26,090  (4,626)  (8,843) 66,500 (3,124)
Changes in cash in period   (557)  4,788  4,437 5,027 (2,497)
Financial History Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  134 135
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Financial Calendar
Interim Management Statement 4 November 2011
2011 Annual General Meeting 4 November 2011
Final Dividend Ex Div Date 9 November 2011
Final Dividend Record Date 11 November 2011
Final Dividend Payment Date 25 November 2011
Annual General Meeting
The 2011 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be 
held at 1.00  pm on 4 November 2011 at Investec Bank 
plc, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP . The notice of 
meeting, which includes special business to be transacted 
at the Annual General Meeting, is included within the 
Circular accompanying this Annual Report, together with 
an explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the 
meeting.
Company Website
The Dechra website (www.dechra.com) is the best source 
of useful and up-to-date information about Dechra and its 
activities, including the latest news, financial and product 
information to help improve understanding of our business. 
Additionally, the terms of reference of all our Committees, 
Articles of Association, our recently launched Values and a 
number of our internal policies are published on the website.  
Registrar
Dechra’s Registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC. 
Computershare should be contacted for any matters relating 
to your shareholding, including:
l Notification of change in name and address
l Enquiries about dividend payments
l Submission of proxy form for voting at the Annual 
General Meeting
Computershare offers a facility whereby Shareholders are able 
to access their shareholdings in Dechra (and other companies 
for which Computershare acts as Registrar) via their website 
(www-uk.computershare.com/Investor/default.asp).  
Alternatively Computershare can be contacted at:
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 6ZZ
Registrar’s Shareholder Helpline for Dechra: 
0870 889 4030.
Please have your Shareholder Reference Number to hand 
whenever you contact the Registrar; this can be found on 
your share certificate.
Shareholder Information
Visit us at our website
www.dechra.com Stock Code: DPH
www.dechra.com  134 135
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Shareholder Information Our Accounts Director's Report: Our Governance Director's Report: Our Performance Our Business
Share Dealing Service
Computershare offers a Share Dealing service, to buy or sell 
shares. Further information can be obtained from www-
uk.computershare.com/Investor/ShareDealing.asp or by 
telephoning 0870 703 0084.
Telephone
Share Dealing 
Internet
Share Dealing
Fee (on value of 
transaction) 1% 0.5%
Minimum Charge £25.00 £15.00
Stamp Duty Charge 
(Purchases only) 0.5% 0.5%
Computershare Investor Services PLC and its agents are 
authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority 
(“FSA”).
Please note that the price of shares can go down as well 
as up, and you are not guaranteed to get back the original 
amount you originally invested. If you are in any doubt you 
should contact an independent financial adviser.
Warning to Shareholders
In recent years, many companies have become aware that 
their Shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls 
or correspondence concerning investment matters. These 
are typically from overseas based ‘brokers’ who target UK 
Shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to 
be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments. 
These operations are commonly known as ‘boiler rooms’. 
These ‘brokers’ can be very persistent and extremely 
persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the FSA has reported that 
the average amount lost by investors is around £20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this 
way; many of the victims had been successfully investing for 
several years. Shareholders are advised to be very wary of 
any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or 
offers of free company reports. If you receive any unsolicited 
investment advice:
l Make sure you get the correct name of the person and 
organisation
l Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA 
before getting involved by visiting www.fsa.gov.uk/
register/ 
l Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 
1234 or visiting www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk 
l If the calls persist, hang up
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be 
eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by 
completing an online form at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/
regulated/law/alerts/overseas.shtml 
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company 
endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be 
found on the CFEB website www.moneymadeclear.fsa.gov.uk. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011
www.dechra.com  136 PB
20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
The following is a glossary of a number of the terms and 
acronyms which can be found within this document.
Bioequivalence
The demonstration that the proposed formulation has the 
same biological effects as the pioneer product to which 
it is being compared. This is usually demonstrated by 
comparing blood concentrations of the active over time, but 
can be compared using a clinical endpoint (e.g. lowering of 
a worm count) for drugs that are not absorbed or for which 
blood levels cannot be determined.
Cortisol
A hormone which is made by the adrenal glands. Its 
production is increased during episodes of stress and it has 
many effects on the body. It helps regulate blood pressure, 
the immune system and helps balance the effect of insulin 
to keep the blood sugar at normal levels.
Cushing’s Syndrome
A condition caused by excess cortisol (see above) and is 
named after the physician who first described the condition 
in humans in the early twentieth century.
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Euthyroid
Euthyroid is the state of having normal thyroid gland function.
FDA
US Food and Drug Administration; a federal agency of the 
US Department of Health and Human Services.
Hyperthyroidism
Occurs when the thyroid glands produce excessive 
amounts of thyroid hormone. This causes an increase in the 
animal’s metabolism (the rate at which energy is burnt up).
Intertrigo
Refers to a bacterial, fungal or viral infection that has 
developed at the site of broken skin due to inflammation 
of body folds. This infection is common in dogs with folds, 
such as Pugs or Shar Peis. 
Malassezia
Yeasts that cause a secondary inflammatory skin disease. 
Malassezia is often found in otitis externa.
MHRA
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency; an 
executive agency of the Department of Health.
NSAID
Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug; essentially drugs 
which relieve pain, swelling, stiffness and inflammation. 
Equipalazone is the leading NSAID for the treatment of 
musculoskeletal disorders in the horse.
Otitis Externa
A condition which causes inflammation of the external ear 
canal (the tube between the outer ear and the ear drum).
Product Pipeline
This involves four stages which are as follows:
l Manufacturing — the part of the dossier which documents 
the quality, purity and physical characteristics of both the 
active ingredient and the final formulation (e.g. tablets, 
capsules, liquid). 
l Safety — the part of the dossier which documents the 
effects of the final formulation at above normal dosage 
levels in the intended species.  
l Efficacy — the part of the dossier which documents 
the effectiveness of the final formulation in the intended 
species. The studies may be controlled model studies or 
studies in animals with the naturally occurring disease. 
l Regulatory — the period of time that regulatory agencies 
take to review the various sections of the dossier. 
Staphylococcal Infections
Communicable conditions caused by the Staphylococcus 
type of bacteria and generally characterised by pyoderma or 
the formation of abscesses.
Surface Pyoderma
Pyoderma is the medical term used to denote infections of 
the skin caused by bacteria. Surface Pyoderma is a bacterial 
infection which is confined to the surface of the skin; one of 
the commonest types is known as Pyotraumatic Dermatitis 
(acute moist dermatitis, or “hot spots”). It is typified by localised 
itching, moist reddened skin patches and ulcerated lesions.
Glossary 20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15 20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Advisers
Auditor
KPMG­Audit­Plc
One­Snowhill­
Snow­Hill­Queensway
Birmingham
B4­6GH
Stockbroker & Financial Advisers
Investec­Bank­plc
2­Gr esham­Str eet
London
EC2V­7QP
 
Principal Bankers
Lloyds­Banking­Gr oup
2nd Floor
125­Colmor e­Row
Birmingham
B3­3SF
Lawyers
DLA­Piper­UK­LLP
V ictoria­Squar e­House
V ictoria­Squar e
Birmingham
B2­4DL
Registrars
Computershar e­Investor­Services­PLC
PO­Box­82
The­Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS13­8AE
Financial PR
Citigate Dewe Rogerson Limited
1 Wrens Court
Lower­Queen­Str eet
Birmingham
B72­1R T
Trademarks
T rademarks­appear­thr oughout­this­document­in­italics.­Dechra­and­the­Dechra­“D”­logo­ar e­r egister ed­trademarks­of 
Dechra­Pharmaceuticals­PLC.­The­Malaseb­trademark­is­under­licence­fr om­Dermcar e-V et­Pty .­Ltd. 20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15 20512-04 05/09/2011 Proof 15
Dechra­House
Jamage­Industrial­Estate
Talke Pits, Stoke-on-Trent
Staffordshire, ST7 1XW
England
T:­+44­(0)­1782­771100
F:­+44­(0)­1782­773366
E:­corporate.enquiries@dechra.com
Register ed­in­England­No.­3369634
www.dechra.com
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC    Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2011 
