 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
www.deltaplc.com
Delta plc
Bridewell Gate
9 Bridewell Place
London, EC4V 6AW
Tel: +44 (0)20 7842 6050
Fax: +44 (0)20 7842 6078
www.deltaplc.com
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463DELTAPLCCVR 7MM SPINE:Layout 1  26/3/08  09:43  Page 1 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Delta plc is an international group headquartered in the
UK and listed on the London Stock Exchange with
manufacturing operations employing over 2,500 people
in Australia, Asia, South Africa, the UK and the
United States.
Welcome to Delta plc
11.2%
to £266.4m (2006: £239.5m)
Revenue*
8.6%
to 13.9p (2006: 12.8p)
Earnings per share*
6.1%
to £21.0m (2006: £19.8m)
Profit after taxation*
Operational & Financial Highlights 01
Group at a Glance 02
Chairman’s Statement 04
Chief Executive’s Review 06
Financial Review 12
Board of Directors 14
Directors’ Report 15
Corporate Governance Report 20
Corporate Social Responsibility 24
Directors’ Remuneration Report 26
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 32
Independent Auditors’ Report 33
Consolidated Income Statement 34
Consolidated Balance Sheet 35
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 36
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 37
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 38
Independent Auditors’ Report 86
Individual Company Balance Sheet 87
Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements 88
Notice of Annual General Meeting 101
Shareholders’ Information 103
Financial Calendar & Advisers 107
Contents
Delta’s Business Segments:
Engineered Steel Products Galvanizing Services Manganese Materials
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
www.deltaplc.com
* Continuing, pre-exceptional, 2006 restated
14463DELTAPLCCVR 7MM SPINE:Layout 1  26/3/08  09:43  Page 2 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
 Revenue has increased 11% from £239.5 million to £266.4 million, whilst operating
profit from continuing businesses before exceptional items declined 7% from £19.0
million to £17.6 million.
 Profit after tax from continuing businesses before exceptional items increased 6% from
£19.8 million to £21.0 million, with a reduced effective tax rate from continuing
businesses before exceptional items of 17% (2006: 27%).
 Cash flow from operations before tax increased 115% from £12.5 million to £26.9
million. Net cash at the year end increased from £107.0 million to £128.9 million.
 Dividend for the year increased 11% from 4.5p to 5.0p.
 Engineered Steel Products operating profit increased from £14.7 million to £15.3 million,
on revenues that increased from £133.1 million to £147.4 million.
 Galvanizing Services operating profit reduced from £13.1 million to £12.3 million on
revenues that increased from £71.4 million to £84.5 million.
 Delta EMD incurred a pre-exceptional operating loss of £4.9 million (2006: £4.6 million),
and the decision to close the Australian plant during 2008 gave rise to a £13.9 million
pre-tax exceptional item.
Operational & Financial Highlights
Total Dividends per share (p)
05 06 07
restated restated
05 06 07
restated restated
05 06 07
restated restated
Net assets per share (p) Earnings per share* (p)
Contents / Operational & Financial Highlights
01
www.deltaplc.com
“The Group’s core businesses performed well during the year and provided improved earnings
per share and substantial cash flows. Investment in the Group’s core businesses also gained
pace with one acquisition completed and several investments in additional capacity now
under way.
The EMD market remained most difficult and the closure of Delta EMD’s Australia plant
should prevent future losses, provide an opportunity to realise value from these assets, and
assure Delta EMD’s South Africa plant more attractive market conditions.
Whilst the IAS 19 valuation of the Delta Pension Plan remains favourable, the plan remains
disproportionately large, and reducing the scale of the plan cost-effectively remains a priority
if possible in present market conditions.”
Results Commentary
3.5p
4.5p
5.0p
143.9p
135.4p
151.2p
9.1p
12.8p
13.9p
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 1 02
Group at a Glance
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
55%
Engineered Steel
Products
32%
Galvanizing
Services
13%
Manganese
Materials
BUSINESS DIVISIONS
Delta’s Engineered Steel Products businesses produce road safety barrier
systems, power transmission and distribution, lighting and
telecommunications poles, industrial grating and access systems, and
forged steel grinding media.
AUSTRALIA, ASIA, NEW ZEALAND AND THE UK
ENGINEERED STEEL PRODUCTS DIVISION
PRINCIPAL OPERATIONS
LOCATION
COMPANIES Ingal Civil Products
www.ingalcivil.com.au
Ingal Civil Products produces road safety
barriers including guardrail, wire rope safety
barriers and crash attenuation barriers.
INGAL EPS
www.ingaleps.com.au
Ingal EPS produces poles for
power transmission and distribution,
telecommunicatons and lighting.
Webforge
www.webforge.com.au
Webforge produces access systems including
grating, flooring, handrail and barriers, as well
as sunscreens, drainage gates and access
covers.
Webforge operates from eleven plants in Asia
Pacific including four plants in Australia, one in
New Zealand and six in Asia.
Donhad Pty Ltd
www.donhad.com.au
Donhad manufactures forged steel grinding
media for the mining industry and operates
from three plants in Australia, located in Perth,
Townsville and Newcastle. Delta plc holds 60%
of the outstanding shares of Donhad, with
MolyCop, the global leader in forged steel
grinding media and a subsidiary of the Scaw
Metals Group, holding the remaining 40%
shareholding.
Investment Tooling International Limited
www.iti-kirkby.co.uk
ITI operates from two sites in the United
Kingdom and manufactures a wide range of
steel tooling and moulds for use in commercial
and industrial applications.
% OF CONTINUING REVENUE
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 2 LOCATIONS
Engineered Steel Products
Galvanizing Services
Manganese Materials
Group at a Glance
03
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Delta’s hot-dip galvanizing services are provided from nine plants in
Australia, three in Asia, and five in the United States. Delta also
reclaims Zinc from ash and dross and produces Zinc alloys and oxides.
Industrial Galvanisers Corporation
Industrial Galvanisers Corporation operates hot-dip galvanizing
plants in Australia, Asia and the South East of the USA. Galvanizing
provides a superior protection against the corrosion of steel
products, and Industrial Galvanizing facilities are designed to
galvanize a variety of customers’ products, including large
structural steel, fabricated steel products and smaller
manufactured steel products.
Industrial Galvanizers Australia
www.ingal.com.au
Industrial Galvanizers America
www.indgalv.net
Industrial Galvanizers Asia
www.asia.indgalv.com.au
AusZinc Metals & Alloys
www.auszinc.com.au
AusZinc Metals & Alloys is an Australia-based business that
reclaims Zinc from the by-products of the Group’s Australian
galvanizing operations and recycles them to produce a variety of
Zinc alloys and oxides.
AUSTRALIA, ASIA PACIFIC AND UNITED STATES
GALVANIZING SERVICES
Delta’s interests in Manganese Materials businesses include Delta
EMD, a leading global supplier of Electrolytic Manganese Dioxide for
use in the manufacture of disposable batteries, and Manganese
Metal Company, a leading global supplier of manganese metal for use
in the production of steel, aluminium and electronic components.
Delta EMD
www.deltaemd.com
Delta EMD is a leading global supplier of electrolytic manganese
dioxide (EMD) used for the manufacture of disposable batteries
worldwide.
Delta EMD’s plants are located at Nelspruit, South Africa and
Newcastle, Australia.
Delta EMD is owned by Delta Electrical Industries Limited (DEI), a
South African company listed on the Johannesburg Stock
Exchange. Delta plc holds 56.4% of DEI’s outstanding shares.
Manganese Metal Company
www.mmc.co.za
Manganese Metal Company (MMC) is a leading global supplier of
electrolytic manganese metal used in the production of steel,
aluminium and electronic components. MMC produces only
selenium-free electrolytic manganese — the purest form of
manganese — to meet the specialised needs of its customers
around the world.
MMC has a production plant located in Nelspruit, South Africa.
MMC is a member of the BHP Billiton Group, and Delta plc owns
a 49% shareholding.
SOUTH AFRICA AND AUSTRALIA
MANGANESE MATERIALS
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 3 04
Chairman’s Statement
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
OVERVIEW OF 2007 RESULTS
The Group’s overall financial performance in the year was satisfactory. Profit
after tax from continuing businesses before exceptional items was up from
£19.8 million to £21.0 million, an increase of 6.1%. The results were
assisted by a solid performance at our Engineered Steel Products
businesses, a continued strong performance at the Galvanizing Services
businesses somewhat offset by the disappointing result at Delta EMD. Todd
Atkinson’s review covers the operations in detail.
Exceptional items include £13.9 million of business closure costs arising
from our exit from EMD production in Australia. Earlier in the year the same
business sold surplus land which generated a profit on sale of £1.8 million.
We have also partially reversed the impairment of our 49% holding in MMC
as that business continues to enjoy an improved trading performance and
prospects.
The Group ended the year with £128.9 million of net cash, which is
available for profitable investment in the Group, and also to fund any de-
risking measures relating to the Delta Pension Plan which the Board
considers to be appropriate.
The Group’s IAS 19 pension position showed a small surplus which has not
been reflected in the balance sheet due to the uncertainty over
recoverability. The triennial valuation undertaken at 5 April 2006 was
completed in 2007 and did not result in the Group needing to make any
cash contributions over and above the normal service cost for the active
employees. However, the longer term economic cost of the Plan is likely to
exceed the IAS 19 total liabilities.
KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2008
The Group has completed its first acquisition since 2003. This important
step signifies the culmination of a great deal of effort in making sure the
Group is well placed to pursue acquisition opportunities as they arise.
Further acquisitions during 2008 are anticipated. We have also approved
significant capital expenditure in our businesses for additional capacity,
especially in the Australian Galvanizing businesses where we are close to
capacity and the market continues to provide growth opportunities.
The Manganese Materials businesses, namely Delta EMD and MMC, have
enjoyed differing fortunes. In Delta EMD recent losses incurred and the
ongoing impact that current anti-dumping cases may have on the ability to
access certain markets led to the decision to close the Australian plant. This
should improve EMD’s ongoing trading performance, although the
marketplace needs to adjust to new pricing levels following significant ore
price and other cost inflation before we are confident of achieving good
economic returns. MMC, on the other hand, has seen its profitability
improve as world pricing of its core product has increased and the outlook
for MMC looks more positive.
The size of the Delta pension scheme relative to the Group’s market
capitalisation remains an issue that requires a long-term solution which
works for all stakeholders. Considerable effort has been expended in 2007
assessing the emerging alternative market for pension buy-outs. Whilst the
Board remains positive about the emergence of alternatives which challenge
the traditional insurance buy-out, the pricing of these options remains very
significant relative to the Group’s cash resources. We are hopeful of making
progress but any decision to proceed with a transfer of all or part of the Plan
liabilities will be underpinned by rigorous analysis to make sure that the
benefits outweigh the costs.
Engineered Steel Products
Access systems.
Steve Marshall Chairman
Galvanizing Services
Reclaimed Zinc.
Manganese Materials
Manganese flakes.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 4 Chairman’s Statement
05
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
BOARD AND EMPLOYEES
Kristen van Riel stepped down from the Board in October following the
disposal by the Stern Family Foundation of their substantial shareholding.
I would like to thank Kristen for his contribution to the Board since he was
appointed.
As with any Group the success of our businesses is brought about by the
many employees we have across the range of businesses in the disparate
locations in which we operate. I would like to thank them all for their
contribution to the results of the Group and to especially thank them for the
continuing efforts to maintain a safe and healthy working environment.
Jim Simpson has successfully run our non-EMD Australian businesses over
the last few years and will retire in 2008. I wish Jim well in his retirement
and thank him for his tremendous contribution to the Group. He is replaced
by Paul McNicholl, who joins us with a wealth of relevant steel industry
experience, and who I am sure will continue the success we have enjoyed.
We have also recently appointed David Thompson who joins us from Deloitte
Australia to head up our Corporate Development efforts in Australia and
Asia, two principal areas we wish to expand both organically and by
acquisition.
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.4p per share (2006: 3.0p),
resulting in a full year 2007 dividend of 5.0p (2006: 4.5p).
Steve Marshall
Chairman
14 March 2008
“The Group has completed its first
acquisition since 2003. This
important step signifies the
culmination of a great deal of effort in
making sure the Group is well placed
to pursue acquisition opportunities as
they arise. Further acquisitions during
2008 are anticipated.”
Engineered Steel Products
Sunscreen products.
Galvanizing Services
Galvanizing Zinc.
Manganese Materials
Manganese metal.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 5 06
Chief Executive’s Review
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
2007 RESULTS
The Group’s profit after tax for the year from continuing operations and
before exceptional items improved by 6.1% to £21.0 million (2006: £19.8
million), providing basic earnings per share from continuing operations and
before exceptional items of 13.9 pence (2006: 12.8 pence).
The Group’s total profit included several exceptional items including a £13.9
million charge related to closure of Delta EMD’s Australia plant, as well as
gains on sales of businesses and assets. Including exceptional items and
discontinued operations, the Group’s profit for the year attributable to equity
holders was £21.8 million (2006: £6.3 million), providing basic earnings
per ordinary share attributable to equity shareholders of 14.2 pence (2006:
4.1 pence).
The Group’s year end net cash balance increased from £107.0 million to
£128.9 million.
REVIEW OF 2007 TRADING AT THE GROUP’S CORE BUSINESSES
Engineered Steel Products
The Group’s Engineered Steel Products businesses performed well during
the year and improved upon the prior year’s performance. Operating profit
increased by 4.1% to £15.3 million (2006: £14.7 million) on continuing
revenue that increased by 10.7% to £147.4 million (2006: £133.1 million).
Ingal Civil Products (ICP) performed well with improved revenue and a
successful move to a leased facility as well as the commissioning of new
more automated roll forming equipment and a bespoke galvanizing facility.
One-off costs associated with the move, commissioning and product
development reduced operating profit from the prior year as expected. The
remediation of ICP’s former site proved more difficult and expensive than
expected and has delayed the sale of that site. The Australian government’s
investment in infrastructure continued, and highway refurbishment and
safety remained a priority. ICP was well positioned to participate in the
growing market, and ICP’s new plant and equipment began to provide ICP
further competitive advantages. Product and business development efforts
also progressed and afforded ICP entry into new market segments. Whilst
competition from Asian imports remained, the market continued to
appreciate ICP’s product quality and service, and the total cost advantages
afforded Asian producers waned.
Ingal EPS also enjoyed good market conditions with expenditure on power,
telecommunication and lighting pole products remaining strong. Ingal EPS
maintained its attractive market position and improved revenue by enlarging
its position in more highly engineered segments and sourcing product from
lower cost producers in Asia. Margins reduced
somewhat with a different sales mix, increased price competition and
increased production costs. Whilst sourcing product produced offshore has
provided Ingal EPS attractive opportunities for reducing the cost of sales for
engineered products, imports also have increased price competition for
standard products. The cost advantages of sourcing from China varied
during the year with changes in offshore steel and production costs as well
as export duties, and Ingal EPS optimised the benefits of both local and
offshore production.
Webforge Australia’s volumes and revenue softened modestly during the
year with a levelling-off of the market demand for industrial gratings. Some
large sales opportunities were deferred as construction projects were slowed
by limited construction capacity, and competition heightened from local
producers as well as from imports, particularly for standard gratings.
Margins reduced modestly with price competition and increased costs for
steel and galvanizing. Nonetheless, Webforge Australia’s financial
performance was very good with revenues that have increased substantially
over the past three years.
Webforge Asia performed exceptionally well during the year, with improved
volumes and revenue. Volumes were enhanced by several large projects,
and business development efforts in Vietnam and the Middle East
progressed very well. The capacity afforded by last year’s investment in
additional forge welder capacity in China was utilised and a further forge
welder has been ordered. Whilst competition remained strong throughout
Asia, substantially increased steel costs were recovered through price
increases, allowing Webforge Asia to maintain good margins and profit
throughout the year.
Donhad’s volumes sold and revenue improved during the year, with supply
to several mines restored following trials of Chinese grinding media.
Movements in steel costs were addressed in large part through selling price
movements, and contribution margins were stable. Donhad’s good result
belies a year of significant change; Donhad’s domestic steel supplier,
OneSteel, acquired Donhad’s domestic competitor, ComSteel, and mines
continued to trial Chinese product in efforts to qualify adequate supply for
future growth and to enhance price competition. Donhad’s quality and
service remained a competitive advantage during the year, whilst increased
steel costs in China, changes in export rebates and duty, and other cost
pressures affected the relative cost of Chinese product.
Market conditions for Investment Tooling International (ITI), the Group’s
remaining business in the United Kingdom, remained difficult. Cost savings
implemented last year reduced ITI’s trading loss, and working capital
reductions assured favourable cash flows.
Galvanizing Services
The Group’s Galvanizing Services businesses performed very well during
the year. Revenue from continuing operations increased by 18.3% to £84.5
million (2006: £71.4 million) with selling prices that reflected the higher
cost of zinc stocks.
Zinc prices again moved dramatically during the year from approximately
US$4,000 to US$2,300 per metric tonne, almost completing the cycle
commenced at the beginning of 2006 when Zinc prices were US$1,900
per metric tonne. Consequently, the FIFO metal profits that enhanced 2006
operating profit were not repeated during the year, and some FIFO metal
losses were suffered. Nonetheless, good market conditions afforded the
selling prices necessary to offset FIFO metal losses as well as
“The Group’s core businesses remain
attractive platforms for investment.
During the year an effective network
was established to identify and assess
investment opportunities and
considerable progress was made.”
Todd Atkinson Chief Executive
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 6 Chief Executive’s Review
07
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
inflationary cost increases, and operating profit from continuing operations
remained very good, declining only by 6.1% to £12.3 million (2006: £13.1
million). The decline in Zinc prices also reduced the value of Galvanizing
Services’ Zinc stocks.
Galvanizing volumes in Australia were restrained by capacity and the
additional capacity added during 2006 was utilised with demand remaining
strong at all locations. Ownership changes amongst competitors and
additional market capacity did not adversely affect market conditions, and
selling prices afforded the recovery of higher priced Zinc. The development
of a greenfield site in Melbourne is under way and the first phases for
refurbishment of three other plants were completed at year end. Further
incremental improvements in operational efficiencies were achieved during
the year, offsetting increased operating costs and providing very good
financial results.
Galvanizing volumes softened modestly in the United States with the
absence of the large projects that enhanced volumes during 2006. A
softening home construction market substantially reduced steel lintel sales
and related galvanizing. Market conditions remained competitive but
afforded the recovery of the higher cost of Zinc. Operational efficiencies and
reduced natural gas costs also assisted margins, and US Galvanizing
operating profit improved from last year.
Asian galvanizing volumes were mixed, with Malaysian volumes improving
substantially, Indonesian volumes remaining very good and Vietnam
volumes declining further. Market conditions afforded selling prices to
recover the higher cost of Zinc, except in Vietnam, and operating profit
improved significantly in Malaysia and Indonesia. Those businesses have
been reclassified as continuing and the Group’s shareholdings in them will
be retained and managed by the Group’s Asian-based management team
responsible for Webforge Asia. The Group’s shareholding in the Vietnam
galvanizing operation has been sold.
AusZinc’s financial performance was more directly affected by the
substantial decline in the cost and selling price of Zinc. AusZinc’s input
costs and selling prices are closely tied to the LME Zinc price; consequently,
a substantial decline in the LME Zinc price exposes AusZinc to significantly
reduced margins on stock produced with higher cost Zinc. A combination
of reduced margins and the absence of the FIFO metal profits enjoyed
during 2006 resulted in a substantial reduction in AusZinc’s operating profit,
notwithstanding good volumes. Galvanizing Zinc volumes sold improved
modestly, whilst the export sale of zinc oxides improved substantially. The
consolidation of the agricultural fertiliser market as well as the significantly
higher cost of fertilisers containing Zinc resulted in a further reduction in
volumes sold of agricultural fertiliser grade zinc oxide.
REVIEW OF 2007 TRADING AT THE GROUP’S MANGANESE
MATERIALS BUSINESSES
Delta EMD
2007 was another difficult year for Delta EMD, and a further pre-exceptional
operating loss of £(4.9) million resulted (2006: £(4.6) million). Whilst Delta
EMD’s local currency revenues improved, the weakening of the South
African rand against the pound sterling reduced reported revenues by 1.4%
to £34.5 million (2006: £35.0 million).
Demand for EMD in the US, Europe and Japan has declined with battery
production migrating to China and the use of larger cells declining in favour
of small cells that require less EMD. The EMD market remains oversupplied
with price competition whilst the cost of manganese ore and
ENGINEERED STEEL PRODUCTS
55%
Engineered Steel
Products
32%
Galvanizing
Services
13%
Manganese
Materials
% of Continuing Revenue
Delta’s Engineered Steel Products businesses produce road safety barrier
systems, power transmission and distribution, lighting and telecommunications
poles, industrial grating and access systems, and forged steel grinding media.
Top: Architectural sunscreen.
Left: Forged steel grinding media.
Right: Power transmission pole.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 7 08
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
other inputs continue to increase substantially, resulting in poor margins.
The profitability of EMD producers also continues to vary as a result of
movements in the value of the US dollar against local currency production
costs.
The operating losses incurred during the year were due to under-recovery
of production overheads at Delta EMD’s Australian operation following the
decision to reduce production in order to reduce stock levels. In addition,
the devaluation of the US dollar against the Australian dollar, operational
inefficiencies and one-off costs associated with defending anti-dumping
investigations contributed to the operating losses.
Production costs at Delta EMD’s Australian plant are higher than at the South
African plant, and the performance of the Australian plant has been
adversely affected for some time by the strong Australian dollar. Future sales
opportunities for the Australian plant also will be limited as a consequence
of the expected outcomes of the US and Japanese anti-dumping
investigations. As a result, production at the Australian operation will cease
and the facility will be closed and the assets liquidated. Closure of the plant
will prevent future losses and will generate cash.
Closure costs of £13.9 million were included in this year’s accounts in
respect of the Australian plant and include the impairment of plant assets,
stock, redundancy payments and estimated restoration and rehabilitation
costs. The value of the land at the Australian plant and residue disposal site
remain at book value due to the uncertainties associated with realisable
value once restored and rehabilitated. Following the decommissioning of
the Australian plant, the sale of the plant assets and land is expected to be
complete within two years and could result in a profit on sale. Opportunities
for accelerating the disposal of these assets, reducing the estimated
restoration and rehabilitation costs and realising gains on the sale of the
assets and land are being pursued. The liquidation proceeds are anticipated
to fund the costs to be incurred in decommissioning the plant, undertaking
the required restoration and rehabilitation of land and disposing the assets
and land.
Manganese Metal Company (MMC)
Following substantial losses and the then forthcoming closure of MMC’s
Krugersdorp plant in 2006, the Group impaired its share of MMC’s net
assets. Consequently, MMC’s financial results are not reflected in the
Group’s accounts. Given MMC’s substantially improved financial position
and performance in 2007, a further valuation has been undertaken and the
impairment of the Group’s share of MMC’s net assets has been partially
reversed in this year’s accounts. Nonetheless, it is not anticipated that
MMC’s financial results will be reflected in the Group’s consolidated income
statement until 2009.
Demand for electrolytic manganese metal from steel and aluminium makers
remained strong during 2007 and selling prices increased substantially as
supply from MMC’s Chinese competitors become less reliable and more
costly. MMC enjoyed good volumes and substantially improved selling
prices, which provided attractive margins, good operating profit and cash
flow. MMC’s borrowings reduced substantially during the year, and good
progress was made toward the restoration and rehabilitation of the
Krugersdorp plant. Environmental assessments of the Krugersdorp plant
site are ongoing and will determine the remediation required, for which
provisions were made in 2005.
CASH FLOW AND BALANCES
The Group’s cash generated from operations before tax totalled £26.9
million (2006: £12.5 million) and reflects favourable working capital
movements. The value of Zinc stocks held by our Galvanizing Services
businesses reduced with the lower cost of Zinc, and Delta EMD’s inventories
reduced following the decision to limit production at Delta EMD’s Australian
plant.
A total of £0.4 million was paid in resolution of matters related to the Group’s
large UK-based businesses disposed from 1998 to 2003. These matters
continue to be resolved efficiently and at year end the provisions remaining
for such matters were reduced from £4.7 million to £1.9 million.
The Group’s net cash balance increased to £128.9 million at year end
(2006: £107.0 million), of which £113.4 million is held in wholly owned
subsidiaries.
MANAGEMENT RESOURCE
The Group has been fortunate to retain and attract capable employees
throughout the Group notwithstanding very tight labour markets. The year’s
success reflects their efforts and enthusiasm for successfully developing
the Group’s businesses.
Since assuming responsibility for the Group’s Galvanizing Services and
Engineered Steel Products businesses in October 2003, Jim Simpson has
managed substantial improvement in the performance of those businesses.
Management teams also have developed and investments in those
businesses have commenced.
Paul McNicholl has joined the Group as Managing Director – Australia. Paul
previously served as General Manager of the Steel & Tube division of
OneSteel Limited and as President of Tubemakers Steel. Paul has assumed
responsibility for the Group’s Australian-based Galvanizing Services and
Engineered Steel Products businesses and is based in Brisbane.
David Wong who has successfully managed Webforge Asia has accepted
appointment as Managing Director – Asia, and in addition to Webforge
Asia’s operations, David will assume management responsibility for the
Group’s galvanizing operations in Malaysia and Indonesia. David will be
based in Kuala Lumpur.
Sandy Robertson who has successfully managed the recent successes of US
Galvanizing will serve in the role of Managing Director – North America.
Following an orderly transition of his responsibilities, Jim will retire from the
Group, and the divisional managing directors will each report to me. We
“The development of a greenfield site
in Melbourne is under way and the first
phases for refurbishment of three other
plants were completed at year end.”
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 8 Chief Executive’s Review
09
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
thank Jim for his seventeen years of service to the Group and in particular
for his most recent efforts and accomplishments.
DELTA PENSION PLAN
The triennial actuarial valuation of the Delta Pension Plan (the “Plan”) as at
5 April 2006 was concluded during the year and determined the value of
the Plan’s liabilities to be £663.5 million, resulting in an actuarial deficit of
£5.4 million.
The valuation was determined using a discount rate estimating the
investment return expected as at the valuation date for high quality
corporate bonds with durations similar to the Plan’s liabilities. Earlier
valuations used a higher discount rate reflecting the Plan’s investment
strategy. More conservative mortality tables (the PxA92 c2020/c2006 tables)
also were selected for use by the Plan actuary. A recent analysis of the
Plan’s mortality experience suggests that members are not currently living
as long as implied by these tables, so there is implicit allowance for some
future increases in longevity.
During the year only contributions necessary to cover pension benefit
accruals for the Plan’s few active members were required, and no
supplemental cash contributions were made. The Plan’s modest deficit was
expected to be restored by the Plan’s 10% return seeking assets which are
expected to generate returns greater than the discount rate.
The Plan’s IAS 19 net surplus at year end was £9.5 million (2006: £0.2
million net deficit). This surplus has not been recognised because of
uncertainty over its recoverability. The IAS 19 total liabilities were
determined with a 5.8% discount rate, which estimates the year end
investment return for AA corporate bond with durations similar to the Plan
liabilities. The mortality tables used for the triennial actuarial valuation also
were used for determination of the 2007 IAS 19 liabilities, and are more
prudent than the table used for the 2006 IAS 19 determination.
The pension note included in these accounts includes estimates of the
Plan’s IAS 19 total liabilities determined with different discount rates. As
indicated by those sensitivity analyses, the estimated value of the Plan’s IAS
19 total liabilities increases substantially as the discount rate employed
approaches a risk-free rate of return. A “risk-free” valuation of the Plan
liabilities, i.e. a valuation that employs a risk-free discount rate, takes into
account the possible effects of inflation on annual pension increases and
uses mortality tables that allow for possible further increases in longevity,
would suggest a substantially greater value for the Plan’s liabilities.
During the year, a thorough investigation of possible means for reducing
the scale and risks associated with the Plan was undertaken. The
investigation included consideration of insurance buy-outs as well as full
and partial transfers of the Plan’s liabilities to third parties. Third party
providers generally employ risk-free valuation methodologies and the cost
of insurance buy-outs and liability transfers also includes the provider’s cost
of capital and profit requirements. Because insurance providers’ cost of
capital and profit requirements are substantial, the cost of insurance buy-
outs averaged approximately 130% of the Plan’s IAS 19 total liabilities. The
cost of capital and profit requirements of other providers are less and allow
solutions for the Plan that could be cost-effective.
GALVANIZING SERVICES
% of Continuing Revenue
Delta’s hot-dip galvanizing services are provided from nine plants in Australia,
three in Asia, and five in the United States. Delta also reclaims Zinc from ash
and dross and produces zinc alloys and oxides.
Top: A hot-dip galvanizing plant.
Left: Reclaimed Zinc.
Right: Zinc alloys.
55%
Engineered Steel
Products
32%
Galvanizing
Services
13%
Manganese
Materials
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 9 10
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
The Group is now engaged in exclusive discussions with the Plan trustee
and a particular provider to determine an appropriate structure and terms
and conditions for the transfer of some or all of the Plan’s liabilities to the
provider. The Pension Regulator has been advised of the proposed transfer
and will be consulted throughout. The cost of the proposal depends upon
several market conditions; specifically interest and inflation swap rates,
which determine the value of the Plan liabilities, and the value of the Plan’s
assets. We expect to conclude whether a transfer is possible and cost-
effective in the near term.
We also have analysed the benefits of an enhanced value transfer scheme,
through which deferred participants would be afforded an enhanced value
to transfer their pension benefits from the Plan to another scheme. The
Group would fund the enhanced value directly as a means for reducing the
scale and risks associated with the Plan. Whether to implement such a
scheme will be decided following our decision in respect of a transfer.
The Plan trustees have decided upon a revised investment strategy that
includes asset allocation benchmarks of 10% for return seeking assets and
90% of liability matching assets. The trustees have prepared for migration
of the Plan assets to the new strategy and have delayed the migration whilst
awaiting the possible transfer of the Plan’s liabilities and assets to a third
party.
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT
The Group’s core businesses remain attractive platforms for investment.
During the year an effective network was established to identify and assess
investment opportunities and considerable progress was made. Investments
in a greenfield galvanizing plant and the refurbishment of three other
Australian galvanizing plants are under way, and decisions to invest in one
or more greenfield Webforge plants, as well as in additional capacity at
existing Webforge plants, will be made shortly. Investment in organic
development opportunities also have been made at Ingal Civil Products and
AusZinc.
The acquisition of Hi-Light Industries Pty Ltd has been completed. Whilst
small, the acquisition marks the beginning of the Group’s strategic
development through the acquisition of businesses that are closely related
to the Group’s existing businesses. The seeds cultivated during 2007 should
provide more acquisitions during the coming year, and David Thompson
has been appointed Director of Corporate Development to provide additional
resource for those efforts. David has worked in corporate development for
several years in Australia and will be based in Brisbane. The efforts made
during 2007 and the network established in Australia, Asia and the US
continue to identify attractive investment opportunities, several of which are
currently being pursued.
For the Group’s size, the geographic spread and diversity of the Group’s
businesses remain broad, and the overhead costs associated with the Group’s
historic structure, UK listing, and Delta Pension Plan remain high. Whilst those
costs continue to be reduced, they cannot be eliminated until management
resource is better aligned with the Group’s core businesses. During the year,
efforts will continue to focus the Group’s strategy upon our core businesses,
and the Group’s historic structure will be further simplified so that management
resource can be better aligned.
The Group’s profit, cash flow and underlying value are more than adequate
to support the Delta Pension Plan; nonetheless, the scale and risks
associated with the Plan remain substantial relative to the Group’s market
capitalisation. A better balance between the Plan’s liabilities and the Group’s
market capitalisation can be achieved by developing the Group’s businesses
and making further investments, by transferring some or all of the Plan’s
liabilities to a third party, or a combination of the two. The Group’s
investment strategy remains to invest in businesses that are closely related
to the Group’s existing businesses and through which value can be created
with our existing businesses. Consequently, developing the Group’s
businesses and making further investments alone is not likely to provide a
better balance in the near term given the size of the Group’s core
businesses. Only through a transfer of Plan liabilities to a third party can a
better balance be achieved in the near term.
Consequently, the benefits of transferring some or all of the Plan’s liabilities
to a third party remain attractive and we recognise that the appropriate
measure for the cost-effectiveness of a liability transfer should not refer only
to the Plan’s IAS 19 surplus or deficit. A decision to invest in a solution for the
Plan also should consider the risks avoided by that investment, i.e. the risks
associated with investment of the Plan’s assets, inflation and increased
longevity, which remain material relative to the Group’s equity. A resolution of
the Plan also would clarify the Group’s equity value.
Our focus will remain on developing the Group’s core businesses and making
further investments, as well as reducing the geographic spread and diversity
of the Group’s businesses, simplifying the Group’s historic structure, and
aligning our management resource more effectively with our core businesses.
2008 PROSPECTS
Core Businesses
The Group’s Galvanizing Services and Engineered Steel Products
businesses are relatively well positioned to weather the possibility of a global
economic slowdown. The geographic footprint of our core businesses mostly
encompasses better positioned economies and the dependence of our core
businesses upon consumer spending and residential real estate is limited.
Infrastructure spending and investment in mining is expected to remain
strong in Australia, and spend on infrastructure and industrial capacity is
expected to continue at reasonable levels in Asia. Whilst the outlook for the
US economy is less certain, only a small portion of US Galvanizing’s volumes
are tied to consumer spending or residential real estate and public
expenditure on infrastructure is not expected to reduce in the near term.
The Group’s results were affected in 2006 and 2007 by substantial
movements in the cost of Zinc and would be similarly affected during 2008
by further movements. Early indications suggest greater stability in the cost
of Zinc at levels below year-end stock values, which will require stable selling
prices to recover the higher cost of Zinc purchased last year. Steel prices
also are expected to be relatively stable and variances in prices for steel
supplied from different geographies have reduced, providing less advantage
to offshore competitors.
Competition with products imported from China continues to shape many of
the markets in which our core businesses participate. The cost advantages
afforded Chinese producers continue to reduce and changes in export rebates
and taxes have further reduced the advantages of exporting from China.
Whilst the Australian dollar remains strong, the Chinese renminbi continues
“We expect further progress during
2008 with the Group moving forward
with investments made in the
Group’s core businesses as well as
from acquisitions.”
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 10 Chief Executive’s Review
11
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
to strengthen against most currencies, reducing another historic advantage for
Chinese imports. Consequently, our core businesses are expected to compete
effectively against import competition.
The investments underway in our core businesses will not provide immediate
growth given the time required for construction of new capacity; acquisitions,
however, are expected to enhance earnings more immediately.
Delta EMD
In late February, the US claimant in the US anti-dumping investigation made
a further submission to the Department of Commerce seeking the
imposition of a punitive duty on all shipments of Australian EMD into the US
since late December 2007. The imposition of this punitive duty is expected
to be announced on 19 March 2008 in connection with the preliminary
determination on the antidumping matter by the Department of Commerce
and to be levied shortly thereafter. Delta EMD has disputed the US
claimant’s submission, but has been advised that the Department of
Commerce will most likely provisionally impose the punitive duty and require
the posting of a bond by Delta EMD to secure possible payment of the
punitive duty pending final determination of the matter by the International
Trade Commission in September 2008. At this stage it is not possible to
determine the amount of punitive duty that may be payable.
Following the closure of Delta EMD’s Australian plant during March 2008,
the demand for product produced at Delta EMD’s South African plant is
expected to be adequate.
Manganese ore prices will increase substantially in line with the recently
announced increase in excess of 300% in the Japanese benchmark price.
The substantially increased selling prices proposed by Delta EMD for 2008
will have to be increased further to recover the higher cost of manganese
ore.
Recent load shedding of electrical power in South Africa has disrupted
production at our South African plant and is likely to do so for some time,
resulting in reduced production. Existing stocks are expected to be
adequate to fulfil supply arrangements during the year.
Improved sales volumes and selling prices are expected to allow Delta
EMD’s South Africa plant to trade profitably. The Australian operation also
is expected to trade profitably with the sale of that plant’s limited 2008
production and remaining stocks. Overheads will be reduced as our
Australian operations are wound down.
Manganese Metal Company
The manganese metal market is expected to remain strong, and MMC’s
market position is expected to improve with supply of competitive product
from China remaining less reliable and becoming increasingly costly. MMC’s
production is likely to be limited and disrupted by inadequate supply of
electrical power in South Africa. Consequently, MMC is not likely to realise
the full market opportunity present. Nonetheless, market selling prices are
expected to provide MMC attractive margins, operating profit and cash flow,
provided further price increases allow full recovery of manganese ore cost
increases.
In summary, the financial performance of the Group core businesses during
2007 was pleasing although dampened by continued losses at Delta EMD.
Good progress also was made toward the development of the Group, whilst
considerable efforts were made to investigate cost-effective solutions for the
Delta Pension Plan. We expect further progress during 2008 with the Group
moving forward with investments made in the Group’s core businesses as
well as from acquisitions.
Todd Atkinson
Chief Executive
14 March 2008
MANGANESE MATERIALS
% of Continuing Revenue
Delta EMD is a leading global supplier of electrolytic manganese dioxide (EMD)
used in the manufacture of disposable batteries worldwide. Manganese Metal
Company (MMC) is a leading global supplier of manganese metal used in the
production of steel, aluminium and electronic components.
Top: Manganese briquettes.
Left: Electrolytic manganese dioxide is used in batteries.
Right: A manganese materials production plant.
55%
Engineered Steel
Products
32%
Galvanizing
Services
13%
Manganese
Materials
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 11 12
Financial Review
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
INCOME STATEMENT — PRESENTATION
The Group’s Malaysian and Indonesian galvanizing businesses have been
reclassified within continuing operations with comparatives restated
accordingly. Additionally, within discontinued the results of an Australian
Engineered Steel Products business, Machin & Ewen, that, as reported
elsewhere, was disposed in January 2007 and Vingal Industries Co Ltd, an
Asian Galvanizing Services business, which was disposed of in November
2007.
The Group’s Consolidated Income Statement also reflects a number of
exceptional items that have been separately disclosed in order to provide
increased clarity to the performance of the Group.
The exceptional items within continuing operations were (see note 7):
(i) A £1.8 million profit on the sale of surplus land at Delta EMD in
Australia in the second half of the year. The consideration was £3.3
million.
(ii) A £13.9 million charge in relation to the decision to cease production
and close the Delta EMD facility in Australia. The charge includes the
write-off of goodwill, the impairment of plant and equipment and
stocks to their recoverable amounts, redundancy costs and the site
restoration and rehabilitation costs of the operation’s two sites.
Separately included within the tax charge is a write-off of a net deferred
tax asset related to the Australian operation.
(iii) A £2.1 million credit reflecting the partial reversal of the impairment in
the Group’s investment in Manganese Metal Company (MMC). MMC
has enjoyed improved profitability and cash flows. The Group will
continue to reflect this improvement in trading and prospects as the
MMC net assets increase as a reversal of the original impairment
charge and thereafter as an associate income stream.
The exceptional items within discontinued operations largely comprised:
(i) In the year we completed the sale of a number of businesses which
generated a profit on sale of £2.0 million. As noted above, Machin &
Ewen was sold early in the year giving rise to a £0.3 million gain on
sale. Vingal, our part owned Vietnamese galvanizing business, was sold
in November giving rise to no gain or loss on sale. We also completed
the sale of a German Company which was a former holding company
when the Group had European operations. The gain on sale was £1.7
million arising from the potential access to tax assets within the
Company.
(ii) £3.1 million credit reflecting progress made on legacy liabilities for
amounts less than that previously provided.
(iii) Delta Electrical Industries (DEI) received a tax refund related to tax
previously paid in relation to a disposed of business and as such the
repayment of £1.5 million has been reflected as an exceptional credit.
OPERATIONS
The Group revenue from continuing operations increased from £239.5 million
to £266.4 million. Operating profit before exceptional items, from continuing
operations decreased from £19.0 million to £17.6 million. The translational
impact of foreign exchange rates on the 2007 operating profit on the same
basis (as compared to 2006 rates) was a reduction of £0.1 million.
Galvanizing Services operating profit from continuing operations at £12.3
million was a slight reduction on 2006, £13.1 million. The price of Zinc in the
year decreased substantially, the reverse of the experience in 2006. The FIFO
related profits in 2006 were not repeatable and in some instances we suffered
FIFO related losses. The maintenance of selling prices afforded the
businesses the ability to recovery inflationary cost pressures and the higher
prices of Zinc purchased in the previous periods.
The stock turn can vary across the operating units with stock turns typically
of 3 to 8 months. As a consequence of this and the reduction in the market
price of Zinc in the year, the average cost of our stocks decreased
throughout the year and released cash in working capital to maintain
virtually the same physical stocks at the end of 2007 to those at the
beginning of 2006.
Engineered Steel Products continuing operating profit of £15.3 million
showed considerable improvement over 2006 operating profit of £14.7
million. Webforge Asia enjoyed a very good year, benefiting from some very
large projects. Donhad also saw a solid performance with a strong second
half. Our Australian-based Galvanized Steel Product businesses continue to
enjoy a reasonably buoyant economy, and although imports remain a threat,
the increasing costs of Chinese manufacturers and our ability to provide
superior quality and service continue to afford us a substantial competitive
advantage.
The Manganese Materials result was disappointing with an operating loss of
£4.9 million before exceptional items compared to an operating loss in 2006
of £4.6 million. As noted elsewhere in the reports, the market remains very
difficult and the decision to close the Australian plant will focus the business
on the South African facility. Within the result in 2007 we incurred under-
recovered overheads following the decision to reduce production in Australia
rather than build stocks. We also incurred £0.8 million in costs relating to
three anti-dumping actions brought against the two plants.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Earnings per share from continuing business on a pre-exceptional basis has
increased 9% from 12.8p to 13.9p. On a pre-exceptional basis for
Jon Kempster Finance Director
Engineered Steel Products
Floor grating and handrail
systems.
Galvanizing Services
An engineered steel pole being
hot-dip galvanized.
Manganese Materials
MMC produces selenium-free
99.9% grade manganese metal.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 12 Financial Review
13
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
the continuing and discontinued operations the earnings per share
increased from 13.4p to 13.8p. Earnings per share on an IAS 33, post-
exceptional basis declined to 10.5p from 14.4p with the closure costs of
the Australian Delta EMD a significant part of the deterioration; on a
continuing and discontinued, post-exceptional basis earnings per share is
14.2p versus 4.1p for 2006, with 2006 influenced by the EU fine expensed
in the year.
INTEREST
The Group’s net interest income (before the IAS 19 pension net credit and
exceptional interest costs) was flat at £6.6 million.
The IAS 19 net pension credit reduced significantly from £1.8 million to
£0.7 million.
TAXATION
The Group’s 2007 net tax expense (including deferred tax), excluding
exceptional items and discontinued operations was £4.3 million, and the
effective tax rate for 2007 was 17%. The Group operates in many countries
and the effective rate reflects this with various applicable statutory rates, on
average around 30%. The utilisation of tax losses in certain territories, in
particular the US, assisted us in achieving an effective tax rate below 30%,
as did tax refunds and net tax provision releases relating to prior years.
Without the tax credit of £1.7 million relating to prior year activities, the
effective tax charge for 2007 would have been 24%.
The 2006 tax charge was also reduced by the net release of tax provisions
relating to earlier years (£0.7 million).
Information upon the Group’s accumulated tax losses is provided within
Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
GROUP CASH FLOW AND BALANCES
The cash generated from operations before tax was £26.9 million, increased
from £12.5 million in 2006. The main difference being the working capital
inflow of £1.4 million in the current year as opposed to the £16.9 million
outflow in 2006. Within working capital the decrease in the inventory levels
were welcome arising from lower stocks in the EMD business following the
decision to reduce production in the Australian plant together with the
monetary reduction in our Zinc stocks as the market price of Zinc reduced
through the year. We did, however, experience an increase in debtors at the
year end with certain of our businesses recording a strong sales month.
Capital expenditure was £7.5 million (2006: £6.8 million) which compared
to a depreciation charge of £7.6 million (2006: £8.4 million). We continue
to invest in our businesses although the capital expenditure in the EMD
business was lower than normal as the strategic assessment of operating the
two plants was undertaken leading to the announcement of the closure of
the Australian plant. Capital expenditure will increase in the coming year
as we commence a programme of investing in capacity expansions in our
Australian Galvanizing plants as many of them are reaching or have reached
operational capacity.
Overall, the cash flow in the year benefited from the disposal of the non
core businesses and the sale of surplus land at the Australian EMD plant.
Dividends paid to equity holders totalled £7.2 million (2006: £6.2 million).
The Group ended the year with a net cash position of £128.9 million, an
increase of £21.9 million in the year from £107.0 million. The cash within
100% owned subsidiaries totals £113.4 million (2006: £98.0 million). The
net cash position provides the Group with significant funds with which to
invest in acquisitions and organic growth opportunities and also to look at
possibilities to de-scale and/or de-risk the pension scheme.
EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATES
The impact of the translation of net assets on reserves was a credit of £10.6
million (2006: £21.0 million debit), primarily reflecting the devaluation
during the year of the Australian dollar, US dollar and South African rand.
TREASURY POLICIES
The Group’s treasury policy remains one of risk management and control.
No speculative transactions are undertaken. Group treasury activities are
closely monitored by the Group Finance Department, who make
recommendations to the Board on matters of treasury policy and to
implement policies approved by the Board.
Material currency exposures arising from trading transactions at most of the
Group’s businesses are covered as they arise. Delta EMD and our associate
Manganese Metal Company do not cover currency exposures.
The Group does not normally use translational hedging to protect the
sterling value of its non-sterling assets. However, the Group did hedge
during 2006 to protect its share of the sterling value of the net assets from
disposal of the South African Industrial Supplies businesses.
The sterling value of operating profits arising in other currencies is not
hedged. Consequently, the sterling value of overseas profits remains subject
to currency exchange movements. The US dollar is used as the functional
currency for MMC.
No instruments are entered into to mitigate the impact of interest rates
although this is reviewed regularly.
Due to the significant cash balances held by the Group, the Group is
exposed to credit risks with counterparty banks. In particular, the Group
has cash balances with banks located in the UK, Republic of South Africa,
Australia, China and the United States and consequently has an exposure
to those banking sectors. The balances are held with large commercial
banks.
Jon Kempster
Finance Director
14 March 2008
“The net cash position provides the
Group with significant funds with which
to invest in acquisitions and organic
growth opportunities and also to look at
possibilities to de-scale and/or de-risk
the pension scheme.”
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:35  Page 13 14
Board of Directors
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Steve Marshall FCMA
Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Nominations Committee
Steve Marshall (51) was appointed Chairman in March 2005, having joined
the Board as a Non-Executive director in April 2004. He is also Chairman
from May 2008 of Balfour Beatty plc, the international engineering and
construction group, and a Non-Executive director of Southern Water, the
regulated public utility. Steve is a former Group Chief Executive of Railtrack
Group plc and of Thorn plc, having also been Group Finance director at
each company. He is also a former Chairman of Queens’ Moat Houses plc
and of Torex Retail plc. Steve is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants.
Todd Atkinson
Chief Executive
Todd Atkinson (51) was appointed Chief Executive and joined the Board in
July 2003. Todd is also Non-Executive Chairman of Delta Electrical
Industries Limited. Previously he was President of Delta America Inc. before
becoming the Group’s Director of Corporate Development and Legal Affairs
in 2000.
Jon Kempster ACA
Finance Director
Jon Kempster (45) was appointed Finance Director in October 2006. Jon
was a Non-Executive director of Nanette Real Estate Group NV. He was
previously Group Finance Director of Low & Bonar plc from 2001 to 2006,
and, prior to this, Group Finance Director of Linden plc and Fii Group plc.
Andrew Walker
Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of
the Audit Committee
Andrew Walker (56) was appointed a Non-Executive director in May 2005.
He is also a Non-Executive director of API Group plc, Manganese Bronze
plc, Plastic Capital plc, Porvair plc, fountains plc and Ultra Electronic
Holdings plc. He is Chairman of Bioganix Limited and a director of Brintons
Ltd. His career has also included periods as Group Chief Executive of
McKechnie plc and South Wales Electricity plc.
Mark Lejman
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Mark Lejman (51) was appointed a Non-Executive director in May 2006.
Mark was an Executive director of Morgan Crucible Company plc, and CEO
of their Carbon division, the company’s largest operating division. His career
also includes being Chief Executive of Acordis Cellulosic Fibres, and prior
to that Chief Executive of Courtaulds’ Acrylic Fibres business.
Steven Marshall Todd Atkinson Andrew Walker
Jon Kempster Mark Lejman
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 14 Board of Directors / Directors’ Report
15
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Directors’ Report
The directors submit their report together with the audited financial
statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
A review of the Group’s principal activities and likely future developments
can be found in the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Review and
Financial Review.
BUSINESS REVIEW
The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business
of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2007, the
position at the end of that financial year and a description of the principal
risks and uncertainties facing the Group. The Chairman’s Statement, Chief
Executive’s Review and Financial Review, together with the following review,
address these requirements.
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have
an impact on the Group’s financial performance.
Global, Political and Economic conditions
Whilst the Group benefits from the growth opportunities in many
geographies, it is similarly exposed to the economic, political and business
risks associated with such international operations. Throughout its
operations the Group encounters different legal and regulatory requirements
including those for taxation, exchange control (including repatriation of
profits), environmental, operational and competitive matters.
A large part of the Group’s operations are dependent on the construction,
public and private infrastructure and mining markets in Australia. Such
markets are impacted by a number of factors including government policy,
interest rates and commodity prices.
Management monitor such risks and conditions, maintaining business
procedures as appropriate to attempt to mitigate any exposure whilst
remaining in compliance with local and Group requirements.
Foreign exchange
The Group operates in many countries, with substantially all of the Group’s
operating profit earned outside the UK. As such, the Group is exposed to
movements in exchange rates between sterling and other world currencies
particularly the South African rand and the US and Australian dollars which
could adversely or positively impact results.
Raw material and energy prices
The Group’s products and services utilise a range of raw materials most
notably Zinc, steel and manganese ore. Our operations also require
substantial quantities of electricity and natural gas. The pricing for these
raw material inputs is largely determined by international or national factors
beyond the Group’s control or influence. Short-term volatility in the pricing
of such inputs and any decrease in availability can significantly impact the
Group’s financial performance.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 15 144
16
Directors’ Report
continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Pensions
The Delta Pension Plan (“the Plan”), the Group’s UK defined benefit plan,
had an IAS 19 valuation net surplus of £9.5 million at 31 December 2007
(2006: deficit of £0.2 million), with the Plan’s assets totalling £640.7 million
and its liabilities totalling £631.2 million (2006: assets of £651.8 million and
liabilities £652.0 million). However, the directors consider that there is
sufficient uncertainty so as to not warrant recognition of this net surplus as
a retirement benefit asset in the consolidated balance sheet.
Notwithstanding, the financial position of the Plan is exposed to the risk of
changes in interest rates, the market value of investments, inflation and
changes in the expected longevity of its members. The Plan is also exposed
to changes in UK laws and regulations with regard to pension plans.
The Plan remains disproportionately large to the market capitalisation of the
Group. The Company and the Trustee of the Plan continue to be advised by
experts in the field. Considerable efforts are being made to address this fact
by means of pursuing opportunities to de-scale the Plan and these efforts
are discussed in the Chief Executive’s Review.
Litigation and investigations
As with any business, the Group is subject to the risk of litigation from third
parties. The Group seeks to address such claims proactively.
In accordance with accounting requirements, provision is made where
required to address such litigation and the consequent costs of defence.
Potential liabilities re disposed businesses
The Group’s divestment programme during the late 1990s and early 2000s
resulted in certain liabilities being retained pursuant to various agreements
to dispose of those businesses and assets. Many, but not all, of these
liabilities expire with the passage of time.
The Group proactively seeks timely resolution of such liabilities and
estimates on a regular basis the expected financial outcome of such
retained liabilities, and includes such estimates within provisions.
Environmental liabilities
The Group conducts its operations in such a manner to ensure compliance
with environmental laws and regulations. If events occur where actions are
necessary to maintain compliance the Group will devote suitable resources
to the issue in order to remedy the situation.
The Group has obligations to remediate contaminated sites both currently
owned and in some cases those that have been sold. The Group maintains
provisions for these liabilities which are reviewed regularly.
Employees
The Group’s operations are typically based on small sites and are
geographically disparate. The management teams employed are typically
small and as such, the Group has a reliance on the management teams
employed. The Group recognises the importance of this resource and as
such, reviews its remuneration policy together with its recruitment and
training policy on a regular basis in order to ensure the Group continues to
retain and attract the best possible management teams.
Key performance indicators
Given the range and geographical spread of businesses within the Group,
key performance indicators are generally specific to the nature of the
operations of each business. Additionally, a number of segment-based key
metrics regarding financial and operating performance are focused upon at
Group level.
With regard to health and safety, the Group employs Lost Time and
Medically Treated Injury metrics, together with collecting near miss data.
This data is reported to divisional and Group senior management on a
monthly basis, together with commentary regarding remedial, corrective
and continuous improvement actions. Given the spread of businesses within
the Group and local country definitional differences, it is not possible to
meaningfully aggregate such data. Consequently, this data is compiled at a
business unit level only.
In terms of environmental compliance, the Group employs key performance
indicators through its varied businesses capturing performance against pre-
defined benchmarks or targets for items including waste product tonnes
per tonne of finalised product, energy use per tonne and overall compliance
measures. The Group is actively seeking alternate uses for its waste
streams. Similar to the health and safety measures described above, it is not
possible to provide meaningful and accurate Group or segment-wide data
as the challenges and opportunities in relation to environmental compliance
are largely driven by local directives, which differ markedly throughout the
Group.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 16 Directors’ Report
17
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
SHARE CAPITAL
Details of the structure of the Company’s share capital and changes in the
share capital during the year are disclosed in note 31 to the consolidated
financial statements. The ordinary shares in issue represent 93.2% of the
issued share capital by nominal value, whereas the 6% Cumulative first
preference shares in issue represent 2.1% and the 4.5% Cumulative
second preference shares in issue represent 4.7%.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares and
preference shares are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association,
copies of which can be obtained from Companies House or by writing to the
Deputy Secretary at the Company’s registered office. Voting at a general
meeting is by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
Resolution 7 will be proposed at the annual general meeting to renew the
directors’ authority to allot shares subject to the limits set out in the
resolution.
The voting rights in respect of shares held by the Delta plc Employee Share
Ownership Trust are exercisable by the Trustees. However, in accordance
with investor protection guidelines, the Trustees abstain from voting and
would take independent advice before accepting any offer for the Company
in a takeover bid situation.
DIVIDENDS
The directors declared an interim dividend of 1.6p (2006: 1.5p) per ordinary
share which was paid on 12 October 2007. They now recommend a final
dividend of 3.4p (2006: 3.0p) per ordinary sharemaking a total for the year
of 5.0p (2006: 4.5p).
DISPOSAL OF BUSINESSES
On 18 January 2007 the Group completed the disposal of its shares in
Machin & Ewen Pty Ltd in Australia to Carlyle Partners (Australia) Pty Ltd for
a total gross consideration of £2.8 million, including £0.2 million of deferred
consideration. The transaction was based on a completion balance sheet of
31 December 2006, the following day after Delta’s last year end. The gain
on sale totalled £0.3 million after allowing for estimated expenses of the sale
and release of foreign currency translation reserve.
Effective 31 March 2007, the Group sold its shares in Ingal Environmental
Services Pty Ltd business in Australia and New Zealand to its management
for a total gross consideration of £0.1 million, the majority of which is
deferred consideration. The profit on sale totalled £0.1 million after allowing
for estimated expenses of the sale and release of foreign currency
translation reserve.
On 30 November 2007, the Group completed the disposal of its shares in
Vingal Industries Co. Ltd in Vietnam to its principal joint venture partner,
Vietnam Steel Corporation, for a total gross consideration of £0.8 million.
The transaction was based on a completion balance sheet of
31 December 2006, Delta’s last year end. No gain or loss was recorded
after allowing for estimated expenses of the sale and release of foreign
currency translation reserve.
On 11 December 2007, the Group completed the disposal of its shares in
its German subsidiary Delta Group Overseas Holding GmbH (“DGOH”) to a
private German industrial group for a total gross consideration of £3.3
million. DGOH was sold together with its subsidiary, Kele GmbH (“Kele”).
The gain on disposal totalled £1.7 million after allowing for estimated
expenses of the sale and release of foreign currency translation reserve.
The consideration for the companies was satisfied entirely in cash. The net
cash received after transaction costs and transfer of DGOH’s loan and cash
balance to the purchaser was £2.1 million.
Delta may become entitled to additional, deferred consideration of up to€3
million (£2.2 million), contingent upon a number of factors. The receipt of
any additional consideration is not presently considered to
hold sufficient probability to be recognised in the consolidated financial
statements.
Delta has provided the purchaser with an indemnity for certain pre-existing
liabilities which may arise in respect of the companies which have been
sold. In support of this indemnity, Delta has also provided the purchaser
with a bank guarantee of €3 million (£2.2 million) (see note 26 of the
consolidated financial statements).
DONATIONS
During the year the Group donated £5,000 (2006: £2,000) to charities of
which £nil (2006: £nil) was in the United Kingdom. There were no political
donations made during the year (2006: £nil).
DIRECTORS
The names and brief biographical details of the directors as at the date of
this report are listed on page 14. Kristen van Riel served as a Non-Executive
director until 8 October 2007.
Details of the directors’ interests in the shares of the Company can be found
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The rules governing the appointment of directors are set out in the Corporate
Governance Report.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 17 144
18
Directors’ Report
continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
As at 12 March 2008, the Company was aware of the following interests in 3% or more of the Company’s ordinary share capital:
Percentage
of issued
Name Shareholding capital
Aberforth Partners LLP 19,187,300 12.50%
Steel Partners II LLP 16,909,033 11.02%
New Asset Star Management Ltd 8,427,151 5.48%
Schroders plc 8,241,426 5.37%
Legal & General Group plc 7,901,850 5.14%
Liberty Square Asset Management LLP 6,701,000 4.36%
Barclays plc 4,997,314 3.25%
Capital Group International Inc 4,809,510 3.13%
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Group spent £0.6 million during 2007 (2006: £0.4 million) on research and development primarily associated with product development and the
improvement of production processes. The criteria in IAS 38 for capitalising such expenditure were not met and consequently all such expenditure was
expensed as incurred.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND TREASURY POLICIES
Details of the Group’s financial risk management and treasury policies are contained in notes 2 and 30.
PAYMENT OF CREDITORS
The Group’s policy in respect of the majority of its trade creditors is to negotiate terms and conditions and, provided these are met, payments are made
accordingly. Where payment terms are not specifically agreed, trade creditors are paid in accordance with local commercial practice.
Trade creditor days for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007 were 37 days (2006: 40 days), based upon the average daily amount invoiced
by suppliers during the year.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 18 Directors’ Report
19
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
INSURANCE OF DIRECTORS
The Company maintains insurance for its directors and officers against
liabilities and has entered into qualifying third party indemnities with its
directors, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. The indemnities are
available for inspection during normal business hours at the Company’s
registered office and will be available at the annual general meeting.
APPOINTMENT/REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS
Details governing the appointment and replacement of directors are
contained in the Corporate Governance Report under the heading “The
Board, its directors and operations”.
POWER TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES
The directors believe that it remains advantageous for the Company to be
able to purchase its own ordinary shares in the market. Accordingly,
resolution 9, which will be proposed as a special resolution at the annual
general meeting, seeks to renew the existing general authority to make
market purchases. The Company did not purchase any of its own shares
during the year and the directors have no present intention of utilising
this authority.
GOING CONCERN
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group’s financial
statements.
AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
So far as each person currently serving as a director of the Company at the
date this report is approved is aware, there is no relevant audit information
of which the Company’s auditors are unaware and each director hereby
confirms that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a
director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information
and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the
provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company
will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
This report was approved by the Board of directors on 14 March 2008 and
is signed on its behalf by:
Todd Atkinson
Director
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 19 144
20
Corporate Governance Report
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance. The
Board recognises that it is accountable to the shareholders for the Group’s
corporate governance. This statement, together with the Directors’
Remuneration Report, seeks to demonstrate how the principles of good
governance, advocated by the revised Combined Code, issued in July 2006
(‘Code’), have been applied.
The Company has complied with Section 1 of the Code for the duration of
the year.
THE BOARD, ITS DIRECTORS AND OPERATIONS
As of the date of this report, the Board comprises three Non-Executive
directors and two Executive directors, whose names and brief biographies
appear on page 14. Disclosure of other directors who served during the year
are contained in the Directors’ Report. All the Non-Executive directors are
considered independent.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive were
clearly separated.
The Board is the principal decision-making forum of the Group and
exercises overall control of the Group’s affairs by addressing matters
reserved for its decision. These include responsibility for the Group’s
strategy, the approval of financial and other public statements, acquisitions
and disposals, treasury and risk management policies and the appointment
and removal of Executive management and the Company Secretary. Various
operational matters of a specified size or importance are referred to the
Board for approval in accordance with an established delegation of
authority.
Comprehensive briefing papers are distributed to Board members by the
Company Secretary, sufficiently in advance of each Board meeting to enable
detailed review. Such papers address strategic matters, items reserved for
Board review and approval, forecast, budget and actual financial results,
changes to risks and controls, and various other matters which should
reasonably be considered by the Board. This practice ensures that the
Board is supplied with information on the Group’s businesses in a timely
manner, and that the directors are properly briefed to discuss such items at
Board meetings. A statement of the directors’ responsibilities in respect of
the Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 32.
The Group’s procedures allow directors to seek both independent
professional advice, at the Group’s expense, and the advice and services of
the Company Secretary in order to fulfil their duties.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of directors’
and officers’ liabilities.
During the year, the Chairman met with the other Non-Executive directors
without the presence of the Executive directors. The independent Non-
Executive directors also met during the year without the presence of the
Chairman.
The Non-Executive directors play a leading role in corporate accountability
and governance through their membership on the various committees of
the Board. The membership and remit of each committee, together with a
record of directors’ attendance, is described below. Where considered
appropriate, training is made available to directors and training needs are
assessed as part of the Board evaluation procedure referred to below.
All Non-Executive directors are appointed for an initial three year period
following which the appointment is renewable at the option of the Board for
two further terms of three years. The maximum period of appointment is
nine years. However, directors must stand for election by shareholders at the
first annual general meeting following their initial appointment. Terms and
conditions of appointment for Non-Executive directors are available for
inspection upon request during normal business hours and at the annual
general meeting and are referred to in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Each year the number nearest to but not exceeding one-third of the
directors (excluding those directors retiring and not seeking re-election and
those retiring and seeking election following their appointment during the
year) shall retire by rotation. Whilst the Company’s articles of association do
not expressly provide that each director will offer himself for re-election at
no more than three year intervals, the directors, being cognisant of
developing best practice, undertake to ensure that each director will offer
himself for re-election at no more than three year intervals.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 20 Corporate Governance Report
21
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
BOARD COMMITTEES
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee presently comprises Steven Marshall
(Chairman), Mark Lejman and Andrew Walker.
The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board
and recommends changes thereto to the Board for its consideration. The
Committee meets as and when required and engages external consultants
to identify candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee presently comprises Andrew Walker (Chairman) and
Mark Lejman. The Board has determined that Andrew Walker has recent
and relevant financial experience for the purpose of the Combined Code.
The Chief Executive and other senior Executives, whilst not members of the
Committee, are invited to attend meetings of the Committee when required.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing half year and annual accounts
before their submission to the Board, reviewing the Group’s systems of
internal control and the effectiveness thereof, reviewing and discussing
reports of internal and external audit, and advising the Board on the
appointment, reappointment and removal of external auditors and their
remuneration both for audit and non-audit work.
Procedures exist, both within the Group and Deloitte & Touche LLP, the
Company’s Auditors, to promptly identify any potential non-audit services for
pre-approval.
In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of the financial reports
to shareholders, the Committee reviewed the accounting principles, policies
and practices adopted in preparing financial information. The annual report,
interim report and preliminary announcement were reviewed, as was the
accounting treatment of material transactions open to different approaches.
The Committee considers reports from management and the external
auditors in determining the accounting treatment of material transactions
open to different approaches.
Information on the internal control and risk management systems and the
review thereof is provided in the internal control and risk management
disclosure statement following.
The Committee approved the external auditors’ terms of engagement, scope
of work, the process for the 2007 interim review and the applicable levels
of materiality. The Committee reviewed all matters of significance with the
external auditors based on their findings and confirmed that all matters had
been satisfactorily resolved.
The audit partner of Deloitte & Touche LLP has a direct line of
communication to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The Committee
reviewed the external Auditors’ performance and concluded that it was
satisfactory. The Committee reviewed written confirmation from Deloitte &
Touche LLP of its independence and objectivity, relating to external audit
services, within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and
professional standards. A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as
Auditors until the conclusion of the annual general meeting in 2009 will be
proposed at the Company’s 2008 annual general meeting.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the appointment, remuneration and
utilisation of the Group’s internal audit function, which during the year was
outsourced to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. A review of the Group’s internal
audit function is provided in the internal control and risk management
disclosure statement following.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee presently comprises Mark Lejman
(Chairman), Steven Marshall and Andrew Walker.
Further details on this committee are contained in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on page 26.
The terms of reference of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration
Committees are published on the Company’s website.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 21 144
22
Corporate Governance Report
continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
MEETINGS OF THE BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES
Details of directors’ attendances at Board and committee meetings are shown in the table below:
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings in the year 9332
Number of meetings attended:
S Marshall 9 n/a 32
T G Atkinson 9 n/a n/a n/a
J Kempster 9 n/a n/a n/a
M Lejman 9332
A Walker 9332
K van Riel
(1)
5 n/a n/a n/a
(1)
Kristen van Riel missed one of the six Board meetings held prior to resigning from the Board.
BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
During the year a formal evaluation of the performance of the Board, its
committees and individual directors was carried out by means of detailed
questionnaires.
The results of the questionnaires were summarised by the Company
Secretary and discussed by the Board. The process confirmed that the
Board and its committees were functioning correctly, and that all the
directors continued to contribute positively to the Board.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Communication with shareholders is given priority and a number of
methods are used to promote greater understanding and dialogue with
investment audiences.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet with shareholders on a
regular basis. Significant points from such meetings are communicated to
the Board on a regular basis.
Shareholders are afforded an opportunity to meet or converse with the
Senior Independent director to address any items regarding the Group.
During the year shareholders were kept informed of the progress of the
Group through trading statements and other announcements of significant
developments that were released through the London Stock Exchange and
which are available on the Company’s website.
Additionally, individual shareholders were afforded the opportunity to
question the Chairman and the chairmen of the Board committees at the
annual general meeting. The Annual Report and Accounts and notice of
the annual general meeting are sent to shareholders at least 20 working
days prior to the meeting. The Company indicates the level of proxy votes
lodged in respect of each resolution proposed at the annual general
meeting, together with the number of proxy votes for and against each
resolution and the number of shares withheld, following each vote on a show
of hands. Details of abstentions are also disclosed.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 22 Corporate Governance Report
23
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board is responsible for the operation and effectiveness of the
consolidated Group’s (excluding associates and joint venture) systems of
internal control and risk management and undertakes to direct the
identification, evaluation and management of significant risks faced by the
Group. This process is regularly reviewed and is in accordance with Turnbull
guidance.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Group’s particular needs
and the risks to which it is exposed, and by their nature, the Group’s internal
control systems provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against
misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control has been
reviewed by the Board during 2007 and up to the date of this Annual
Report. The key procedures which the directors have established to provide
effective internal control are as follows:
(i) Regular review of risks and compensating controls
The Group’s schedule of risks and compensating controls is formally
considered by the Board twice a year. All areas of the business are required
to undertake risk-profiling exercises to formally review their principal areas
of risk, which forms the basis for the schedule reviewed by the Board.
Risks and controls are discussed during business unit half-year and profit
plan reviews, which are attended by the Chief Executive and members of
senior divisional and Group management. Changes to such risks and
controls are identified in each business unit’s monthly report. Any changes
of significance are reported to the Board. Schedules of pending litigation
and potential liabilities pertaining to disposed businesses are circulated to
the Board.
(ii) Delegation of authority
The Group’s delegation of authority details authority, referral and reporting
requirements with respect to certain transactions, events or occurrences.
The delegation of authority forms part of the Group Policy Manual.
(iii) Detailed budgeting and subsequent review
Each business unit is required to prepare, on an annual basis, a detailed
plan covering the next three years, addressing both financial and non-
financial objectives. Such plans are reviewed at divisional and Group levels,
and ultimately approved by the Board, as part of the Group’s
profit plan.
Actual performance against budget and detailed forecasts is reported on a
monthly basis. Written monthly reports accompany monthly financial
schedules and contain variance analyses (in the case of financial data) and
commentary (in the case of non-financial data).
(iv) Annual statements of compliance
The Group has an established framework of policies and procedures laid
down by the Board to which senior management are expected to comply
and attest such compliance on an annual basis. These policies cover key
issues including authorisation levels, segregation of duties, ethical and
legislative compliance as well as health, safety and environmental issues.
(v) Internal audit
The Group has an internal audit function, which during the year was
outsourced to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Business units are selected for
internal audit using a risk-based approach, with one or more locations of
each business unit audited on at least a three year rotational basis. The
scope and results of internal audit’s work are reviewed by the Audit
Committee, and the resolution of points raised is overseen by Group senior
management and reported to the Audit Committee to ensure resolution in
a timely and satisfactory manner. Internal audit reports and reports
monitoring the resolution of points raised are shared with the external
auditors. The Group’s internal audit resource has a direct line of
communication to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The internal audit function has been reviewed by the Audit Committee,
which has concluded the function effective in achieving its objectives.
(vi) Whistle-blowing procedures
The Group has whistle-blowing procedures in place, which provides
employees a means of communication independent of Executive
management to express any concern relating to perceived malpractice,
improper business practices, management impropriety or other similar
matters. No reports were received during the year.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 23 144
24
Corporate Social Responsibility
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
OBJECTIVES AND PRACTICE
The Board’s objective is to build a sustainable and profitable business while
behaving as a good corporate citizen. The Board regards corporate social
responsibility as a sustainable approach to business that seeks to benefit all
stakeholders, be they customers, employees, communities, the
environment or the Company and its shareholders.
The Group is committed to conducting its business activities in an equitable,
ethical and proper manner, in compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. The Group’s policies with regard to health and safety,
environmental and ethical matters are embodied in the Group Policy
Manual (GPM), to which senior management attest compliance on an
annual basis. The review of such practices and procedures and related risks
and opportunities is an ongoing process upon which the Board places
significant importance.
IMPLEMENTATION
The Board takes the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group’s
policies are implemented. However, day-to-day implementation and
compliance with these policies, is the responsibility of the management of
each business. Management ensure that a programme is in place which is
in accordance with the Group’s policies and is in compliance with the local
laws and regulations. Business unit and divisional senior management, who
report to the Executive directors, oversee such programmes at each of the
Group’s businesses.
MONITORING
In order to continually monitor how the policies are being implemented,
there are a number of systems in place, where information is submitted to
Group senior management. These consist of:
1. Monthly management reports and statistics, which includes
information on: financial performance; health, safety and
environmental issues; human resources; quality/service; plant
maintenance and major risks and controls in the businesses.
2. Monthly reports of material litigation worldwide.
3. An assessment of all the risks in each business division, twice
a year.
4. Half-yearly reviews for each business unit, which include information
on human resources, heath, safety, environment, quality and service.
We aim to have regular independent audits of sites, for health, safety and
environment. We also have a system where material matters for each
business are escalated to appropriate levels of senior management, and to
the Board, where necessary.
RISK ASSESSMENT
The Group undertakes a risk assessment process, which is consistent with
Turnbull guidance. A matrix of critical risks throughout the Group is
maintained. This covers all areas of risk including: financial, business
competitors, social, environmental and ethical matters. The matrix includes
an assessment of the severity of the risk, likelihood of occurrence, existing
countermeasures and suggestions of other mitigating measures.
The matrix is reviewed and discussed by management and at Board level
and updated twice a year.
MANAGEMENT CONTROL
The Chief Executive, the Finance Director and members of the Group’s
senior management team regularly visit the businesses. A Board visit took
place in the year which allowed the Board to visit a number of operations
in Australia.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Group has various health and safety frameworks in place that are
intended to comply as a minimum, with applicable local laws and
regulations.
The Group’s GPM provides:
. . . It is the Group policy to:
(i) Safeguard the health, safety and welfare of all employees whilst
at work and to provide, so far as is reasonably practicable, a
working environment which is safe and is consistent with best
practice in the countries in which the Group operates, with
minimum risk to the health of employees and others, including
visitors and the general public.
(ii) Ensure that appropriate legislative and regulatory requirements
for Health and Safety at Work are met at all workplaces within
the Group.
(b) The successful implementation of this Health and Safety Policy
requires the full co-operation of all employees and their acceptance of
responsibility for the care of themselves and others . . .
Plants keep records of health and safety related incidences and most have
regular “Toolbox” meetings at which shop floor staff discuss issues arising
relating to health and safety matters. Staff are also encouraged to report
near misses, some through plant specific incentive schemes. Injuries or
near misses trigger a process of site-specific review and discussion of
potential remediation procedures. This is reported as an integral part of the
Group’s monthly reporting process.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 24 Corporate Social Responsibility
25
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Health and safety performance is reviewed as part of normal monthly
reporting procedures by the businesses. Information on health and safety
which includes matters such as Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates (LTIFR),
Medically Treated Injury Frequency Rates (MTIFR) and near misses.
Analysis of this information is also performed in order to highlight any trends.
Independent health and safety audits of some of the Group’s businesses
were performed during the year, with items noted for improvement being
remedied currently. A review and summary of the independent health and
safety audits around the Group is provided to the Board once a year.
Employment
Subject to any conflict with local legislation or governmental regulation, it is
the Group’s policy to treat people equally and fairly and the Group opposes
all forms of unlawful discrimination on the grounds of sex, marriage,
pregnancy, colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or
belief, sexual orientation, disability or age.
The Group’s GPM provides:
. . . Decisions on recruitment, training, promotion and remuneration, must
be on the basis of ability, the necessary requirements for the job and other
objectively relevant criteria.
In their day-to-day work, as far as is practicable, employees in comparable
positions and with comparable ability must be given equal opportunity to
demonstrate their ability and improve their positions . . .
The personal and professional development of employees is supported by
training programmes, both in-house and externally. The Group participates
in a number of apprenticeship/workplace training programmes, and in some
jurisdictions training levies apply to promote and financially support such
initiatives. Management development planning and objective-based
performance appraisals seek to further develop employees.
Employee Involvement, Communication and Consultation Policy
The Group emphasises the need for two-way communication with managers
and employees as set out in the Group’s GPM as follows:
. . . The Group communication strategy recognises the importance of two-
way communication and supports the participation of employees in
consultative committees, briefing groups, suggestion schemes or other
suitable means. It is Group policy to ensure that Delta meets the
appropriate legislation, Governmental regulations and best practice for the
industry in each of the countries in which Delta operates.
The detailed arrangements for employee involvement, communication and
consultation are the responsibility of Senior Management. Briefing
arrangements need to ensure all employees in a particular grouping are
informed of key Company news and developments wherever possible in
the applicable local language . . .
ENVIRONMENTAL
The Group’s GPM provides:
. . . The Group is committed to best environmental practice and has clear
management responsibilities to ensure full compliance. The Group’s overall
policy forms the basis of further detailed policies that are appropriate to the
individual operating businesses.
Management seeks to minimise the impact on the environment of all
aspects of the Group’s operations by means of environmentally sound
practices which take practical steps to control effectively or eliminate any
known pollution risks, without entailing excessive cost . . .
The nature of some of our manufacturing processes potentially exposes the
environment to risks that require careful and appropriate management. The
Group proactively pursues compliance and targets best practice in all areas
of environmental compliance. Environmental policies and practices are
tailored to local regulatory requirements, with best practice developments
shared between our facilities where appropriate. Employees are briefed by
management in matters of policy and procedure relating to potential
environmental risk that may concern their particular area of operation.
Internal reporting and review procedures that apply to health and safety
also apply to environmental matters to ensure that actual or potential issues
are reported promptly for action. Environmental incidents are reported to the
Board through the divisional monthly reports.
ETHICAL
Business Behaviour and Ethics
The Group’s policy is to comply with all laws and regulations applicable to
its businesses. The Group expects the highest levels of integrity from all
directors, managers and employees. In their business relationships, the
Group requires them to have well-founded respect for scrupulous and
honest dealing, covering both external and internal relationships. Any form
of dishonesty, unscrupulous business dealings or compromise of ethical
standards could reflect adversely on the Group and may result in
disciplinary action.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 25 144
26
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
The following sections of the Directors’ remuneration report are
unaudited.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985
(as amended) and the relevant requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s
Listing Rules. A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the
annual general meeting of the Company.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (THE “COMMITTEE”)
Role and composition of the Committee
The role of the Committee includes:
(a) determining and agreeing with the Board the policy for the
remuneration of the Company’s Chairman, Executive directors, and
members of senior management;
(b) approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance
related pay schemes operated by the Company and approving the total
annual payments made under such schemes;
(c) reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the
Board and shareholders; and
(d) determining the remuneration for the Company’s Chairman, Executive
directors and senior management.
The Board, within the limits prescribed by the Company’s Articles of
Association, determines Non-Executive directors’ remuneration.
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Company’s
website at www.deltaplc.com and copies are available on request.
The Committee presently comprises Mark Lejman (Chairman), Steven
Marshall and Andrew Walker.
The Committee met three times during the year. The Chief Executive attends
Committee meetings by invitation when required. The Chairman and Chief
Executive are excluded from matters regarding their own remuneration. No
director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
In order to remain informed of the latest developments and market trends
in remuneration best practice, the Committee has access to survey
information and advice from independent remuneration consultants where
the Committee determines this is required. During the year, the Committee
considered market remuneration data produced by New Bridge Street
Consultants and Mercer Human Resource Consulting Pty Limited. The
Committee also receives recommendations from the Chief Executive
concerning the remuneration of senior management. New Bridge Street
Consultants also reviewed and confirmed whether the performance
conditions under the Performance Share Plan 2006 had been met in
respect of awards vesting during the financial year.
REMUNERATION POLICY
General remuneration policy
The Committee, in setting remuneration policy for Executive directors and
senior management, recognises the need to be competitive in an
international market. The Committee’s policy is to set remuneration levels
which ensure that Executives are fairly and responsibly rewarded in return
for high levels of performance. The Company’s remuneration policy is
designed to support key business strategies, align the interests of Executive
directors and senior management with those of shareholders and create a
strong, performance-oriented environment and at the same time attract,
motivate and retain talent. Accordingly, all Executive directors and senior
management receive competitive basic salaries comparable with companies
of a similar size and international scope and have the opportunity to earn
enhanced total remuneration for performance measured against targets set
by the Committee.
Components of Executive Directors’ Remuneration
REMUNERATION MIX
The key components of the remuneration of the Executive directors are
basic salary, annual performance-related bonus, share-based incentives
and pensions. The Committee ensures that an appropriate balance is
maintained between fixed and performance-related remuneration.
Assuming on-target financial performance, the Committee’s policy is that
at least 45% (45% for the Finance Director) of the Chief Executive’s total
remuneration is performance related. In 2007, 45% of the Chief Executive’s
remuneration on an expected-value basis was performance related; for the
Finance Director the figure was 45% (see illustrative charts below).
BASIC SALARY
The basic salary of the Executive directors is reviewed annually by the
Committee and is targeted at the upper quartile of companies of comparable
size. This is in line with the Committee’s objective to attract and retain
Executive directors who have the right skills and experience and are of the
highest calibre. Basic salaries are the only pensionable element of
remuneration.
Todd Atkinson
 Fixed remuneration =
Salary + Other emoluments (55%)
 Performance related remuneration =
Annual bonus + Long-term incentives
(45%)
Jon Kempster
 Fixed remuneration =
Salary + Other emoluments (55%)
 Performance related remuneration =
Annual bonus + Long-term incentives
(45%)
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 26 Directors’ Remuneration Report
27
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
DEFERRED BONUS PLAN 2006
The maximum potential performance related bonuses for the Chief
Executive and Finance Director are 150% and 140% of basic salary
respectively.
One-half of any bonus payable is paid in cash with the other half being
deferred in ordinary shares in the Company under the Deferred Bonus Plan
2006. Deferred bonus share awards are forfeited on cessation of
employment prior to the third anniversary of award except in the case of
“good leavers” in which case the deferred shares are released early. The
deferred shares would also be released early on a change of control in the
Company.
The Chief Executive’s 2007 bonus was determined by the Committee with
reference to the Group’s financial performance (50%) and the Chief
Executive’s agreed strategic objectives (50%). The Finance Director’s 2007
bonus was determined by the Committee with reference to the Group’s
financial performance (50%) and the achievement of specific personal
objectives (50%).
For 2008, the Chief Executive’s bonus will be based 50% on Group financial
performance, with the balance based on achievement of strategic objectives
(50%). The bonus of the Finance Director will be based 50% on Group
financial performance and 50% based on achievement of specific personal
objectives.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN 2006 (PSP)
Under the terms of the PSP, selected individuals may be granted a
conditional award of ordinary shares in the Company, ordinarily vesting on
the third anniversary of grant subject to continued employment within the
Group and the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Vesting of awards made during 2007 is subject to performance targets
relating to the Company’s relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) compared
to that of the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding
investment trusts) (Comparator Group) over a fixed three-year period.
Shares will vest, subject to the Committee confirming that the Company’s
underlying financial performance has been satisfactory over the
performance period (“Financial Underpin Condition”), as follows:
Rank of the Company’s TSR Performance against the Comparator Group
%
of award vesting
Below median 0
Median 25
Upper quartile 100
Shares will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between median
and upper quartile.
The Committee considers that a combination of the relative measure TSR
and the Financial Underpin Condition suitably aligns participants’ interests
with investors.
Awards under the PSP are limited to a total number of shares having a
market value at the date of grant of no more than 50% of the grantee’s
salary, except in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment or
retention, where a grant may be as much as 100% of the grantee’s salary.
The market value is the average of the middle-market quotation of the
shares over the five dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION SCHEME (ESOS)
Grants under the ESOS, approved by the shareholders at the annual general
meeting held in May 1999, until 2005 were made annually and had values
of up to one times annual salary. No further grants are to be made under
the ESOS.
ESOS options granted before 29 June 2001 are subject to the following
performance conditions:
(i) on or before the tenth anniversary of the grant date, earnings per share
growth over a period of at least three consecutive years must equal or
exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 3% per annum; and
(ii) earnings per share before exceptional items must equal or exceed 20
pence.
ESOS options granted on or after 29 June 2001 are subject to the following
performance condition: on or before the sixth anniversary of the grant date,
earnings per share growth over a period of at least three consecutive years
must equal or exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index plus 3% per
annum.
All options are granted for £nil consideration. The exercise price for options
is the five day average price preceding the date of grant. All performance
conditions are measured against earnings per share before exceptional
items for the financial year preceding option grant.
Subject to the fulfilment of the foregoing performance conditions, options
are exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the grant date.
The Committee considers the performance targets appropriate to date since
they require substantial improvement in the underlying financial
performance of the Company and complement the requirement for share
price growth in order for options to deliver value to participants. The
performance conditions for the ESOS options granted in 2001, 2002, 2003
and 2004 have been satisfied.
PENSIONS
Executive directors are invited to participate in the Delta Pension Plan. The
plan is a funded, HM Revenue & Customs approved, final salary
occupational pension scheme, and provides a pension of up to two-thirds
of final pensionable salary, subject to completion of 20 years’ pensionable
service and retirement at normal retirement age. Final pensionable salary is
calculated with reference to basic salary and not other elements of
remuneration and is limited by HM Revenue & Customs limits including
HM Revenue & Customs earnings cap. The Delta Pension Plan introduced
a “notional” Earnings Cap (Notional Cap) from 6 April 2006 to ensure that,
for members impacted at the time by the Earnings Cap, benefits and
contributions continue to be calculated in the same way.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 27 144
28
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
The Delta Pension Plan also provides lump sum life assurance cover of up
to four times pensionable salary and makes provision for spouses’ and
dependants’ pensions and early retirement provisions, including ill health.
All plan benefits are subject to HM Revenue & Customs limits.
Messrs Atkinson and Kempster receive a supplement to their annual salaries
equal to 40% and 20% respectively of the portion of their basic salaries that
exceeds the equivalent of the Notional Cap referred to above.
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES
The Committee has adopted guidelines for Executive directors, whereby the
Committee expects them to retain 50% of shares acquired under the
Company’s share incentive plans (after tax and any financing costs), until
a holding of 100% of salary is achieved.
Components of Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration
Remuneration for Non-Executive directors consists of an annual fee for their
services on the Board and Board committees and where appropriate for
devoting additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Group. Non-
Executive directors do not participate in any of the Group’s performance-
related bonus or share-based incentives nor are they eligible for
membership of any of the Group’s pension plans.
The remuneration of Non-Executive directors and Chairman are reviewed
periodically to ensure they remain market-competitive. Non-Executive
directors’ remuneration is reviewed by the Chairman and the Executive
directors and approved by the Board as a whole. The remuneration of the
Chairman is reviewed and set by the Committee.
A review of the Non-Executive fees was undertaken in July 2007 and it was
concluded that the fees of the chairs of the Remuneration and Audit
Committees be increased by £5,000 per annum with effect from
1 July 2007.
DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS
It is the Company’s policy that the period of notice for Executive directors will
not exceed 12 months.
Notice Date of
Executive directors period appointment
Todd Atkinson 12 months 2 July 2003
Jon Kempster 6 months 31 October 2006
The service contracts of Messrs Atkinson and Kempster provide for no
additional termination payments beyond statutory payments that may be
applicable.
The Non-Executive Chairman has a letter of engagement which includes a
notice period of three months. The other Non-Executive directors have no
formal service contracts, but have letters of engagement that do not provide
for notice periods or for compensation payable upon termination.
The Committee strives to achieve an appropriate balance between ensuring
continuity, minimising termination payments and limiting notice periods to
no more than twelve months.
The following sections of the Remuneration Report are audited.
DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
Aggregate directors’ remuneration, excluding pension entitlements under defined benefit pension schemes
£ 2007 2006
Basic salary 728,080 533,308
Other emoluments 146,771 85,507
Bonus — cash element 279,538 162,750
Shares awarded under the Deferred Bonus Plan 2006 279,538 162,750
1,433,927 944,315
Company pension contributions to money purchase plans (FURBS) — 18,440
1,433,927 962,755
The following are the emoluments afforded to individual directors. Details of dates of appointment, resignation and change in role are included in the
Directors’ Report.
Other Bonus – DBP 2007 2006
£ Basic salary Emoluments
(1)
cash element share award
(2)
Total Total
Executive
T G Atkinson 330,000 110,172 179,438 179,438 799,048 714,792
(2)
J Kempster
(3)
210,000 36,599 100,100 100,100 446,799 42,023
Non-Executive
S Marshall 100,000 —— — 100,000 100,000
M Lejman
(4) (6)
32,500 —— — 32,500 20,000
K van Riel
(5)
23,080 —— — 23,080 27,500
A Walker
(6)
32,500 —— — 32,500 30,000
C Fisher —— —— — 10,000
Total 728,080 146,771 279,538 279,538 1,433,927 944,315
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 28 Directors’ Remuneration Report
29
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
(1)
Other emoluments include benefits in kind, salary supplement and car allowances.
(2)
The share element of Mr Atkinson’s 2006 bonus is disclosed below.
(3)
Mr Kempster was appointed to the Board on 31 October 2006.
(4)
Mr Lejman was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2006.
(5)
Mr van Riel resigned from the Board on 8 October 2007.
(6)
The fees of Messrs Lejman and Walker, as chairs of the Remuneration and Audit Committees respectively, were increased by £5,000 per annum with effect from
1 July 2007.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS
The fees earned by Mr Atkinson in his role as a Non-Executive director of Delta Electrical Industries Limited are payable to the Company. Mr Kempster
was a Non-Executive director of Nanette Real Estate Group NV for which he received fees totalling18,000 during 2007. He has retained these fees.
PENSIONS
Pension entitlements under defined benefit pension schemes
Retirement benefits on a defined benefit basis are accruing to two directors as at 31 December 2007 (2006: two directors). The accrued pension
entitlements shown in the table immediately below are the amounts that would be paid in each year on retirement at normal retirement age, based on
pensionable service to the end of the financial year. The normal retirement age for Messrs Atkinson and Kempster is 60 and 65 respectively. The Plan also
provides spouse’s pension, which is 50% of the deceased director’s prospective pension or, in the case of death in service, one-third of final pensionable
salary if greater. Following retirement, pensions increase at an annual rate in line with RPI up to 5%. The Company has the discretionary power to grant
early retirement pensions but a member does not have an absolute right to an early retirement pension. No discretionary benefits are allowed for in the
transfer values.
The following Executive directors had accrued entitlements under the Delta Pension Plan as follows:
Accrued Increase Accrued
pension in accrued pension
1 January pension in 31 December
£ 2007
(1)
the year
(2)
2007
(1)
T G Atkinson 22,925 4,647 27,572
J Kempster 603 3,784 4,387
(1)
The pension entitlement is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year or date of leaving, whichever is earlier.
(2)
The increase in the accrued pension during the year has been adjusted to remove any distortion due to inflation over the year.
The following table sets out the transfer value of directors’ accrued benefits under the Delta Pension Plan calculated in a manner consistent with ‘Retirement
Benefit Schemes - Transfer Values (GN 11)’ published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
Transfer Increase in Transfer
value Contributions transfer value
1 January made by the value, net of 31 December
£ 2007 director contributions 2007
T G Atkinson 255,014 5,430 52,817 313,261
J Kempster 3,247 2,303 18,771 24,321
The following additional information is given to comply with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules which differ in some respects from
the equivalent statutory requirements:
Transfer
Increase value
in accrued of increase
pension in the in year less
year in excess directors’
£ of inflation contributions
T G Atkinson 3,753 37,216
J Kempster 3,760 18,562
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the director. Instead, they represent a potential liability of the Delta Pension
Plan.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 29 144
30
Directors’ Remuneration Report
continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme (FURBS)
The tax laws governing FURBS changed on 6 April 2006 resulting in FURBS no longer being tax deductible. Accordingly, effective 1 April 2006 Mr
Atkinson’s contract was altered ceasing payments made to his FURBS. During the year, the Company contributed £nil (2006: £18,440) on behalf of
Mr Atkinson to the FURBS established for his benefit.
DEFERRED BONUS PLAN
Conditional awards of shares made to Executive directors under the DBP are shown below.
Number
of shares
Total interest conditionally Total interest Market price Vesting date for
at 1 January awarded at 31 December at date of shares awarded
2007 during 2007 2007 2007 award during 2007
T G Atkinson — 117,086
(1)
117,086 139 pence 21/03/2010
(1)
Deferred bonus share awards are forfeited on cessation of employment prior to the third anniversary of award except in the case of “good leavers” in which case the deferred
shares are released early. The deferred shares would also be released early on a change of control in the Company.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN
Conditional awards of shares made to Executive directors under the PSP are shown below. Details of the performance criteria attaching to share options
are disclosed within ‘Components of Executive Directors’ Remuneration’.
Total Total Total
number of number of number of
shares shares shares Market price Vesting date for
at 1 January conditionally awarded at 31 December at date of shares awarded
2007 during the year 2007 2007 award during 2007
T G Atkinson 364,679 94,964
(1)
459,643
(2)
139 pence 21/03/2010
J Kempster 140,280 60,432
(1)
200,712 139 pence 21/03/2010
(1)
The awards granted in 2007 are conditional on the performance condition based on the Company’s relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) compared to that of the
constituents of the FTSE Small Cap Index and the Committee confirming that the Company’s underlying financial performance has been satisfactory over the performance
period.
(2)
There are no performance conditions attached to the one-off award granted to Mr Atkinson in 2006 (264,961 ordinary shares). The award is conditional on continued
employment until the vesting date of 28 September 2008 and the exercise price is £nil.
EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION SCHEME
Directors’ share options over ordinary shares in the Company
No Executive share options have been granted since 2005. Details of the performance criteria attaching to share options are disclosed within ‘Components
of Executive Directors’ Remuneration’.
Subscrip- Date on
tion price which
As at 1 Granted Exercised Lapsed As at 31 payable options Final
Option January during during during December (per become expiry
scheme 2007 year year year 2007 share) exercisable date
T G Atkinson:
ESOS 42,000 —— — 42,000 154p 11/06/02 11/06/09
ESOS 80,000 —— — 80,000 150p 29/11/03 29/11/10
ESOS 93,000 —— — 93,000 129p 29/06/04 29/06/11
ESOS 104,800 —— — 104,800 118p 03/05/05 03/05/12
ESOS 119,300 —— — 119,300 110p 25/04/06 25/04/13
ESOS 132,800 —— — 132,800 115p 26/06/06 26/06/13
ESOS 349,398 —— — 349,398 83p 16/04/07 16/04/14
ESOS 241,667 —— — 241,667 120p 29/06/08 29/06/15
Total 1,162,965 —— — 1,162,965
Todd Atkinson exercised no share options during the financial year.
The highest mid-market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year was 159.75p and the lowest was 106.25p. The year end price
was 111.00p.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 30 Directors’ Remuneration Report
31
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES
The beneficial interests in the shares of the Company of the directors in office at 31 December 2007, including the beneficial interests of their families,
are set out in the table below:
Number of ordinary shares of 25p each owned
Directors’ shareholdings At 31 December 2007 At 31 December 2006
T G Atkinson 30,000 30,000
J Kempster 17,500 —
M Lejman 10,000 10,000
S Marshall 15,000 15,000
A Walker ——
No changes to the above holdings have occurred between 31 December 2007 and the date of this report.
Other than the shareholdings and the options shown in the foregoing tables, none of the directors had or has any interest, or any holding without beneficial
interest, in any class of any share capital of the Company or of any subsidiary. Other than the service contracts described above, at no time during the
year has any director had any material interest in a contract with any Group Company, being a contract of significance in relation to the Group’s business.
The following information is unaudited.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
Source: Datastream
This chart shows the value, at the end of the 2007 financial year, of £100 invested in the Company on 31 December 2002 compared with the value of
£100 invested in the FTSE Small Cap Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends. The FTSE Small Cap Index was
selected for comparison as the Group forms part of that index.
On behalf of the Board
Mark Lejman
Remuneration Committee Chairman
14 March 2008
250
200
150
100
50
0
FTSE Small Cap Index
Delta
Dec-02 Dec-03 Dec-04 Dec-05 Dec-06 Dec-07
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 31 144
32
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the
Independent Auditors’ reports on page 33 (for the Group) and page 86 (for
the Company), is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the
respective responsibilities of the directors and of the Auditors in relation to
the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and the financial statements. The directors have
chosen to prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and for the Company in accordance
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP).
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to prepare
financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company
for that year. In preparing these financial statements, the directors are
required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires
that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Company’s
financial position, financial performance and cash flows. This requires the
faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and
conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for
assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Financial
Reporting Standards. Directors are also required to:
 properly select and apply accounting policies;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable
information;
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific
requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular
transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial
position and financial performance; and
 prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having
assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern,
management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading,
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the
preparation of a Directors’ Report and Directors’ Remuneration Report
which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 32 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities / Independent Auditors’ Report
33
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Delta plc
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Delta plc for the
year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income
Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement,
and the related notes 1 to 40. These consolidated financial statements have
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also
audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements
of Delta plc for the year ended 31 December 2007.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors’ report and for
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept
or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the
opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’
Remuneration Report and the consolidated financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the
statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial
statements give a true and fair view, whether the consolidated financial
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We
also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the
directors’ report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
The information given in the directors’ report includes that specific
information presented in the operating and financial review that is cross
referred from the business review section of the directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information
specified by law regarding director’s remuneration and other transactions is
not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider
whether the Board’s statement on internal control covers all risks and
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider
whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements. We
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information
outside the annual report.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made
by the directors in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the consolidated
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
described as having been audited are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion,
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in
the consolidated financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
OPINION
In our opinion:
 the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state
of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the
year then ended;
 the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation;
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having
been audited has been prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985; and
 the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the
consolidated financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
14 March 2008
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 33 34
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
144 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
2007 2006 (Restated
(1)
)
Except- Except-
Before ional Before ional
exceptional items exceptional items
£m Notes items (note 7) Total items (note 7) Total
Continuing operations:
Revenue 4 266.4 — 266.4 239.5 — 239.5
Cost of sales (200.3) — (200.3) (175.3) — (175.3)
Gross profit 66.1 — 66.1 64.2 — 64.2
Distribution costs and administrative expenses (48.5) — (48.5) (45.2) — (45.2)
Impairment of plant and equipment 7 ——— — (2.2) (2.2)
Business closure costs 7 — (13.9) (13.9) ———
Profit on sale of fixed assets 7 — 1.8 1.8 ———
Operating profit 17.6 (12.1) 5.5 19.0 (2.2) 16.8
Gain on sale of subsidiary 7 ——— — 4.6 4.6
Share of post-tax profits/(losses)
of associates and joint venture 6, 7 0.4 2.1 2.5 (0.3) — (0.3)
Investment income 8 7.2 — 7.2 7.4 — 7.4
Other gains and losses 9 33.8 — 33.8 33.3 — 33.3
Finance costs 7, 10 (33.7) — (33.7) (32.3) (0.9) (33.2)
Profit before tax 25.3 (10.0) 15.3 27.1 1.5 28.6
Tax 7, 11 (4.3) (0.5) (4.8) (7.3) (3.0) (10.3)
Profit for the year from
continuing operations 21.0 (10.5) 10.5 19.8 (1.5) 18.3
Discontinued operations:
Profit/(loss) for the year from
discontinued operations 12 0.1 6.6 6.7 1.1 (16.7) (15.6)
Profit for the year 14 21.1 (3.9) 17.2 20.9 (18.2) 2.7
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 21.1 0.7 21.8 20.6 (14.3) 6.3
Minority interests 34 — (4.6) (4.6) 0.3 (3.9) (3.6)
21.1 (3.9) 17.2 20.9 (18.2) 2.7
(1)
See note 3
Earnings per share (pence)
From continuing operations:
Basic 17 13.9 10.5 12.8 14.4
Diluted 17 13.8 10.4 12.8 14.3
From continuing and discontinued operations:
Basic 17 13.8 14.2 13.4 4.1
Diluted 17 13.7 14.1 13.4 4.0
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 34 Consolidated Income Statement / Consolidated Balance Sheet
35
www.deltaplc.com
Consolidated Balance Sheet
At 31 December 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
£m Notes 2007 2006
Non-current assets
Goodwill 18 6.1 5.8
Property, plant and equipment 19 71.9 74.1
Interests in associates and joint venture 6 3.6 —
Deferred tax assets 22 2.4 2.2
Other receivables 25 0.8 2.1
84.8 84.2
Current assets
Inventories 24 56.0 60.8
Trade and other receivables 25 49.9 37.4
Other financial assets 26 2.6 —
Cash 26 128.7 109.5
237.2 207.7
Assets classified as held for sale 27 — 12.6
Total assets 322.0 304.5
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 28 (42.1) (40.4)
Current tax liabilities (1.2) (4.8)
Bank overdrafts 26 (1.0) (0.5)
Bank loans 26 (1.4) (1.9)
Provisions 29 (3.5) (3.9)
Derivative financial instruments at fair value 30 — (0.1)
(49.2) (51.6)
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 27 — (3.5)
Net current assets 188.0 156.1
Non-current liabilities
Other payables 28 (8.0) —
Bank loans 26 — (0.1)
Retirement benefit obligation 23 — (0.2)
Deferred tax liabilities 22 (2.2) (2.3)
Provisions 29 (3.8) (7.0)
(14.0) (9.6)
Total liabilities (63.2) (64.7)
Net assets 258.8 239.8
Equity
Share capital 31 41.3 41.2
Share premium account 31 34.0 33.8
Hedging and translation reserves 32 (0.8) (11.8)
Employee share ownership trust 31 (2.2) (1.0)
Retained earnings 33 159.0 144.4
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 231.3 206.6
Minority interests 34 27.5 33.2
Total equity 258.8 239.8
The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 14 March 2008. They were signed on its
behalf by:
Todd Atkinson Jon Kempster
Chief Executive Finance Director
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 35 144
36
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
£m Notes 2007 2006
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 23 8.9 1.8
IAS 19 defined benefit pension asset
recoverability net adjustment 23 (9.5) —
Gains on net investment hedges 30 — 8.1
Net investment hedges recycled to net income 13 — (5.6)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 32 10.6 (21.0)
Exchange differences recycled to net income on disposal 13 0.4 4.0
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 10.4 (12.7)
Profit for the year 17.2 2.7
Total recognised income/(expense) for the year 27.6 (10.0)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 31.9 4.5
Minority interests (4.3) (14.5)
27.6 (10.0)
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 36 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense / Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
37
www.deltaplc.com
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
£m Notes 2007 2006
Cash generated from operations before tax 36 26.9 12.5
Tax
Exceptional tax refunded/(paid) 1.5 (10.9)
Other corporate tax paid (9.2) (6.4)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operations 19.2 (4.8)
Payment of European Commission copper fitting investigation fine 7 — (19.1)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 19.2 (23.9)
Investing activities
Disposal of businesses and subsidiaries 13 4.4 3.0
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3.4 0.4
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (7.5) (6.8)
Cash receipts in respect of derivative financial instruments — 4.5
Payments in respect of provisions (0.8) (1.3)
Proceeds of deferred consideration received in respect of disposed entities 1.3 1.7
One-off payment to buy out the residual liabilities of the
Group’s former captive insurance company — (1.6)
Net cash generated by/(used in) investing activities 0.8 (0.1)
Financing activities
Interest received 7.2 7.4
Interest paid (0.6) (0.6)
Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent (7.2) (6.2)
Dividends paid to minority interests (1.4) (25.0)
Repayments of borrowings (0.8) (1.5)
New bank loans raised 0.2 0.2
Proceeds on issue of shares 0.3 0.8
Purchase of shares for ESOT (1.1) —
Outflow to other financial assets 26 (2.6) —
Net cash used in financing activities (6.0) (24.9)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 14.0 (48.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 109.0 172.6
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 4.7 (14.7)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 36 127.7 109.0
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 37 144
38
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
1 GENERAL INFORMATION
Delta plc (the Company) is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985 (as amended).
The address of its registered office is disclosed on the back cover. The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries (the Group)
are described in the ‘Group at a Glance’ section and listed in note 38.
The reporting currency of Delta plc is pound sterling. The functional currency of Delta’s subsidiaries, associates and joint venture have been
determined in accordance with IAS 21: “The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates” to be the currency of the country in which each
operation is incorporated, with the exception of Manganese Metal Company, an associate, whose functional currency has been determined
to be the United States dollar.
In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7: Financial instruments: Disclosures which is effective for annual reporting periods
beginning on or after 1 January 2007, and the related amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements. The impact of the
adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided in these consolidated financial statements
regarding the Group’s financial assets (see notes 25 and 30). Four Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting
Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) are effective for the current year. These are: IFRIC 7: Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29,
Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies; IFRIC 8: Scope of IFRS 2; IFRIC 9: Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives; and
IFRIC 10: Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment. The adoption of these Interpretations has not led to any changes in the Group’s
accounting policies in these consolidated financial statements.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective:
IAS 23 (Revised) Borrowing Costs
IFRS 8 Operating Segments
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction
The directors continue to evaluate the impact of these Standards and Interpretations but do not currently anticipate that the future adoption
of them will have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except for potential additional disclosures on
segmental reporting when IFRS 8 comes into effect for years commencing on or after 1 January 2009, and IFRIC 14 which will place a more
comprehensive asset ceiling test on the recoverability and recognition of any actuarial pension surplus.
2 PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of accounting
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted in the European Union, and they therefore
comply with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except
for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The financial statements are prepared to the last Saturday of December, in the case of the current year 29 December 2007. Since this is
within 7 days of 31 December each year, the requirements of the Companies Act with regard to the dating of the financial statements are
met. Comparative data is for the year ended 30 December 2006.
The principal accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to all years presented in these financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the results, cash flows, assets and liabilities of Delta plc and all its subsidiaries, recognising
any minority interest in those subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the results and net assets of its associates and joint venture.
The financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint venture are prepared as of the same reporting date using consistent accounting
policies. Intercompany balances and transactions between subsidiaries, including any unrealised profits arising from intercompany
transactions, are eliminated on consolidation.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 38 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
39
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
2 PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a share
of more than 50% of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are
included until the date on which the Group ceases to control them. Where a subsidiary is less than 100% owned by the Group, the minority
interest share of the results and net assets are recognised at each reporting date. Where a Company with minority interests has net liabilities,
no asset is recorded within minority interests unless the minority shareholder has an obligation to make good its share of the net liabilities.
Associates are entities over which the Group has the power to exercise significant influence but not control or joint control, generally
accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Joint ventures are entities subject to joint control, that is when the
strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. If the Group’s share of losses in an associate or
joint venture equals or exceeds its investment in the associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has
obligations in relation to or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Business combinations
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. The cost of a business combination is measured as the
aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and any equity instruments issued
by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, together with any costs directly attributable to the combination. The identifiable assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets
(or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5: “Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued
operations” which are recognised at fair value less costs to sell. The excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest
in the fair value of the identifiable assets (including any intangibles recognised), liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
The interests of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minority’s proportion of the net fair value of the assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Currency translation
The financial statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
The functional currency of all the Group’s subsidiaries and joint venture is the currency of the country in which that subsidiary or joint
venture operates. Manganese Metal Company, the Group’s 49% South African associate, uses the US dollar as its functional currency.
The presentation currency of the Group and functional currency of Delta plc is pound sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency of the entity using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the
transactions. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at
the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are
recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into pound sterling using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date, and the income
statements are translated into pound sterling using the average exchange rate for the year. Where this average is not a reasonable
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, the exchange rate on the transaction date is used.
Exchange differences arising upon consolidation are taken to the cumulative translation reserve in equity. The cumulative exchange
difference held in shareholders’ equity in respect of an operation is transferred to the consolidated income statement upon disposal.
Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received and is recognised when the Group has transferred
the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods and services to the buyer, when the amount of revenue can be measured reliably
and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. Revenue is measured net of
discounts, value added tax and other sales related taxes.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 39 144
40
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
2 PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Revenue is typically recognised once the Group has performed its services for the customer, evidenced either by delivery of finished goods
or other evidence of completion of work.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Operating profit
Operating profit is defined as revenue from continuing operations less related expenses and is stated before the share of post-tax
profits/(losses) of associates and joint venture and before investment income, other gains and losses, finance costs and tax.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the directors, either individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, as being
material and which require disclosure in order to provide additional information to assist the understanding of the financial information.
Retirement benefit costs
The Group operates defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution pension plans.
A defined benefit pension plan is one that specifies the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement. The Group
operates a number of funded defined benefit pension plans, where actuarially-determined payments are made to trustee-administered
funds.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method, and is determined by
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency
in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The Group accounts for actuarial gains and losses in full through the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense in the year
in which they occur. Where the actuarial valuation of the plan demonstrates that the plan is in surplus, the recognisable asset is limited to
that for which the Group can benefit in the future.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in distribution costs and administrative expenses
in the consolidated income statement. Past service costs, if any, are similarly included where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are
amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return on assets of funded defined benefit pension plans is recorded in other gains and losses in the consolidated income
statement. The expected interest on pension plan liabilities is recorded in finance costs in the consolidated income statement.
A defined contribution plan is one under which fixed contributions are paid to a third party. The Group has no further payment obligations
once these contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised in the consolidated income statement when they are due.
Share-based payments
The Group operates various equity-settled incentive schemes for certain employees. For equity-settled share options and awards, the
services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options or awards granted. Fair value is calculated
at grant date and recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity, on a
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options or awards that will eventually vest. Vesting
conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into account when estimating fair value.
Fair value is measured using either the Black-Scholes option pricing or Stochastic model. The expected life used in the model has been
adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 40 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
41
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
2 PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Goodwill
Goodwill acquired in business combinations represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over the Group’s interest in the
fair value of the identifiable assets (including any intangibles recognised), liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or
joint venture at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment loss. Goodwill is tested at least annually
for impairment or if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Any impairment is calculated in accordance with IAS
36: “Impairment of assets” and is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement and is not subsequently reversed. Goodwill
subsisting on disposal of the related operation is taken to the consolidated income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being
tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included
in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises
purchase price and directly attributable costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. For all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is calculated
on a straight-line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the assets over their estimated useful economic lives as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Leasehold property Term of lease
Plant and machinery, including motor vehicles 4 to 25 years
Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 5 years
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
Research and development
Expenditure on research is recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement as incurred. Expenditure incurred on
development projects is capitalised as an intangible asset from the point that it is probable that the expenditure will generate sufficient future
economic benefits and the costs can be measured reliably. Previously expensed development expenditure is not reinstated in the
consolidated balance sheet.
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. Where an indicator of impairment
exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the
asset is written down to its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use and is
determined for an individual asset. If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or
groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined. The present value of
estimated future cash flows is calculated using discount rates reflecting the risks specific to that asset and the current market assessment
of the time value of money for the value in use calculation. Impairments are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised
estimate of the recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is
recognised in income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment
loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis for our Galvanizing
Services’ related businesses or otherwise a weighted average cost basis. Cost comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion costs
and an allocation of production overheads based on normal operating capacity. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less
estimated costs of completion and marketing, selling and distribution costs. Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items
where appropriate.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 41 144
42
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
2 PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement comprise cash at bank and in hand, money market
deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities at acquisition of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when a present obligation (legal or constructive) exists in respect of a past event; it is probable that a transfer of
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount can be reliably estimated by the directors. Where the impact
is material, provisions are discounted to present value.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all its liabilities.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group. Finance leases
are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease
payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the liability and finance charge to produce a constant rate of interest on the finance
lease balance outstanding. Assets capitalised under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful economic life of the asset
or the lease term.
Leases other than finance leases are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are recognised as an expense
in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Any incentives to enter into operating leases are recognised
as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Tax
The Group’s liability for current tax, including UK and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using tax rates
that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax. The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the
year. Taxable profit differs from reported profit in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets
and liabilities used in the computation of taxable profit and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that taxable profits will be available, against which deductible differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided for on unremitted
earnings within the Group where it is expected that these earnings will be distributed in the future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the
initial recognition (other than a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor
the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred
tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities
and when they relate to corporate taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and
liabilities on a net basis.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 42 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
43
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
2 PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction
rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset (or disposal
group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to
qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the asset’s previous carrying amount and
fair value less costs to sell.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
Financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The derivative financial
instruments used comprise foreign exchange swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. The Group does not use derivative financial
instruments for speculative purposes. Further discussion of the Group’s treasury policies are contained in the Financial Review and in
note 30.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value through the consolidated income statement where hedge accounting conditions
are not met.
Gains and losses on foreign currency hedges are recognised on the maturity of the underlying transaction, other than any translational
hedges of foreign currency investments which are taken to equity.
The principles of hedge accounting are applied where the requirements set out in IFRS affording such treatment have been met and the
resulting gains and losses on hedging instruments are taken to equity.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the consolidated
income statement as they arise. The ineffective portions of financial instruments, otherwise designated and effective as hedges, are
recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge
accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred
to net profit or loss for the year.
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest rate method. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in income when there is objective evidence
that the asset is impaired. The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present
value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are measured at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost. Trade payables are measured
initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other non-financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks
and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value with unrealised gains
or losses reported in profit or loss.
Due to the significant cash balances held by the Group, the Group is exposed to credit risks with counterparty banks. In particular, the Group
has cash balances with banks located in the UK, Republic of South Africa, Australia, China and the United States; and consequently has
an exposure to those banking sectors. The balances are spread across a number of large commercial banks; other than this, the Group
has no significant concentrations of credit risk. The Group has policies requiring credit checks on potential customers of a particular size
before sales commence.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 43 144
44
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
2 PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
Dividends
Any dividends declared after the year end represent a non-adjusting post-balance sheet event and therefore, no liability is recognised until
the dividend is declared and payable to shareholders.
Share capital
The ordinary and cumulative non-redeemable preference shares are classified as equity instruments, and are recorded at the proceeds
received, net of direct issue costs.
Employee Share Ownership Trust
Investments in own shares (held through an Employee Share Ownership Trust) are shown at cost as a deduction from shareholders’ equity
and shown under the heading “Employee Share Ownership Trust” in the consolidated balance sheet. The costs of administration of the
Employee Share Ownership Trust are included in the consolidated income statement as they accrue. Dividends on shares held by the Trust
have been waived.
Accounting judgments and estimation uncertainty
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies which are described above, management has made various judgments that
potentially have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. These judgments relate primarily to the following
items:
Pensions (see note 23)
The obligation in respect of the Group’s retirement benefit obligations is dependent on a number of estimates including those relating to
mortality, inflation, salary increases and the rate at which liabilities are discounted. Any change in these assumptions would impact the
retirement benefit obligation recognised.
Provisions in respect of disposed entities (see note 29)
Provisions in respect of disposed entities relate to the current estimate of future liabilities expected to arise as a result of businesses
disposed, where the Group has retained responsibility for items including product warranty, product liability and environmental
remediation. At the end of each reporting period management performs a detailed assessment of expected future cash outflows relating
to these obligations, and adjusts remaining provisions accordingly. In reviewing these provisions consideration is given to the historical
utilisation of such provisions, and the expected costs of works either ongoing currently or reasonably expected to be undertaken for
which the Group would be liable.
Carrying amount of certain assets and goodwill (see note 18)
In reviewing the carrying value of certain assets and capitalised goodwill, estimates of future financial performance of the assets and
businesses concerned are taken into account. The estimates inherently include assumptions of internal and external factors that, whilst
considered reasonable at the date of these accounts, may change in the future from those levels currently expected.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 44 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
45
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
3 RESTATEMENT
In accordance with IFRS 5: Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the results for the year ended 31 December
2006 have been restated. IFRS 5, paragraph 34 requires that such disclosures are re-presented in the financial statements for all periods
presented with the disclosures relating to all operations that have been discontinued by the balance sheet date.
The main effect has been to classify businesses that were continuing at 31 December 2007 from their former classification as discontinued
in the prior year. The comparative figures for the consolidated balance sheet are not impacted and therefore have not been restated.
The following table provides a summary of the key changes to results arising from the restatement for the comparative period:
Consolidated income statement
As
previously
reported (Restated)
£m 2006 Adjustment 2006
Continuing operations:
Revenue 233.5 6.0 239.5
Gross profit 62.4 1.8 64.2
Operating profit 15.7 1.1 16.8
Share of post-tax losses of associates and joint venture — (0.3) (0.3)
Profit before tax 27.8 0.8 28.6
Profit for the year from continuing operations 17.8 0.5 18.3
Discontinued operations:
Loss for the year from discontinued operations (15.1) (0.5) (15.6)
Continuing and discontinued operations:
Profit for the year 2.7 — 2.7
The following table provides a summary of the key changes to earnings per share for the comparative period arising from the
restatement:
Earnings per share
As
previously
reported (Restated)
Pence per share 2006 Adjustment 2006
From continuing operations:
After exceptional items:
Basic 14.2 0.2 14.4
Diluted 14.1 0.2 14.3
Before exceptional items:
Basic 12.6 0.2 12.8
Diluted 12.6 0.2 12.8
From continuing and discontinued operations:
After exceptional items:
Basic 4.1 — 4.1
Diluted 4.0 — 4.0
Before exceptional items:
Basic 13.4 — 13.4
Diluted 13.4 — 13.4
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 45 144
46
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
4 REVENUE
An analysis of significant categories of revenue, as defined and disclosed in accordance with IAS 18: Revenue, is given below:
(Restated)
£m Notes 2007 2006
Continuing operations:
Sales of goods and services 266.4 239.5
Investment income 8 7.2 7.4
Discontinued operations:
Sales of goods and services 12 2.6 7.7
5 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
For management purposes, the Group is organised into three operating divisions: Engineered Steel Products, Galvanizing Services and
Manganese Materials. These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information. Principal activities are as
follows:
Engineered Steel Products Manufacture and distribution of galvanized steel products, grinding media and engineered tooling.
Galvanizing Services Provision of hot-dip galvanizing and Zinc reclamation services.
Manganese Materials Manufacture and distribution of electrolytic manganese dioxide for use in the manufacture of primary
batteries and producer of electrolytic manganese metal.
The results for the year ended 31 December 2006 have been restated in accordance with IFRS 5: Non-current Assets Held for Sale and
Discontinued Operations (for further details see note 3).
Primary reporting format — by business segment
Revenue (2006 restated)
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total operations
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
External sales
Engineered Steel Products 147.4 133.1 — 4.5 147.4 137.6
Galvanizing Services 84.5 71.4 2.6 3.2 87.1 74.6
Manganese Materials 34.5 35.0 — — 34.5 35.0
Internal sales
(1)
Engineered Steel Products 0.2 0.2 — — 0.2 0.2
Galvanizing Services 5.3 3.3 — — 5.3 3.3
Manganese Materials — — — — — —
External and internal sales
Engineered Steel Products 147.6 133.3 — 4.5 147.6 137.8
Galvanizing Services 89.8 74.7 2.6 3.2 92.4 77.9
Manganese Materials 34.5 35.0 — — 34.5 35.0
Eliminations (5.5) (3.5) — — (5.5) (3.5)
Total revenue 266.4 239.5 2.6 7.7 269.0 247.2
(1)
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 46 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
47
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
5 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued
Segment result (2006 restated)
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total operations
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Segment result
Engineered Steel Products 15.3 14.7 — 0.9 15.3 15.6
Galvanizing Services 12.3 13.1 0.4 0.4 12.7 13.5
Manganese Materials
(2)
(17.0) (6.8) — — (17.0) (6.8)
Disposed businesses — — (0.1) 2.4 (0.1) 2.4
Total segment result
(1)
10.6 21.0 0.3 3.7 10.9 24.7
Less: discontinued operations (0.3) (3.7)
Unallocated Group costs (5.1) (4.2)
Operating profit 5.5 16.8
Gain on sale of subsidiary — 4.6
Share of post-tax profits/(losses) of
associates and joint venture 2.5 (0.3)
Investment income 7.2 7.4
Other gains and losses 33.8 33.3
Finance costs (33.7) (33.2)
Profit before tax 15.3 28.6
Tax (4.8) (10.3)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 10.5 18.3
Profit/(loss) for the year from discontinued operations 6.7 (15.6)
Profit for the year 17.2 2.7
(1)
Total segment result is operating profit for each segment including discontinued operations and before unallocated Group costs.
(2)
Included in the 2007 figure is (i) profit on disposal of land of £1.8 million in relation to EMD Australia and (ii) business closure costs of £13.9 million.
Included in the 2006 figure is an impairment of £2.2 million in respect of an part-constructed plant in EMD South Africa.
Impairment losses/reversals
For the year ended 31 December 2007, impairment charges of £13.9 million were reported in the operating loss of the Manganese Materials
business segment (year ended 31 December 2006: impairment charges of £2.2 million were reported in the operating loss of the Manganese
Materials business segment).
For the year ended 31 December 2007, a part reversal of £2.1 million of an impairment of the Group’s 49% associate, Manganese Metal
Company, has been booked in the share of post-tax gains/(losses) of associates and joint venture, not in an allocated business segment.
Capital additions and depreciation
Total operations
£m 2007 2006
Capital additions
Engineered Steel Products 3.9 2.0
Galvanizing Services 2.7 2.9
Manganese Materials 0.9 1.9
7.5 6.8
Total operations
£m 2007 2006
Depreciation
Engineered Steel Products 2.3 2.5
Galvanizing Services 2.7 2.7
Manganese Materials 2.6 3.2
7.6 8.4
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 47 144
48
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
5 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued
Segment gross assets and gross liabilities
Total operations
£m 2007 2006
Allocated assets
Engineered Steel Products 77.0 67.0
Galvanizing Services 58.0 63.6
Manganese Materials 49.7 62.1
184.7 192.7
Unallocated assets
(1)
Interests in associates and joint venture 3.6 —
Deferred tax assets 2.4 2.3
Other financial assets 2.6 —
Cash 128.7 109.5
Consolidated total assets 322.0 304.5
Allocated liabilities
Engineered Steel Products (22.5) (19.7)
Galvanizing Services (14.2) (18.1)
Manganese Materials (15.8) (9.2)
(52.5) (47.0)
Unallocated liabilities
(1)
Current and deferred tax liabilities (3.4) (7.6)
Overdrafts and loans (2.4) (2.5)
Retirement benefit obligation — (0.2)
Unallocated corporate liabilities (2.9) (2.6)
Provisions relating to previously disposed businesses (2.0) (4.7)
Derivative financial instruments at fair value — (0.1)
Consolidated total liabilities (63.2) (64.7)
(1)
Includes assets and liabilities respectively classified as assets and liabilities held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet.
Segment net assets and net liabilities
Total operations
£m 2007 2006
Allocated net assets
Engineered Steel Products 54.5 47.3
Galvanizing Services 43.8 45.5
Manganese Materials 33.9 52.9
132.2 145.7
Unallocated net assets
(1)
Total unallocated net assets 126.6 94.1
Consolidated net assets 258.8 239.8
(1)
Includes assets and liabilities respectively classified as assets and liabilities held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 48 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
49
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
5 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued
Secondary reporting format — by geographic market
Revenue by destination (2006 restated)
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total operations
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Europe (including UK) 19.2 19.7 — — 19.2 19.7
Asia Pacific 209.4 186.1 2.6 7.7 212.0 193.8
North and South America 34.6 32.0 — — 34.6 32.0
Near and Middle East 1.8 0.9 — — 1.8 0.9
Africa 1.4 0.8 — — 1.4 0.8
Total revenue 266.4 239.5 2.6 7.7 269.0 247.2
Segment assets and additions — by location
Total carrying amount Total additions to
of segment assets property, plant and equipment
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006
Europe (including UK) 4.2 4.0 — 0.2
Asia Pacific 131.8 139.4 6.3 5.1
North America 15.1 16.0 0.8 0.3
Africa 33.6 33.3 0.4 1.2
184.7 192.7 7.5 6.8
6 INTERESTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURE
Consolidated balance sheet
Interests in associates and joint venture
Associates Joint venture Total
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Cost of investment — — 0.4 — 0.4 —
Loans — — 0.9 — 0.9 —
Exchange differences — — 0.2 — 0.2 —
Partial reversal of exceptional asset
impairment of associate 2.1 — — — 2.1 —
Total interest 2.1 — 1.5 — 3.6 —
The Group’s interest in its joint venture has been reclassified and presented in the ‘interests in associates and joint venture’ caption; it had
previously been classified within assets and associated liabilities classified as held for sale (see note 27). The balance sheet comparative
has not been restated.
The following 100% balance sheet information is not included in the consolidated balance sheet and is disclosed before any net impairment
of the MMC associate, but is detailed here for disclosure purposes only:
Associates Joint venture Total
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Total assets (100%) 27.4 26.5 5.5 3.0 32.9 29.5
Total liabilities (100%) (20.7) (21.4) (2.5) (2.6) (23.2) (24.0)
Net assets (100%) 6.7 5.1 3.0 0.4 9.7 5.5
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 49 144
50
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
6 INTERESTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURE continued
Consolidated income statement
Revenue
The following revenue and profit before interest and tax figures are not included in the consolidated income statement, but are detailed here
for disclosure purposes only:
Associates Joint venture
(1)
Total
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Revenue (100%) 32.8 39.4 5.8 4.3 38.6 43.7
Profit/(loss) before interest
and tax (100%) 3.7 (14.0) 1.7 1.1 5.4 (12.9)
(1)
Before asset impairment of joint venture.
Share of post-tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint venture
Associates Joint venture Total
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Share of post-tax profits before
asset impairment of joint venture — — 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3
Asset impairment of joint venture — — — (0.6) — (0.6)
Partial reversal of exceptional asset
impairment of associate 2.1 — — — 2.1 —
Share of post-tax losses 2.1 — 0.4 (0.3) 2.5 (0.3)
The Group’s share of post-tax gains/(losses) in its joint venture has been reclassified and presented in continuing operations; it had been
previously classified within assets and associated liabilities classified as held for sale, and included within discontinued operations. The
income statement comparative has been restated in accordance with IFRS 5 (see note 3).
Manganese Metal Company (MMC), the Group’s principal associate, is listed in note 38.
The statutory annual financial statements of MMC are made up to 30 June each year. For the purpose of applying the equity method of
accounting, the latest monthly management accounts have been used, with appropriate adjustments made, for statutory reporting purposes.
Following substantial losses and the then forthcoming closure of the MMC’s Krugersdorp plant in 2006, the Group impaired its share of
MMC’s net assets by £8.5 million to a nil carrying value in the year ended 31 December 2005. Consequently, MMC’s financial results are
not reflected in the Group’s consolidated income statement. Given MMC’s substantially improved financial position and performance, a
further valuation has been undertaken and the impairment of the Group’s share of MMC’s net assets has been partially reversed in this year’s
accounts in accordance with the provisions of IAS 39. This reversal in the consolidated income statement up to a value in the consolidated
balance sheet of £2.1 million is constrained by the original investment less unbooked accumulated losses and also by Delta’s share arising
under equity accounting. The unrecognised losses of MMC at 31 December 2007 are £5.2 million.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 50 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
51
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
7 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the directors, either individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, as being
material and which require disclosure in order to provide additional information to assist the understanding of the financial information.
Continuing operations
£m 2007 2006
Profit on sale of fixed assets (a) 1.8 —
Fair value net cost incurred on foreign exchange derivatives for
which hedge accounting cannot be applied (b) — (0.9)
Secondary tax on companies on distribution of tranches of proceeds from disposal
of former South African Industrial Supplies businesses (c) — (6.9)
Deferred tax release in respect of the payment of the above distribution (c) — 3.9
Partial reversal of impairment of share of net assets of associate (d) 2.1 —
Impairment of plant and equipment (e) — (2.2)
Business closure costs (f) (13.9) —
Deferred tax not recoverable (f) (0.5) —
Gain on sale of subsidiary (g) — 4.6
(10.5) (1.5)
(a) The exceptional profit on sale of fixed assets of £1.8 million in the year ended 31 December 2007 relates to the disposal of land
adjacent to the Group’s EMD plant in Australia. The consideration received amounted to £3.3 million. There were no exceptional
profits on sale of fixed assets in the prior year (£nil).
(b) There were no exceptional fair value net costs incurred on foreign exchange derivatives in the year ended 31 December 2007. In the
year ended 31 December 2006, the exceptional item of £0.9 million charged against finance costs relates to that share of the gains
or losses incurred on forward foreign currency contracts for which hedge accounting cannot be applied. The purpose of the forward
foreign currency contracts was to protect the sterling value of the South African rand denominated net assets after the disposal in 2005
of the former South African Industrial Supplies businesses.
(c) In September 2005, the South African Industrial Supplies businesses were sold by Delta Electrical Industries Ltd, a 56% subsidiary
of the Group. The proceeds from this disposal were distributed by Delta Electrical Industries Ltd through two distributions: ZAR 6 per
share in December 2005, and a second and final distribution of ZAR 14 per share in March 2006, both of which were paid 56% to
the Delta Group shareholder and 44% to minority shareholders. These distributions incurred South African secondary tax on
companies (STC), which affected the exceptional items tax charge and minority interests as below.
In the full year ended 31 December 2006, £6.9 million current tax was provided upon declaration and payment of the March 2006
distribution, being the entire STC liability upon that distribution. Simultaneously in 2006, a deferred tax provision which had been taken
in 2005 in anticipation of Delta’s share of this liability was released. This deferred tax release in the year ended 31 December 2006
was £3.9 million. The remainder of the £6.9 million current tax charge in the year ended 31 December 2006, i.e. £3.0 million, was
attributable to minority interests.
For the year ended 31 December 2007, no exceptional STC or related deferred tax movements have taken place.
(d) The partial reversal of the impairment of the net assets of associate refers to the recognition of £2.1 million carrying value in respect
of Manganese Metal Company (MMC), following an improvement in its trading results and cash flows deemed to be permanent by
the directors. MMC was impaired by £8.5 million to a £nil carrying value in the year ended 31 December 2005 (see note 6).
(e) The impairment of plant and equipment in the year ended 31 December 2006 of £2.2 million refers to the impairment of the EMD
South African part-constructed plant to its recoverable amount. Given the difficult environment, the decision was taken to not progress
the construction of this additional plant capacity further for the foreseeable future.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 51 144
52
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
7 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS continued
(f) On 18 December 2007, the Group announced the closure of its EMD Australian business, as part of a co-ordinated plan to address
the ongoing loss-making nature of that business. The following costs were incurred:
(i) Impairment of goodwill of £0.6 million;
(ii) Impairment of plant and equipment of £5.7 million to its recoverable amount;
(iii) Impairment of inventories of £1.3 million to their recoverable amount;
(iv) Rationalisation, redundancy and retrenchment costs of £2.0 million; and
(v) Site restoration and rehabilitation costs of £4.3 million.
(f) In addition to the above, a deferred tax asset of £0.5 million for the EMD Australian operations relating to future tax losses is no longer
considered recoverable, and has been impaired to £nil.
(g) The gain on sale of subsidiary in the year ended 31 December 2006 comprised the disposal of a former South African holding
Company, Delta S.A. (Pty) Ltd, to Rand Merchant Bank, a South African bank. Once all applicable taxes and associated costs were
settled, together with applicable foreign currency translation and hedging balances in reserves recycled to profit and loss, the
exceptional profit was £4.6 million. No exceptional gains or losses on the disposal of subsidiaries in continuing operations have been
made in the year ended 31 December 2007.
Discontinued operations
£m 2007 2006
Profit on sale of discontinued operations (h) 2.0 —
Releases of provisions in relation to disposed entities (i) 3.1 2.4
European Commission Fine — Investigation of copper fittings industry (j) — (19.1)
Refund of South African capital gains tax (k) 1.5 —
6.6 (16.7)
(h) The exceptional profits on sale of discontinued operations consist of: £0.3 million profit after tax for the disposed business of Machin
& Ewen Pty Ltd, no gain/no loss for the disposal of Vingal Industries Co. Ltd and £1.7 million profit after tax following the disposal of
Delta Group Overseas Holdings GmbH, a former Group holding Company, together with its subsidiary Kele GmbH. More details are
provided in note 13. Profits on sale of discontinued operations in the year ended 31 December 2006 totalled £nil.
(i) During the year, an exceptional item was credited to profit for the year from discontinued operations of £3.1 million relating to net
releases of provisions pertaining to disposed businesses (2006: £2.4 million) and a warranty claim receipt.
(j) On 20 September 2006, the European Commission imposed a fine against the Group totalling £19.1 million (€28.3 million). This fine
followed an investigation into anti-competitive behaviour among certain manufacturers of copper plumbing fittings, including Delta’s
former plumbing businesses which were disposed of during November 2001. The fine relates to the activities of these former
businesses between 1988 and 2001. Delta co-operated with the European Commission during its investigation. Delta paid the fine
in full in December 2006 and has not appealed against the decision. Delta had made no provision for the anticipated fine due to
uncertainty concerning the likely amount.
(k) During the year, a refund of capital gains tax of ZAR 21.4 million (£1.5 million) was received from the South African tax authorities in
respect of the disposal of the former South African Industrial Supplies businesses in September 2005.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 52 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
53
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
8 INVESTMENT INCOME
Continuing operations
£m 2007 2006
Interest on bank deposits 7.2 7.4
9 OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES
Continuing operations
£m Note 2007 2006
Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 23 33.8 33.3
10 FINANCE COSTS
Continuing operations
£m Note 2007 2006
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 0.6 0.6
Expected interest on defined benefit pension scheme liabilities 23 33.1 31.5
Fair value net cost incurred on foreign exchange derivatives for
which hedge accounting cannot be applied — 1.1
Finance costs for the year 33.7 33.2
11 TAX
Tax expense
2007 2006
£m Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total
Corporate tax:
Current tax — current year 7.0 — 7.0 15.3 0.2 15.5
Deferred tax — current year
— current timing
differences (0.5) — (0.5) (4.3) — (4.3)
Adjustment in respect of prior years
— current tax (1.9) (1.5) (3.4) (0.4) (0.1) (0.5)
— deferred tax 0.2 — 0.2 (0.3) — (0.3)
Tax expense for the year 4.8 (1.5) 3.3 10.3 0.1 10.4
Tax is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Included in the current tax charge in the year ended 31 December 2006 was exceptional South African secondary tax on companies of
£6.9 million in relation to the distribution of proceeds from disposal of the former South African Industrial Supplies businesses in 2005. As
explained in note 7, this was disclosed as an exceptional item and £3.0 million of this sum was entirely attributable to the minority interests.
Deferred tax of £3.9 million was also released in the prior year. This sum represented the Group’s share of the secondary tax charge referred
to above which was accrued during 2005 (see also note 7(c)).
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 53 144
54
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
11 TAX continued
Reconciliation of tax expense
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
(Restated)
£m 2007 2006
Profit before tax:
Continuing operations 15.3 28.6
Discontinued operations (including disposals) 5.2 (15.5)
20.5 13.1
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2006: 30%) 6.1 3.9
Tax effect of tax free items:
Closure costs of EMD Australia business 4.6 —
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations (0.7) —
Partial reversal of impairment of share of net assets of associate (0.6) —
EC copper fitting fine — 5.7
Net release of provisions relating to disposed entities (0.9) (0.7)
Gain upon sale of Delta S.A. (Pty) Ltd — (1.4)
Net IAS 19 non-taxable income (0.2) (0.4)
Other expenses that are not tax deductible 0.2 1.3
Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses, capital allowances and tax holidays not previously recognised (1.6) (1.0)
Tax effect of unrelieved tax losses not recognised for deferred tax 0.7 0.8
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions (0.3) (0.3)
Withholding tax (i) 0.4 3.5
Adjustment in respect of prior years (ii) (3.2) (0.8)
Other (1.2) (0.2)
Tax expense for the year 3.3 10.4
(i) In the year ended 31 December 2006, included within this £3.5 million total, £3.0 million net tax expense arose in respect of withholding tax upon
distribution within the Group and to DEI shareholders of the proceeds from the sale in September 2005 of the South African Industrial Supplies
businesses (see note 7(c)).
(ii) In the year ended 31 December 2007, the prior year items relate primarily to a successful claim for a refund of South African capital gains tax paid in
respect of a disposal in 2005, and to research and development tax credits in Australia.
12 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Discontinued operations relate to a number of businesses formerly owned by the Group, some of which had their own business segment
until their disposal. Profits relating to previously disposed and discontinued businesses result from the Group’s latest assessment of
provisions, including taking account of warranty and indemnity periods that have expired up to the date of this annual report. Profit on sale
of assets relates to the disposal of discontinued businesses.
There are no current businesses presently classified in discontinued operations. Of the three Asian Galvanizing businesses formerly disclosed
as held for sale, one was sold by the year end and the other two were reclassified in continuing operations.
The table below details the operating results through to disposal (as appropriate) and the post-tax gain on sale of the disposed businesses
(as appropriate). All revenue shown is from parties external to the Group.
Year ended 31 December 2007 Previously
disposed and
Disposed discontinued
£m businesses businesses Total
Revenue 2.6 — 2.6
Expenses (2.3) 3.0 0.7
Operating profit 0.3 3.0 3.3
Unwinding of discount on provisions — (0.1) (0.1)
Profit before tax 0.3 2.9 3.2
Attributable tax credit — 1.5 1.5
Profit after tax 0.3 4.4 4.7
Profit on sale of discontinued operations 2.0 — 2.0
Net profit attributable to discontinued operations 2.3 4.4 6.7
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 54 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
55
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
12 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS continued
Discontinued operations included a net receipt of £2.1 million (2006: net payment of £18.5 million) to the Group’s net operating cash
flows, net receipt of £4.5 million (2006: net payment of £3.8 million) in respect of investing activities and net receipt of £0.1 million
(2006: net payment of £2.1 million) in respect of financing activities.
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in note 5.
Year ended 31 December 2006 (restated) Previously
disposed and
Assets held discontinued
£m for sale businesses Total
Revenue 7.7 — 7.7
Expenses (6.4) 2.4 (4.0)
Operating profit 1.3 2.4 3.7
EC Copper fittings investigation fine (note 7(j)) — (19.1) (19.1)
Unwinding of discount on provisions — (0.1) (0.1)
Profit/(loss) before tax 1.3 (16.8) (15.5)
Attributable tax (expense)/credit (0.2) 0.1 (0.1)
Profit/(loss) after tax 1.1 (16.7) (15.6)
Net profit/(loss) attributable to discontinued operations 1.1 (16.7) (15.6)
In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 5: Non-current Assets held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the above table for the
comparative year has been restated for those operations that are no longer discontinued in the current year. The comparative trading results
for the Machin & Ewen and Vingal businesses, following their disposal in 2007 (see note 13), are included in the assets held for sale column
of the above table.
13 DISPOSAL OF BUSINESSES
Continuing operations
Effective 31 March 2007, the Group sold its shares in Ingal Environmental Services Pty Ltd/Enviropod New Zealand Ltd (“IES/ENZ”) business
in Australia and New Zealand to its management for a total gross consideration of £0.1 million, the majority of which is deferred consideration.
The profit on sale totalled £0.1 million after allowing for estimated expenses of the sale and release of foreign currency translation reserve.
The net assets of IES/ENZ at the date of disposal and at the end of the comparative year were as follows:
At At
date of 31 December
£m disposal 2006
Inventories 0.2 0.2
Trade and other receivables 0.3 0.3
Cash — 0.1
Trade and other payables (0.2) (0.3)
Current tax liabilities (0.2) (0.2)
Bank loans (0.3) (0.1)
Attributable goodwill 0.2 0.2
Net assets — 0.2
Net assets disposed of —
Release of foreign currency translation reserve
(1)
—
Pre-tax gain on disposal of business 0.1
Total consideration net of selling costs 0.1
(1)
Following disposal of the above business, the respective foreign currency translation reserve from the date of transition to IFRS until the date of disposal
has been recycled into profit and loss in accordance with the provisions of IAS 21.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 55 144
56
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
13 DISPOSAL OF BUSINESSES continued
The total consideration for the business was satisfied as follows:
At date of
£m disposal
Cash —
Deferred consideration 0.1
0.1
Of the £0.1 million deferred consideration, the majority is current.
There was no net cash inflow/outflow on the disposal of the business.
During the year ended 31 December 2007, the IES/ENZ business contributed £nil to operating profit, contributed £nil to the Group’s net
operating cash flows, contributed £0.1 million to investing cash flows, and contributed £(0.1) million to financing cash flows. In the year
ended 31 December 2006, the IES/ENZ business contributed £0.3 million to operating profit, contributed £0.2 million to the Group’s net
operating cash flows, contributed £nil to investing cash flows, and contributed £(0.1) million to financing cash flows.
The IES/ENZ business was part of the Engineered Steel Products segment. The business was reported as part of the Asia Pacific geographic
segment.
IES/ENZ had been previously reported within continuing operations as a business whose assets and liabilities were held for sale as at
31 December 2006. Results through to the date of sale and the gain on sale have been reported within continuing operations.
Discontinued businesses
Machin & Ewen Pty Ltd
On 18 January 2007, the Group completed the disposal of its shares in Machin & Ewen Pty Ltd in Australia to Carlyle Partners (Australia)
Pty Ltd for a total gross consideration of £2.8 million, including £0.2 million of deferred consideration. The transaction was based on a
completion balance sheet one day after Delta’s last year end. The gain on sale totalled £0.3 million after allowing for estimated expenses of
the sale and release of foreign currency translation reserve.
The net assets of Machin & Ewen at the date of disposal and at the end of the comparative year were as follows:
At At
date of 31 December
£m disposal 2006
Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3
Deferred tax assets 0.2 0.2
Inventories 1.3 1.3
Trade and other receivables 1.2 1.1
Cash 0.1 0.1
Trade and other payables (0.5) (0.5)
Current tax liabilities (0.1) (0.1)
Provisions (0.1) (0.1)
Net assets 2.4 2.3
Release of foreign currency translation reserve
(1)
0.1
Pre-tax gain on disposal of business 0.3
Total consideration net of selling costs 2.8
(1)
Following disposal of the above business, the respective foreign currency translation reserve from the date of transition to IFRS until the date of disposal
has been recycled into profit and loss in accordance with the provisions of IAS 21.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 56 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
57
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
13 DISPOSAL OF BUSINESSES continued
The total consideration for the business was satisfied as follows:
At date of
£m disposal
Cash 2.6
Deferred consideration 0.2
2.8
All of the £0.2 million deferred consideration was current at the date of disposal and has been received in the year.
The net cash inflow arising on the disposal of the business was as follows:
At date of
£m disposal
Net cash consideration received 2.6
Overdrafts disposed of —
2.6
During the year ended 31 December 2007, and due to the transaction being based on a completion balance sheet one day after Delta’s
last year end, the Machin & Ewen business contributed £nil to operating profit, contributed £nil to the Group’s net operating cash flows,
contributed £nil to investing cash flows, and contributed £nil to financing cash flows. In the year ended 31 December 2006, the Machin &
Ewen business contributed £0.9 million to operating profit, contributed £0.9 million to the Group’s net operating cash flows, contributed
£(0.1) million to investing cash flows, and contributed £0.2 million to financing cash flows.
The Machin & Ewen business was previously reported as part of the former Industrial Supplies business segment and subsequently re-
allocated to the Engineered Steel Products segment. The business was reported as part of the Asia Pacific geographic segment.
Machin & Ewen had been previously reported within discontinued operations as a business whose assets and liabilities were held for sale
as at 31 December 2006.
Vingal Industries Co. Ltd
On 30 November 2007, the Group completed the disposal of its shares in Vingal Industries Co. Ltd (“Vingal”) in Vietnam to its principal
joint venture partner, Vietnam Steel Corporation, for a total gross consideration of £0.8 million. The transaction was based on a completion
balance sheet of 31 December 2006, Delta’s last year end. No gain or loss was recorded after allowing for estimated expenses of the sale
and release of foreign currency translation reserve.
The net assets of Vingal at the date of disposal and at the end of the comparative year were as follows:
At At
date of 31 December
£m disposal 2006
Inventories 0.8 1.0
Trade and other receivables 0.2 0.3
Cash 0.3 0.2
Trade and other payables (0.2) (0.3)
Current tax liabilities — (0.1)
Net assets 1.1 1.1
Net assets disposed of 0.6
Release of foreign currency translation reserve
(1)
0.1
Pre-tax gain/(loss) on disposal of business —
Total consideration net of selling costs 0.7
(1)
Following disposal of the above business, the respective foreign currency translation reserve from the date of transition to IFRS until the date of disposal
has been recycled into profit and loss in accordance with the provisions of IAS 21.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 57 144
58
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
13 DISPOSAL OF BUSINESSES continued
The total consideration for the business was satisfied in cash, received after the year end in February 2008.
At date of
£m disposal
Net cash consideration received —
Cash disposed of (0.3)
(0.3)
During the year ended 31 December 2007, the Vingal business contributed £0.4 million to operating profit, contributed £0.3 million to the
Group’s net operating cash flows, contributed £nil to investing cash flows, and contributed £(0.1) million to financing cash flows. In the year
ended 31 December 2006, the Vingal business contributed £0.5 million to operating profit, contributed £0.4 million to the Group’s net
operating cash flows, contributed £nil to investing cash flows, and contributed £nil to financing cash flows.
The Vingal business was previously reported as part of the Galvanizing Services segment. The business was reported as part of the Asia
Pacific geographic segment.
Vingal had been previously reported within discontinued operations as a business whose assets and liabilities were held for sale as at
31 December 2006.
Disposal of German holding company subsidaries
On 11 December 2007, the Group completed the disposal of its shares in its German subsidiary Delta Group Overseas Holding GmbH
(“DGOH”) to a private German industrial Group for a total gross consideration of £3.3 million. DGOH was sold together with its subsidiary,
Kele GmbH (“Kele”). The gain on disposal totalled £1.7 million after allowing for estimated expenses of the sale and release of foreign
currency translation reserve.
The aggregate net assets of DGOH and Kele, excluding DGOH’s investment in Kele, at the date of disposal and at the end of the comparative
year were as follows:
At At
date of 31 December
£m disposal 2006
Trade and other receivables 1.1 —
Cash 0.1 0.3
Trade and other payables (0.1) —
Provisions (0.1) (0.4)
Net assets 1.0 (0.1)
Release of foreign currency translation reserve
(1)
0.2
Pre-tax gain on disposal of business 1.7
Total consideration net of selling costs 2.9
(1)
Following disposal of the above business, the respective foreign currency translation reserve from the date of transition to IFRS until the date of disposal
has been recycled into profit and loss in accordance with the provisions of IAS 21.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 58 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
59
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
13 DISPOSAL OF BUSINESSES continued
The consideration for the companies was satisfied entirely in cash. The net cash received after transaction costs and transfer of DGOH’s
loan and cash balance to the purchaser was £2.1 million. For the purposes of reflecting the underlying substance of the disposal, the net
cash consideration received above of £2.1 million has been included in the consolidated cash flow statement.
Delta may become entitled to additional, deferred consideration of up to€3 million (£2.2 million), contingent upon a number of factors. The
receipt of any additional consideration is not presently considered to hold sufficient probability to be recognised in these consolidated
financial statements. Accordingly, the above profit on disposal calculation excludes any possible future additional consideration.
Delta has provided the purchaser with an indemnity for certain potential liabilities which may arise in respect of the companies which have
been sold. In support of this indemnity, Delta has also provided the purchaser with a bank guarantee of€3 million (£2.2 million) (see note
26).
DGOH and Kele were previously reported as part of the ‘disposed businesses’ segmental category within discontinued operations. The
companies were reported as part of the Europe geographic segment (see note 5).
During the year ended 31 December 2007 and up to its date of disposal, DGOH and Kele contributed £(0.1) million to operating profit,
contributed £nil to the Group’s net operating cash flows, contributed £nil to investing cash flows, and contributed £nil to financing cash flows.
In the year ended 31 December 2006, DGOH and Kele contributed £nil to operating profit, contributed £nil to the Group’s net operating
cash flows, contributed £nil to investing cash flows, and contributed £nil to financing cash flows.
14 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
Profit for the year for total operations has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
£m Notes 2007 2006
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 139.5 104.2
Research and development costs 0.6 0.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19 7.6 8.4
Operating lease rentals: — land and buildings 2.1 1.8
— plant and equipment 1.4 1.3
Staff costs 15 50.7 52.3
Recycling of foreign currency translation reserve on disposal of business units 13 0.4 4.0
Part reversal of impairment of share of net assets of associate 6 (2.1) —
Impairment of goodwill 18 0.6 —
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 19 5.7 2.2
Impairment of inventories 1.6 0.5
Impairment of trade receivables 25 0.3 0.1
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 59 144
60
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
14 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR continued
An analysis of the Auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
£m 2007 2006
Fees payable to Delta plc’s Auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP,
for the audit of the Company and UK subsidiaries’ annual accounts 0.2 0.2
Fees payable to Delta plc’s Auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP,
and their associates for other services to the Group:
— The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3
Total audit fees for Delta plc Group 0.5 0.5
Non-audit fees payable to Delta plc’s Auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP,
and their associates for other services to the Group:
— Other services:
— Tax fees: project and compliance 0.1 —
Total non-audit fees for Delta plc Group 0.1 —
Total fees (audit and non-audit) payable to Delta plc’s Auditors and their associates 0.6 0.5
15 STAFF COSTS
The average monthly numbers of employees (including directors) were:
Number 2007 2006
UK 81 99
Overseas 2,593 2,661
2,674 2,760
The actual number of employees as at 31 December 2007 was 2,625, consisting of 76 (UK) and 2,549 (overseas). The average figures
include staff from disposed businesses up to their effective date of disposal.
The above figures are further analysed as follows:
Number 2007 2006
Engineered Steel Products 1,450 1,599
Galvanizing Services 964 846
Manganese Materials 241 294
Group administration 19 21
2,674 2,760
£m 2007 2006
The aggregate remuneration comprised:
Wages and salaries 46.5 47.8
Social security costs 0.7 0.8
Other pension costs 3.5 3.7
50.7 52.3
Wages and salaries include share-based payment expenses of £0.4 million (2006: £0.4 million).
The Directors’ Remuneration Report contains disclosures relating to the emoluments, share options, pensions and long-term incentive
interests of the directors.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 60 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
61
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
16 DIVIDENDS
Preference dividends
£m 2007 2006
6.0% cumulative first preference shares and
4.5% cumulative second preference shares 0.1 0.1
Ordinary dividends
£m 2007 2006
Proposed dividends for the period:
— ended 1 July 2006 (1.5 pence per share) — 2.3
— ended 31 December 2006 (3.0 pence per share) — 4.6
— ended 30 June 2007 (1.6 pence per share) 2.5 —
— ended 31 December 2007 (3.4 pence per share) 5.2 —
7.7 6.9
£m 2007 2006
Paid dividends for the period:
— ended 31 December 2005 (2.5 pence per share) — 3.8
— ended 1 July 2006 (1.5 pence per share) — 2.3
— ended 31 December 2006 (3.0 pence per share) 4.6 —
— ended 30 June 2007 (1.6 pence per share) 2.5 —
7.1 6.1
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability
in these consolidated financial statements. It will be payable on 9 May 2008.
Dividends in respect of minority interests
£m 2007 2006
Proposed dividends for the period:
— ended 1 July 2006 — 24.4
— ended 31 December 2006 — 0.6
— ended 30 June 2007 0.7 —
— ended 31 December 2007 0.7 —
1.4 25.0
£m 2007 2006
Paid dividends for the period:
— ended 1 July 2006 — 24.4
— ended 31 December 2006 — 0.6
— ended 30 June 2007 0.7 —
— ended 31 December 2007 0.7 —
1.4 25.0
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 61 144
62
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
17 EARNINGS AND NET ASSETS PER SHARE
Earnings per share (2006 restated)
In addition to the IAS 33 measure of earnings per share, underlying earnings per share have been shown because the directors consider that
this gives a more meaningful indication of the core performance of the Group by excluding those items that may distort comparability.
The calculation of the earnings per share figures is based on the earnings and weighted average number of shares tables presented below.
The earnings per share results for the comparative period (the year ended 31 December 2006) have been restated in accordance with IFRS
5: Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations (for further details see note 3).
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total operations
Pence per share 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
IAS 33 — after exceptional items
Basic earnings per share 10.5 14.4 3.7 (10.3) 14.2 4.1
Diluted earnings per share 10.4 14.3 3.7 (10.3) 14.1 4.0
Before exceptional items
Basic earnings per share 13.9 12.8 (0.1) 0.6 13.8 13.4
Diluted earnings per share 13.8 12.8 (0.1) 0.6 13.7 13.4
Earnings (2006 restated)
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total operations
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
IAS 33 — after exceptional items
Profit attributable to equity holders 21.8 6.3 — — 21.8 6.3
Adjustments:
Profit/(loss) — discontinued (6.7) 15.6 6.7 (15.6) — —
Minority interests’ share of above 1.0 0.2 (1.0) (0.2) — —
Preference dividends (0.1) (0.1) — — (0.1) (0.1)
16.0 22.0 5.7 (15.8) 21.7 6.2
Before exceptional items
Total per above 16.0 22.0 5.7 (15.8) 21.7 6.2
Adjustments:
Exceptional items —
continuing (note 7) 10.5 1.5 — — 10.5 1.5
Minority interests’ share of above (5.2) (3.9) — — (5.2) (3.9)
Exceptional items —
discontinued (note 7) — — (6.6) 16.7 (6.6) 16.7
Minority interests’ share of above — — 0.7 — 0.7 —
21.3 19.6 (0.2) 0.9 21.1 20.5
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
Number of shares (million) 2007 2006
For basic earnings per share
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
(1)
153.0 152.6
For diluted earnings per share
Total per above
(1)
153.0 152.6
Effect of dilutive share options
(2)
0.9 0.9
Revised weighted average number of shares 153.9 153.5
(1)
The number of ordinary shares represents the weighted average for the period. The average number of ordinary shares in issue excludes those held in the
Delta plc Employee Share Ownership Trust, which are treated as cancelled.
(2)
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary
shares. Where basic earnings per share are at a loss, the anti-dilutive effect of any further shares is ignored.
Net assets attributable to Delta shareholders per ordinary share
£m 2007 2006
Net assets 258.8 239.8
Less: Minority interests (27.5) (33.2)
Net assets attributable to equity holders of the parent 231.3 206.6
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue, based on basic earnings per share (million) 153.0 152.6
Net assets attributable to equity holders of the parent per ordinary share (pence) 151.2p 135.4p
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 62 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
63
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
18 GOODWILL
£m Total
Cost
At 31 December 2005 6.7
Exchange differences (0.4)
Reclassified as assets held for sale (0.5)
At 31 December 2006 5.8
Exchange differences 0.4
Reclassified from assets held for sale
(1)
0.5
At 31 December 2007 6.7
Accumulated impairment losses
At 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2006 —
Impairment loss
(2)
(0.6)
At 31 December 2007 (0.6)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2007 6.1
At 31 December 2006 5.8
(1)
Not included within this balance is £0.2 million of goodwill relating to the IES/ENZ business which was disposed of, effective 31 March 2007
(see note 13).
(2)
Before impairment testing, goodwill of £0.6 million was attributable to the Manganese Materials business at the current year end. Due to the events and
circumstances outlined in note 7, the Group has recorded an impairment loss against this goodwill of £0.6 million, bringing the carrying amount to
£nil.
Goodwill at 31 December 2007 related to the following business segments: Engineered Steel Products £4.0 million (2006: £3.7 million);
Galvanizing Services £2.1 million (2006: £1.6 million); and, Manganese Materials £nil (2006: £0.5 million).
The Group’s goodwill at 31 December 2007 totalled £6.1 million, being approximately 2% of the Group’s total assets. Of that amount, £4.0
million relates to the Group’s acquisition of Webforge in 2003. Webforge is reported within the Engineered Steel Products business segment
and the Asia Pacific geographical segment.
The Group’s accounting policy regarding impairment testing of goodwill is stated in note 2 and includes testing annually for impairment or
more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Whilst all capitalised goodwill is subject to the requirements of IAS 36: Impairment of assets,
goodwill apart from that in Webforge is individually insignificant and as such has not been analysed further below. All goodwill impairment
testing uses a methodology similar to that described below.
The recoverable amounts of the Webforge cash generating units (CGUs) are determined from value-in-use calculations. The key assumptions
used are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices/market conditions and direct costs during the
period. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and
the risks specific to the CGUs. The growth rates are based on industry growth forecasts. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based
on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next three years
and extrapolates cash flows into perpetuity based on an estimated growth rate not in excess of the average long-term growth rate for the
relevant countries and markets in which Webforge participates.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is based on an estimate of Delta’s weighted average cost of capital, as adjusted for factors
specific to the particular CGU.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 63 144
64
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
19 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Fixtures,
fittings,
Land and Plant and tools and
£m buildings machinery equipment Total
Cost
At 31 December 2005 49.3 110.5 9.2 169.0
Capital additions 1.0 5.1 0.7 6.8
Exchange differences (3.9) (11.7) (0.7) (16.3)
Reclassified as held for sale (3.0) (3.3) (0.6) (6.9)
Disposals (0.2) (4.2) (0.6) (5.0)
At 31 December 2006 43.2 96.4 8.0 147.6
Capital additions 0.9 5.8 0.8 7.5
Exchange differences 3.0 4.7 0.6 8.3
Reclassified from assets held for sale 2.9 4.7 0.9 8.5
Sale of businesses (0.7) (3.2) (0.5) (4.4)
Disposals (1.7) (4.0) (1.0) (6.7)
At 31 December 2007 47.6 104.4 8.8 160.8
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses
At 31 December 2005 (10.2) (61.7) (7.0) (78.9)
Depreciation charge for the year (1.2) (6.4) (0.8) (8.4)
Exchange differences 1.0 5.4 0.5 6.9
Impairment losses — (2.2) — (2.2)
Reclassified as assets held for sale 0.8 3.3 0.4 4.5
Depreciation written back on disposed assets — 4.0 0.6 4.6
At 31 December 2006 (9.6) (57.6) (6.3) (73.5)
Depreciation charge for the year (1.1) (5.7) (0.8) (7.6)
Exchange differences (0.8) (3.7) (0.5) (5.0)
Impairment losses (2.3) (3.3) (0.1) (5.7)
Reclassified from assets held for sale (0.7) (4.6) (0.7) (6.0)
Sale of businesses 0.4 3.4 0.4 4.2
Depreciation written back on disposed assets — 3.8 0.9 4.7
At 31 December 2007 (14.1) (67.7) (7.1) (88.9)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2007 33.5 36.7 1.7 71.9
At 31 December 2006 33.6 38.8 1.7 74.1
Included in the above tables are payments on account and assets in the course of construction:
Fixtures,
fittings,
Land and Plant and tools and
£m buildings machinery equipment Total
At 31 December 2007 0.1 0.9 — 1.0
At 31 December 2006 0.1 2.8 0.2 3.1
Contractual capital commitments and operating leases are disclosed in notes 20 and 21 respectively.
The Group does not pledge any property, plant and equipment as security for liabilities (2006: £nil) or provide as collateral or hold guarantees
over these assets (2006: £nil).
The above reference to an impairment in the current year relates to the impairment of the EMD Australian business’s property, plant and
equipment. For further details, see note 7. The reference to an impairment in the prior year refers to the impairment of the EMD South African
part-constructed plant (see note 7).
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 64 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
65
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
20 COMMITMENTS
£m 2007 2006
Commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.8
21 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
£m 2007 2006
Within one year 3.2 2.7
In the second to fifth years inclusive 6.3 5.4
After five years 2.3 2.5
Total commitments under operating leases 11.8 10.6
Operating lease commitments relate to operating leases over property, plant and equipment in businesses throughout the Group.
22 DEFERRED TAX
(Assets)/liabilities Accel-
Accel- erated tax Accrued
erated tax depreciation employment
depreciation of and timing Retirement entitlements and
plant and differences benefit Un-remitted Tax other timing
£m equipment of property obligations earnings losses differences Total
At 31 December 2005 7.5 1.6 0.4 4.2 (2.9) (5.2) 5.6
(Credit)/charge to
income for the year (0.1) (0.4) (0.1) (3.7) (0.5) 0.2 (4.6)
Exchange differences (1.4) (0.2) — (0.4) 0.6 0.4 (1.0)
Re-classified as assets
and associated liabilities
held for sale —— —— — 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2006 6.0 1.0 0.3 0.1 (2.8) (4.5) 0.1
Re-classified from assets
and associated liabilities
held for sale —— —— — (0.1) (0.1)
Disposals of businesses —— —— — 0.2 0.2
(Credit)/charge to income
for the year (1.0) 0.1 (0.3) — (1.6) 2.5 (0.3)
Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 —— — (0.3) (0.1)
At 31 December 2007 5.1 1.2 — 0.1 (4.4) (2.2) (0.2)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy. The following is the analysis
of the deferred tax balance (after offset) for balance sheet purposes:
£m 2007 2006
Deferred tax liabilities 2.2 2.3
Deferred tax assets (2.4) (2.2)
(0.2) 0.1
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 65 144
66
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
22 DEFERRED TAX continued
Additional information
Deferred tax has not been recognised where it has been assumed that the deferred tax asset is not recoverable. The amount of deductible
temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits for which no deferred tax is recognised at the balance sheet date is £13.1
million (2006: £50.0 million).
The accumulated losses reported by the Group for tax purposes in various tax jurisdictions include the following, most of which were incurred
by disposed businesses. The following figures are subject to audit by tax authorities and do not include amounts recognised as deferred tax
assets that are expected to be utilised in future: £nil in Germany (2006: £92 million), £34 million in the UK (2006: £33 million), £nil in the
United States (2006: £6 million) and £5 million in Australia (2006: £3 million). The UK and Australian tax losses have no applicable expiry
date. The future use, if any, of these accumulated losses will depend upon applicable tax rules and regulations, and upon the Group
generating appropriate taxable income in those countries. Consequently, the figures include losses which it is improbable that the Group will
be able to utilise in the future.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of temporary differences in the UK as there is insufficient evidence that the asset
will be recovered. The amount of the deductible temporary differences not recognised relates to capital allowances in excess of depreciation:
£29.8 million (2006: £33.8 million) and retirement benefit obligations: £nil (2006: £0.2 million). The asset would be recovered if there were
sufficient UK profits in the future.
No deferred tax has been recognised on the un-remitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint venture. No deferred tax
liability has been recognised in respect of temporary differences of £95.8 million (2006: £145.0 million) associated with retained profits in
overseas subsidiaries. These temporary differences are not expected to reverse because the Group is in a position to control the timing of
the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Temporary
differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint venture are insignificant.
23 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES
Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates a number of defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for qualifying employees. The related pension assets are
held in trustee administered funds separate from the Company, unless required otherwise by local best practice and regulations. The total
cost charged to income of £3.1 million (2006: £3.3 million) represents contributions payable to those schemes by the Group at rates specified
in the rules of the respective schemes.
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme for qualifying employees in the United Kingdom via the Delta Pension Plan (DPP).
Under the DPP, participants are entitled to pension retirement benefits of 1.67% of final salary per year of service on attainment of a
retirement age of 65 years. The Group had a further defined benefit scheme in Australia, the Delta Australia Superannuation Fund (DASF)
until the DASF was closed and proceedings commenced to dissolve the pension fund as at 1 December 2006. Accordingly, the figures for
the comparative year ended 31 December 2006 include balances pertaining to the DASF.
The Group has opted to recognise all actuarial gains and losses immediately via the consolidated statement of recognised income and
expense.
Details of valuation assumptions for the purposes of this Annual Report
The most recent actuarial valuation of the DPP’s assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes was performed at 31 December 2007
by independent actuaries Xafinity Consulting Limited. The projected unit credit method was used for valuation purposes. The projected unit
credit method is an accrued benefits valuation method in which the plan liabilities make allowance for projected earnings. The actuarial
valuation used the following principal assumptions:
DPP DASF
2007 2006 2007 2006
Discount rate 5.8% 5.2% — 5.0%
Inflation rate 3.1% 2.8% — 3.3%
Expected return on equity instruments 7.0% 7.0% — 7.9%
Expected return on debt instruments 4.5% 4.5% — 5.0%
Expected return on property and cash 6.0% 6.4% — 5.5%
Expected rate of salary increases 4.1% 3.8% — 4.0%
Future pension increases 3.1% 3.0% — N/a
(1)
Mortality assumptions
— non-pensioners PxA92c2020 PxA92c2006 —
(2)
— pensioners PxA92c2006 PxA92c2000 — N/a
(1)
(1)
The members of the DASF receive a lump sum on retirement and no further pension payments.
(2)
The mortality assumptions used were based on an internal Mercer Human Resource Consulting of Australia (the actuaries for the former DASF scheme)
actuarial model.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 66 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
67
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
23 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES continued
The estimated sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities as above are set out as follows:
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5% Decrease/increase by 7%
Rate of inflation Increase/decrease by 0.5% Increase by 4%/decrease by 2%
(1)
Rate of salary growth Increase/decrease by 0.5% Increase/decrease by 0.1%
Rate of mortality Increase by 1 year Increase by 4%
(1)
This is the impact of a guaranteed pension 3% pa increase for pre-1995 joiners (for any ‘decrease’ in the inflation rate only).
An alternative valuation method is a solvency basis, often estimated using the cost of buying out benefits at the balance sheet date with a
suitable insurance Company. This amount represents the amount that would be required to settle the plan liabilities at the balance sheet
date rather than the Group continuing to fund the on-going liabilities of the Plan. The Group estimates, following consultation, that the cost
of insurance buy-outs would average approximately 130% of the Plan’s IAS 19 liability.
Amounts included in the consolidated income statement
The amounts recognised in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows:
DPP DASF Total
£m Notes 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Current service cost (0.4) (0.5) — (0.4) (0.4) (0.9)
Expected interest on defined
benefit pension scheme
liabilities 10 (33.1) (31.3) — (0.2) (33.1) (31.5)
Expected return on defined
benefit pension scheme
assets 9 33.8 32.9 — 0.4 33.8 33.3
Curtailment costs — — — (0.3) — (0.3)
Amounts charged
to the consolidated income
statement 0.3 1.1 — (0.5) 0.3 0.6
Actuarial gains in consolidated
statement of recognised income
and expense 8.9 1.8 — — 8.9 1.8
9.2 2.9 — (0.5) 9.2 2.4
Current service cost is included in distribution costs and administrative expenses.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 67 144
68
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
23 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES continued
Amounts included in the consolidated balance sheet
The aggregated amount recognised in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are as
follows:
DPP DASF Total
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Fair value of plan assets 640.7 651.8 — 0.7 640.7 652.5
Present value of plan liabilities (631.2) (652.0) — 0.2 (631.2) (651.8)
9.5 (0.2) — 0.9 9.5 0.7
Transfer to other receivables
on closure of the DASF — — — (0.9) — (0.9)
Net defined benefit surplus/(deficit)
before consideration of the IAS 19
asset recoverability assessment
(1)
9.5 (0.2) — — 9.5 (0.2)
Adjustment in respect of the IAS 19
asset recoverability assessment
(1)
(9.5) — — — (9.5) —
Net consolidated balance sheet
retirement benefit liability — (0.2) — — — (0.2)
Recognised in the consolidated balance sheet as:
Other receivables (transfer from DASF) — 0.9
Retirement benefit obligation — (0.2)
(1)
The IAS 19 valuation conducted for the year ended 31 December 2007 produced a net defined benefit pension surplus of £9.5 million. However, in
accordance with IAS 19 paragraph 58, this surplus is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of reductions in future
contributions by the Company to the DPP. The directors consider that there is sufficient uncertainty so as to not warrant recognition of the net defined
benefit surplus as a retirement benefit asset on the consolidated balance sheet.
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses taken to the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense is £41.1 million
since the date of transition to IFRS after adjustment in respect of the IAS 19 asset recoverability assessment (£50.6 million before adjustment
in respect of the IAS 19 asset recoverability assessment). The Company has taken the corresponding reversal adjustment of the IAS 19
valuation surplus in the year ended 31 December 2007 to the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Reconciliations of movements in the consolidated balance sheet
Overall movements in the present value of defined benefit plan were as follows:
DPP DASF Total
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Net liability/(asset) at start of year 0.2 3.5 — (1.3) 0.2 2.2
Foreign exchange translation — — — (0.1) — (0.1)
Current service cost 0.4 0.5 — 0.4 0.4 0.9
Contributions (0.5) (0.4) — — (0.5) (0.4)
Net interest (credit)/cost (0.7) (1.6) — (0.2) (0.7) (1.8)
Curtailment costs — — — 0.3 — 0.3
Actuarial gains (8.9) (1.8) — — (8.9) (1.8)
Transfer to other receivables
on closure of the DASF — — — 0.9 — 0.9
Net (asset)/liability at end of year (9.5) 0.2 — — (9.5) 0.2
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 68 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
69
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
23 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES continued
The above aggregated table can be split into the following two liabilities and assets tables:
Movements in the present value of defined benefit plan liabilities were as follows:
DPP DASF Total
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Opening present value of plan
liabilities 652.0 667.0 — 5.8 652.0 672.8
Foreign exchange translation — — — (0.4) — (0.4)
Service cost 0.4 0.5 — 0.4 0.4 0.9
Interest cost 33.1 31.3 — 0.2 33.1 31.5
Contributions 0.1 0.1 — — 0.1 0.1
Curtailment costs — — — 0.3 — 0.3
Settlements — — — (3.5) — (3.5)
Actuarial (gains)/losses (20.8) (14.2) — 0.3 (20.8) (13.9)
Benefits paid (33.6) (32.7) — (3.3) (33.6) (36.0)
Transfer to other receivables
on closure of the DASF — — — 0.2 — 0.2
Closing present value of plan liabilities 631.2 652.0 — — 631.2 652.0
Movements in the fair value of defined benefit plan assets were as follows:
DPP DASF Total
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Opening fair value of plan assets 651.8 663.5 — 7.1 651.8 670.6
Foreign exchange translation — — — (0.3) — (0.3)
Expected return on plan assets 33.8 32.9 — 0.4 33.8 33.3
Settlements — — — (3.5) — (3.5)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (11.9) (12.4) — 0.3 (11.9) (12.1)
Employer contributions 0.5 0.4 — — 0.5 0.4
Member contributions 0.1 0.1 — — 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (33.6) (32.7) — (3.3) (33.6) (36.0)
Transfer to other receivables
on closure of the DASF — — — (0.7) — (0.7)
Closing fair value of plan assets 640.7 651.8 — — 640.7 651.8
The actual return on plan assets were as follows: (i) DPP £22.0 million (2006: £20.5 million); (ii) DASF £nil (2006: £0.8 million); (iii) total
£22.0 million (2006: £21.3 million).
Employer contributions in 2008 are expected to approximate to those made in 2007 for the DPP. No employer contributions will be made
in respect of the DASF.
Further analysis of DPP’s and DASF’s assets
Scheme assets are analysed as follows:
DPP DASF Total
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Equity instruments 203.2 191.0 — — 203.2 191.0
Debt instruments and insured policies 406.5 437.7 — — 406.5 437.7
Property and cash 31.0 23.1 — — 31.0 23.1
640.7 651.8 — — 640.7 651.8
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 69 144
70
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
23 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES continued
DPP DASF Total
Percentage 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Equity instruments 32% 29% — — 32% 29%
Debt instruments and insured policies 63% 67% — — 63% 67%
Property and cash 5% 4% — — 5% 4%
100% 100% — — 100% 100%
The expected rates of return on each of the scheme assets are disclosed in the valuation assumptions section above. The plan assets do
not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
Five-year history
The five-year history of aggregate experience adjustments is as follows:
£m 2007
(1)
2006
(1)
2005 2004 2003
Fair value of scheme liabilities 631.2 652.0 672.8 626.1 628.3
Fair value of scheme (assets) (640.7) (651.8) (670.6) (611.7) (587.3)
(Surplus)/deficit in the schemes (9.5) 0.2 2.2 14.4 41.0
Experience adjustments on schemes’ liabilities
(Gains)/losses (20.8) (14.2) 47.4 (1.3) (13.5)
Percentage of schemes’ liabilities (3.30%) (2.18%) 7.05% (0.21%) (2.15%)
Experience adjustments on schemes’ assets
(Losses)/gains (11.9) (12.4) 60.0 26.0 20.0
Percentage of schemes’ assets (1.86%) (1.90%) 8.95% 4.25% 3.41%
(1)
Consists of DPP figures only.
Additional information with respect to the DPP
Triennial valuation
The triennial valuation for the DPP as of 5 April 2006 has been completed. The DPP’s assets at that date totalled £658.1 million and its
liabilities totalled £663.5 million, resulting in a net deficit of £5.4 million as at 5 April 2006. The following assumptions were employed:
discount rate 5.2%; annual increase in pensionable earnings: 3.75%; annual pension increases: from 2.55% to 3.0%; cash commutation:
25%; and price inflation: 2.75%. Mortality tables used were PxA92c2006 for pensioners and PxA92c2020 for active and deferred members.
Further details, including major extracts of the valuation report, can be found on our website (www.deltaplc.com).
Analysis of scheme assets
The scheme assets of the Delta Pension Plan at 31 December 2007 may be further analysed as follows:
£m 2007
UK actively managed equity instruments 3.4
UK index tracking equity instruments 101.0
Non-UK actively managed equity instruments 33.0
Non-UK index tracking equity instruments 65.8
Total equity instruments 203.2
Non-UK government bonds — fixed interest 78.4
UK government bonds — index linked 43.1
UK corporate bonds 8.6
UK government bonds 259.4
Insured policies 17.0
Total debt instruments and insured policies 406.5
Property and cash 31.0
640.7
Of the above table’s asset values, 85% (2006: 86%) is managed by Merrill Lynch Investment Managers, Legal & General Investment
Management, and UBS Global Asset Management. The Trustee receives advice regarding investment strategy and asset allocation from
Watson Wyatt.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 70 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
71
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
23 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES continued
Participant population
The Group continues to make pension contributions to the DPP for current participants. At 5 April 2007, there were 17,985 members in
total, comprising 10,349 pensioners (including any dependants’ pensions in payment), 7,564 deferred participants and 72 current
participants.
At 5 April 2007, approximately two-thirds of the total participants were male and one-third of the participants were female. The approximate
average ages of pensioners (including any dependants being paid), deferred participants and current participants at the year end were 73,
51 and 43 respectively.
In the following tables, ‘M’ denotes Male, ‘F’ denotes Female, and ‘T’ denotes Total. ‘Current’ denotes participants in current employment
with the Group’s UK businesses. ‘Deferred’ denotes participants who have departed the Group’s UK businesses, however are not yet drawing
a pension. ‘Pensioners’ are those in receipt of a pension.
The number of plan participants as at 5 April for each of the years below was as follows:
Number of participants Current Deferred Pensioners Total
2002 1,895 11,052 10,933 23,880
2003 222 11,759 10,958 22,939
2004 94 10,291 10,845 21,230
2005 86 9,681 10,799 20,566
2006 79 7,824 10,600 18,503
2007 72 7,564 10,349 17,985
The 17,985 plan participants at 5 April 2007 may be analysed as follows:
Current Deferred Pensioners Total
Age MFT MFT MFT MFT
<25 1 — 142612364 10
25–34 12 1 13 253 120 373 —2 2 265 123 388
35–44 20 7 27 1,146 565 1,711 6 11 17 1,172 583 1,755
45–54 15 4 19 1,812 644 2,456 105 135 240 1,932 783 2,715
55–64 12 — 12 2,351 324 2,675 936 759 1,695 3,299 1,083 4,382
65–74 ——— 273 10 283 2,219 1,533 3,752 2,492 1,543 4,035
75–84 ——— 60 — 60 1,676 1,842 3,518 1,736 1,842 3,578
85+ —————— 435 687 1,122 435 687 1,122
Total 60 12 72 5,899 1,665 7,564 5,378 4,971 10,349 11,337 6,648 17,985
The liabilities of the Delta Pension Plan as at 31 December 2007 pertained to the participant population as follows:
Age : £m Current Deferred Pensioners Total
<25 —— ——
25–34 0.3 2.5 — 2.8
35–44 1.3 35.8 1.3 38.4
45–54 1.5 98.7 9.3 109.5
55–64 3.0 77.4 99.7 180.1
65–74 0.1 5.1 179.6 184.8
75–84 —— 97.2 97.2
85+ —— 18.4 18.4
Total 6.2 219.5 405.5 631.2
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 71 144
72
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
24 INVENTORIES
£m 2007 2006
Raw materials 25.0 27.0
Work-in-progress 3.8 3.6
Finished goods 27.2 30.2
56.0 60.8
Inventories classified as part of assets held for sale were £nil (2006: £4.7 million) (see note 27). The directors consider that there is no material
difference between the balance sheet value of inventories and their replacement cost.
25 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
£m 2007 2006
Amounts falling due after one year:
Other receivables 0.8 2.1
Other receivables 0.8 2.1
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables 47.0 35.4
Allowance for doubtful debts (1.6) (1.4)
45.4 34.0
Other receivables 2.3 1.8
Corporate tax receivables 0.1 —
Prepayments and accrued income 2.1 1.6
Trade and other receivables 49.9 37.4
The directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
The average credit period on sale of goods is 45 days. The time periods from date of invoice from which interest is charged on trade
receivables varies from business to business within the Group. The Group has provided fully for all trade receivables over 120 days overdue.
Trade receivables between 30 and 120 days are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods, determined
by reference to the past default experience of the business concerned.
Included in the Group’s aggregate trade receivable balance are trade receivables with a carrying amount of £9.1 million (2006: £6.9 million)
which are overdue at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality
and the Group believes that these amounts are still considered recoverable. The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
The average age of these receivables is 59 days (2006: 56 days).
Included within trade receivables are amounts which are past due but for which no allowance is made. Past due up to 30 days £5.8 million
(2006: £3.5 million); past due between 30 and 60 days £2.4 million (2006: £2.3 million); past due between 60 and 90 days £0.8 million
(2006: £0.9 million) and past due greater than 90 days £0.1 million (2006: £0.5 million).
The movement in the aggregate allowances for doubtful debts is as follows:
£m 2007 2006
Balance at the beginning of the year 1.4 1.7
Exchange differences 0.1 (0.1)
Reclassified from assets held for sale 0.3 —
Amounts written off during the year (0.3) (0.1)
Amounts recovered during the year — 0.3
Increase/(decrease) in allowances recognised in profit and loss 0.1 (0.4)
Balance at the end of the year 1.6 1.4
In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivables from the
date the credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large,
diverse and unrelated. Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the aggregate allowances
for doubtful debts detailed above.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 72 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
73
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
26 CASH, BANK OVERDRAFTS AND LOANS
£m 2007 2006
Cash
(1)
128.7 109.5
Bank overdrafts (1.0) (0.5)
Cash and cash equivalents 127.7 109.0
Other financial assets
(2)
2.6 —
Bank loans (1.4) (2.0)
Net cash
(3)
128.9 107.0
(1)
Cash as at 31 December 2007 includes money market funds of £51.7 million (2006: £53.1 million) and bank and other deposits repayable in excess of
24 hours’ notice of £55.6 million (2006: £33.5 million).
(2)
£2.6 million has been secured as collateral in support of a3 million (£2.2 million) letter of credit maturing in 2012 (see note 13). This has been classified
as ‘other financial assets’ in the consolidated balance sheet.
(3)
£18.8 million (2006: £17.3 million) of the Group’s net cash is subject to exchange controls or is similarly restricted.
The bank loans and bank overdrafts are repayable as follows:
£m 2007 2006
On demand or within one year (2.4) (2.4)
In the second year — (0.1)
(2.4) (2.5)
The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash balances and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
At 31 December 2007
£m £ A$ ZAR US$ Other Total
Cash 51.8 55.0 10.9 3.2 7.8 128.7
Other financial assets 2.6 —— —— 2.6
Bank overdrafts (0.5) — (0.5) —— (1.0)
Bank loans —— —— (1.4) (1.4)
53.9 55.0 10.4 3.2 6.4 128.9
At 31 December 2006
£m £ A$ ZAR US$ Other Total
Cash 53.7 35.5 9.1 3.8 7.4 109.5
Bank overdrafts —— (0.5) —— (0.5)
Bank loans — (0.1) —— (1.9) (2.0)
53.7 35.4 8.6 3.8 5.5 107.0
The weighted average interest rates applied are as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2007
Interest rate (%) £ A$ ZAR US$ Other Total
Cash 5.6% 6.7% 10.6% 3.9% 1.9% 6.3%
Other financial assets 5.5% —— —— 5.5%
Bank overdrafts 5.6% — 12.7% —— 9.4%
Bank loans —— —— 5.5% 5.5%
Year ended 31 December 2006
Interest rate (%) £ A$ ZAR US$ Other Total
Cash 5.0% 6.0% 8.3% 3.7% 1.4% 5.3%
Bank overdrafts —— 10.5% —— 10.5%
Bank loans — 12.0% —— 7.4% 7.5%
All Group cash balances and borrowings attract interest at floating rates, thus exposing the Group to cash flow interest risk.
The directors estimate that the fair value of the Group’s cash balances and borrowings are equal to the book value shown.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 73 144
74
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
26 CASH, BANK OVERDRAFTS AND LOANS continued
The other principal features of the Group’s cash balances and borrowings are as follows:
(i) Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand;
(ii) No overdrafts (2006: £nil) have been secured by a charge over certain of the Group’s assets; and
(iii) Bank loans of £1.4 million (2006: £2.0 million) are unsecured.
At 31 December 2007, the Group had available £0.9 million (2006: £0.4 million) of undrawn committed facilities in respect of which all
conditions precedent had been met.
27 ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE
There are currently no businesses classified as a disposal group held for sale and presented as such in the consolidated balance sheet in
the current year.
In the prior year, the businesses held for sale consisted of the following:
(i) Three Asian Galvanizing Services businesses met the IFRS 5 criteria in October 2006. One of these three businesses has been disposed
of in the current year (Vingal Industries Co. Ltd - see note 13) and is reported in discontinued operations and the other two have been
re-classified as continuing operations. The re-classification of the two remaining Asian Galvanizing Services businesses into continuing
operations follows the criteria for being held for sale no longer being met - specifically, that the sale was no longer considered probable
because agreement over the price and terms of disposal with potential purchasers could not be made. Management no longer intends
to sell these businesses in the foreseeable future. The assets and liabilities of the remaining businesses are reported within Asia Pacific
geographic segment (see note 5).
(ii) One former Industrial Supplies (subsequently Engineered Steel Products) business met the IFRS 5 criteria in November 2005. This
business has been disposed of in the current year (Machin & Ewen Pty Ltd - see note 13) and is reported in discontinued operations.
(iii) One former Galvanizing (subsequently Engineered Steel Products) business met the IFRS 5 assets held for sale (but not the
discontinued operations) criteria from November 2005. This business has been disposed of in the current year (Ingal Environmental
Services Pty Ltd/Enviropod New Zealand Ltd - see note 13) and is reported within continuing operations.
28 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
£m 2007 2006
Amounts due within one year:
Trade payables 21.2 19.2
Amounts owed to associates 0.3 0.5
Other payables 6.9 7.8
Other taxation and social security payables 2.2 2.4
Accruals and deferred income 11.5 10.5
42.1 40.4
Amounts due after one year:
Other payables 0.9 —
Accruals and deferred income 7.1 —
8.0 —
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
The average credit period on purchases of supplies is 37 days (2006: 40 days). Arrangements differ between business units regarding the
payment of interest on outstanding balances. The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that payables are paid
within credit timeframes.
At the year end, the intrinsic value of vested cash-settled share-based payments for the Group was £nil (2006: £0.2 million, included within
other payables due within one year).
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 74 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
75
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
29 PROVISIONS
Restructuring Disposed
£m provision
(1)
entities
(2)
Other
(3)
Total
At 31 December 2006 — 4.7 6.2 10.9
Additional provisions in the year 1.9 0.4 0.4 2.7
Utilisation of provisions in the year — (0.4) (0.4) (0.8)
Release of provisions in the year — (2.9) (0.1) (3.0)
Disposed with businesses disposed of in year —— (0.1) (0.1)
Reclassified from creditors —— (3.0) (3.0)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 — 0.4 0.5
Unwinding of discount of provisions — 0.1 — 0.1
At 31 December 2007 2.0 1.9 3.4 7.3
Analysed as:
Current liabilities 1.9 1.1 0.5 3.5
Non-current liabilities 0.1 0.8 2.9 3.8
2.0 1.9 3.4 7.3
(1)
Restructuring provision relates to the closure of the EMD Australian business (see note 7).
(2)
Provisions in respect of disposed entities relate to the current estimate of future liabilities expected to arise as a result of businesses disposed.
(3)
Includes environmental and employee-related provisions.
The majority of cash outflows to settle provisions at 31 December 2007 are currently expected to be over the next three to five years.
30 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group’s treasury policy remains one of risk management and control, and not to undertake speculative transactions. Group Treasury
does not operate as a profit centre, and all activities are closely monitored by the Group Finance Department, who make recommendations
to the Board on matters of treasury policy and to implement policies approved by the Board.
Responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of directors. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash
reserves and monitoring forecast and actual cash flows.
Material currency exposures arising from trading transactions at most of the Group’s businesses are covered as they arise. However, the
Manganese Materials businesses do not cover trading currency exposures.
The sterling values of operating profits arising in other currencies are not hedged. Consequently, the sterling value of overseas profits remains
subject to currency exchange movements. The US dollar is used as the functional currency for MMC.
The Group does not normally use net investment hedging to protect the sterling value of its non-sterling assets. However, in 2006, the Group
did hedge to protect its share of the sterling value of the proceeds from disposal of the former South African Industrial Supplies businesses.
These proceeds from disposal were effectively transferred to the UK and converted from South African rand to sterling in August 2006,
through the sale of a subsidiary (Delta S.A. (Pty) Ltd) in which these proceeds had been retained. Therefore, the net gain from hedging was
recycled into the consolidated income statement in 2006, along with that part of the cumulative translational foreign exchange for the
subsidiary from the Group’s foreign currency translation reserve since the IFRS date of transition. This treatment, in accordance with IAS
21 and IAS 39, led to a net cumulative gain of £1.6 million in the 2006 consolidated income statement, comprising the hedged gain of £5.6
million and foreign currency translation reserve loss of £4.0 million.
The Group has no outstanding interest rate hedges. The Group’s only significant interest rate exposures are in respect of interest receivable
upon cash balances.
Due to the significant cash balances held by the Group, the Group is exposed to credit risks with counterparty banks. In particular, the
Group has cash balances with banks located in the UK, Republic of South Africa, Australia, China and the United States; and consequently
has an exposure to those banking sectors. The balances are held with large commercial banks; other than this, the Group has no significant
concentrations of credit risk. The Group has policies requiring credit checks on potential customers of a particular size before sales
commence.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 75 144
76
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
30 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
The following tables comprise the book and fair values of foreign exchange contracts at each respective year end:
2007 2006
Book Fair Book Fair
£m Value Value Value Value
Foreign exchange contracts:
Net investment hedges —— ——
Forward exchange contracts —— — (0.1)
—— — (0.1)
Analysed as:
2007 2006
Book Fair Book Fair
£m Value Value Value Value
Non-current —— ——
Current —— — (0.1)
—— — (0.1)
Positive fair values for derivative financial instruments are disclosed as assets in the consolidated balance sheet and negative fair value
derivative financial instruments are disclosed as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
At the balance sheet date, the total gross notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts that the Group has committed was £5.6
million (2006: £3.1 million).
Fair value gains on currency derivatives that are designated and effective as fair value gains/losses on net investment hedges amounting to
£nil were deferred in equity (2006: gain of £8.1 million prior to recycling to net income following the disposal of Delta S.A. (Pty) Ltd).
£nil (2006: charge of £1.1 million) has been charged in the consolidated income statement in respect of fair value losses on derivatives for
which hedge accounting was not available.
Currency derivatives
The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The derivative instruments used are
foreign exchange swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. The Group does not trade in financial instruments, so there are no
derivatives held for trading purposes.
Net investment hedges
As discussed above, the Group used net investment hedges in 2006 to hedge the sterling value of the proceeds from the sale of the former
South African Industrial Supplies businesses (held in South African rand). The hedging instruments used were forward foreign exchange
contracts. The fair values of these contracts at the comparative balance sheet date are set out in the table above and are recorded through
the comparative consolidated income statement.
Intra-group loan economic hedges
The Group has taken out financial instruments to hedge the sterling value of loans granted (or payable) by Delta plc and other Group
companies, where the loan is not in Delta plc’s functional currency (pounds sterling). The financial instruments used are forward foreign
exchange contracts. The fair values of these contracts at the balance sheet date are set out in the table above.
Sensitivity analysis to foreign exchange risks
An analysis of cash, bank overdrafts and bank loans by currency is set out in note 26. As none of these balances are hedged, the Group’s
sensitivity to currency gains or losses upon these balances is proportional to their values. Significantly all such gains or losses would be
reported within equity.
The following methodology has been used to establish estimated fair values:
Item Method
Cash at bank, short-term borrowings The fair value of these items approximates to the carrying amount.
Foreign exchange deals Fair value is calculated by marking each contract to market at
appropriate spot or forward exchange rates prevailing at the balance
sheet date.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 76 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
77
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
31 SHARE CAPITAL, SHARE PREMIUM AND EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP TRUST
Share capital and share premium
£m 2007 2006
Share Capital:
Ordinary shares 38.5 38.4
Preference shares 2.8 2.8
41.3 41.2
Ordinary shares
Ordinary share capital Share premium
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006
Authorised:
188 million ordinary shares of 25p each 47.0 47.0 — —
Issued and fully paid:
At the beginning of the year 38.4 38.2 33.8 33.2
Exercise of share options 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.6
At the end of the year 38.5 38.4 34.0 33.8
The Company has one class of ordinary share.
The total number of authorised ordinary shares was 188,000,000 (2006: 188,000,000) and 153,763,755 were shares allotted and fully paid
at 31 December 2007 (2006: 153,501,851).
During the year, the Employee Share Ownership Trust (“ESOT”) satisfied options granted under the 1999 Delta Executive Share Option
Scheme (“ESOS”) (142,556 shares) and awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan 2006 (“DBP”) (34,842 shares);111,475 shares in
relation to the ESOS and 6,032 shares in relation to the DBP were cash settled. In addition, the Company issued a total of 261,904 ordinary
shares pursuant to the ESOS (219,816 shares); and Save As You Earn and International Save As You Earn share option schemes (42,088
shares), for a total consideration of £0.3 million (2006: £0.8 million). This resulted in an increase of £0.1 million to share capital and £0.2
million to the share premium account. The 42,088 ordinary shares of 25p each under the Save As You Earn share option scheme at 82p
and 108p and the International Save As You Earn share option scheme at 82p had an aggregate nominal value of £10,522 and consideration
received of £nil (2006: £0.2 million).
Preference shares
6% Cumulative first 4.5% Cumulative second
preference shares preference shares
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006
Authorised:
1 million ordinary shares of
£1 each/2 million ordinary shares of £1 each 1.0 1.0 2.0 2.0
Issued and fully paid:
At the beginning of the year 0.9 0.9 1.9 1.9
At the end of the year 0.9 0.9 1.9 1.9
The total number of authorised cumulative first preference shares was 1,000,000 (2006: 1,000,000) and 866,152 shares allotted and fully
paid at 31 December 2007 (2006: 866,152). The total number of authorised cumulative second preference shares was 2,000,000 (2006:
2,000,000) and 1,940,000 shares allotted and fully paid at 31 December 2007 (2006: 1,940,000). The preference shares are not
redeemable.
Employee Share Ownership Trust
Shares in the ESOT are valued at their original cost and deducted from equity. The dividends on the shares held in the ESOT are waived
except to the extent of 0.01p per share.
In lieu of issuing new shares, it is intended that all share-based incentives will be satisfied through the Delta plc ESOT by way of market
purchase. During the year, 928,700 shares were purchased to satisfy share based incentives at an average share price of 121p. At
31 December 2007, the 1,265,911 shares (2006: 514,609 shares) held by the ESOT had a market value of £1.4 million (2006: £0.8 million).
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 77 144
78
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
32 HEDGING AND TRANSLATION RESERVES
Foreign
currency
Hedging translation
£m reserve
(1)
reserve
(2)
Total
Balance at 31 December 2005 (2.5) 5.2 2.7
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations — (21.0) (21.0)
Exchange differences written back on disposals — 4.0 4.0
Fair value gain on hedging derivatives 8.1 — 8.1
Hedging derivatives net gain recycled to net income (5.6) — (5.6)
Balance at 31 December 2006 — (11.8) (11.8)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations — 10.6 10.6
Exchange differences written back on disposals — 0.4 0.4
Balance at 31 December 2007 — (0.8) (0.8)
(1)
Movement in any net investment hedges, deemed to be effective, are taken through the hedging reserve. On expiry of such hedges, the amount of the
hedge reserve is recycled out.
(2)
Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign operations on consolidation are included within the foreign currency translation reserve.
Cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero at the IFRS transition date of 4 January 2004. Any gains and losses recognised in the
consolidated income statement on subsequent disposal of foreign operations will therefore exclude translation differences prior to that transition date.
33 RETAINED EARNINGS
£m Notes Total
Balance at 31 December 2005 142.2
Dividends paid 16 (6.2)
Profit for the year 6.3
Share-based payments 0.3
Actuarial gains for year 23 1.8
Balance at 31 December 2006 144.4
Dividends paid 16 (7.1)
Profit for the year 21.8
Share-based payments 0.5
Actuarial gains for year 23 8.9
IAS 19 defined benefit pension asset recoverability assessment 23 (9.5)
Balance at 31 December 2007 159.0
(i) The retained earnings of the Group includes profits retained in overseas Group companies totalling £109.3 million (2006: £67.8 million) which could
be subject to local exchange control regulations if distributed as dividends.
(ii) The retained earnings of the Group includes retained net profits in associated companies of £0.6 million (2006: £0.2 million) of which £nil (2006: £nil)
is retained overseas and which could be subject to local exchange control regulations if distributed as dividends.
34 MINORITY INTERESTS
£m Notes Total
Balance at 31 December 2005 71.5
Dividends paid 16 (25.0)
Exchange adjustments (9.7)
Share of profit/(losses) for the year (3.6)
Balance at 31 December 2006 33.2
Dividends paid 16 (1.4)
Exchange adjustments 0.3
Share of profit/(losses) for the year (4.6)
Balance at 31 December 2007 27.5
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 78 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
79
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
35 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
IFRS 2: Share-based payments has only been applied to equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 and that had not vested
before 1 January 2005.
Included within staff costs are IFRS 2 expenses related to share-based payments totalling £0.5 million (2006: £0.3 million).
Save As You Earn schemes
The Company has a scheme in place known as “Save As You Earn” (SAYE), and its international equivalent, known as “International Save
As You Earn” (ISAYE). There have been no SAYE or ISAYE grants since October 2002 (and thus this share-based payment scheme does not
fall under the provisions of IFRS 2). Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares
on the date of grant. In normal circumstances the options mature either 36, 60 or 84 months following grant and can be exercised within
six months of the relevant maturity date. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the option vests.
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS)
The Company has a share option scheme for Executives of the Group. Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market
price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant. The options are exercisable between three and ten years after the date on which the
options were granted subject to performance criteria being met. Options are forfeited if the Executive leaves the Group before the options
vest.
ESOS was approved by shareholders at the May 1999 Annual General Meeting. The scheme was amended in 2002 to reflect the preferences
of certain institutional investors. Grants under the ESOS were made annually and had values of up to one times annual salary. No grants have
been made since 2005.
ESOS options are subject to the following performance conditions:
(a) granted before 29 June 2001, on or before the tenth anniversary of the grant date:
— earnings per share growth over a period of at least three consecutive years must equal or exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index
plus 3% per annum; and
— earnings per share before exceptional items must equal or exceed twenty pence.
(b) granted on or after 29 June 2001, on or before the sixth anniversary of the grant date:
— earnings per share growth over a period of at least three consecutive years must equal or exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index
plus 3% per annum.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted
Number average Number average
of share exercise of share exercise
options price (p) options price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,269,686 110.6 4,048,686 112.5
Granted during the year —— ——
(Forfeited) during the year (271,500) 121.2 (267,500) 118.0
(Exercised) during the year (473,847) 93.0 (511,500) 115.7
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,524,339 112.7 3,269,686 110.6
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,450,339 102.8 1,199,000 117.2
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 137.4p (2006: 140.2p).
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 5.8 years (2006: 6.6 years) and have
exercise prices ranging from 83p to 154p.
There were no options granted under this scheme in 2007 or 2006. The scheme was replaced by the Performance Share Plan which was
approved by shareholders on 28 April 2006.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 79 144
80
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
35 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over six years prior to the year of grant.
The expected life used in the model was adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise
restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses of £0.1 million (2006: £0.2 million) relating to the above equity-settled ESOS during the year.
Share Award Scheme for Chief Executive
The Company has a Share Award Scheme for the Chief Executive of the Group. This is a one-off award of shares in the Company. The shares
vest three years after the date on which the shares were granted. The shares were issued for £nil consideration. The shares are forfeited if
the Chief Executive leaves the Group before they vest. The exercise price is £nil.
Details of the share award outstanding during the year are as follows:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number exercise Number exercise
of shares price (p) of shares price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 264,961 Nil 264,961 Nil
Granted during the year —— ——
Outstanding at the end of the year 264,961 Nil 264,961 Nil
Exercisable at the end of the year —— ——
The award outstanding at the end of the year has a remaining contractual life of 1.75 years (2006: 2.75 years). The share award was granted
on 4 January 2006, but effective 28 September 2005. The estimated fair value of the shares awarded was 109.5p at the date of grant. The
total fair value at date of grant was £290,000.
The fair value of these options was deemed to be the share price on the date of grant based on a discounted cash flow valuation of the future
dividend stream, as dividends will be payable on these shares during the period between the date of grant and the date of vesting.
The Group recognised an expense of £0.1 million (2006: £0.1 million) related to the above equity-settled share award scheme during the
year.
Performance Share Plan
The Performance Share Plan was introduced in 2006 to replace the ESOS. The conditional awards generally have a three year vesting period
and an exercise price of £nil. The extent to which an award under the plan may vest will be determined by the Company’s Total Shareholder
Return (“TSR”) performance over the three year period commencing the start of the financial year in which the grant was made against the
TSR performance of the constituents of the FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts) over the same period. For median
performance, one quarter may vest, rising proportionally to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
Regardless of the Company’s TSR performance, no part of an award under the plan will vest unless the Financial Underpin Condition is met,
the Financial Underpin Condition being that the Remuneration Committee considers that the Company’s underlying financial performance
over the same measurement period is satisfactory.
Awards are forfeited if the Executive leaves the Group before the awards vest.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 80 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
81
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
35 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Details of the shares awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted
Number average Number average
of share exercise of share exercise
options price (p) options price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 333,247 Nil ——
Granted during the year 378,142 Nil 333,247 Nil
(Forfeited) during the year (70,545) Nil ——
Outstanding at the end of the year 640,844 Nil 333,247 Nil
Exercisable at the end of the year —— ——
The awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.2 years and have an exercise price
of £nil (2006: 2.6 years and have an exercise price of £nil).
In 2007, awards were granted on 22 March and 10 April. The estimated fair values of the awards granted on these dates were 55.3p
and 52.0p respectively. The total fair values were £140,423 and £64,629 respectively. In 2006, awards were granted on 28 April,
13 September and 31 October. The estimated fair values of the awards granted on these dates were 68.2p, 75.2p and 93.5p respectively.
The total fair values were £124,440, £7,870, and £131,130 respectively.
The fair values were calculated using a stochastic model. The inputs used for fair valuing awards granted during 2007 were as follows:
Weighted average share price at date of grant 138.5p
Weighted average exercise price £nil
Weighted average expected volatility 25.2%
Weighted average expected life 3.0 years
Risk-free rate 5.3%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over a historical period commensurate
with the expected performance period for the award. Participants are entitled to receive the dividends that would have been received on the
vested shares therefore the dividend yield does not impact on the valuation of the awards.
The Group recognised total expenses of £0.16 million (2006: £0.04 million) related to the above equity-settled share-based Performance
Share Plan during the year.
Deferred Bonus Plan
The Deferred Bonus Plan was introduced in 2006. One half of any bonus payable under the scheme is paid in cash with the other half being
deferred in ordinary shares in the Company.
Details of the share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted
Number average Number average
of share exercise of share exercise
options price (p) options price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year — Nil ——
Granted during the year 223,554 Nil ——
(Forfeited) during the year — Nil ——
(Vested) during the year
(1)
(40,874) Nil ——
Outstanding at the end of the year 182,680 Nil ——
Exercisable at the end of the year —— ——
(1)
Deferred bonus share awards are forfeited on cessation of employment prior to the third anniversary of award except in the case of “good leavers” in
which case the deferred shares are released early.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 81 144
82
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
35 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
The awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.2 years and have an exercise price
of £nil.
In 2007, awards were granted on 22 March. The estimated fair value of the awards granted on this date was 127.0p. The total fair value
was £283,995.
The fair values were calculated using Black-Scholes option pricing model. The inputs used for fair valuing awards granted during 2007 were
as follows:
Weighted average share price at date of grant 139.0p
Weighted average exercise price £nil
Weighted average expected volatility 25.0%
Weighted average expected life 3.0 years
Risk free rate 4.7%
Expected dividend yield 3.0%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over a historical period commensurate
with the expected performance period for the award. Participants are not entitled to receive the dividends that would have been received on
the vested shares. The share awards were issued for £nil consideration and the exercise price is £nil.
The Group recognised total expenses of £0.1 million (2006: £nil) related to the above equity-settled Deferred Bonus Plan during the year.
36 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(Restated)
£m 2007 2006
Operating profit from continuing operations 5.5 16.8
Operating profit from discontinued operations
(1)
3.3 3.4
Operating profit 8.8 20.2
Adjustments for:
Business closure costs 13.9 —
Impairment of EMD South African plant in construction — 2.2
Impairment of previously discontinued joint venture — 0.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7.6 8.4
Non-exceptional gain on disposal of business (0.1) —
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1.6) (0.1)
Gain on receipt of warranty claim (0.6) —
Movement in provisions (2.8) (2.3)
Movement in derivatives (0.1) —
Expense for share options 0.4 0.4
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 25.5 29.4
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 10.1 (15.8)
Increase in receivables (7.3) (4.5)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (1.4) 3.4
1.4 (16.9)
Cash generated from operations before tax 26.9 12.5
(1)
The figure for the comparative year comprises operating profit from discontinued operations before payment of the EC copper fitting investigation fine of
£19.1 million (see note 7).
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 82 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
83
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
36 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT continued
Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated cash flow statement are reconciled to the consolidated balance sheet as follows:
£m 2007 2006
Cash 128.7 109.5
Bank overdrafts (1.0) (0.5)
Cash and cash equivalents per the consolidated cash flow statement 127.7 109.0
37 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
£m 2007 2006
Financial guarantees 2.9 3.8
It is not expected that any loss will arise in respect of these financial guarantees all of which were undertaken in the ordinary course of
business.
In addition to the liabilities for which provisions have been made, the Group has contingent liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business
and from businesses previously disposed, from which it is currently anticipated that the likelihood of any material unprovided liabilities
arising is remote.
38 PRINCIPAL GROUP AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AT 31 DECEMBER 2007
(3)
Engineered Steel Products
Australia
Donhad Pty Limited (60%) Mining consumables
Webforge Australia Pty Ltd Galvanized steel products
Galvanizing Services
Australia
Industrial Galvanizers Corporation Pty Ltd Galvanizing services
Manganese Materials
(2)
South Africa
Delta EMD (Pty) Ltd (56.4%) Electrolytic manganese dioxide
Australia
Delta EMD Australia Pty Ltd (56.4%) Electrolytic manganese dioxide
South Africa
Manganese Metal Co (Pty) Ltd (49%)
(4)
Manganese metal
(1)
The issued share capital of each of the companies is in the form of fully paid ordinary shares. The percentage of the equity held by the Group is 100%,
unless otherwise stated.
(2)
Delta plc’s interests in electrolytic manganese dioxide are held indirectly through Delta Electrical Industries Ltd which is listed on the Johannesburg
Stock Exchange.
(3)
The list above comprises only the principal subsidiary and associated companies of the Group along with their country of incorporation and principal
business. A full list of Group companies will be included in the Company’s Annual Return.
(4)
Accounted for as an associate.
(5)
All the above named companies are indirectly owned by Delta plc.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 83 144
84
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2007
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
39 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not
disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint venture are disclosed below:
Amounts owed Amounts owed
Sale of goods Purchase of goods to related parties by related parties
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Associates and
joint venture — 0.3 (3.6) (4.1) (0.2) (0.5) 0.9 1.5
The key management are considered to be the Board of directors. The remuneration of the directors is set out in the Directors’
Remuneration Report.
40 POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
Acquisition of Hi-Light Industries Pty Ltd
On 7 January 2008, Delta acquired 100% of the shares of Hi-Light Industries Pty Ltd (“Hi-Light”) from its former private owners for a total
consideration plus expenses of £2.9 million, including deferred consideration of £0.3 million. The deferred consideration is due to be paid
in 2009 and 2010 in two equal instalments. These consideration figures are subject to a purchase price adjustment following the finalisation
of completion accounts as at 31 December 2007.
Hi-Light is a manufacturer and installer of architectural sunscreen systems and a supplier of aluminium walkways and handrails and is a
leading supplier of the architectural metalwork industry in Australasia. The business will be reported in the Engineered Steel Products
segment. This transaction will be accounted for in 2008 using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3: Business
Combinations. All assets and liabilities will be recognised at their provisional fair values. The residual over the net assets acquired will be
recognised as goodwill.
Provisional fair values and type of consideration
The following table details the book values, provisional fair value adjustments and provisional fair values of Hi-Light’s assets and liabilities at
the date of acquisition:
Fair value Provisional
Book Adjust- fair
£m value ments value
Property, plant and equipment 0.2 — 0.2
Deferred tax assets —— —
Inventories 0.5 — 0.5
Trade and other receivables 0.7 — 0.7
Trade and other payables (0.5) — (0.5)
Employee entitlements (0.1) — (0.1)
Total intangibles and tangibles (net assets) 0.8 — 0.8
Equity minority interests —
Net attributable assets acquired 0.8
Goodwill arising on acquisition 2.1
Total consideration/acquisition cost (including expenses) 2.9
Satisfied by:
Cash 2.5
Directly attributable transaction costs 0.1
Deferred, contingent consideration 0.3
2.9
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 2.6
Cash and cash equivalents —
2.6
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 84 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
85
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
40 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS continued
Other information
At the date of finalisation of this report, the necessary market valuations and other calculations had not been finalised and the adjustment
to deferred tax liabilities and goodwill noted above has therefore only been provisionally determined based on the directors’ best estimate of
the likely values.
Goodwill arose in the business combination because the cost of the combination effectively included amounts in relation to the anticipated
profitability of the distribution of Hi-Light’s products in other Delta markets, strategic premia regarding local markets and infrastructure, the
quality of the assembled workforce and anticipated future operating synergies from the combination with the Group’s existing Webforge
businesses. Delta also acquired the customer lists and customer relationships of Hi-Light as part of the acquisition. These assets are unlikely
to be reliably measured and separately recognised from goodwill because they are not capable of being separated from Delta and sold,
transferred, licensed or exchanged, either individually or together with any related contracts.
The cash generating units for this business are deemed by the directors to be the Hi-Light business itself.
Directly attributable acquisition costs included in the cost of acquisition are the direct external legal and accounting costs incurred in
developing the acquisition contracts and performing due diligence activities.
If the acquisition of Hi-Light had been completed on the first day of the 2007 financial year, Group revenues for the period would have been
£4.3 million higher and Group profit attributable to equity holders of the parent would have increased by £0.5 million.
Fair values in the above table have only been determined provisionally and may be subject to change in the light of subsequent new
information becoming available. The review of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired will be completed within 12 months of the
acquisition date. There were no significant adjustments to align the Hi-Light Industries Pty Ltd business to Group accounting policies.
Delta EMD
In late February, the US claimant in the US anti-dumping investigation made a further submission to the Department of Commerce seeking
the imposition of a punitive duty on all shipments of Australian EMD into the US since late December 2007. The imposition of this punitive
duty is expected to be announced on 19 March 2008 in connection with the preliminary determination on the anti-dumping matter by the
Department of Commerce and to be levied shortly thereafter. Delta EMD has disputed the US claimant’s submission, but has been advised
that the Department of Commerce will most likely provisionally impose the punitive duty and require the posting of a bond by Delta EMD to
secure possible payment of the punitive duty pending final determination of the matter by the International Trade Commission in September
2008. At this stage it is not possible to determine the amount of punitive duty that may be payable.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 85 144
86
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Delta plc
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Delta plc for
the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the balance sheet and
the related notes 1 to 16. These parent Company financial statements have
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of
Delta plc for the year ended 31 December 2007, and on the information in
the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been
audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors’ report and for
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept
or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the
opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the
parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the statement of directors’
responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company
financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the
Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent Company financial
statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that
specific information presented in the Financial Review that is cross referred
from the Business Review section of the Director’s Report.
In addition, we also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not
kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information
and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report (described in
the contents section) and consider whether it is consistent with the audited
parent Company financial statements. We consider the implications for our
report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual
Report.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements. It also includes
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the
directors in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
parent Company financial statements.
OPINION
In our opinion:
 the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December
2007;
 the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
 the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the
parent Company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
14 March 2008
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 86 Independent Auditors’ Report / Individual Company Balance Sheet
87
www.deltaplc.com
Individual Company Balance Sheet
At 31 December 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
£m Notes 2007 2006
Fixed assets
Investments in Group companies 2 187.1 161.1
187.1 161.1
Current assets
Debtors — amounts falling due within one year 3 0.8 0.7
Investments — money market funds 54.3 53.1
Cash at bank and in hand 0.1 0.2
55.2 54.0
Current liabilities
Creditors — amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings 4 (8.6) (6.8)
Other creditors 5 (1.9) (1.5)
(10.5) (8.3)
Net current assets 44.7 45.7
Total assets less current liabilities 231.8 206.8
Net assets excluding pension surplus/(deficit) 231.8 206.8
Pension surplus/(deficit) 10 — 0.3
Net assets including pension surplus/(deficit) 231.8 207.1
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 7 41.3 41.2
Share premium account 7, 8 34.0 33.8
Revaluation reserve 8 107.8 78.9
Profit and loss account 8 50.9 54.2
Employee share ownership trust 7, 8 (2.2) (1.0)
Total shareholders’ funds 9 231.8 207.1
The Company balance sheet and related notes 1 to 16 were approved by the Board of directors on 14 March 2008 and signed on its behalf by:
Todd Atkinson Jon Kempster
Chief Executive Finance Director
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 87 144
88
Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR THE COMPANY
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985, as amended. As permitted by
that Act, the parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Financial Reporting Standards.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost accounting convention, modified to include the revaluation of
certain fixed assets, and in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards and law in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP).
The principal accounting policies for the Company are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and
the preceding year.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the
year. The Company reported a profit for the year ended 31 December 2007 of £4.4 million (2006: loss of £17.1 million).
Amounts payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP by the Company for its audit amounted to £0.1 million (2006: £0.1 million).
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 (revised) – Cash Flow
Statements. The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of
the Delta plc Group. Further, the Company as a parent Company of a Group drawing up consolidated financial statements that meet the
requirements of IFRS 7, is exempt from disclosures that comply with its UK GAAP equivalent, FRS 29: Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
The Company accounts for its investments in subsidiary undertakings by the equity method, whereby the original cost of the investments is
adjusted for the movement in underlying net assets applicable to the investments since their date of acquisition with an adjustment to the
Company’s revaluation reserve, except where any diminution in the value of the investment is considered permanent. In such cases the
permanent diminution is recorded as a reduction in the Company’s profit and loss account.
Foreign currency
Transactions in overseas currencies are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction or, where forward
foreign exchange contracts have been taken out, at the contractual rates.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at historical rates and monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate.
Pensions
The Company operates a defined benefit pension plan.
A defined benefit pension plan is one that specifies the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement. The Company
operates a funded defined benefit pension plan, where actuarially-determined payments are made to a trustee-administered fund.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and is determined by discounting
the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the
benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The Company accounts for actuarial gains and losses in full through the profit and loss account reserve in the year in which they occur. Where
the actuarial valuation of the plan demonstrates that the plan is in surplus, the recognisable asset is limited to that for which the Group can
benefit in the future.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in the Company profit and loss account.
Past service costs, if any, are similarly included where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over
the vesting period.
The expected return on assets of the funded defined benefit pension plan and the expected interest on pension plan liabilities are recorded
in the Company profit and loss account.
Further details of the Company’s defined benefit pension plan are given in note 10.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 88 Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements
89
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR THE COMPANY continued
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when a present obligation (legal or constructive) exists in respect of a past event, it is probable that a transfer of
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Company. Finance
leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum
lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the liability and finance charge to produce a constant rate of interest on the
finance lease balance outstanding. Assets capitalised under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or
the lease term.
Leases other than finance leases are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are recognised as an expense
in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Any incentives to enter into operating leases are recognised as a
reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Tax
The profit and loss account tax charge is calculated at current rates of corporation tax on the taxable profits/losses for the year. Deferred tax
is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a
future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law. Timing differences arise from the inclusion
of items of income and expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no binding contract to dispose
of these assets. Deferred tax is not provided on un-remitted earnings where there is no binding commitment to remit those earnings. Deferred
tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
are not discounted.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised in the Company profit and loss account in the period in which they are incurred.
Financial instruments
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The derivative financial
instruments used are foreign exchange swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value in the balance sheet with changes charged to the profit and loss account.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the profit and loss account. The
Company does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.
Dividends
Dividends declared after the year end represent a non-adjusting balance sheet event and, therefore, no liability is recognised until the
dividend is declared.
Share capital
Ordinary shares and preference shares are classified as equity instruments, and are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue
costs.
Investments in own shares (held through an Employee Share Ownership Trust) are shown at cost as a deduction from shareholders’ funds.
The costs of administration of the Employee Share Ownership Trust are included in the Company profit and loss account as they accrue.
Dividends on shares held by the Trust have been waived.
Share-based payments
The Company operates various equity-settled incentive schemes for certain employees. For equity-settled share options, the services received
from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options granted in accordance with FRS 20. Fair value is calculated
at grant date and recognised in the profit and loss account, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity, on a straight-
line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest. Vesting conditions, other than market
conditions, are not taken into account when estimating fair value.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes and Stochastic option pricing models. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted,
based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Further information is given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report and in note 13.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 89 144
90
Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
2 INVESTMENTS IN GROUP COMPANIES
Book value Amounts provided
Move- Move-
ments ments Net book Net book
during during value value
£m 2006 year 2007 2006 year 2007 2007 2006
Shares 902.0 28.9 930.9 (209.4) — (209.4) 721.5 692.6
Net loans (514.4) (2.9) (517.3) (17.1) — (17.1) (534.4) (531.5)
387.6 26.0 413.6 (226.5) — (226.5) 187.1 161.1
(i) The net book value of shares is equivalent to the Company’s share of the issued share capital and reserves of the subsidiary companies.
(ii) The cost of shares in subsidiary companies is £824.5 million (2006: £824.5 million).
(iii) The names of the principal Group companies are given in note 38 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 DEBTORS
£m 2007 2006
Amounts falling due within one year:
Other debtors 0.2 0.2
Prepayments and accrued income 0.6 0.5
0.8 0.7
4 BORROWINGS
Borrowings of £8.6 million (2006: £6.8 million) consist of overdrafts repayable on demand and due within one year.
5 OTHER CREDITORS
£m 2007 2006
Amounts falling due within one year:
Other taxation and social security 0.1 —
Other creditors 0.1 0.3
Accruals and deferred income 1.7 1.2
1.9 1.5
6 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS
At the balance sheet date, the Company has annual commitments under operating leases expiring:
£m 2007 2006
Within one year 0.1 0.1
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.1 0.1
0.2 0.2
Company annual lease commitments are in respect of land and buildings.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 90 Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements
91
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
7 SHARE CAPITAL, SHARE PREMIUM AND EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP TRUST
Share capital and share premium
£m 2007 2006
Share Capital:
Ordinary shares 38.5 38.4
Preference shares 2.8 2.8
41.3 41.2
Ordinary shares
Ordinary share capital Share premium
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006
Authorised:
188 million ordinary shares of 25p each 47.0 47.0 — —
Issued and fully paid:
At the beginning of the year 38.4 38.2 33.8 33.2
Exercise of share options 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.6
At the end of the year 38.5 38.4 34.0 33.8
The Company has one class of ordinary share.
The total number of authorised ordinary shares was 188,000,000 (2006: 188,000,000) and 153,763,755 were shares allotted and fully paid
at 31 December 2007 (2006: 153,501,851).
During the year, the Employee Share Ownership Trust (“ESOT”) satisfied options granted under the 1999 Delta Executive Share Option
Scheme (“ESOS”) (142,556 shares) and awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan 2006 (“DBP”) (34,842 shares);111,475 shares in
relation to the ESOS and 6,032 shares in relation to the DBP were cash settled. In addition, the Company issued a total of 261,904 ordinary
shares pursuant to the ESOS (219,816 shares); and Save As You Earn and International Save As You Earn share option schemes (42,088
shares), for a total consideration of £0.3 million (2006: £0.8 million). This resulted in an increase of £0.1 million to share capital and £0.2
million to the share premium account. The 42,088 ordinary shares of 25p each under the Save As You Earn share option scheme at 82p
and 108p and the International Save As You Earn share option scheme at 82p had an aggregate nominal value of £10,522 and consideration
received of £nil (2006: £0.2 million).
Preference shares
6% Cumulative first 4.5% Cumulative second
preference shares preference shares
£m 2007 2006 2007 2006
Authorised:
1 million ordinary shares of £1 each/2 million ordinary shares of £1 each 1.0 1.0 2.0 2.0
Issued and fully paid:
At the beginning of the year 0.9 0.9 1.9 1.9
At the end of the year 0.9 0.9 1.9 1.9
The total number of authorised cumulative first preference shares was 1,000,000 (2006: 1,000,000) and 866,152 shares allotted and fully
paid at 31 December 2007 (2006: 866,152). The total number of authorised cumulative second preference shares was 2,000,000 (2006:
2,000,000) and 1,940,000 shares allotted and fully paid at 31 December 2007 (2006: 1,940,000). The preference shares are not
redeemable.
Employee Share Ownership Trust
Shares in the ESOT are valued at their original cost and deducted from equity. The dividends on the shares held in the ESOT are waived
except to the extent of 0.01p per share.
In lieu of issuing new shares, it is intended that all share-based incentives will be satisfied through the Delta plc ESOT by way of market
purchase. During the year, 928,700 shares were purchased to satisfy share-based incentives at an average share price of 121p. At
31 December 2007, the 1,265,911 shares (2006: 514,609 shares) held by the ESOT had a market value of £1.4 million (2006: £0.8 million).
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 91 144
92
Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
8 RESERVES
Employee
Share Profit Share
premium Revaluation and loss Ownership
£m account reserve account Trust Total
At 31 December 2006 33.8 78.9 54.2 (1.0) 165.9
Issue of shares 0.2 —— — 0.2
Purchase of shares for ESOT —— — (1.2) (1.2)
Revaluation surplus on investments — 28.9 —— 28.9
Profit for the year —— 4.4 — 4.4
Equity impact of share-based payments —— 0.5 — 0.5
Dividends paid —— (7.1) — (7.1)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension plan —— 8.7 — 8.7
FRS 17 asset recoverability assessment —— (9.8) — (9.8)
At 31 December 2007 34.0 107.8 50.9 (2.2) 190.5
The profit and loss account reserve before the addition of the pension deficit/surplus of £nil was £50.9 million (2006: before the addition of
a pension surplus of £0.3 million was £53.9 million).
9 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN COMPANY SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
£m 2007 2006
Profit/(loss) for the year 4.4 (17.1)
Equity impact of share-based payments 0.5 0.2
Dividends paid (7.1) (6.2)
Surplus arising on revaluation of investments in Group companies 28.9 9.0
Actuarial gains 8.7 1.8
FRS 17 asset recoverability assessment (note 10) (9.8) —
25.6 (12.3)
New shares issued 0.3 0.8
Purchase of shares for ESOT (1.2) —
Net increase/(decrease) in shareholders’ funds 24.7 (11.5)
Opening shareholders’ funds 207.1 218.6
Closing shareholders’ funds including pension surplus/deficit 231.8 207.1
Closing shareholders’ funds excluding pension surplus/deficit 231.8 206.8
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 92 Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements
93
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
10 PENSIONS
The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme for qualifying employees in the United Kingdom, being the Delta Pension Plan
(DPP). The DPP is a final salary scheme. Additional information regarding DPP is contained in the consolidated financial statements of
Delta plc.
The most recent actuarial valuation of DPP’s assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes was performed at 31 December 2007 by
Xafinity Consulting Limited, DPP’s independent actuary. The projected unit credit method was used for valuation purposes. That actuarial
valuation used the following principal assumptions:
2007 2006 2005
Discount rate 5.8% 5.2% 4.8%
Inflation rate 3.1% 2.8% 2.8%
Expected return on equity instruments 7.0% 7.0% 7.0%
Expected return on debt instruments 4.5% 4.5% 4.1%
Expected return on property and cash 6.0% 6.4% 5.2%
Expected rate of salary increases 4.1% 3.8% 3.8%
Future pension increases 3.1% 3.0% 3.0%
Mortality assumptions
— non-pensioners PxA92c2020 PxA92c2006 Px80c2010
— pensioners PxA92c2006 PxA92c2000 Px80c2010
The fair values of DPP’s assets and liabilities at each balance sheet date were:
£m 2007 2006 2005
Equity instruments 203.5 191.3 202.6
Debt instruments and insured policies 406.5 437.6 413.6
Property and cash 31.0 23.4 47.8
Total fair value of assets 641.0 652.3 664.0
Fair value of scheme liabilities (631.2) (652.0) (667.0)
Pension surplus/(deficit) before consideration of the FRS 17
asset recoverability assessment
(1)
9.8 0.3 (3.0)
Adjustment in respect of the FRS 17 asset recoverability assessment
(1)
(9.8) ——
Company balance sheet recognised pension asset/(liability) — 0.3 (3.0)
(1)
The FRS 17 valuation conducted for the year ended 31 December 2007 produced a net defined benefit pension valuation surplus of £9.8 million.
However, in accordance with FRS 17 paragraph 37, this DPP surplus is limited to the Company’s ability to recover that surplus, whether by reduced
contributions in the future or through refunds of the Plan. The directors consider that there is sufficient uncertainty so as to not warrant recognition of the
net defined benefit valuation surplus as a pension surplus on the Individual Company balance sheet.
Amounts charged to operating profit were:
£m 2007 2006
Current service cost 0.4 0.5
Amounts charged/(credited) to net interest were:
£m 2007 2006
Expected return on pension scheme assets (33.8) (32.9)
Expected interest on pension scheme liabilities 33.1 31.3
(0.7) (1.6)
Analysis of the actuarial gain recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses (before recoverability assessment discussed
above):
£m 2007 2006
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (12.1) (12.4)
Experience gains/(losses) arising on the scheme liabilities 1.2 (3.1)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities 19.6 17.3
8.7 1.8
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 93 144
94
Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
10 PENSIONS continued
Movement in the pension surplus/(deficit) during the year (before recoverability assessment discussed above):
£m 2007 2006
Surplus/(deficit) at the start of the year 0.3 (3.0)
Movement in the year:
Current service cost (0.4) (0.5)
Contributions 0.5 0.4
Other finance credit/(charge) 0.7 1.6
Actuarial gains 8.7 1.8
Surplus in scheme at the end of the year 9.8 0.3
History of experience gains and losses
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Difference between the expected and
actual return on scheme assets:
Amount (£m) (12.1) (12.4) 59.2 25.4 20.0
Percentage of scheme assets (1.9%) (1.9%) 8.9% 4.2% 3.5%
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) 1.2 (3.1) 0.1 6.2 (13.2)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0.2% (0.5%) — 1.0% (2.1%)
Total actuarial gains recognised:
Amount (£m) 8.7 1.8 11.8 25.8 81.5
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (1.4%) (0.3%) (1.8%) (4.2%) (13.1%)
Additional information with respect to the DPP
The Group continues to make pension contributions to the DPP for current participants. At 5 April 2007, there were 17,985 members in
total, comprising 10,349 pensioners (including any dependants’ pensions in payment), 7,564 deferred participants and 72 current
participants.
At 5 April 2007, approximately two-thirds of the total participants were male and one-third of the participants were female. The approximate
average ages of pensioners (including any dependants being paid), deferred participants and current participants at the year end were 73,
51 and 43 respectively.
Further additional information concerning the DPP is provided in the consolidated financial statements’ Retirement benefit schemes note
(note 23).
Triennial valuation
The triennial valuation for the DPP as of 5 April 2006 has been completed. The DPP’s assets at that date totalled £658.1 million and its
liabilities totalled £663.5 million, resulting in a net deficit of £5.4 million as at 5 April 2006. The following assumptions were employed:
discount rate 5.2%; annual increase in pensionable earnings: 3.75%; annual pension increases: from 2.55% to 3.0%; cash commutation:
25%; and price inflation: 2.75%. Mortality tables used were PxA92c2006 for pensioners and PxA92c2020 for active and deferred members.
Further details, including major extracts of the valuation report, can be found on our website (www.deltaplc.com).
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 94 Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements
95
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
11 DIVIDENDS
Preference dividends
£m 2007 2006
6.0% cumulative first preference shares and 4.5% cumulative second preference shares 0.1 0.1
Ordinary dividends
£ million 2007 2006
Proposed dividends for the period:
— ended 1 July 2006 (1.5 pence per share) — 2.3
— ended 31 December 2006 (3.0 pence per share) — 4.6
— ended 30 June 2007 (1.6 pence per share) 2.5 —
— ended 31 December 2007 (3.4 pence per share) 5.2 —
7.7 6.9
£m 2007 2006
Paid dividends for the period:
— ended 31 December 2005 (2.5 pence per share) — 3.8
— ended 1 July 2006 (1.5 pence per share) — 2.3
— ended 31 December 2006 (3.0 pence per share) 4.6 —
— ended 30 June 2007 (1.6 pence per share) 2.5 —
7.1 6.1
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting and has not been included as a liability
in these parent Company financial statements. It will be payable on 9 May 2008.
12 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
£m 2007 2006
Financial guarantees 1.5 1.5
It is not expected that any loss will arise in respect of these financial guarantees.
Other
The Company has contingent liabilities arising in the ordinary course of business and from businesses previously disposed, from which it is
currently anticipated that the likelihood of any material liabilities arising is remote.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 95 144
96
Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
13 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
FRS 20: Share-based payments has only been applied to equity instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 and that had not
vested before 1 January 2005.
Included within staff costs are FRS 20 expenses related to share-based payments totalling £0.5 million (2006: £0.3 million).
Save As You Earn schemes
The Company has a scheme in place known as “Save As You Earn” (SAYE), and its international equivalent, known as “International Save
As You Earn” (ISAYE). There have been no SAYE or ISAYE grants since October 2002 (and thus this share-based payment scheme does not
fall under the provisions of FRS 20). Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares
on the date of grant. In normal circumstances, the options mature either 36, 60 or 84 months following grant and can be exercised within
six months of the relevant maturity date. Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the option vests.
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS)
The Company has a share option scheme for Executives of the Group. Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market
price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant. The options are exercisable between three and ten years after the date on which the
options were granted subject to performance criteria being met. Options are forfeited if the Executive leaves the Group before the options
vest.
ESOS was approved by shareholders at the May 1999 annual general meeting. The scheme was amended in 2002 to reflect the preferences
of certain institutional investors. No grants have been made since 2005.
Grants under the ESOS are made annually and have values of up to one times annual salary.
ESOS options are subject to the following performance conditions:
(a) granted before 29 June 2001, on or before the tenth anniversary of the grant date:
— earnings per share growth over a period of at least three consecutive years must equal or exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index
plus 3% per annum; and
— earnings per share before exceptional items must equal or exceed twenty pence.
(b) granted on or after 29 June 2001, on or before the sixth anniversary of the grant date:
— earnings per share growth over a period of at least three consecutive years must equal or exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index
plus 3% per annum.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted
Number average Number average
of share exercise of share exercise
options price (p) options price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,269,686 110.6 4,048,686 112.5
Granted during the year —— ——
(Forfeited) during the year (271,500) 121.2 (267,500) 118.0
(Exercised) during the year (473,847) 93.0 (511,500) 115.7
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,524,339 112.7 3,269,686 110.6
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,450,339 102.8 1,199,000 117.2
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 137.4p (2006: 140.2p).
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 5.8 years (2006: 6.6 years) and have
exercise prices ranging from 83p to 154p.
There were no options granted under this scheme in 2007 or 2006. The scheme was replaced by the Performance Share Plan which was
approved by shareholders on 28 April 2006.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 96 Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements
97
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
13 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over six years prior to the year of grant.
The expected life used in the model was adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise
restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Company recognised total expenses of £0.1 million (2006: £0.2 million) relating to the above equity-settled ESOS during the year.
Share Award Scheme for Chief Executive
The Company has a Share Award Scheme for the Chief Executive of the Group. This is a one-off award of shares in the Company. The shares
vest three years after the date on which the shares were granted. The shares were issued for £nil consideration. The shares are forfeited if
the Chief Executive leaves the Group before they vest. The exercise price is £nil.
Details of the share award outstanding during the year are as follows:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number exercise Number exercise
of shares price (p) of shares price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 264,961 Nil 264,961 Nil
Granted during the year —— ——
Outstanding at the end of the year 264,961 Nil 264,961 Nil
Exercisable at the end of the year —— ——
The award outstanding at the end of the year has a remaining contractual life of 1.75 years (2006: 2.75 years). The share award was granted
on 4 January 2006, but effective 28 September 2005. The estimated fair value of the shares awarded was 109.5p at the date of grant. The
total fair value at date of grant was £290,000.
The fair value of these options was deemed to be the share price on the date of grant based on a discounted cash flow valuation of the future
dividend stream, as dividends will be payable on these shares during the period between the date of grant and the date of vesting.
The Company recognised an expense of £0.1 million (2006: £0.1 million) related to the above equity-settled share award scheme during
the year.
Performance Share Plan
The Performance Share Plan was introduced in 2006 to replace the ESOS. The conditional awards generally have a three year vesting period
and an exercise price of £nil. The extent to which an award under the plan may vest will be determined by the Company’s Total Shareholder
Return (“TSR”) performance over the three year period commencing the start of the financial year in which the grants are made, against
the TSR performance of the constituents of the FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding investment trusts) over the same period. For median
performance, one quarter may vest, rising proportionally to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
Regardless of the Company’s TSR performance, no part of an award under the plan will vest unless the Financial Underpin Condition is met,
the Financial Underpin Condition being that the Remuneration Committee considers that the Company’s underlying financial performance
over the same measurement period is satisfactory.
Awards are forfeited if the Executive leaves the Group before the awards vest.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 97 144
98
Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
13 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
Details of the share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted
Number average Number average
of share exercise of share exercise
options price (p) options price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 333,247 Nil ——
Granted during the year 378,142 Nil 333,247 Nil
(Forfeited) during the year (70,545) Nil ——
Outstanding at the end of the year 640,844 Nil 333,247 Nil
Exercisable at the end of the year —— ——
The awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.2 years and have an exercise price
of £nil (2006: 2.6 years and have an exercise price of £nil).
In 2007, awards were granted on 22 March and 10 April. The estimated fair values of the awards granted on these dates were 55.3p
and 52.0p respectively. The total fair values were £140,423 and £64,629 respectively. In 2006, awards were granted on 28 April,
13 September and 31 October. The estimated fair values of the awards granted on these dates were 68.2p, 75.2p and 93.5p respectively.
The total fair values were £124,440, £7,870, and £131,130 respectively.
The fair values were calculated using a stochastic model. The inputs used for fair valuing awards granted during 2007 were as follows:
Weighted average share price at date of grant 138.5p
Weighted average exercise price £nil
Weighted average expected volatility 25.2%
Weighted average expected life 3.0 years
Risk-free rate 5.3%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over a historical period commensurate
with the expected performance period for the award. Participants are entitled to receive the dividends that would have been received on the
vested shares therefore the dividend yield does not impact on the valuation of the awards.
The Company recognised total expenses of £0.16 million (2006: £0.04 million) related to the above equity-settled share-based Performance
Share Plan during the year.
Deferred Bonus Plan
The Deferred Bonus Plan was introduced in 2006. One half of any bonus payable under the scheme is paid in cash with the other half being
deferred in ordinary shares in the Company.
Details of the share awards outstanding during the year are as follows:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted
Number average Number average
of share exercise of share exercise
options price (p) options price (p)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year — Nil ——
Granted during the year 223,554 Nil ——
(Forfeited) during the year — Nil ——
(Vested) during the year
(1)
(40,874) Nil ——
Outstanding at the end of the year 182,680 Nil ——
Exercisable at the end of the year —— ——
(1)
Deferred bonus share awards are forfeited on cessation of employment prior to the third anniversary of award except in the case of “good leavers” in
which case the deferred shares are released early.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 98 Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements
99
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
13 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued
The awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.2 years and have an exercise price
of £nil.
In 2007, awards were granted on 22 March. The estimated fair value of the awards granted on this date was 127.0p. The total fair value
was £283,995.
The fair values were calculated using Black-Scholes option pricing model. The inputs used for fair valuing awards granted during 2007 were
as follows:
Weighted average share price at date of grant 139.0p
Weighted average exercise price £nil
Weighted average expected volatility 25.0%
Weighted average expected life 3.0 years
Risk-free rate 4.7%
Expected dividend yield 3.0%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over a historical period commensurate
with the expected performance period for the award. Participants are not entitled to receive the dividends that would have been received on
the vested shares. The share awards were issued for £nil consideration and the exercise price is £nil.
The Company recognised total expenses of £0.1 million (2006: £nil) related to the above equity-settled Deferred Bonus Plan during the year.
14 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
2007 2006
Book Fair Book Fair
£m Value Value Value Value
Foreign exchange contracts —— ——
At the balance sheet date, the total notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts that the Company has committed was £4.6
million (2006: £1.1 million).
Currency derivatives
The Company utilises currency derivatives to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The derivative instruments used
are foreign exchange swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. The Company does not trade in financial instruments, so there are no
derivatives held for trading purposes.
Intra-group loan economic hedging
The Company has taken out financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange movements on loans granted by (or payable
to) Delta plc and other Delta Group companies, where the loan is not in Delta plc’s functional currency (pound sterling). The financial
instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts. The fair values of these contracts at the balance sheet date are set out in the table
above and are accounted for in the profit and loss account.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 99 144
100
Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
14 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
The following methodology has been used to establish estimated fair values:
Item Method
Cash at bank, short-term borrowings The fair value of these items approximates to the carrying amount.
Foreign exchange deals Fair value is calculated by marking each contract to market at appropriate
spot or forward exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
15 STAFF COSTS
The average monthly number of employees (including directors) were:
Number 2007 2006
UK — Group administration 19 21
£m 2007 2006
The aggregate remuneration comprised:
Wages and salaries 2.3 1.8
Social security costs 0.2 0.2
Other pension costs 0.2 0.1
2.7 2.1
16 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration details are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report of the annual report on page 26.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 100 Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements / Notice of Annual General Meeting
101
www.deltaplc.com
Notice of Annual General Meeting
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of Delta plc will be held at Bridewell 2, Crowne Plaza, 19 New Bridge Street, London EC4V
6DB at 11 am on Tuesday, 6 May 2008 for the following business:
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following ordinary resolutions:
1. To receive and consider the accounts and the reports of the directors and auditors for the financial year ended 31 December 2007.
2. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2007.
3. To declare a final dividend of 3.4 pence per ordinary share, payable on 9 May 2008 to shareholders registered at close of business on
4 May 2008.
4. To re-elect Andrew Walker as a director of the Company.
5. To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors of the Company until the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
6. To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES
7. THAT:
(a) the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985
to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of £8,559,061;
(b) such authority shall expire on the date of the annual general meeting in 2009 or on 31 July 2009, whichever is the earlier, and shall
be in substitution for all previous authorities pursuant to the said Section 80, which are hereby revoked, without prejudice to any
allotment of securities pursuant thereto;
(c) by such authority the directors may make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant
securities to be allotted after the expiry of such period; and
(d) for the purpose of this Resolution, words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of the said Section 80 shall bear the same
meanings herein.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following special resolutions:
AUTHORITY TO DISAPPLY PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS
8. THAT:
(a) the directors be empowered to allot equity securities wholly for cash:
(i) in connection with a rights issue; and
(ii) otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,922,046; as if Section 89(1) of the
Companies Act 1985 (the “Act”) did not apply to any such allotment;
(b) such power shall expire on the date of the annual general meeting in 2009 or on 31 July 2009, whichever is the earlier, and shall be
in substitution for all previous disapplications of Section 89 of the Act, which shall cease to have effect, without prejudice to any
allotment of securities pursuant thereto;
(c) by such power the directors may make offers or agreements before the expiry of this power which would or might require equity
securities to be allotted after the expiry of such period;
(d) for the purposes of this Resolution:
(i) “rights issue” means an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors to holders (other than
the Company) on the register on a record date fixed by the directors of ordinary shares in proportion to their respective holdings
(for which purpose holdings in certificated and uncertificated form may be treated as separate holdings) but subject to such
exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal
or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any
territory;
(ii) references (except in paragraph (e) below) to an allotment of equity securities shall include a sale of treasury shares;
(iii) the nominal amount of any securities shall be taken to be, in the case of rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares
of the Company, the nominal amount of such shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights; and
(iv) words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Part IV of the Act shall bear the same meanings herein; and
(e) the power in paragraph (a) above, insofar as it relates to the allotment of equity securities rather than the sale of treasury shares, is
granted pursuant to the resolution conferring authority under Section 80 of the Act passed on the date hereof.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 101 144
102
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES
9. THAT
The authority conferred on the Company by a special resolution passed at the extraordinary general meeting of the Company held on 25
April 1990 and subsequently renewed annually to make market purchases (as defined by Section 163(3) of the Companies Act 1985 as
amended) of ordinary shares of 25p each in its capital be renewed provided that:
(a) the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 15,000,000;
(b) the minimum price which may be paid for each such ordinary share is the nominal value of such share and the maximum price which
may be paid for such ordinary shares is not more than 5 per cent. above the average of the middle market quotations for such shares
taken from the Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for the five business days in respect of which such Daily Official List is
published immediately preceding the date of purchase (in each case excluding expenses);
(c) unless previously revoked or varied the authority hereby conferred is to expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the
Company to be held in 2009 or on 31 July 2009, whichever is the earlier; and
(d) the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such
authority which may be or will be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary
shares in pursuance of any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
10. That amendments to the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company be and hereby are made to reflect recent company law
changes, including the implementation of the Companies Act 2006 as set out in the document produced to the Meeting marked “A” and
signed by the Chairman for the purpose of identification.
11. That, with effect from 1 October 2008, the Articles of Association of the Company be amended in accordance with the document produced
to the Meeting marked “B” and signed by the Chairman for the purpose of identification.
9 Bridewell Place, London, EC4V 6AW On behalf of the Board
14 March 2008 Todd Atkinson, Director
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 102 Notice of Annual General Meeting / Shareholders’ Information
103
www.deltaplc.com
Shareholders’ Information
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
EXPLANATORY NOTES
The directors believe that the proposed resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and unanimously recommend
shareholders to vote in favour of the proposed resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
RESOLUTION 4 — Re-election of director
Full biographical details of each director are set out on page 14 of this report.
All directors are subject to an annual performance review and the Board confirms that Andrew Walker, who is proposed for re-election, continues
to perform effectively and to demonstrate commitment to his role.
RESOLUTION 7 — Authority to allot shares
This ordinary resolution is proposed in order to provide a measure of authority to the directors to allot ordinary shares, limited to approximately
22% of the issued share capital of the Company at 14 March 2008, in circumstances defined by the resolution so as to enable them to respond,
in the interests of the Company, to any appropriate opportunities that may arise.
RESOLUTION 8 — Power to waive pre-emption rights
This first special resolution seeks authority, limited to approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at 14 March 2008, regarding
allotments, other than to members proportionately to their respective shareholdings and for which payment is to be wholly in cash. Additionally,
the resolution seeks authority for the Company to sell or otherwise deal with treasury shares (being shares acquired and held by the Company)
without necessarily involving shareholders.
This limited authority will enable the directors to issue shares, in the interests of the Company, in response to any appropriate opportunities that
may arise. For transactions of a substantial nature involving the allotment of shares, it is normal for the UK Listing Authority or company law to
require shareholder approval for the specific transaction notwithstanding this general authority.
RESOLUTION 9 — Authority for market purchases
This authority renews the authority granted at last year’s AGM and represents not more than 10% of the ordinary issued share capital as at
14 March 2008. The directors will only exercise this authority if they consider it is in the best interest of shareholders generally and if the purchase
could be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share.
If any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority are not held by the Company as treasury shares then such shares would be immediately
cancelled, thereby reducing the number of ordinary shares in issue.
RESOLUTION 10 — Amendments to the Memorandum and Articles of Association
This third special resolution amends the Memorandum and Articles of Association with immediate effect in order to make various amendments
either required by or consequential to recent company law changes, including various provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which are already
in force at the date of the Meeting. These include the following:
(i) section 301 of the Companies Act 2006 requires that both the requirements under Part 13 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s
Articles of Association in relation to resolutions and meetings be satisfied before a resolution can be validly passed at general meetings. In
light of this dual requirement, it is proposed that a new Article be added to ensure that in the case of any conflict between the Company’s
Articles of Association and Part 13 of the Companies Act 2006, the latter prevails;
(ii) it is proposed that the provisions in the Articles of Association dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice
required to convene general meetings be amended to conform to the new provisions in the Companies Act 2006. In particular, a general
meeting (other than an Annual General Meeting) to consider a special resolution can be convened with 14 days’ notice whereas previously
21 days’ notice was required; and
(iii) since April 2005, the law was changed on a company being able to provide indemnities. The law now permits a company to provide funds,
up front, to a director to defend any legal proceedings brought against him in the course of him being a director of the company. Should the
director be convicted or judgement made against him, then he will be required to pay back to the company any amounts provided to him.
The Company wishes to take advantage of this extended ability to provide indemnities and therefore proposes that the Memorandum and
Articles of Association be amended to include such a power. In addition, the proposed amendments to the Memorandum and Articles of
Association also include the power for the directors to purchase directors’ and officers’ liability insurance for the directors, officers, employees
and Auditors of the Company and the other companies within the Delta Group.
A copy of the current Memorandum and Articles of Association marked to show the changes being proposed by this resolution are available for
inspection as noted below (see Documents available for inspection).
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 103 144
104
Shareholders’ Information continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
RESOLUTION 11 — Directors’ conflict of interests
Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest
that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Company’s interests. The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director
becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation. The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board to authorise a director’s
conflict or potential conflict of interest where the Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect. The Companies Act 2006 also allows the
Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors’ conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty. This fourth special
resolution amends the Company’s Articles of Association with effect on and from 1 October 2008 to give the directors authority to approve such
situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict. These include only independent
directors (those who have no interest in the matter being considered) will be able to take the relevant decision, and in taking the decision the
directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Company’s success. The directors will be able to impose
limits or conditions when giving authorisation, or subsequently if they think fit.
From 1 October 2008, it is also proposed to include provisions relating to confidential information to protect a director being in breach of duty if
a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises. These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict
has previously been authorised by the directors.
From 1 October 2008, it is also proposed to include provisions relating to directors’ duties to disclose interests in proposed and existing transactions
or arrangements with the Company.
A copy of the current Articles of Association marked to show the changes being proposed by this resolution are available for inspection as noted
below (see Documents available for inspection).
VOTING ARRANGEMENTS
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, a person must be registered as the holder of ordinary shares by
6 pm on 4 May 2008 in order for such person to be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of those shares. Changes to entries on the
register after 6 pm on 4 May 2008 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote (and the number of votes cast)
at the meeting. A person must be registered as the holder of preference shares by the same time in order for such person to be entitled to attend
the meeting in respect of those shares. Preference shares do not entitle their holders to vote at the meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may appoint one or more proxies, whether a member of the Company or not, to exercise all or
any of his rights to attend and to speak and vote on his behalf. A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed
to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the member. A form of proxy is enclosed for the use of members who may
wish to vote but who are unable to attend the meeting. To be valid, forms of proxy must reach the registrars no later than 48 hours prior to the
time set for the meeting. Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting at the meeting should the
member so wish.
An indirect investor who is not a registered member (“Nominated Person”) may have the right to be appointed as a proxy, or have someone else
appointed as his proxy, if agreed with the member who holds the shares on his behalf. Alternatively, the Nominated Person may have a right to
give voting instructions to the person holding the shares. A Nominated Person does not have the rights of a member to appoint a proxy as described
above.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that (i) if a corporate
shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with
directions of all the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting
directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate representative in accordance with those directions; and
(ii) if more than one corporate representative for the same shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the
Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those representatives who
attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate
representatives - www.icsa.org.uk - for further details of this procedure. The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the
Chairman is being appointed as described in (i) above.
ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL AND TOTAL VOTING RIGHTS
The Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at 14 March 2008 consists of 153,763,755 shares of 25p each holding one vote.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 104 Shareholders’ Information
105
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION
The following documents will be available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal office hours on any business day from
14 March 2008 to the date of the meeting, and at the place of the meeting from fifteen minutes prior to and during the meeting:
 copies of service contracts under which the directors of the Company are employed;
 qualifying third party indemnities between the Company and the directors;
 Memorandum and Articles of Association; and
 a copy of the revised Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company marked to show the changes being proposed by Resolution
10 together with a copy of the revised Articles of Association of the Company marked to show the changes being proposed by
Resolution 11.
SHAREHOLDING ENQUIRIES
Enquiries relating to your shareholding should be made to our registrars, Equiniti Limited, whose contact details are as follows:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road, Lancing
West Sussex, BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0871 384 2528
Additionally, for those with hearing disabilities, the registrars have provided a textphone number, 0871 384 2255.
Calls made to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline. Other telephone providers costs may vary.
Shareview, www.shareview.co.uk, allows shareholders to view their details on line and download forms e.g. stock transfer forms, dividend mandates
and change of address.
Enquires on other matters should be addressed to the Company Secretary at the following address:
Delta plc
Bridewell Gate
9 Bridewell Place,
London, EC4V 6AW
SHARE PRICE
Pence
Year end 111.00
High 159.75
Low 106.25
The share price is available on the Company’s website, www.deltaplc.com
SHARE DEALING SERVICE
Telephone and Internet share dealing services have been arranged through Equiniti Limited, providing a simple way for UK residents to buy or sell
Delta shares. For telephone transactions call 0845 603 7037 between 8 am and 4.30 pm Monday to Friday and for Internet dealing log on to
www.shareview.co.uk/products/Pages/BuyandSellShares.aspx. You will need your Shareholder Reference Number, found on share certificates,
dividend tax vouchers and proxy cards.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 105 144
106
Shareholders’ Information continued
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS
Are you still receiving communications in hardcopy? Why not take advantage of electronic communications and thereby enable the Company to
communicate in a more environmentally friendly and cost effective manner.
You can elect to receive documents and information electronically by viewing them on the Company’s website. In this case a hard copy notification
that documents and information have been published on the Company’s website will be sent to you. If you would like to take advantage of this
option, please write to our registrars at the above address advising them that you would like to receive future documentation and information
electronically by viewing them on the Company’s website.
Alternatively, you can elect to receive notification by email that documents and information have been published on the Company’s website, by
registering on Shareview at www.shareview.co.uk/shareholders/Pages/Paperfreecommunication.aspx. You will need your Shareholder Reference
Number, found on share certificates, dividend tax vouchers and proxy cards.
ELECTRONIC VOTING
In line with market practice we are considering the introduction of electronic voting for next year’s AGM. This will enable ordinary shareholders to
vote using the internet and to register the appointment of a proxy for the AGM electronically. We will let you know in advance whether this will be
an option for you in 2009.
DIVIDEND PAYMENTS
Do you still receive your dividend payments in the form of a cheque? Why not have your future dividends paid directly into your bank account.
Paying your dividends into your bank account is more secure and convenient than payments by cheque. To take advantage of this method of
payment you can either:
 log onto www.shareview.co.uk/shareholders/Pages/Dividends.aspx;
 write to the Registrars providing your bank details; or
 complete the “Direct Payment Request Form” which will be attached to your next dividend cheque.
SHAREGIFT
The Company supports ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation (registered charity number
1052686). Through ShareGift, shareholders with very small numbers of shares which might be considered uneconomic to sell are able to donate
them to charity. Donated shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed on to a wide range of charities.
For those shareholders who wish to use ShareGift, transfer forms are available from the registrars and further details of the scheme can be found
on the website www.sharegift.org.
WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free Company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
 Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and make a record of any other information they may give you, e.g.
telephone number, address etc.
 Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved. You can check at www.fsa.gov.uk/register
 The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any
approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action
can be considered. If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Compensation
Scheme. The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/doing/regulated/law/alerts/overseas.shtml or, if
you do not have access to the internet, on 0845 606 1234.
 Inform our Registrars on 0871 384 2528. They are not able to investigate such incidents themselves but will record the details and pass
them on to the Company and liaise with the FSA.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 106 Shareholders’ Information
107
www.deltaplc.com
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Financial Calendar & Advisers
CALENDAR 2008
Dividends on ordinary shares Final 2007 Announcement 17 March 2008
Record date 11 April 2008
Payment date 9 May 2008
Interim 2008 Announcement August 2008
Annual General Meeting Proxies to reach Registrars by 11 am 4 May 2008
Meeting to be held at 11 am 6 May 2008
Accounting periods First half year 2008 ends 30 June 2008
Second half year 2008 ends 31 December 2008
OWNERSHIP OF ORDINARY SHARES
At 31 December 2007
Shareholders Ordinary shares in issue
Number in
Number % Description millions %
2,213 50.1 held up to 999 shares 0.9 0.6
1,983 44.9 held between 1,000 and 24,999 shares 6.8 4.4
141 3.2 held between 25,000 and 249,999 shares 12.1 7.9
77 1.8 held 250,000 shares and above 134.0 87.1
4,414 100 153.8 100
REGISTERED OFFICE STOCKBROKERS
Delta plc Arbuthnot
Bridewell Gate 20 Ropemaker Street
9 Bridewell Place London, EC2Y 9AR
London, EC4V 6AW
(Registered No. 26077)
REGISTRARS AUDITORS
Equiniti Limited Deloitte & Touche LLP
Aspect House Stonecutter Court
Spencer Road, Lancing 1 Stonecutter Street
West Sussex, BN99 6DA London, EC4A 4TR
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 107 108
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
14463DELTAPLC:Layout 1  26/3/08  11:36  Page 108 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5 14463 26/03/2008 Proof 5
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
www.deltaplc.com
Delta plc
Bridewell Gate
9 Bridewell Place
London, EC4V 6AW
Tel: +44 (0)20 7842 6050
Fax: +44 (0)20 7842 6078
www.deltaplc.com
Delta plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
14463DELTAPLCCVR 7MM SPINE:Layout 1  26/3/08  09:43  Page 1
