  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Delta Plc 
 
Annual Report and Accounts 
For the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.deltaplc.com 
Stock Exchange Code: DLTA 
  Table of Contents 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     2
 
Operation and Financial Highlights          3 
Chairman’s Statement            4 
Chief Executive’s Review           6 
Financial Review          12 
Board of Director’s          14 
Director’s Report          15 
Corporate Governance Report         20 
Corporate Social Responsibility         25 
Director’s Remuneration Report         27 
Statement of Director’s Responsibilities        35 
Independent Auditor’s Report         36 
Consolidated Income Statement         38 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income       39 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position       40 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement        41 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity       42 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements       43 
Independent Auditor’s Report         99 
Individual Company Balance Sheet      101 
Notes to Individual Company Financial Statements     102 
 
 
  Operational and Financial Highlights 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     3
 
Group Results 
• Revenue increased 1% from £330.8 million to £333.0 million. 
• Operating profit from continuing businesses before exceptional items increased 27% from 
£36.7 million to £46.6 million (after exceptional items, from £39.9 million to £50.4 million). 
• Profit after tax from continuing businesses before exceptional items increased 9% from £34.0  
million to £37.1 million (after exceptional items, from loss of £3.7 million to profit of £41.3 
million). 
• Effective tax rate from continuing businesses before exceptional items was 29% (2008: 22%). 
• Cash flow from operations before tax increased 76% from £49.0 million to £86.4 million. 
• Net cash at the year end of £146.9 million (net cash is defined as cash and cash equivalents 
plus other financial assets less bank overdrafts and borrowings). 
• Earnings per share from continuing businesses before exceptional items increased 11% from 
18.2p to 20.2p (after exceptional items, increased from loss of 6.0p to 21.2p) 
 
Divisional Results 
• Engineered Steel Products pre-exceptional operating profit increased from £21.3 million to 
£31.5 million, on revenues that increased from £200.9 million to £218.7 million. 
• Galvanizing Services pre-exceptional operating profit reduced from £10.2  million to £8.4  
million on revenues that decreased from £86.6 million to £77.5 million. 
• Delta EMD  pre-exceptional operating profit increased from £9.2 million to £11.0 million on 
revenues that decreased from £43.3 million to £36.8 million. 
 
 
 
 
 
  Chairman’s Statement 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     4
Overview of 2009 Results 
2009 has seen a continuation of the excellent trading performance we enjoyed in 2008. Profit 
before tax and before exceptionals of £52.6 million was up 20%. Cash flow generated from 
operations before tax at £86.4 million was up 76%, assisted by reductions in working capital 
levels. This was achieved despite the global economic crisis but assisted by the fact that our 
operations are largely in markets which have proved to be more resilient than most. 
Engineered Steel Products, which accounts for just over two thirds of the Group operating profit, 
had a strong year. In Galvanizing Services we did feel the effects of lower volumes and an 
increase in pricing pressure as the lower volumes exposed additional capacity across the industry. 
Delta EMD continued its strong performance in 2009 and managed a second successive year of 
profits at very acceptable margins. 
The Group has continued to invest in its businesses with a new factory for Webforge opened in 
Chengdu and plans underway for new facilities to be established in the Middle East and Northern 
China. We also fully opened the new Galvanizing facility in Melbourne and completed some of 
the development spend on the other galvanizing plants. Due to the economic uncertainty it proved 
difficult to find suitable acquisitions but efforts continue to find attractive businesses that 
complement our existing businesses in the same geographic area. 
The Group’s consolidated net cash at year end amounted to £146.9 million. This, as I have 
previously stated, provides Delta with options to invest in the core operations, fund add-on 
acquisitions and when the time is right to consider further actions on the Delta Pension Plan 
(“DPP”).  
The future 
On 4th March 2010 the Board announced a recommended cash offer for Delta by Valmont 
Industries Inc (“Valmont”).  The offer comprises 185 pence per ordinary share and values Delta’s 
issued ordinary share capital at approximately £284 million. We believe this provides shareholders 
with an opportunity to realise fair value  for their Delta investment with certainty. 
The prospects for the Group’s core businesses remain good but the substantial cost of a full 
pension solution at the current time continues to limit strategic options. The planned disposal of 
the EMD business and an eventual exit from our shareholding in MMC are expected to be 
achieved in 2010. Any solution for the DPP, however, remains uncertain in terms of its timing and 
in the ultimate cost to shareholders.  
The Board has carefully considered retaining the DPP, completing the Manganese disposals and 
continuing for the foreseeable future with  Delta in its current form. Should the takeover not 
proceed, we will continue to monitor the cost of transferring the DPP. The indications are that the 
exit costs will remain substantial, and there is no assurance that they will reduce over time. 
Investment in the core businesses would continue, as with the new plants recently commissioned 
in both China and Australia during 2009. However, even allowing foreseeable organic investment 
plans plus some greater success in identifying and delivering add-on acquisitions in our core 
markets within the Asia Pacific region, it is unlikely that the Group’s surplus net cash can be 
substantially deployed. 
The remoteness of the Group’s operations from the PLC head office, it’s Executive management, 
and shareholders, and the scale of the DPP in relation to Delta’s  market capitalisation all represent 
significant issues for the Group. 
An alternative strategy for Delta, involving the pursuit of investment opportunities on a broader 
sectoral and geographic front, would represent a material change in the risk profile for existing 
investors. This would require prior shareholder consultation and necessitate a change in 
managerial and Board focus.  Chairman’s Statement (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     5
In the considered view of your Board, the immediate value and certainty being offered by 
Valmont represents the most attractive outcome.  
The Board has not recommended a final dividend in the light of the terms of the Valmont offer.  
In the event the offer lapses or is withdrawn, the Board would consider declaring a second interim 
dividend in relation to the year ended 31 December 2009. 
 
 
Steve Marshall 
Chairman 
8 March 2010  Chief Executive’s Review  
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     6
Overview of 2009 Results 
We are pleased to report that the Group’s profit after tax for the year from continuing operations 
and before exceptional items improved by 9.1% to £37.1 million (2008: £34.0 million), providing 
basic earnings per share from continuing operations and before exceptional items of 20.2 pence 
(2008: 18.2 pence).  This improvement was made against difficult global economic conditions, 
with favourable exchange rates and with revenue of £333.0 million (2008: £330.8 million). 
The Group’s total profit for the year included £2.6 million of exceptional profit, whereas the year 
prior included £37.2 million of exceptional loss, including a £48.8 million charge related to the 
2008 de-scaling and de-risking of the Delta Pension Plan. Including exceptional items and 
discontinued operations, the Group’s profit for the year attributable to equity holders was £39.7 
million (2008: loss of £3.2 million), providing basic earnings per ordinary share attributable to 
equity shareholders of 21.2 pence (2008: basic loss per share of 6.0 pence). 
The Group’s net cash generated from operating activities totalled £73.8 million (2008: £39.0 
million), providing a year end net cash balance of £146.9 million (2008: £109.6 million) of which 
£122.0 million was held in wholly owned subsidiaries. 
Offer from Valmont Industries Inc.  
Valmont has made a recommended cash offer to purchase the Group’s ordinary shares for 185 
pence per share.   
The offer presented by Valmont provides a most attractive strategic outcome for the Group.  The 
Group’s shareholders would realise value for the Group’s progress over the past several years as 
well as for our businesses’ potential for further growth.  The Group’s businesses would become 
part of a substantially larger group that has similar strategic ambitions, management practices and 
culture, and the Group’s businesses, management and employees would have greater 
opportunities for new challenges and development.  As only a sale of the Group’s shares would 
result from the Valmont offer, the Group’s businesses and assets would remain in support of the 
Delta Pension Plan, preserving the strong covenant that has supported the plan responsibly over 
many years. 
Over the past several years the Board has sought attractive strategic outcomes for the Group.  The 
Delta Pension Plan and the Group’s relative size and complexity, geographic spread and more 
recently the global recession, have slowed or frustrated many of those efforts.  The Valmont offer 
is a particularly attractive outcome for the Group and its shareholders, and we are pleased to 
present it to our shareholders and to recommend it to them.  
Review of 2009 Trading 
Engineered Steel Products 
The Group’s Engineered Steel Products division performed better than expected during the year 
and improved markedly upon the prior year’s performance.  Operating profit increased by 47.9% 
to £31.5 million (2008: £21.3 million) on continuing revenue that increased by 8.9% to £218.7 
million (2008: £200.9 million). 
Ingal Civil Products (ICP) performed very well during the year with very good sales volumes and 
the effective management of selling prices as steel prices reduced substantially.  The Australian 
market for safety barrier systems proved resilient with continued public investment in highway 
development and improvement, and ICP successfully defended its market share against imported 
products notwithstanding a very strong Australian dollar. ICP’s market position strengthened 
further as further efficiencies were achieved with its automated roll forming equipment and 
bespoke galvanizing facility, and with further improved service and a superior product range.  
Product development efforts also progressed nicely during the year and should provide further 
product differentiation.    Chief Executive’s Review (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     7
The performance of Ingal EPS improved markedly during the year, with a return to profit after a 
difficult year in 2008. A new management team simplified the business and implemented 
improved systems and controls, assuring far better management of selling prices and costs. 
Margins improved significantly, and inventories were simplified and relocated to assure more 
timely delivery and reduced stock levels. Reasonable profit, reduced working capital and good 
cash flow all resulted. Given the similarities amongst Ingal EPS’s and ICP’s products, markets 
and customers, opportunities to integrate some activities of the two businesses have been 
identified, and first steps included combination of certain sales and distribution facilities.  The 
year’s successes demonstrate that Ingal EPS’s industry reputation and market position provide a 
solid foundation upon which an attractively profitable business can be developed further. 
Webforge Australia performed very well during the year against a backdrop of more difficult 
market conditions. Whilst sales volumes softened, selling prices were well managed and costs 
were reduced, particularly as steel prices fell during the year. Webforge management continued to 
build upon new market positions for complementary products such as expanded metal products, 
civil products and planking, and further developed effective distribution channels for standard 
gratings. Further operational efficiencies also were identified through the implementation of lean 
manufacturing techniques.   
Webforge Asia performed exceptionally well during the year. Sales volumes varied by 
geographic market but in total reflected Webforge Asia’s very good market positions and the 
continuation of large projects that had commenced before the economic crisis.  Selling prices 
were successfully managed against reducing steel prices as well as heightened competition in 
markets where volumes softened. Webforge Asia’s Greenfield plant in Chengdu, China was 
commissioned ahead of schedule and with a full complement of capable management and 
employees.  Planning, design and site procurement are well underway for similar facilities in 
Northern China and the Middle East. 
Donhad’s sales mix of grinding media includes a significant portion to gold and copper mines and 
consequently Donhad’s sales volumes didn’t suffer as much during the year as might have been 
expected with the general reduction in Australian mining activity. Donhad management 
successfully protected its market position against foreign imports notwithstanding a strong 
Australian dollar, and also successfully managed steel supply and cost during the year against a 
backdrop of reducing steel prices and increasing variances in the cost of domestic and imported 
steel. Selling prices also were well managed providing acceptable margins and profit in more 
difficult market conditions. Whilst anticipated development of additional mining capacity in 
Australia was delayed during the year due to uncertain global economic conditions, in many 
instances those plans are now again underway and should provide further growth in demand for 
grinding media.     
Galvanizing Services 
The Group’s Galvanizing Services division did not perform as well as expected during the year 
and fell below prior year performance. Galvanizing Services operating profit declined by 17.6% 
to £8.4 million (2008: £10.2 million) on continuing revenue that decreased by 10.5% to £77.5 
million (2008: £86.6 million).   
Galvanizing volumes suffered most immediately from the year’s worsened economic conditions.  
Volumes related to residential and commercial construction, consumer products and mining 
products and development deteriorated substantially, and price competition heightened in markets 
that suffered from the resulting overcapacity.  Last year’s substantial reductions in the cost of zinc 
also increased market pressures on selling prices, notwithstanding steady increases in the cost of 
zinc during the year.  Profit benefited from lower than expected energy costs and from cost of 
sales determined with FIFO accounting methodologies and reflecting lower zinc prices. 
Australian Galvanizing commissioned a new plant in Melbourne, Australia.  The facility includes 
a large kettle for structural steel as well as a spinning kettle for manufactured products.  The plant  Chief Executive’s Review (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     8
also employs newer technologies intended to reduce energy consumption and emissions.  The 
former plant will be demolished and the plant site rehabilitated so that the site can be sold during 
2010.   
The Group’s US galvanizing operations performed well in difficult market conditions with a new 
management team and renewed focus on housekeeping, health and safety and operational 
efficiencies.  Market shares were maintained through provision of superior service and quality 
and without matching the lower pricing of our competition.  Margins improved as lower cost zinc 
turned over in galvanizing kettles, offsetting reduced volumes and providing acceptable profit 
given difficult market conditions. 
The Group’s Asian galvanizing operations performed better than expected given difficult 
economic and market conditions in both Malaysia and the Philippines.  Malaysian management 
continued to improve service and quality, assuring a favourable market position and share, and 
also managed selling prices and costs during the year, providing better than expected revenue, 
margins and profit.  Improved pole and tower sales volumes provided the Group’s galvanizing 
operation in the Philippines better base load volumes, and the contribution provided through pole 
and tower sales, as well as from the galvanizing operation, afforded much better profit and cash 
flow than during recent years. 
AusZinc’s sales volumes didn’t meet expectations as worsened economic conditions reduced 
demand for galvanizing zinc, zinc alloys and zinc oxides, and also reduced the availability of zinc 
residues, AusZinc’s feedstock.  Consequently AusZinc struggled to source sufficient residues and 
to meet reduced demand.  Nonetheless AusZinc’s profit improved during the year as the LME 
zinc price increased and favourable margins were realised on lower cost stocks.  As 
manufacturing activity improved late in the year, residue sources and demand for alloys and 
oxides improved and provide an improved outlook for AusZinc. 
Manganese Materials 
Delta EMD 
2009 was a very good year for Delta EMD: a substantially strengthened senior management team 
relocated to the Delta EMD facility in Nelspruit, South Africa, significant operational 
improvements were initiated, overhead costs were reduced, and financial performance remained 
strong notwithstanding more difficult market conditions. 
Delta EMD’s total revenue reduced by 15.0% to £36.8 million (2008: £43.3 million) due to sales 
from Delta EMD’s former Australian operation concluding during 2008.  More importantly, 
revenue from Delta EMD’s South African plant improved by 18% over 2008, with improved 
selling prices more than offsetting marginally lower sales volumes.  The 2009 operating profit 
reported by the Group for Delta EMD improved by 19.6% to £11.0 million (2008: £9.2 million), 
and was assisted by a stronger rand. 
Global demand for electrolytic manganese dioxide reduced during the year as consumer demand 
for batteries weakened with the global recession.  Sales volumes did not meet expectations and 
Delta EMD’s production was limited substantially to reduce stocks to desired levels.  The global 
market nonetheless remained well balanced and selling prices afforded the margins necessary to 
cover poor overhead recoveries and to provide an acceptable return. 
The majority of Delta EMD’s sales during the year were made in rand denominated selling prices, 
effectively protecting Delta EMD’s margins from foreign exchange movements.  This marks an 
important change from historic practice and assured more certain financial performance.  The 
strengthening of the rand during the year however reduced the competitiveness of Delta EMD’s 
rand denominated selling prices.  
Delta EMD’s stocks were simplified during the year to reduce stock levels and to assure more 
responsive delivery to key customers.  Delta EMD’s terms of sale also were changed so that title 
passed at the port of loading, also reducing Delta EMD’s stock levels.  These efforts together with  Chief Executive’s Review (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     9
effective collection of outstanding receivables substantially reduced working capital levels and 
provided very good cash flow.  
Environmental assessments were concluded successfully during the year at Delta EMD’s former 
Australian plant site, confirming that the site is suitable for commercial and industrial uses 
without further remediation or rehabilitation. This will facilitate the sale of the site, and a 
demolition contractor has been contracted to demolish the remaining structures.  Earlier efforts to 
sell the site with those structures proved unsuccessful, and the site will now be marketed as a 
vacant site. An amendment to the environmental license governing the rehabilitation of the 
Kooragang Island residue disposal site was agreed with regulatory authorities during the year and 
allows a more cost effective rehabilitation of that site. Negotiations toward the sale of the 
Kooragang Island site are underway. These favourable developments allowed the provisions that 
had been established for the remediation and rehabilitation of those sites to be reduced, affording 
£5.7 million of exceptional profit. 
Subsequent to the year end Delta EMD Limited has commenced a process intended to realise 
shareholder value through a disposal of the Delta EMD business, Delta EMD Limited’s last 
remaining operation. The disposal process is well underway with considerable interest indicated. 
Manganese Metal Company (MMC) 
MMC performed well during the year but not at the exceptional levels achieved during 2008.  The 
Group’s share of MMC’s post-tax profit totalled £3.1 million (2008: £8.2 million, inclusive of a 
£6.4 million impairment reversal). Market selling prices and volumes softened with reduced 
global production of steel and aluminium. The relative strength of the rand against the US dollar 
also adversely affected margins. Sales volumes and selling prices improved during the second 
half of the year.   
Efforts to dispose of MMC by Samancor, MMC’s 51% shareholder, faltered during the year, 
resulting in an unattractive offer. The Group has decided against participating in that transaction 
and will account for MMC as a continuing operation whilst exploring other options for realising 
value from the Group’s 49% shareholding. 
Delta Pension Plan 
The triennial actuarial valuation of the Delta Pension Plan (“the Plan”) as at 31 March 2009 was 
finalised during the year.  The Plan’s assets at that date totalled £184.3 million and the value of 
the Plan’s liabilities totalled £232.8 million, resulting in a deficit of £48.5 million. In respect of 
the funding shortfall, annual contributions of £6.3 million will be required over the next ten years, 
the first of which was made during the year, and the remaining nine of which are to be made 
annually on 31 March until 2018. The Group also will fund the Plan’s administrative expenses, 
inclusive of pension protection fund levies, which in the aggregate are expected to total 
approximately £1.0 million per annum. 
The discount rate used to determine the Plan’s liabilities was fixed having regard to the Plan’s 
interim investment strategy (approximately 90% corporate bonds) that has been continued whilst 
opportunities to de-scale and de-risk the Plan are being sought.  A full investment review has 
commenced so that a revised investment strategy can be implemented during mid 2010 should a 
full buy out of the Plan remain unattractive.  If the revised investment strategy provides an 
anticipated investment return less than the assumed discount rate, the agreed recovery plan will be 
reviewed and adjusted accordingly. 
The Plan’s year end IAS 19 determination was made with actuarial and financial assumptions 
similar to those used for the actuarial valuation but as at different dates, and the net deficit totalled 
£71.2 million (2008: £2.5 million). The Group’s IAS 19 total liabilities were determined with an 
assumed inflation rate of 3.6% (2008: 2.5%) and a 5.7% discount rate (2008: 6.3%), which 
estimates the year end investment return for AA corporate bond with durations similar to the plan 
liabilities.  Chief Executive’s Review (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     10
Cash Flow and Balances 
The Group’s cash generated from operations before tax totalled £86.4 million (2008: £49.0 
million) and reflects improved operating profit and favourable working capital movements. The 
value of the Group’s zinc and steel inventories reduced with the lower market prices, and Delta 
EMD’s inventories were substantially reduced as planned. 
The Group paid £7.0 million during the year to the Delta Pension Plan following completion of 
the 2009 actuarial valuation. This compares favourably with the £50.2 million paid during 2008 in 
connection with the Pension Insurance Corporation transaction that insured approximately two-
thirds of the plan’s former liabilities. 
Capital expenditure increased to £14.3 million (2008: £13.1 million) and exceeded depreciation, 
which totalled £7.9 million. The total expenditure included investments in Webforge Asia’s 
Greenfield plant in Chengdu, China and completion of Australian Galvanizing’s Greenfield plant 
in Melbourne, Australia, as well as more routine capital expenditures. 
Corporate tax paid totalled £12.6 million (2008: £10.2 million) and included £1.9 million of 
Secondary Tax on Companies paid by Delta EMD Limited in connection with the special 
dividends paid by Delta EMD Limited during the year. 
The Group’s cash balance was reduced by £11.9 million of dividends paid to minority 
shareholders (2008: £1.5 million), principally Delta EMD Limited’s £8.2 million of special 
dividends, and by £10.9 million of dividends paid to group shareholders (2008: £8.2 million). 
The Group’s net cash balance increased to £146.9 million (2008: £109.6 million) of which £122.0 
million was held in wholly owned subsidiaries. The balance was enlarged by £3.5 million during 
the year by favourable foreign exchange movements. 
Prospects for 2010 
The Group’s businesses performed well during the past year’s more difficult global economic 
conditions, and market conditions in many geographies have begun to improve.  The Australian 
economy appears to be in recovery, as do many Asian economies. Recovery of the US economy 
appears less certain although US market conditions appear to have at least settled. 
Continuing government spend on infrastructure development and improvement is expected to 
provide a foundation for the Group’s businesses in most markets whilst projects requiring private 
funding or related to the development of additional mining capacity are expected to return over 
time to the levels enjoyed before the global recession.   
Future movements in the cost of energy, steel and zinc, the Group’s key input costs, are difficult 
to anticipate. Zinc prices increased substantially during 2009 and appear to have stabilised 
recently.  Steel prices declined substantially during early 2009 and have been relatively stable 
since, whilst energy costs have remained relatively low. Inflationary cost increases nonetheless 
remain a concern, particularly as selling price competition remains vigorous, as is expected to be 
the case until market volumes improve with sustained economic growth. 
Absent significant economic growth and provided input costs remain stable, the Group’s 
businesses are expected to continue to perform in line with the second half of 2009. 
Strategic Development 
During the year the Group commissioned a new galvanizing plant in Melbourne, Australia as well 
as a new Webforge plant in Chengdu, China.  Plans for the development of new Webforge plants 
in Northern China and in the Middle East also progressed. Acquisition opportunities were 
investigated, but none were completed due to uncertain economic conditions and prospects.  
Should the offer presented by Valmont not be accepted, the Group will need to decide in the near 
future between two alternative strategies: resolving the pension plan so that the Group’s executive 
management, businesses, development and ideally ownership can be geographically aligned, or  Chief Executive’s Review (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     11
pursuing a more diverse investment strategy across a broader geographic area so that investment 
can be accelerated and the Group’s accumulated capital deployed.   
The cost of resolving the Delta Pension Plan remains high due to market conditions surrounding 
longer term gilt returns, and whilst reasons remain to expect such conditions to change, 
movement over the past eighteen months has not been significant. Geographic alignment of the 
Group’s ownership, executive management, businesses and development would certainly provide 
a more sustainable structure and better strategic focus and success. Unfortunately the cost of 
doing so presently remains high. 
Pursuing a more diverse investment strategy across a broader geographic area in order to deploy 
the Group’s accumulated capital more rapidly would mark a significant change in the Group’s 
investment strategy, would be accompanied by different risks, and would require formulation of a 
new industrial strategy as well as additional management to execute such a strategy. The 
immediate appeal of such a strategy would be to achieve returns better than those presently 
realised on cash balances, to overcome concerns about the Group’s relatively small size, and to 
“outgrow” the pension plan. Whilst all might be possible over the longer term, more than the 
rapid deployment of the Group’s accumulated capital would be required to achieve such 
objectives.  Good investments, value creation over the longer term, and an industrial strategy that 
provided an attractive equity proposition also would be essential.   
The offer presented by Valmont provides a more certain and immediate outcome for the Group’s 
shareholders, at a value that the Group’s alternative strategies cannot necessarily improve upon in 
the foreseeable future. The offer is the result of several year’s effort to achieve such an outcome 
for the Group’s shareholders, businesses, management and employees, and I am pleased to 
recommend it to our shareholders.   
 
 
Todd Atkinson 
Chief Executive 
8 March 2010  Financial Review 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     12
Income Statement - Presentation 
The Group’s Consolidated Income Statement reflects a number of exceptional items that have 
been separately disclosed in note 12 to provide increased clarity on the performance of the Group.  
The closure costs associated with the Delta EMD facility in Australia have been reduced following 
the reassessment of the rehabilitation of the residue disposal site on Kooragang Island. The 
accounts reflect the write back of part of the provision increased at the time of closure. The last 
remaining manufacturing facility the Group owned in the UK, ITI, was sold in the year and a loss 
on sale incurred. 
The Melbourne Galvanizing business was fully relocated to the new site in 2009. The old site in 
Melbourne is in the process of being organised for sale. As part of that process the site requires 
some remediation and the accounts reflect an impairment charge in order to reduce the carrying 
value of the property to the expected proceeds of sale anticipated in 2010. 
The Group is in the process of finalizing the sale of the other investment in Indonesia and has 
impaired the investment to the expected proceeds should the sale complete.  
At the time of the pension transaction in 2008 certain estimates of costs and expenses were taken. 
The 2009 Consolidated Income Statement reflects the write back of accrual no longer deemed 
necessary. 
Following the initiation of a sales process in 2008 MMC was treated as a discontinued operation.  
Due to continued uncertainties around this process MMC has been reclassified as a continuing 
operation in 2009.  The 2008 comparatives have been restated to reflect this change, and the 
restated 2007 statement of financial position comparatives have also been disclosed. 
Operations 
The Group revenue from continuing operations increased from £330.8 million to £333.0 million. 
Operating profit after exceptional items increased to £50.4 million from £39.9 million in 2008. 
Operating profit before exceptional items, from continuing operations, increased from £36.7 
million to £46.6 million, a 27% increase. The translational impact of foreign exchange rates on the 
2009 operating profit on the same basis (as compared to 2008 rates) was £4.9 million. The 
operating profit performance of the individual segments is more fully discussed in the operations 
reviews within the Chief Executive’s Review. 
Earnings per share 
Earnings per share from continuing business on a pre-exceptional basis has increased 11% from 
18.2p to 20.2p. Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued businesses after exceptionals 
was 20.2p, compared to a loss per share of 5.7p in 2008. 
Interest 
The Group’s net interest income (before the IAS19 pension net expense) was much reduced to 
£2.7 million from £6.6 million in 2008. Despite excellent cash generation the lower interest rate 
environment caused the return to be lower.  
The IAS 19 net pension expense of £0.1 million in 2009 compared to a net pension expense of 
£1.6 million in 2008.  
Taxation 
The Group’s 2009 net tax expense (including deferred tax), excluding exceptional items and 
discontinued operations, was £15.5 million (2008: £9.7 million), and the effective tax rate for 
2009 was 29% (2008: 22%). The 2008 tax rate was reduced by the recognition of a £2.2m deferred 
tax asset in the US.  The current year tax charge includes £2.7 million in relation to withholding 
taxes. Of this £1.9m  relates to South Africa which incurred tax as it returned surplus cash.  ,
  Financial Review (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     13
Group Cash Flow and Balances 
Cash generated from operations before tax was £86.4 million, increased from £49.0 million in 
2008. The overall greater profitability in the current year aided by a working capital inflow has 
lead to the substantial increase in the operating cash flow.  
Capital expenditure was £14.3 million (2008: £13.1 million) which compared to a depreciation 
charge of £7.9 million (2008: £6.5 million). The capital expenditure continued the investment 
programme started in 2008 with the Melbourne Galavanizing site fully commissioned in the year. 
Other Galvanizing sites benefited from redevelopment expenditure intended to increase efficiency, 
further improve environmental aspects of the sites and increase capacity. The new Webforge site 
in Chengdu was officially opened in the summer. 
The cash flow reflects the minority portion of the return of cash to shareholders by Delta EMD 
and Donhad (£11.9 million, in 2008 £1.5 million). It is expected that Delta EMD will make further 
distributions once certain asset sales are realised and tax matters resolved. The cash flow also 
reflects the first of the cash contributions to the pension scheme following the finalisation of the 
actuarial valuation in December 2009. The contributions to the scheme totalled £7.0 million 
(2008: £50.2 million). 
Dividends paid to equity holders totalled £10.9 million (2008: £8.2 million). 
The Group ended the year with a net cash position of £146.9 million, an increase of 34% from 
£109.6 million at the end of 2008. The net cash position provides the Group with significant funds 
with which to look at possibilities to de-scale and/or de-risk the pension scheme further and to 
continue to invest in acquisitions and organic growth opportunities.  
Treasury policies  
The Group’s treasury policy remains one of risk management and control. No speculative 
transactions are undertaken.  Group treasury activities are closely monitored by the Group Finance 
Department, who make recommendations to the Board on matters of treasury policy and 
implement policies approved by the Board.   
Material currency exposures arising from trading transactions at most of the Group’s businesses 
are covered as they arise.  Delta EMD does not cover currency exposures.   
The Group does not normally use translational hedging to protect the sterling value of its non-
sterling assets. 
The sterling value of operating profits arising in other currencies are not hedged.  Consequently, 
the sterling value of overseas profits remains subject to currency exchange movements.  The US 
dollar is used as the functional currency for MMC.  
No instruments are entered into to mitigate the impact of interest rates although this is reviewed 
regularly.  
Due to the significant cash balances held by the Group, the Group is exposed to credit risks with 
counterparty banks. In particular, the Group has cash balances with banks located in the UK, 
Republic of South Africa, Australia and the United States; and consequently has an exposure to 
those banking sectors. The balances are held with large commercial banks.  At year end the large 
balances were held in Australia and the UK. In order to minimise market risk, Treasury policy 
dictates that surplus cash in the UK must be deposited in AAA-rated money market funds, whilst 
in Australia it must be deposited with AA-rated banks.  
 
Jon Kempster 
Finance Director 
8 March 2010  Board of Directors 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     14
Steven Marshall FCMA 
Non-executive Chairman and Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
Steven Marshall (53) was appointed Chairman in March 2005, having joined the Board as a non-
executive director in April 2004.  He is also Chairman of Balfour Beatty plc, the international 
engineering and construction group.  
 
Steven is a former Group Chief Executive of Railtrack Group plc and of Thorn plc, having also 
been Group Finance Director at each company.  He is also a former Chairman of Queens’ Moat 
Houses plc and of Torex Retail plc, and a non-executive director of Southern Water, the regulated 
public utility. Steven is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants. 
 
Todd Atkinson  
Chief Executive 
Todd Atkinson (53) was appointed Chief Executive and joined the Board in July 2003.  Todd is 
also non-executive Chairman of Delta EMD Limited.  Previously he was President of Delta 
America Inc. before becoming the Group’s Director of Corporate Development and Legal Affairs 
in 2000.   
 
Jon Kempster ACA 
Finance Director 
Jon Kempster (47) was appointed Finance Director in October 2006.  He was previously Group 
Finance Director of Low & Bonar PLC, Linden PLC and FII Group PLC.   
 
Andrew Walker 
Non-executive Director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee 
Andrew Walker (58) was appointed a non-executive director in May 2005. He is also a non-
executive director of API Group plc, Manganese Bronze plc, May Gurney plc, Plastic Capital plc 
and Porvair plc.  He is Chairman of Brintons Ltd.  His career has also included periods as Group 
Chief Executive of McKechnie plc and South Wales Electricity plc.  
 
Mark Lejman 
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
Mark Lejman (53) was appointed a non-executive director in May 2006.  He is also Chief 
Executive of Cosalt plc, the industrial services group, and also a non-executive director of 
Berkshire East NHS Trust.  Mark was an executive director of Morgan Crucible Company plc, and 
CEO of their Carbon division, the Company's largest operating division.  His career also includes 
being Chief Executive of Acordis Cellulosic Fibres, and prior to that, Chief Executive of 
Courtaulds' Acrylic Fibres business.
 
Paul Gismondi 
Non-executive Director 
Paul Gismondi (54) was appointed a non-executive director in June 2009.  He is a Managing 
Director of Lazard & Company Ltd and a non-executive director of Hampson Industries Plc.  Mr 
Gismondi is a Fellow of the Securities Institute. 
 
  Directors’ Report 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     15
The directors submit their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2009. The Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 20 to 24 forms part of 
this report. 
Principal activities 
A review of the Group’s principal activities and likely future developments can be found in the 
Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review and Financial review which are incorporated by 
reference to the Director’s Report.  
Business Review  
The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during 
the financial year ended 31 December 2009, the position at the end of that financial year and a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.  The Chairman’s statement, 
Chief Executive’s Review and Financial Review, together with the following review, address 
these requirements. 
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have an impact on the Group’s 
financial performance. 
Global, Political and Economic conditions 
The Group operates from sites in 13 countries and has either sales or sourcing arrangements with 
various other countries within Asia, Africa and South America. Whilst the Group benefits from 
the growth opportunities in these continents, it is similarly exposed to the economic, political and 
business risks associated with such international operations.  Throughout its operations the Group 
encounters different legal and regulatory requirements including those for taxation, exchange 
control (including repatriation of profits), environmental, operational and competitive matters. 
A large part of the Group’s operations are dependent on the construction, public and private 
infrastructure and mining markets in Australia. Such markets are impacted by a number of factors 
including government policy, interest rates and commodity prices. 
Management monitor such risks and conditions, maintaining insurance cover and amending 
business procedures as appropriate to attempt to mitigate any exposure whilst remaining in 
compliance with local and Group requirements. 
Foreign exchange 
The Group operates in many countries, with substantially all of the Group’s operating profit 
earned outside the UK. As such the Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates between 
sterling and other world currencies particularly the South African rand, the Chinese yuan and the 
US and Australian dollars which could adversely or positively impact results. 
Raw material and energy prices 
The Group’s products and services utilise a range of raw materials most notably zinc, steel and 
manganese ore. Our operations also require substantial quantities of electricity and natural gas. 
The pricing for these raw material inputs is largely determined by international or national factors 
beyond the Group’s control or influence. Short-term volatility in the pricing of such inputs and 
any decrease in availability can significantly impact the Group’s financial performance. 
The Group has developed strong relationships with its suppliers and uses contractual means where 
possible to minimise the risk. Contingency plans exist where availability of energy is an issue to 
ensure production is not disrupted.  Directors’ Report (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     16
Pensions 
The Delta Pension Plan (“the Plan”), the Group’s UK defined benefit plan, had an IAS 19 valuation net 
deficit of £71.2 million at 31 December 2009 (2008: deficit of £2.5 million), with the Plan’s assets 
totalling £217.8 million and its liabilities totalling £289.0 million (2008: assets of £194.7 million and 
liabilities £197.2 million).    
The triennial actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2009 was finalised in December 2009. The actuarial 
valuation showed a deficit of £48.5 million. The first contribution in the deficit recovery plan was made 
in December of £6.8 million. This was made up of an annual contribution of £6.3 million and one half 
years contribution to the administration expenses of £0.5 million. 
Notwithstanding, the financial position of the Plan is exposed to the risk of changes in interest rates, the 
market value of investments, inflation and changes in the expected longevity of its members. The Plan 
is also exposed to changes in UK laws and regulations with regard to pension plans. 
Litigation and investigations 
As with any business, the Group is subject to the risk of litigation from third parties. The Group seeks 
to address such claims proactively.  
In accordance with accounting requirements, provision is made where required to address such 
litigation and the consequent costs of defence. 
Potential liabilities re disposed businesses 
The Group’s divestment programme during the late 1990’s and early 2000’s resulted in certain 
liabilities being retained pursuant to various agreements to dispose of those businesses and assets. 
Many, but not all, of these liabilities expire with the passage of time. 
The Group proactively seeks timely resolution of such liabilities and estimates on a regular basis the 
expected financial outcome of such retained liabilities, and includes such estimates within provisions.  
Environmental liabilities 
The Group conducts its operations in such a manner to ensure compliance with environmental laws and 
regulations. If required the Group will commit resources necessary to address non-compliances. 
The Group has obligations to remediate contaminated sites both currently owned and in some cases 
those that have been sold. The Group maintains provisions for these liabilities which are reviewed 
regularly.  
Employees 
The Group’s operations are typically based on small sites and are geographically disparate. The 
management teams employed are typically small and as such, the Group has a reliance on the 
management teams employed. The Group recognises the importance of this resource and as such, 
reviews its remuneration policy together with its recruitment and training policy on a regular basis in 
order to ensure the Group continues to retain and attract the best possible management teams.  The 
group also strives to implement successful management development and succession plans. 
Key performance indicators 
Given the range and geographical spread of businesses within the Group, key performance indicators 
are generally specific to the nature of the operations of each business. Additionally, a number of 
segment-based key metrics regarding financial and operating performance are focussed upon at Group 
level. 
With regard to health and safety, the Group employs Lost Time and Medically Treated Injury metrics, 
together with collecting near miss data. This data is reported to divisional and Group senior 
management on a monthly basis, together with commentary regarding remedial, corrective and 
continuous improvement actions. Given the spread of businesses within the Group and local country 
definitional differences, it is not possible to meaningfully aggregate such data. Consequently this data 
is compiled at a business unit level only.    Directors’ Report (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     17
In terms of environmental compliance, the Group employs key performance indicators through its 
varied businesses capturing performance against pre-defined benchmarks or targets for items including 
waste product tonnes per tonne of finalised product, energy use per tonne and overall compliance 
measures.  The Group is actively seeking alternate uses for its waste streams.  Similar to the health and 
safety measures described above, it is not possible to provide meaningful and accurate group or 
segment-wide data as the challenges and opportunities in relation to environmental compliance are 
largely driven by local directives, which differ markedly throughout the Group.    
Share capital 
Details of the structure of the Company’s share capital and changes in the share capital during the year 
are disclosed in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements. The ordinary shares in issue represent 
93.2% of the issued share capital by nominal value, whereas the 6% Cumulative first preference shares 
in issue represent 2.1% and the 4.5% Cumulative second preference shares in issue represent 4.7%. 
The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares and preference shares are set out 
in the Company’s Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House or 
by writing to the Deputy Secretary at the Company’s registered office. Voting at a general meeting is 
by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded. 
A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting to renew the directors’ authority to allot 
shares subject to the limits set out in the resolution. 
The voting rights in respect of shares held by the Delta plc Employee Share Ownership Trust are 
exercisable by the Trustees. However, in accordance with investor protection guidelines, the Trustees 
abstain from voting and would take independent advice before accepting any offer for the Company in 
a takeover bid situation. 
Dividends 
The directors declared an interim dividend of 2.4p (2008: 1.9p) per ordinary share which was paid in October 
2009. The Board has not recommended a final dividend in the light of the terms of the Valmont offer. 
Donations 
During the year the Group did not donate to charities (2008: £22,000). There were no political donations 
made during the year (2008: £nil). 
Directors 
The names and brief biographical details of the directors as at the date of this report are listed on page 
14.  
Details of the directors’ interests in the shares of the Company can be found in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
Substantial shareholders 
As at 03 March 2010, the Company was aware of the following interests in 3% or more of the Company’s 
ordinary share capital: 
  Percentage 
  of issued  
Name Shareholding capital 
Aberforth Partners LLP 16,973,785 11.04% 
Schroders plc 14,171,389 9.22% 
Legal & General Group plc 10,028,122 6.52% 
JP Morgan Asset Management (UK) Ltd   7,723,641 5.02% 
Henderson Global Investors Ltd  6,965,146 4.53% 
Black Rock IM (UK) Ltd   6,055,053 3.94% 
Liberty Square Asset Management LLP      5,121,983 3.33% 
  Directors’ Report (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     18
Research and development 
The Group spent £0.3 million during 2009 (2008: £0.6 million) on research and development primarily 
associated with product development and the improvement of production processes. The criteria in IAS 
38 for capitalising such expenditure were not met and consequently all such expenditure was expensed 
as incurred. 
Financial risk management and treasury policies 
Details of the Group’s financial risk management and treasury policies are contained in notes 2 and 25. 
Payment of creditors 
The Group’s policy in respect of the majority of its trade creditors is to negotiate terms and conditions 
and, provided these are met, payments are made accordingly.  Where payment terms are not 
specifically agreed, trade creditors are paid in accordance with local commercial practice. 
Trade creditor days for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009 were 50 days (2008: 43 days), 
based upon the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year. 
Insurance of directors 
The Company maintains insurance for its directors and officers against liabilities and has entered into 
qualifying third party indemnities with its directors, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. The 
indemnities are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Company’s registered 
office and will be available at the annual general meeting.   
Appointment/Replacement of directors 
Details governing the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Corporate 
Governance Report under the heading “The Board, its directors and operations”.   
Power to purchase own shares 
The directors believe that it remains advantageous for the Company to be able to purchase its own 
ordinary shares in the market.  Accordingly, a resolution, which will be proposed as a special 
resolution at the annual general meeting, will seek to renew the existing general authority to make 
market purchases. The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the year and the 
directors have no present intention of utilising this authority.  
Going concern 
The directors have acknowledged the latest FRC guidance on going concern.  The Group has 
considerable financial resources, with net cash of £146.9 million at 31 December 2009.  As highlighted 
in the Chief Executive’s review, our outlook for 2010 remains cautious, however, the Group continues 
to trade profitably, and is expected to be cash-generative for the year. 
Consequently, after making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future 
and to successfully manage the identified risks disclosed in note 25 to the Group’s financial statements.  
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group’s financial 
statements. 
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors 
So far as each person currently serving as a director of the Company at the date this report is approved 
is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware and each 
director hereby confirms that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order 
to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.  Directors’ Report (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     19
 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the 
Companies Act 2006. 
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the annual 
general meeting. 
This report was approved by the Board of directors on 8 March 2010 and is signed on its behalf by:  
 
 
 
 
Todd Atkinson 
Director  Corporate Governance Report 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     20
Compliance Statement 
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance which it considers are critical to 
business integrity and to maintaining investors’ trust in the Company. This statement, together with the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, seeks to demonstrate how the principles of good governance, 
advocated by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (2008) (‘Code’) have been applied.   
The Company has complied with Section 1 of the Code for the duration of the year. 
The Board, its directors and operations 
As of the date of this report, the Board comprises four non-executive directors and two executive 
directors, whose names and brief biographies appear on page 14.  All the non-executive directors are 
considered independent. 
The Chairman, Steve Marshall, is responsible for the conduct of the Board and its oversight of the 
company’s affairs and strategy and the adminstration of the Board.  The Chief Executive, Todd 
Atkinson, is responsible for the management of the business and the development of the strategy.  The 
Senior Independent Non-executive Director, Andrew Walker, has responsibility for dealing with any 
shareholders who have concerns, which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief 
Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate. 
The Board is the principal decision-making forum of the Group and exercises overall control of the 
Group’s affairs by addressing matters reserved for its decision. These include responsibility for the 
Group’s strategy, the approval of financial and other public statements, acquisitions and disposals, 
treasury and risk management policies and the appointment and removal of executive management and 
the Company Secretary.  Various operational matters of a specified size or importance are referred to 
the Board for approval in accordance with an established delegation of authority. 
The Board has a schedule of 10 meetings a year to discuss ordinary business.  Every effort is made to 
arrange the meetings so that all directors can attend; additional meetings are arranged as required. 
Comprehensive briefing papers are distributed to Board members by the Company Secretary, 
sufficiently in advance of each Board meeting to enable them to make informed decisions on the 
matters under review.  
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.  A statement of the 
directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 35. 
The Group’s procedures allow directors to seek both independent professional advice, at the Group’s 
expense, and the advice and services of the Company Secretary in order to fulfil their duties. 
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of directors’ and officers’ liabilities. 
During the year, the Chairman met with the other non-executive directors without the presence of the 
executive directors, in accordance with best practice.  The independent non-executive directors also 
met during the year without the presence of the Chairman. 
The non-executive directors play a leading role in corporate accountability and governance through 
their membership on the various committees of the Board.  The membership and terms of reference of 
each committee, together with a record of directors’ attendance, is described below.  Where considered 
appropriate, training is made available to directors and training needs are assessed as part of the Board 
evaluation procedure referred to below. 
All non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three year period, following which the appointment is 
renewable at the option of the Board for two further terms of three years.  The maximum period of 
appointment is nine years.  However, directors must stand for election by shareholders at the first annual 
general meeting following their initial appointment.  Terms and conditions of appointment for non-executive 
directors are available for inspection upon request during normal business hours and at the annual general 
meeting and are referred to in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.  Corporate Governance Report (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     21
Each year the number nearest to but not exceeding one-third of the directors (excluding those directors 
retiring and not seeking re-election and those retiring and seeking election following their appointment 
during the year) retires by rotation.  Whilst the Company’s articles of association do not expressly 
provide that each director will offer himself for re-election at no more than three year intervals, the 
directors, being cognisant of developing best practice, undertake to ensure that each director will offer 
himself for re-election at no more than three year intervals.  At the AGM in May 2010, Todd Atkinson, 
Jon Kempster and Mark Lejman will seek re-election and Paul Gismondi will seek election as directors.  
The Board is satisfied that, following formal evaluation, Messrs Atkinson’s, Kempster’s and Lejman’s 
performance as directors continues to be effective and they demonstrate commitment to the role.  Paul 
Gismondi has been recruited to bring experience in corporate finance, an area of continuing and 
increasing strategic importance to the group.  The biographies of the directors are given on page 14 and 
show the Board’s depth of experience and skill. 
Board committees 
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee presently comprises Steve Marshall (Chairman), Todd Atkinson, Paul 
Gismondi, Mark Lejman and Andrew Walker. 
The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and recommends changes 
to the Board for its consideration, taking into account that the balance of skills required will vary 
as the Group goes through different phases of its strategy.  The Committee meets as and when 
required and engages external consultants to identify candidates to fill Board vacancies as and 
when they arise.   
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee presently comprises Andrew Walker (Chairman), Paul Gismondi  Mark 
Lejman and Steve Marshall.  The Board has determined that Andrew Walker has recent and 
relevant financial experience for the purpose of the Combined Code. 
The Chief Executive and other senior executives, whilst not members of the Committee, are 
invited to attend meetings of the Committee when required.  
The Committee’s terms of reference include:- 
• monitoring the integrity of the financial statements; 
• assessing the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and making 
recommendations for their appointment or removal ; 
• monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function; 
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control procedures; and  
• overseeing and assessing the risk control system and reviewing the arrangements by which 
staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about improprieties. 
The policy of the Group is, wherever reasonably possible, to avoid using the external auditors for 
non-audit work and procedures have been established requiring pre-approval for any such work 
from the Chairman of the Committee.  During the year the auditors were not used for non-audit 
work to any material extent. 
In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, the 
Committee reviewed the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in preparing 
financial information.  The annual report, interim report and preliminary announcement were 
reviewed, as was the accounting treatment of material transactions open to different approaches.  
The Committee considers reports from management and the external auditors in determining the 
accounting treatment of material transactions open to different approaches.  
Information on the internal control and risk management systems and the review thereof is 
provided in the internal control and risk management disclosure statement below.    Corporate Governance Report (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     22
The Committee approved the external auditors’ terms of engagement, scope of work, the process 
for the 2009 interim review and the applicable levels of materiality.  The Committee reviewed all 
matters of significance with the external auditors based on their findings and confirmed that all 
matters had been satisfactorily resolved.    
The audit partner of Deloitte LLP has a direct line of communication to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee.  The Committee reviewed the external auditors’ performance and concluded that it 
was satisfactory.  The Committee reviewed written confirmation from Deloitte  LLP of its 
independence and objectivity, relating to external audit services, within the context of applicable 
regulatory requirements and professional standards.  A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as 
auditors until the conclusion of the annual general meeting in 2011 will be proposed at the 
Company’s 2010 annual general meeting.   
In addition, the Committee reviewed the appointment, remuneration and utilisation of the Group’s 
internal audit function, which during the year was outsourced to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  A 
review of the Group’s internal audit function is provided in the internal control and risk 
management disclosure statement below.   
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee presently comprises Mark Lejman (Chairman), Paul Gismondi, 
Steve Marshall and Andrew Walker. 
Further details on this committee, are contained in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 27. 
The terms of reference of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees are published on 
the Company’s website. 
Meetings of the Board and board committees 
Details of directors’ attendances at Board and committee meetings are shown in the table below: 
  Audit Remuneration Nomination 
 Board  Committee Committee  Committee 
Number of meetings in the year 10 4 2 3 
Number of meetings attended:   
S Marshall 10 1
(1)
 2 3 
T G Atkinson 10 n/a n/a 1
(2)
 
P Gismondi 
(3)
 5 1 1 1 
J Kempster  10 n/a n/a n/a 
M Lejman 10 4 2 3 
A Walker 10 4 2 3 
(1) 
S Marshall was appointed to the Audit Committee on 22 September 2009 and attended the single meeting of the 
committee that took place after that date. 
(2) 
T G Atkinson was appointed to the Nominations Committee on 22 September 2009 and attended the single 
meeting of the committee that took place after that date. 
(3) 
P Gismondi was appointed as a director of the company on 16 June 2009 and to the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees on 22 September 2009.  He attended all meetings he was entitled to attend following his 
appointments. 
Board performance evaluation 
During the year a formal evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and 
individual directors was carried out by means of detailed questionnaires.  Corporate Governance Report (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     23
The results of the questionnaires were discussed by the Board.  The process confirmed that the 
Board and its committees were functioning correctly, and that all the directors continued to 
contribute positively to the Board. 
Relations with shareholders 
Communication with shareholders is given priority and a number of methods are used to promote 
greater understanding and dialogue with investment audiences. 
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet shareholders on a regular basis and significant 
points from such meetings are communicated to the Board . 
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders, should such meetings be 
requested. 
During the year shareholders were kept informed of the progress of the Group through trading 
statements and other announcements of significant developments that were released through the 
London Stock Exchange and which are available on the Company’s website. 
Additionally, individual shareholders were given the opportunity to question the Chairman and the 
chairmen of the board committees at the annual general meeting.  The Annual Report and 
Accounts and notice of the annual general meeting are sent to shareholders at least 20 working 
days before the meeting.  The company discloses the number of proxy votes lodged in respect of 
each resolution proposed at the annual general meeting, together with the number of proxy votes 
for and against each resolution and the number of shares withheld, following each vote on a show 
of hands. Abstentions are also disclosed. 
Internal control and risk management 
The Board is responsible for the operation and effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal 
control and risk management (excluding associates and joint ventures) and undertakes to direct the 
identification, evaluation and management of significant risks faced by the Group.  This process is 
regularly reviewed and is in accordance with Turnbull guidance. 
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Group’s particular needs and the risks to which it 
is exposed, and by their nature, the Group’s internal control systems provide reasonable but not 
absolute assurance against misstatement or loss. 
The effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control has been reviewed by the Board 
during 2009 and up to the date of this Annual Report. The key procedures which the directors 
have established to provide effective internal control are as follows: 
(i) Regular review of risks and compensating controls 
The Group’s schedule of risks and compensating controls is formally considered by the Board 
twice a year. All areas of the business are required to undertake risk-profiling exercises to 
formally review their principal areas of risk, which form the basis for the schedule reviewed by the 
Board. 
Risks and controls are discussed during business unit half-year and profit plan reviews, which are 
attended by the Chief Executive and members of senior divisional and Group management.  
Changes to such risks and controls are identified in each business unit’s monthly report. Any 
changes of significance are reported to the Board.  Schedules of pending litigation and potential 
liabilities pertaining to disposed businesses are circulated to the Board. 
 
(ii) Delegation of authority 
The Group’s delegation of authority details authority, referral and reporting requirements with 
respect to certain transactions, events or occurrences. The delegation of authority forms part of the 
Group Policy Manual. 
  Corporate Governance Report (continued) 
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     24
(iii) Detailed budgeting and subsequent review 
Each business unit is required to prepare, on an annual basis, a detailed plan covering the next 
three years, addressing both financial and non-financial objectives.  Such plans are reviewed at 
divisional and group levels, and ultimately approved by the Board, as part of the Group’s profit 
plan. 
Actual performance against budget and detailed forecasts is reported on a monthly basis.  Written 
monthly reports accompany monthly financial schedules and contain variance analyses (in the 
case of financial data) and commentary (in the case of non-financial data). 
(iv) Annual statements of compliance 
The Group has an established framework of policies and procedures laid down by the Board to 
which senior management are expected to comply and attest such compliance on an annual basis. 
These policies cover key issues including authorisation levels, segregation of duties, ethical and 
legislative compliance as well as health, safety and environmental issues.  
 
By order of the Board  
 
 
 
 
      
Chief Executive Officer   Finance Director  
Todd Atkinson    Jon Kempster 
8 March 2010    8 March 2010 
 
  Corporate Social Responsibility 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     25
Overview 
Delta recognises the importance of its social and corporate responsibilities. 
This statement draws on salient information contained within the Group’s policies which deal with 
ethical conduct, human resources, training, heath and safety and environment. 
In formulating this statement we acknowledge our responsibility to provide such information to 
shareholders, customers, employees and any other stakeholders who have association with the Group. 
The statement focuses on the following areas: 
• Employment 
• Ethical code of conduct 
• Health and safety; and 
• Environmental matters 
Employment 
Delta appreciates that the workforce is fundamental to the good operation of the Group and to the 
success it has achieved.  We strive to treat our employees in a fair and proper manner and be 
sympathetic to an individual’s issues and concerns.  We are an equal opportunities employer, 
committed to providing employment irrespective of sex, marital status, race, religion, disability or age.  
Should an employee become disabled while employed, the Company makes every effort to enable them 
to continue in employment by re-training, modification of duties or alternative work, as necessary. 
The personal and professional development of employees is supported by training programmes, both 
in-house and externally.  The Group participates in a number of apprenticeship/workplace training 
programmes, and in some jurisdictions training levies apply to promote and financially support such 
initiatives. 
Ethical Code of Conduct 
The Group is committed to ensuring high standards in its business management and dealings as the 
following indicate: 
• Each employee is charged with applying their best endeavours and integrity to promote the 
interests of the Group. 
• Involvement in activities which could be construed as being competitive to the Group are 
forbidden. 
• Confidentiality of information regarding the business of the Group, its customers and contacts is 
strictly maintained. 
• The work of the Group is carried out with respect for the rule of law and compliance with industry 
legislation and standards. 
• Discriminatory action against employees, customers or suppliers is not tolerated. 
• The Group has a formalised “whistle-blowing” policy in place to allow any employee to voice 
concerns on a confidential basis. A dedicated internet site and toll free hotlines in each country we 
operate in are to be launched in 2010. This will improve accessability for our employees to raise 
any concerns.  Corporate Social Responsibility (continued)  
 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     26
Community 
We continue to recognise the importance of our relationship with the communities in which we operate 
and encourage our businesses and employees to provide support to their communities.  Given the 
structure of the Group, community support is currently organised by the site managers who place a high 
value on establishing and maintaining good relationships. 
Health and Safety 
The Group is committed to providing a safe workplace for our employees, and to ensuring that 
contractors, customers or other visitors to any of our sites are entering a safe environment. 
The Group has continued its efforts to achieve an environment which does not tolerate accidents. All 
lost time injuries or medically treated injuries are investigated and fully documented.  This helps us to 
ensure that each site is moving towards an environment that minimises any possibility of a repeat 
incident or any other incident that may be closely aligned to it. Our aim and desire is to achieve a zero 
tolerance philosophy towards accidents in the workplace.  
Environmental Matters 
The Group is committed to best environmental practice.  We seek to minimise the impact on the 
environment of the Group’s operations by means of environmentally sound practices which take 
practical steps to control effectively or eliminate any known pollution. 
The nature of some of our manufacturing processes potentially exposes the environment to risks that 
require careful and appropriate management.  The Group proactively pursues compliance, and targets 
best practice in all areas of environmental compliance.  Environmental policies and practices are 
tailored to local regulatory requirements, with best practice developments shared between our facilities 
where appropriate.  Employees are briefed by management in matters of policy and procedure relating 
to potential environmental risk that may concern their particular area of operation.  Internal reporting 
and review procedures that apply to health and safety also apply to environmental matters to ensure that 
actual or potential issues are reported promptly for action.  Environmental incidents are reported to the 
Board through the divisional monthly reports. 
 
  Director’s Remuneration Report 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     27
The following sections of the Directors’ remuneration report are unaudited. 
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board of 
Directors.  A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) asking 
them to approve this report. 
Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) 
Role and composition of the Committee 
The responsibilities of the Committee include: 
(a) determining and agreeing with the Board the policy for the remuneration of the Company’s 
Chairman, executive directors, and members of senior management; 
(b) approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance related pay schemes 
operated by the Company and approving the total annual payments made under such schemes;  
(c) reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders; and 
(d) determining the remuneration for the Company’s Chairman, executive directors and senior 
management. 
The Board, within the limits prescribed by the Company’s articles of association, determines non-
executive directors’ remuneration.  
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Company’s website at www.deltaplc.com 
and copies are available on request. 
The Committee presently comprises Mark Lejman (Chairman), Paul Gismondi, Steve Marshall and 
Andrew Walker. 
The Committee met twice during the year.  The Chief Executive attends Committee meetings by 
invitation when required. The Chairman and Chief Executive are excluded from matters regarding their 
own remuneration. No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.  
In order to remain informed of the latest developments and market trends in remuneration best practice, 
the Committee has access to survey information and advice from independent remuneration consultants 
where the Committee determines this is required.  During the year, the Committee considered market 
remuneration data produced by Hewitt New Bridge Street consultants.  They also reviewed and 
confirmed whether the performance conditions under the Performance Share Plan 2006 and the 
Executive Share Option Scheme had been met in respect of awards vesting during the financial year.  
Remuneration Policy 
General remuneration policy 
It remains the Committee’s intention that remuneration for executive directors and senior management 
should be competitive in an international market, both in terms of base salary and total remuneration, 
taking into account the individual director’s role, performance and experience.  The policy is designed 
to support key business strategies, align the interests of executive directors and senior management 
with those of shareholders and create a strong, performance-oriented environment. This approach aims 
to promote the Company’s short term and long term success through securing and retaining high calibre 
executive talent. Accordingly, all executive directors and senior management receive competitive basic 
salaries measured against companies of a similar size and international scope and have the opportunity 
to earn enhanced total remuneration for performance measured against targets set by the Committee.   Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)  
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     28
Components of Executive Directors’ Remuneration 
Remuneration Mix 
The key components of the remuneration of the executive directors are basic salary, annual 
performance-related bonuses, share-based incentives and pensions. 
The Group has an on-going strategic challenge to re-shape its business portfolio and actively manage 
legacy matters including the Delta Pension Plan. With such challenges in mind, the Committee 
determined in 2006, in consultation with shareholders, that executive directors’ remuneration would 
place more emphasis on annual incentives rather than longer-term incentives with a total remuneration 
package that is broadly market competitive. Within this mix, the equity related component is significant 
with 50% of the annual incentive and the entire longer-term incentive being equity based.  
In 2009, 51.2% of the Chief Executive’s remuneration on an expected-value basis was performance 
related; for the Finance Director the figure was 53.0% (see illustrative charts below). 
 
   
Basic salary  
The basic salary of the executive directors is reviewed annually by the Committee. The Committee’s 
objective is to attract and retain executive directors who have the right skills and experience and are of 
the highest calibre.  Basic salaries are the only pensionable element of remuneration. 
Annual Performance Related Bonuses and the Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) 
The maximum potential annual performance related bonuses for the Chief Executive and Finance 
Director are 150% and 140% of basic salary respectively.  One-half of any bonus payable is paid in 
cash and the other half is normally deferred in ordinary shares in the Company through the Deferred 
Bonus Plan, which provides a substantial portion of the executive directors’ equity based incentive 
compensation.   
Annual performance related bonuses are determined by the Committee with reference to the Group’s 
financial performance (50% of total bonus) and the achievement of agreed specific personal objectives 
(50%). 
Group financial performance is measured with reference to two separate tests of financial performance: 
i) earnings per share from continuing operations, excluding exceptional items, and ii) cash flow 
generated prior to acquisitions, disposals, dividends and shares issues and/or buy backs.  The earnings 
test is given a two-thirds weighting, and the free cash flow test is given a one-third weighting. 
The Committee reviews the Group’s actual financial performance against the Group’s approved annual 
budget, taking into account unforeseen circumstances to the extent the Committee in its sole discretion 
considers appropriate. 
The 2009 bonuses payable to the Chief Executive and Finance Director were determined by the 
Committee in line with the foregoing, and their 2010 bonuses will be detemermined in the same 
manner. 
Chief Executive
Fixed Remuneration =
Salary + Other
Emoulments (48.8%)
Performance related
remuneration = Annual
bonus + Long term
incentives (51.2%)
Finance Director
Fixed Remuneration =
Salary + Other
Emoulments (47.0%)
Performance related
remuneration = Annual
bonus + Long term
incentives (53.0%) Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)  
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     29
Deferred bonus share awards are normally determined with reference to 50% of the total bonus payable 
as determined by the Committee and calculated with a share price equal to the average of the middle-
market quotation of shares over the five dealing days immediately preceding the grant date. 
Deferred bonus share awards are forfeited on cessation of employment prior to the normal vesting date 
(the third anniversary of grant) except in the case of “good leavers” in which case the deferred shares 
are vested upon cessation of employment.  The deferred shares would also be vested early on a change  
of control of the Company.  
Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
Under the terms of the PSP, selected individuals may be granted a conditional award of ordinary shares 
in the Company, ordinarily vesting on the third anniversary of grant subject to continued employment 
within the Group and the satisfaction of performance conditions.  Awards also vest on a change of 
control of the Company, and if an employee leaves the Group as a “good leaver.” 
Vesting of awards granted during 2009 is subject to performance targets relating to the Company’s 
relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) compared to that of the constituents of the FTSE Small Cap 
Index (excluding investment trusts) (Comparator Group) over a fixed three-year period.   
Shares will vest, subject to the Committee confirming that the Company’s underlying financial 
performance has been satisfactory over the performance period (“Financial Underpin Condition”), as 
follows: 
Rank of the Company’s TSR Performance against the Comparator Group  
  %  
 of award vesting 
Below median 0 
Median 25 
Upper quartile 100 
Shares will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between median and upper quartile. 
The Committee considers that a combination of the relative measure TSR and the Financial Underpin 
Condition suitably aligns participants’ interests with investors. 
Awards under the PSP are limited to a total number of shares having a market value at the date of grant 
of no more than 50% of the grantee’s salary, except in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment 
or retention, where a grant may be as much as 100% of the grantee’s salary.  The market value is the 
average of the middle-market quotation of the shares over the five dealing days immediately preceding 
the date of grant.  
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) 
The grant of options under the ESOS, approved by the shareholders at the annual general meeting held 
in May 1999, were made annually until 2005 and had values of up to one times annual salary.  No 
further grants are to be made under the ESOS. 
Options granted before 29 June 2001 are subject to the following performance conditions:  
(i) on or before the tenth anniversary of the grant date, earnings per share growth over a period of at 
least three consecutive years must equal or exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 3% per 
annum; and  
(ii) earnings per share before exceptional items must equal or exceed 20 pence. 
Options granted on or after 29 June 2001 are subject to the following performance condition: on or before the 
sixth anniversary of the grant date, earnings per share growth over a period of at least three consecutive years 
must equal or exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index plus 3% per annum. 
All options were granted for nil consideration.  The exercise price for options is the five day average price 
preceding the date of grant.   
Subject to the fulfilment of the foregoing performance conditions, options are exercisable between the 
third and tenth anniversary of the grant date and also on a change of control of the Company.  Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)  
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     30
All performance conditions are measured against earnings per share before exceptional items for the financial 
year preceding option grant. The performance conditions for the ESOS options granted in 2000, 2001, 2002, 
2003, 2004 and 2005 have been satisfied whilst the performance conditions for the options granted in 1999 
were not met and those options lapsed during the year.   
Pensions 
Executive directors are invited to participate in the Delta Pension Plan.  The plan is a funded, HM 
Revenue & Customs approved, final salary occupational pension scheme, and provides a pension of up 
to two thirds of final pensionable salary, subject to completion of 20 years’ pensionable service and 
retirement at normal retirement age.  Final pensionable salary is calculated with reference to basic 
salary and not other elements of remuneration and is limited by HM Revenue & Customs limits 
including HM Revenue & Customs earnings cap.  The Delta Pension Plan introduced a “notional” 
Earnings Cap (Notional Cap) from 6 April 2006 to ensure that, for members impacted at the time by the 
Earnings Cap, benefits and contributions continue to be calculated in the same way.   
The Delta Pension Plan also provides lump sum life assurance cover of up to four times pensionable 
salary and makes provision for spouses’ and dependants’ pensions and early retirement provisions, 
including ill health.  All plan benefits are subject to HM Revenue & Customs limits. 
Messrs Atkinson and Kempster receive a supplement to their annual salaries equal to 40 per cent and 
20 per cent respectively of the portion of their basic salaries that exceeds the equivalent of the Notional 
Cap referred to above.   
As advised in the Directors’ Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year 
ended 31 December 2008, the Delta plc Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme set up for Mr 
Atkinson on 23 October 2003 was dissolved on 30 July 2009. 
Share ownership guidelines 
The Committee has adopted guidelines for executive directors, whereby the Committee expects them to 
retain 50% of shares acquired under the Company’s share incentive plans (after tax and any financing 
costs), until a holding of 100% of salary is achieved. 
Components of Non-executive Directors’ Remuneration 
Remuneration for non-executive directors consists of an annual fee for their services on the Board and 
board committees and where appropriate, additonal fees for devoting additional time and expertise for 
the benefit of the Group. Non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Group’s performance-
related bonus or share-based incentives nor are they eligible for membership of any of the Group’s 
pension plan. 
The remuneration of non-executive directors and chairman are reviewed periodically to ensure they 
remain market-competitive.  Non-executive directors’ remuneration is reviewed by the Chairman and 
the executive directors and approved by the Board as a whole.  The remuneration of the Chairman is 
reviewed and set by the Committee.   
Directors’ service contracts  
It is the Company’s policy that the period of notice for executive directors will not exceed 12 months. 
Executive directors Notice period Date of appointment 
Todd Atkinson 12 months 2 July 2003 
Jon Kempster 6 months 31 October 2006 
The service contracts of Messrs Atkinson and Kempster provide for no additional termination payments 
beyond statutory payments that may be applicable. 
Steve Marshall’s letter of appointment as Chairman of the Company provides for a notice period of 
three months.  There is no provision for compensation payable upon termination. 
The non-executive directors have no formal service contracts but have letters of engagement that 
provide for a notice period of one month. There is no provision for compensation payable upon 
termination.  Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)  
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     31
The Committee strives to achieve an appropriate balance between ensuring continuity, minimising 
termination payments and limiting notice periods to no more than twelve months. 
Decisions taken by the Remuneration Committee in light of the Valmont Offer 
The Committee has considered the rules governing the PSP, DBP and the annual performance related 
bonus scheme and has determined the following.  The PSP and DBB scheme rules provide that 
outstanding grants vest upon a change of control; consequently participants in those schemes will be 
entitled to exercise their rights under those schemes should the Valmont offer complete successfully.  
The Committee has determined that the PSP performance conditions for all outstanding grants will 
have been met in full if the Valmont offer completes successfully, and the Committee has determined 
in accordance with the discretion granted it under the PSP scheme rules not to pro-rate the outstanding 
grants for time lapsed.  The Committee also has determined to pay cash in lieu for all outstanding 
grants under the PSP and DBP, using the offer price to determine the value of those grants. 
The Committee has determined not to make any further grants under the PSP or DBP whilst the 
Valmont offer is outstanding.  Consequently, the portion of the executive directors’ 2009 annual 
performance related bonuses that would have been deferred under the DBP will be paid in cash upon a 
change of control following the Valmont offer. 
The Committee also has determined to continue the executive directors’ annual performance related 
bonus scheme, with the intention to determine and pay pro-rated bonuses upon a change of control 
following the Valmont offer. 
The following sections of the Remuneration Report are audited. 
Directors’ emoluments 
Aggregate directors’ remuneration, excluding pension entitlements under defined benefit pension 
schemes 
£    2009 2008 
Basic salary 763,583 730,000 
Other emoluments 154,960 153,007 
Bonus – cash element 395,594 331,050 
Shares awarded under the DBP 395,594 331,050   
 1,709,731 1,545,107 
The following are the emoluments afforded to individual directors. Details of dates of appointment, 
resignation and change in role are included in the directors’ report. 
    2009___    2008 
  Other Bonus -
(3)
   DBP   
£ Basic salary  Emoluments
 (1)
     cash element    Share Award
 
        Total Total 
Executive  
T Atkinson 351,500 116,712 245,831 245,830 959,873 861,959 
J Kempster  227,500 38,248  149,763 149,764 565,275 513,148 
Non-executive 
S Marshall 100,000                   -              - -    100,000        100,000 
M Lejman 35,000                - - - 35,000 35,000 
P Gismondi  (2) 14,583 - - - 14,583 -      
A Walker 35,000 - - - 35,000 35,000 
Total 763,583 154,960 395,594 395,594 1,709,731 1,545,107  
(1) Other emoluments include benefits in kind, pension related salary supplements, tax return preparation and car allowances. 
(2) Mr Gismondi joined the board on 16 June 2009. 
(3) 50% of the bonus will be retained and paid in cash on change of control of the company. If a change of control does not occur, 
shares will be issued at the then prevailing market price.  Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)  
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     32
External appointments 
The fees earned by Mr. Atkinson in his role as a non-executive chairman of Delta EMD Limited are 
payable to the Company.   
Pensions 
Pension entitlements under defined benefit pension schemes 
Retirement benefits on a defined benefit basis are accruing to two directors as at 31 December 2009 
(2008: two directors).  The accrued pension entitlements shown in the table immediately below are the 
amounts that would be paid in each year on retirement at normal retirement age, based on pensionable 
service to the end of the financial year.  The normal retirement ages for Messrs. Atkinson and Kempster 
are 60 and 65 respectively.  The Plan also provides spouse’s pension, which is 50% of the deceased 
director’s prospective pension or, in the case of death in service, one third of final pensionable salary if 
greater.  Following retirement, pensions increase at an annual rate in line with RPI up to 5%.  The 
Company has the discretionary power to grant early retirement pensions but a member does not have an 
absolute right to an early retirement pension. No discretionary benefits are allowed for in the transfer 
values. 
Two directors are members of the Company’s defined benefit pension scheme. The following executive 
directors had accrued entitlements under the Delta Pension Plan as follows: 
    Accrued Increase Accrued   
    pension  in accrued  pension 
    31 December  pension in 31 December 
£    2008 
(1)
 the year 
(2)
  2009 
(1)
 
T Atkinson    32,667 5,786 38,453 
 
J Kempster    8,493 4,554 13,047  
(1) The pension entitlement is that which would be paid annually on retirement at normal retirement age, based on service to the end 
of the year or date of leaving, whichever is earlier. 
(2) The increase in the accrued pension during the year has been adjusted to remove any distortion due to inflation over the year. 
The following table sets out the transfer value of directors’ accrued benefits under the Delta Pension 
Plan calculated in accordance with regulations 7 to 7E of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Transfer 
Values) Regulations 1996.  
   Transfer  Increase in  Transfer   
   value Contributions  transfer  value 
   31 December made by the value, net of 31 December 
£   2008 director contributions  2009 
T Atkinson   328,848 5,880 303,628 638,356  
J Kempster   45,391 5,640 91,881 142,912 
The following additional information is given to comply with the requirements of the UK Listing 
Authority Listing Rules which differ in some respects from the equivalent statutory requirements: 
      Transfer 
     Increase  value 
     in accrued of increase 
     pension in the  in year less 
     year in excess directors’ 
£     of inflation contributions  
T Atkinson     5,786 63,110  
J Kempster     4,554 39,654 
 
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the director. Instead, they 
represent a potential liability of the Delta Pension Plan. 
Members of the Plan have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions; neither the 
contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above tables. 
  Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)  
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     33
Deferred Bonus Plan  
Conditional awards of shares made to executive directors under the DBP are shown below. Details of 
the conditions upon which share awards vest are disclosed within ‘Components of Executive Directors’ 
Remuneration’. 
  Number    
 Total of shares Total  Vesting date 
 interest at conditionally interest at Market price  for shares 
 1 January awarded 31 December at date of Exercise awarded 
 2009 during 2009 2009 2009 award Price during 2009 
T Atkinson 313,193 220,065 533,258 92.7p Nil 26/03/2012 
J Kempster 109,399 137,055 246,454 92.7p Nil 26/03/2012 
Performance Share Plan 
Conditional awards of shares made to executive directors under the PSP are shown below. Details of 
the performance criteria attaching to share awards are disclosed within ‘Components of Executive 
Directors’ Remuneration’. 
 Total  Condit-    Total Market Market Vesting date 
 number of ionally    number of price price       shares 
 shares at  awarded Exercised Lapsed  shares at at date of    at awarded 
 1 January during during during Exercise 31 December 2009 date of       during 
  2009 the year the year the year price 2009  award exercise 2009 
T Atkinson 343,316 146,710 72,132 27,586 £nil 390,308 92.7p 118p 26/03/2012 
J Kempster 296,887 94,930 -  -  - 391,817 92.7p - 26/03/2012 
  
Pursuant to the rules of the Delta Performance Share Plan a  transfer  was made to Mr Atkinson on 28 
April 2009 of 72,132 ordinary shares in Delta plc, representing 62,723 shares that vested on 28 April 
2009 under the conditional award made to Mr Atkinson  on 28 April 2006 and 9,409 shares having the 
value of the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares since 28 April 2006.  27,586 
shares lapsed in accordance with the performance conditions applicable to the award. At the time of the 
award the market value of the shares was 126.5 pence and on 28 April 2009 the market value of the 
shares was 118 pence.  
Executive Share Option Scheme 
Directors’ share options over ordinary shares in the Company 
No executive share options have been granted since 2005.  Details of the performance criteria attaching 
to share options are disclosed within ‘Components of Executive Directors’ Remuneration’. 
      Subscrip- Market Date on  
      tion price price which  
 As at 1 Granted Exercised Lapsed As at 31 payable/ on options  
Option January during during during December paid (per exercise become Expiry 
scheme 2009 year year year 2009 share) date exercisable date 
T Atkinson:         
ESOS 42,000 - - 42,000 - 154p - N/A N/A 
ESOS 80,000 - - - 80,000 150p - 29/11/2003 29/11/2010 
ESOS 93,000 - 93,000  - 129p 160p N/A N/A 
ESOS 104,800 - 104,800  - 118p 152p N/A N/A 
ESOS 119,300 - 119,300  - 110p 150p N/A N/A 
ESOS 132,800 - 132,800  - 115p 154p N/A N/A 
ESOS 349,398 - 349,398  - 83p 150p N/A N/A 
ESOS 241,667 - 241,667  - 120p 161p N/A N/A 
Total 1,162,965 - 1,040,965 42,000 80,000         
The highest mid-market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year was 187.0p and the 
lowest was 82.75p. The year end price was 140.0p.  
  Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)  
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     34
Directors’ interests in shares 
The beneficial interests in the shares of the Company of the directors in office at 31 December 2009, 
including the beneficial interests of their families, are set out in the table below: 
 Number of ordinary shares of 25p each owned 
Directors’ shareholdings    At 31 December 2009 At 1 January 2009 
T  Atkinson      260,484 218,092 
J Kempster      17,500 17,500 
M Lejman      50,569 50,569 
S Marshall      15,000 15,000 
P Gismondi      10,000 0 
A Walker       9,074 9,074 
No changes to the above holdings have occurred between 31 December 2009 and the date of this 
report. 
Other than the shareholdings and the options shown in the foregoing tables, none of the directors had or 
has any interest, or any holding without beneficial interest, in any class of any share capital of the 
Company or of any subsidiary.  Other than the service contracts and remuneration schemes described 
above, at no time during the year has any director had any material interest in a contract with any 
Group company, being a contract of significance in relation to the Group’s business.  
The following information is unaudited. 
Total Shareholder Return 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This chart shows the value, at the end of the 2009 financial year, of £100 invested in the Company on 
31 December 2004 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE Small Cap Index.  The other 
points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends. The FTSE Small Cap Index was selected for 
comparison as the Group forms part of that index. 
On behalf of the Board  
Mark Lejman 
Remuneration Committee, Chairman 
8 March 2010 
-
50
100
150
200
250
Jan-05 Jun-05 Nov-05 Apr-06 Sep-06 Feb-07 Jul-07 Dec-07 May-08 Oct-08 Mar-09 Aug-09 Jan-10
Delta FTSE Small cap Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities  
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     35
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.  Under that law the 
directors are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have 
elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law).  Under company 
law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of 
the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.   
 
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
• state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that 
the company will continue in business. 
 
In preparing the group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: 
• properly select and apply accounting policies; 
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, 
comparable and understandable information;  
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are 
insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and 
conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance; and 
• make an assessment of the company's ability to continue as a going concern. 
 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.  They 
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
 
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information 
included on the company’s website.  Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
 
Responsibility statement  
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and 
• the Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s review and Financial review , which is incorporated 
into the directors' report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. 
 
By order of the Board  
 
 
 
 
      
Chief Executive Officer   Finance Director  
Todd Atkinson    Jon Kempster 
8 March 2010    8 March 2010  Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Delta plc 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     36
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Delta plc for the year ended 31 December 
2009 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 43.  The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 
16 of the Companies Act 2006.  Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no 
other purpose.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view.  Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).  Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
Scope of audit 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.  This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied 
and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
 
Opinion on Financial Statements 
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its 
profit for the year then ended; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements. 
 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ Report in relation to going concern; 
and 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the 
nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.  Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Delta plc 
(continued) 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     37
 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Delta Plc for the year ended 
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Robert Matthews (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors  
London, United Kingdom 
8 March 2010 
  Consolidated Income Statement  
For the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     38 
 
    2009 2008 Restated 
(i)
 
    Before Exceptional   Before Exceptional  
    exceptional items   exceptional items  
£ million Notes items (note 12) Total items (note 12) Total 
Continuing operations:          
Revenue 4 333.0 - 333.0 330.8 - 330.8 
Cost of sales   (232.0) - (232.0) (238.1) - (238.1) 
Gross profit   101.0 - 101.0 92.7 - 92.7 
Distribution costs and 
administrative expenses   (54.4) - (54.4) (56.0) - (56.0) 
Business closure costs   - 5.3 5.3 - (2.8) (2.8) 
Exceptional impairment of 
property, plant and equipment  - (1.5) (1.5) - - - 
Profit on sale of property, plant  
and equipment   - - - - 6.0 6.0 
Total administrative expenses   (54.4) 3.8 (50.6) (56.0) 3.2 (52.8) 
Operating profit   46.6 3.8 50.4 36.7 3.2 39.9 
Share of post-tax profit of 
associate and joint venture 19,20 3.1 - 3.1 2.0 6.4 8.4 
Impairment of other investments 20 - (0.3) (0.3) - - - 
Investment income 9 15.5 - 15.5 30.7 - 30.7 
Finance costs  10 (12.6) - (12.6) (25.7) - (25.7) 
Pension settlement 10 - 0.5 0.5 - (48.8) (48.8) 
Profit before tax 6 52.6 4.0 56.6 43.7 (39.2) 4.5 
Tax  11 (15.5) 0.2 (15.3) (9.7) 1.5 (8.2) 
Profit/(loss) for the year from 
continuing operations   37.1 4.2 41.3 34.0 (37.7) (3.7) 
Discontinued operations:
 
               
(Loss)/profit for the year from                
discontinued operations 13 - (1.6) (1.6) - 0.5 0.5 
Profit/(loss) for the year   37.1 2.6 39.7 34.0 (37.2) (3.2) 
Attributable to:            
Equity holders of the parent   30.9 0.1 31.0 27.8 (36.3) (8.5) 
Minority interests 33 6.2 2.5 8.7 6.2 (0.9) 5.3 
    37.1 2.6 39.7 34.0 (37.2) (3.2) 
Earnings per share             
From continuing operations:            
Basic 15 20.2  21.2 18.2   (6.0) 
Diluted 15 20.2  21.2 18.2   (6.0) 
From continuing and 
discontinued operations:            
Basic 15 20.2  20.2 18.2   (5.7) 
Diluted 15 20.2  20.2 18.2   (5.7) 
(i)
 Restatement note: following the reclassification of the Associate entity, MMC, from Assets held for sale to Interests in Associates, it has been 
reclassified from discontinued to continuing operations (see note 41).  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
For the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     39 
 
£ million  Notes 2009 2008 
Profit/(loss) for the year   39.7 (3.2) 
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes  32 (75.6) (12.5) 
IAS 19 defined benefit pension asset    
  recoverability net adjustment  32 - 9.5 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign 
operations  31,33 13.7 29.5 
Net (loss)/income recognised directly in equity   (61.9) 26.5 
Total recognised (loss)/income for the year   (22.2) 23.3 
    
    
Attributable to:    
Equity holders of the parent   (34.4) 16.4 
Minority interests   12.2 6.9 
   (22.2) 23.3 
 
  Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
At 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     40 
 
£ million   Notes 2009 
2008 
Restated 
(i)
 
2007 
Restated
(ii)
 
Non-current assets      
Goodwill  16 9.3 8.4 6.1 
Other intangible assets  16 0.2 0.3 - 
Property, plant and equipment  17 93.1 83.9 71.9 
Interest in associate  19 14.1 12.4 3.6 
Other investments  20 - 1.0 - 
Deferred tax assets  29 5.6 6.0 2.4 
Other receivables  22 0.4 0.5 0.8 
      122.7 112.5 84.8 
Current assets      
Inventories  21 46.7 54.5 56.0 
Trade and other receivables  22 56.7 61.4 49.9 
Derivative financial instruments at fair value  25 - 1.7 - 
Other investments  20 0.5 - - 
Other financial assets  23 2.8 2.7 2.6 
Cash  24 144.2 108.1 128.7 
      250.9 228.4 237.2 
Total assets     373.6 340.9 322.0 
Current liabilities      
Trade and other payables  26 (60.2) (53.7) (42.1) 
Current tax liabilities   (2.4) (0.9) (1.2) 
Bank overdrafts   - - (1.0) 
Borrowings  27 (0.1) (1.2) (1.4) 
Provisions  28 (3.0) (2.0) (3.5) 
      (65.7) (57.8) (49.2) 
Net current assets     185.2 170.6 188.0 
Non-current liabilities      
Other payables  26 (1.2) (4.3) (8.0) 
Retirement benefit obligation  40 (71.2) (2.5) - 
Deferred tax liabilities  29 (4.9) (4.6) (2.2) 
Provisions  28 (4.9) (4.2) (3.8) 
      (82.2) (15.6) (14.0) 
Total liabilities   (147.9) (73.4) (63.2) 
Net assets     225.7 267.5 258.8 
Equity      
Share capital  30 41.3 41.3 41.3 
Share premium account  30 34.0 34.0 34.0 
Translation reserve  31 37.3 27.1 (0.8) 
Employee share ownership trust  30 (0.2) (2.1) (2.2) 
Retained earnings   32 83.3 138.9 159.0 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent  195.7 239.2 231.3 
Minority interests  33 30.0 28.3 27.5 
Total equity     225.7 267.5 258.8 
(i)
 The previously disclosed “held for sale” asset, MMC, has been reclassified as an “Interest in associate” (see note 41) 
(ii)
      The 2007 year comparative is provided in accordance with  IAS 1 (2007) Presentation of Financial Statements, where two years of 
comparatives are required if a retrospective restatement or reclassification is made. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 8 March 2010.  They were signed on its 
behalf by:      
Todd Atkinson, Chief Executive Jon Kempster, Finance Director               
   Consolidated Cash Flow Statement  
For the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     41 
 
£ million   Notes 2009 2008
Cash generated from operations before tax 36 86.4 49.0 
Tax     
Exceptional tax refunded  - 0.2 
Corporate tax paid  (12.6) (10.2)
Net cash generated from operating activities  73.8 39.0 
Investing activities   
Proceeds from disposal of businesses and subsidiaries  0.4 -
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment  0.8 9.2 
Acquisition of business - (2.9)
Payments in respect of closed and disposed business  (1.5) (2.5)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment  (14.3) (13.1)
Net cash used in investing activities  (14.6) (9.3)
Financing activities   
Interest received   2.9 7.5 
Dividends received from investments  0.3 -
Interest paid   (0.2) (0.5)
Pension Plan settlement contribution and costs  (7.0) (50.2)
Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent 14 (10.9) (8.2)
Dividends paid to minority interests 14 (11.9) (1.5)
Capital distribution paid to minority interests  - (3.2)
Repayments of borrowings (1.3) (1.7)
New bank loans raised - 0.9 
Repayment of loans due from other investment  0.2 0.8 
Repayment of obligations under finance leases  - (0.1)
Purchase of shares for ESOT - (1.1)
Cash received on exercise of options under ESOT  1.3 0.4 
Outflow to other financial assets  - (0.1)
Net cash used in financing activities  (26.6) (57.0)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  32.6 (27.3)
     
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 108.1 127.7 
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and  
cash-equivalents 
 
3.5 7.7 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 36 144.2 108.1  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
At 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     42 
 
                  Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 
£ million 
Share 
Capital
Share 
Premium 
Account
Trans-
lation 
Reserve ESOT
Retained 
Earnings Total 
Minority 
Interests 
Total 
Equity
Balance at 1 January 2008 41.3 34.0 (0.8) (2.2) 159.0 231.3 27.5 258.8
(Loss)/profit for the year - - - - (8.5) (8.5) 5.3 (3.2)
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations 
- - 27.9 - - 27.9 1.6 29.5
Actuarial losses on defined benefit 
pension scheme 
- - - - (12.5) (12.5) - (12.5)
IAS 19 defined benefit pension 
asset recoverability net reversal 
- - - - 9.5 9.5 - 9.5
Total comprehensive income/ 
(loss) for the year 
- - 27.9 - (11.5) 16.4 6.9 23.3
Dividends - - - - (8.2) (8.2) (2.9) (11.1)
Share of capital distribution - - - - - - (3.2) (3.2)
Own shares acquired in the year - - - (1.1) - (1.1) - (1.1)
Satisfaction of share options - - - 0.9 (0.8) 0.1 - 0.1
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share based payments 
- - - - 0.4 0.4 - 0.4
Cash remitted by Trustees - - - 0.3 - 0.3 - 0.3
Balance at 31 December 2008 
41.3 34.0 27.1 (2.1) 138.9 239.2 28.3 267.5
Profit for the year - - - - 31.0 31.0 8.7 39.7
Exchange differences on 
translation of foreign operations 
- - 10.2 - - 10.2 3.5 13.7
Actuarial losses on defined benefit 
pension scheme 
- - - - (75.6) (75.6) - (75.6)
Total comprehensive 
income/(loss) for the year 
- - 10.2 - (44.6) (34.4) 12.2 (22.2)
Dividends - - - - (10.9) (10.9) (10.5) (21.4)
Satisfaction of share options - - - 0.6 (0.6) - - -
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share based payments 
- - - - 0.5 0.5 - 0.5
Cash remitted by Trustees - - - 1.3 - 1.3 - 1.3
Balance at 31 December 2009 41.3 34.0 37.3 (0.2) 83.3 195.7 30.0 225.7
 
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     43 
 
1 General information 
Delta plc (the Company) is a public limited company incorporated in Great Britain under the 
Companies Act 2006. The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries (the Group) are 
described in the ‘Group at a Glance’ section of the annual report and listed in note 18. 
The reporting currency of Delta plc is sterling. The functional currency of Delta’s subsidiaries, 
associate and joint venture have been determined in accordance with IAS 21 “The effects of changes in 
foreign exchange rates” to be the currency of the country in which each operation is incorporated, with 
the exception of Manganese Metal Company, an associate, whose functional currency has been 
determined to be the United States dollar.   
Adoption of new and revised standards 
The following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted in these financial 
statements. Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these 
financial statements and has not led to any changes in the Group’s accounting policies in these 
consolidated financial statements. In some cases there has been a change in relation to disclosures in 
financial statements. 
Standards affecting presentation and disclosure 
IAS 1 (as revised in 2007) Presentation of Financial Statements - IAS 1(2007) has introduced 
terminology changes (including revised titles for the primary statements) and changes in the format and 
content of the financial statements. 
Amendments to IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations (adopted in 
advance of effective date of 1 January 2010) - Disclosures in these financial statements have been 
modified to reflect the International Accounting Standards Board’s clarification (as part of 
Improvements to IFRSs (2009)) that the disclosure requirements in Standards other than IFRS 5 do not 
generally apply to non-current assets classified as held for sale and discontinued operations. 
Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments (Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: 
Disclosures) The amendments to IFRS 7 expand the disclosures required in respect of fair value 
measurements and liquidity risk. The Group has elected not to provide comparative information for 
these expanded disclosures in the current year in accordance with the transitional reliefs offered in 
these amendments. 
 
Standards and Interpretations adopted with no effect on financial statements 
IAS 28 (as revised in 2008) Investments in Associates 
IFRS 3 (as revised in 2008) Business Combinations  
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment - Vesting Conditions and Cancellations  
IAS 23 (as revised in 2007) Borrowing Costs 
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners (adopted in advance of effective date of  
1 July 2009) 
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers (adopted in advance of effective date of transfers of 
assets from customers received on or after 1 July 2009) 
Improvements to IFRSs (2008) 
Amendments to IAS 40 Investment Property 
Amendments to IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     44 
 
1 General information (continued) 
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures regarding reclassifications of financial assets 
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial 
Statements – Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation 
Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IAS 27 
Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows (adopted in advance of effective date of 1 January 
2010) 
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements – Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly 
Controlled Entity or Associate  
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement – Eligible Hedged Items 
Embedded Derivatives (Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39) 
Standards and Interpretations in issue not yet adopted 
Improvements to IFRSs (2009) 
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment 
The directors continue to evaluate the impact of these Standards and Interpretations but do not currently 
anticipate that the future adoption of them will have a material impact on the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group. 
2 Significant accounting policies 
Basis of accounting 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted in the 
European Union, and they therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. The consolidated 
financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of 
certain financial instruments. 
The principal accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to all years presented in 
these financial statements.  
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis (see the 
Directors’ Report on page 15 of this Annual Report for further details). 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements comprise the results, cash flows, assets and liabilities of Delta plc 
and all its subsidiaries, recognising any minority interest in those subsidiaries, together with the 
Group’s share of the results and net assets of its associates and joint venture. The financial statements 
of subsidiaries, associates and joint venture are prepared as of the same reporting date using consistent 
accounting policies. Intercompany balances and transactions between subsidiaries, including any 
unrealised profits arising from intercompany transactions, are eliminated on consolidation. 
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, 
generally accompanied by a share of more than 50% of the voting rights. Subsidiaries are consolidated 
from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date on which the 
Group ceases to control them. Where a subsidiary is less than 100% owned by the Group, the minority 
interest share of the results and net assets are recognised at each reporting date. Where a company with 
minority interests has net liabilities, no asset is recorded within minority interests unless the minority 
shareholder has an obligation to make good its share of the net liabilities.   
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     45 
 
2 Significant accounting policies (continued) 
Associates are entities over which the Group has the power to exercise significant influence but not 
control or joint control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting 
rights. Joint ventures are entities subject to joint control, that is when the strategic financial and 
operating policy decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing 
control. Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. If the 
Group’s share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its investment in the associate 
or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has obligations in relation to or 
made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.   
Business combinations 
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. The cost of a business 
combination is measured as the aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, 
liabilities incurred or assumed and any equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control 
of the acquiree, together with any costs directly attributable to the combination. The identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition 
date, except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance 
with IFRS 5 “Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations” which are recognised at fair 
value less costs to sell. The excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in 
the fair value of the identifiable assets (including any intangibles recognised), liabilities and contingent 
liabilities is recognised as goodwill. 
The interests of minority shareholders in the acquiree are initially measured at the minority’s 
proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill acquired in business combinations represents the excess of the cost of a business combination 
over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets (including any intangibles 
recognised), liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date 
of acquisition.  Goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment loss. Goodwill is tested at 
least annually for impairment or if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Any 
impairment is calculated in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of assets” and is recognised 
immediately in the consolidated income statement and is not subsequently reversed. Goodwill 
subsisting on disposal of the related operation is taken to the consolidated income statement as part of 
the profit or loss on disposal.  
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous 
UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.  Goodwill written off to 
reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any 
subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 
Intangible Assets 
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment. 
They are amortised in accordance with the relevant income stream over their useful lives from the time 
they are first available for use. The estimated time useful lives vary according to the specific use of the 
asset but are typically: 1 to 3 years for customer relationships; up to 1 year for customer order back-
logs; and 1 to 5 years for trademarks and brand. Intangible assets which are not being amortised are 
subject to annual impairment reviews.  
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     46 
 
2 Significant accounting policies (continued) 
Investments in associates 
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary 
nor an interest in a joint venture. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and 
operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. 
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using 
the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which 
case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations. Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated 
statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of 
the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of an 
associate in excess of the Group’s interest in that associate (which includes any long-term interests that, 
in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in the associate) are recognised only to the extent 
that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the 
associate. 
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is 
recognised as goodwill. The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is 
assessed for impairment as part of that investment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair 
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after 
reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss. 
Where a group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the 
extent of the Group’s interest in the relevant associate. 
Non-current assets held for sale 
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their 
previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be 
recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is 
regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available for 
immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale, which should be 
expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received and is 
recognised when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods 
and services to the buyer, when the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and when it is 
probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. Revenue is 
measured net of discounts, value added tax and other sales related taxes. 
Revenue is typically recognised once the Group has performed its services for the customer, evidenced 
either by delivery of finished goods or other evidence of completion of work. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective 
interest rate applicable. 
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment 
have been established.    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     47 
 
2 Significant accounting policies (continued) 
Leasing 
Leases other than finance leases are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating 
leases are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term. Any incentives to enter into operating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental 
expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.   
Foreign currencies 
The financial statements for each of the Group’s subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared 
using their functional currency. The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which an entity operates.  
The functional currency of all the Group’s subsidiaries and joint venture is the currency of the country 
in which that subsidiary or joint venture operates. Manganese Metal Company, the Group’s 49% South 
African associate, uses the US dollar as its functional currency. 
The presentation currency of the Group and functional currency of Delta plc is sterling. 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency of the entity using exchange 
rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of 
such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the statement of financial position 
date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of 
the entity are recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
The statement of financial positions of foreign operations are translated into pound sterling using the 
exchange rate at the statement of financial position date and the income statements are translated into 
pound sterling using the average exchange rate for the year. Where this average is not a reasonable 
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, the exchange 
rate on the transaction date is used.  
Exchange differences arising upon consolidation are taken to the cumulative translation reserve in 
equity. The cumulative exchange difference held in shareholders’ equity in respect of an operation is 
transferred to the consolidated income statement upon disposal. 
Operating profit 
Operating profit is defined as revenue from continuing operations less related expenses and is stated 
before the share of post-tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint venture and before investment 
income, other gains and losses, finance costs and tax.   
Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are items of income or expense, where by nature or by its size, it is considered by the 
directors as being material and which require disclosure in order to provide additional information to 
assist the understanding of the financial information.   
 
 
 
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     48 
 
2 Significant accounting policies (continued) 
Retirement benefit costs 
The Group operates defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution pension plans.  
A defined benefit pension plan is one that specifies the amount of pension benefit that an employee will 
receive on retirement. The Group operates a number of funded defined benefit pension plans, where 
actuarially-determined payments are made to trustee-administered funds.  
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit 
method and is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of 
high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, 
and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.  
The Group accounts for actuarial gains and losses in full through the consolidated statement of 
recognised income and expense in the year in which they occur.  Where the actuarial valuation of the 
plan demonstrates that the plan is in surplus, the recognisable asset is limited to that for which the 
Group can benefit in the future.   
The current service cost is included in distribution costs and administrative expenses in the 
consolidated income statement. Past service costs, if any, are similarly included where the benefits have 
vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Gains and losses 
on settlements and curtailments are taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
The expected return on assets of funded defined benefit pension plans is recorded in investment income 
in the consolidated income statement. The expected interest on pension plan liabilities is recorded in 
finance costs in the consolidated income statement.  
A defined contribution plan is one under which fixed contributions are paid to a third party. The Group 
has no further payment obligations once these contributions have been paid. The contributions are 
recognised in the consolidated income statement when they are due. 
Taxation 
The Group’s liability for current tax, including UK and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to 
be paid or recovered using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the statement of 
financial position date. 
Tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax. The tax currently payable is 
based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from reported profit in the consolidated 
income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other 
years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the statement of financial position liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities used in the computation of taxable 
profit and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.   
 
 
 
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     49 
 
2 Significant accounting policies (continued) 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible  
differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided for on unremitted earnings within the Group where 
it is expected that these earnings will be distributed in the future.   
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than a business combination) of other 
assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.   
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each statement of financial position date and 
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to 
allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is 
settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when 
it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with 
in equity.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current 
tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to corporate taxes levied by the same 
taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses.  Cost comprises purchase price and directly attributable costs. 
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated. For all other property, plant and 
equipment, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate cost less residual values of the 
assets over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: 
Freehold buildings       50 years 
Leasehold property      Term of lease 
Plant and machinery, including motor vehicles   4 to 25 years 
Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment    5 years 
Inventories 
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a first-in, 
first-out basis for our Galvanizing Services’ related businesses or otherwise a weighted average cost 
basis. Cost comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion costs and an allocation of 
production overheads based on normal operating capacity. Net realisable value is the estimated selling 
price less estimated costs of completion and marketing, selling and distribution costs.  Provision is 
made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.   
Impairment of assets 
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that an asset may be 
impaired. Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable 
amount. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written 
down to its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use and is determined for an individual asset. If the asset does not generate cash inflows that 
are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the  
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     50 
 
2 Significant accounting policies (continued) 
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined. The present value of estimated future 
cash flows is calculated using discount rates reflecting the risks specific to that asset and the current 
market assessment of the time value of money for the value in use calculation. Impairments are 
recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating 
unit) is increased to the revised estimate of the recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying 
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss 
been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years.  A reversal of an impairment loss is 
recognised in income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which 
case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.   
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement comprise cash at 
bank and in hand, money market deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities at acquisition of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within 
current liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s statement of financial position 
when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. The fair values of 
financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: 
• Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and 
yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts. 
• Foreign currency options are measured using quoted foreign exchange rates, yield curves 
derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts and foreign currency 
volatilities dervied from quoted prices for similar foreign currency options. 
• The fair value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liailities with standard terms and 
conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market 
prices. 
• The fair value of other non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are determined in 
accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow aalysis 
using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar 
instruments. 
Financial assets 
All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of a 
financial asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe 
established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, 
except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially 
measured at fair value.  
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets ‘at fair value 
through profit or loss’ (FVTPL), ‘held-to-maturity’ investments, ‘available-for-sale’ (AFS) financial 
assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial 
assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     51 
 
2 Significant accounting policies (continued) 
Financial assets through profit and loss (FVTPL) 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other non-financial host contracts are treated as 
separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host. 
‘Held-to-maturity’ investments 
Bills of exchange and debentures with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the 
Group has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity 
investments. Held-to-maturity investments are recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method less any impairment, with revenue recognisd on an effective yield basis. 
‘Available for sale’ 
The Group has an investment in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market that is classified 
as an associate.  
Loans and receivables 
Trade receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Appropriate 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in income when there is objective 
evidence that the asset is impaired. The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the 
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective 
interest rate computed at initial recognition. 
Effective interest method 
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of 
allocating interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly 
discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees on points paid or received that form an 
integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through 
the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period. 
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets 
classified as at FVTPL. The Group chooses not to disclose the effective interest rate for debt 
instruments that are classified as at fair value through profit or loss. 
Derecognition of financial assets 
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the 
asset expire; or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of 
the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained 
interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues 
to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received. 
Trade  payables 
Trade payables, loans and other payables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
rate method. 
Financial liabilities  
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at FVTPL’ or ‘other financial liabilities’. 
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     52 
 
2 Significant accounting policies (continued) 
Other financial liabilities  
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction 
costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis. The effective interest method is a 
method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over 
the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period. 
Derecognition of financial liabilities 
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are 
discharged, cancelled or they expire. 
Hedge accounting 
The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives, embedded derivatives 
and non-derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk, as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, or 
hedges of net investments in foreign operations. Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments 
are accounted for as cash flow hedges. 
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging 
instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for 
undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing 
basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is 
highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.  
Note 25 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.  
Fair value hedges 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are 
recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item 
that is attributable to the hedged risk. The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the 
change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income 
statement relating to the hedged item.  
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. The 
adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit 
or loss from that date. 
Cash flow hedges 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash 
flow hedges are deferred in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in profit or loss, and is included in the ‘other gains and losses’ line of the income 
statement. 
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is 
recognised in profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item. 
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset 
or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from 
equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial 
liability. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     53 
 
2 Significant accounting policies (continued) 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any 
cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the 
forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in 
profit or loss. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when a present obligation (legal or constructive) exists in respect of a past 
event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and 
where the amount can be reliably estimated by the directors. Where the impact is material, provisions 
are discounted to present value. 
Share-based payments 
The Group operates various equity-settled incentive schemes for certain employees. For equity-settled 
share options and awards, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair 
value of the share options or awards granted.  Fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in 
the consolidated income statement, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity, on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options or awards that 
will eventually vest. Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into account when 
estimating fair value.  
Fair value is measured using either the Black-Scholes option pricing or Stochastic model. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
Employee Share Ownership Trust 
Investments in own shares (held through an Employee Share Ownership Trust) are shown at cost as a 
deduction from shareholders’ equity and shown under the heading “Employee Share Ownership Trust” 
in the consolidated statement of financial position. The costs of administration of the Employee Share 
Ownership Trust are included in the consolidated income statement as they accrue. Dividends on shares 
held by the Trust have been waived. 
3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies which are described above, management has 
made various judgments that potentially have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the 
financial statements. These judgments relate primarily to the following items: 
Pensions (see note 40) 
The obligation in respect of the Group’s retirement benefit obligations is dependent on a number of 
estimates including those relating to mortality, inflation, salary increases and the rate at which 
liabilities are discounted.  Any change in these assumptions would impact the retirement benefit 
obligation recognised.   
 
 
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     54 
 
3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued) 
Provisions in respect of disposed entities (see note 28) 
Provisions in respect of disposed entities relate to the current estimate of future liabilities expected to 
arise as a result of businesses disposed, where the Group has retained responsibility for items including 
product warranty, product liability and environmental remediation. At the end of each reporting period 
management performs a detailed assessment of expected future cash outflows relating to these 
obligations, and adjusts remaining provisions accordingly. In reviewing these provisions consideration 
is given to the historical utilisation of such provisions, and the expected costs of works either ongoing 
currently or reasonably expected to be undertaken for which the Group would be liable. 
Carrying amount of certain assets and goodwill (see note 16) 
In reviewing the carrying value of certain assets and capitalised goodwill, estimates of future financial 
performance of the assets and businesses concerned are taken into account. The estimates inherently 
include assumptions of internal and external factors that, whilst considered reasonable at the date of 
these accounts, may change in the future from those levels currently expected. 
Deferred tax assets (see note 29) 
Deferred tax has only been recognised where it has been assumed that the deferred tax asset is 
recoverable. The accumulated losses reported by the Group for tax purposes in various tax jurisdictions 
have not been recognised as deferred tax assets where the Directors hold the view that it is improbable 
that the Group will be able to utilise them in the future. The future use, if any, of these accumulated 
losses will depend upon applicable tax rules and regulations, and upon the Group generating 
appropriate taxable income in those jurisdictions.  
4 Revenue 
An analysis of significant categories of revenue, as defined and disclosed in accordance with IAS 18: 
Revenue, is given below: 
£ million   Notes 2009 2008 
Continuing operations:      
Sales of goods    333.0 330.8 
Interest on bank deposits  9 2.9 7.2 
Dividends received from investment  9 0.3 - 
Discontinued operations:     
Sales of goods     13 - - 
        336.2 338.0 
5 Segmental information 
The details of the principal activities are as follows:   
Engineered Steel Products Manufacture and distribution of galvanized steel products, grinding 
media and engineered tooling.   
Galvanizing Services Provision of hot-dip galvanizing and zinc reclamation services.  
Manganese Materials Manufacture and distribution of electrolytic manganese dioxide for use 
in the manufacture of primary batteries. 
Information regarding the Group’s operating segments is reported below.   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     55 
 
5 Segmental information (continued) 
Year ended 31 December 2009 
Continuing operations     
£ million 
Engineered 
Steel 
Products
Galvanizing 
Services
Manganese 
Materials Eliminations Total
External sales 218.7 77.5 36.8 - 333.0
Inter-segment sales
 (1)
 
0.3 3.4 - (3.7) -
Total revenue 219.0 80.9 36.8 (3.7) 333.0
Segment operating profit 31.5 8.4 11.0 - 50.9
Central administration costs and directors' salaries  (4.3)
Operating profit (pre-exceptional)  46.6
Share of post-tax profit of associate and joint venture  3.1
Impairment of other investment   (0.3)
Investment income   15.5
Finance costs   (12.6)
Pension settlement   0.5
Business closure costs    5.3
Exceptional impairment of property, plant and equipment   (1.5)
Profit before tax (continuing operations)   56.6
Tax   (15.3)
Profit after tax (continuing operations)   41.3
  
Discontinued operations  
£ million  
Costs relating to disposed entities   (1.6)
Loss before tax (discontinued operations)   (1.6)
Tax   -
Loss after tax (discontinued operations)  (1.6)
Consolidated profit for the year   39.7
 
Note: 
(1) 
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates. 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     56 
 
5 Segmental information (continued) 
Year ended 31 December 2008 Restated 
Continuing operations     
£ million 
Engineered 
Steel 
Products
Galvanizing 
Services
Manganese 
Materials Eliminations Total
External sales 200.9 86.6 43.3 - 330.8
Inter-segment sales
 (1)
 
0.4 3.9 - (4.3) -
Total revenue 201.3 90.5 43.3 (4.3) 330.8
Segment operating profit 21.3 10.2 9.2 - 40.7
Central administration costs and directors' salaries  (4.0)
Operating profit (pre-exceptional)  36.7
Share of post-tax profit of associate and joint venture  8.4
Investment income   30.7
Finance costs   (25.7)
Pension settlement   (48.8)
Business closure costs    (2.8)
Exceptional gain on disposal of property   6.0
Profit before tax (continuing operations)   4.5
Tax   (8.2)
Loss after tax (continuing operations)   (3.7)
  
Discontinued operations  
£ million  
Release of provisions of previously disposed 
operations 
  
0.3
Profit before tax (discontinued operations)   0.3
Tax credit  0.2
Profit after tax (discontinued operations)  0.5
Consolidated loss for the year   (3.2)
 
Note: 
(1) 
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates. 
  
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     57 
 
5 Segmental information (continued) 
Segment profit represents the profit earned by each segment without the allocation of the share of 
profits of joint ventures and associates, central administration costs including directors’ salaries, 
investment revenue and finance costs, and income tax expense. This is the measure reported to the 
Group’s Chief Executive for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment 
performance. 
Segment assets 
£ million   2009 2008
Engineered Steel Products 89.7 90.0
Galvanizing Services 81.4 78.5
Manganese Materials 43.6 48.5
Total segment assets 214.7 217.0
Unallocated assets 158.9 123.9
Consolidated total assets 373.6 340.9
Other segment information 
Capital additions and depreciation 
£ million   2009 2008
Additions to non-current assets   
Engineered Steel Products 5.5 4.0
Galvanizing Services 7.7 8.7
Manganese Materials 1.1 0.4
14.3 13.1
Depreciation and amortisation   
Engineered Steel Products 3.0 3.1
Galvanizing Services 3.4 2.8
Manganese Materials 1.6 0.9
8.0 6.8
Geographical information 
The Group operates in six principal geographical areas – Europe (including UK, country of domicile), 
Australasia, South-East Asia, North and South America, Near and Middle East and Africa. 
The Group’s revenue from external customers by geographical location is detailed below: 
£ million  2009 2008
Europe (including UK) 4.0 20.5
Australasia 219.0 209.6
South-East Asia 52.6 56.0
North and South America 50.6 38.6
Near and Middle East 1.8 1.7
Africa 5.0 4.4
Total revenue 333.0 330.8
Information about major customers 
The Group has many customers in different geographical locations. No customer had sales which 
exceeded 10% of Group revenues (2008: none).  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     58 
 
6 Profit for the year (before exceptional items) 
Profit for the year for total operations before exceptional items has been arrived at after 
charging/(crediting):  
£ million Notes 2009 2008
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 156.5 160.1
Research and development costs  0.3 0.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17 7.9 6.5
Amortisation of other intangible assets 16 0.1 0.3
Operating lease rentals: - land and buildings  3.2 2.5
 - plant and equipment  1.8 1.9
Staff costs 8 61.1 62.0
Part reversal of impairment of share of net assets of associate 18 - (6.4)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 17 0.6 (0.6)
Impairment of inventories 21 0.6 0.7
Impairment of trade receivables 22 0.2 0.6
7 Auditors’ fees 
An analysis of the auditors’ remuneration is as follows:  
 
£ million 2009 2008
Fees payable to Delta plc's auditors, Deloitte LLP,  
   for the audit of the company and UK subsidiaries' annual accounts 0.2 0.2
Fees payable to Delta plc's auditors, Deloitte LLP, 
   and its associates for other services to the Group:  
   - The audit of the Company's subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.3
Total audit fees for Delta plc Group 0.4 0.5
Tax services 0.1 -
Total non-audit fees for Delta plc Group 0.1 -
Total fees (audit & non-audit) payable to Delta plc's auditor  0.5 0.5 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     59 
 
8 Staff numbers and costs 
The average monthly numbers of employees (including directors) were: 
Number    2009 2008
UK 31 75
Overseas 2,552 2,687
 2,583 2,762
 
The actual number of employees as at 31 December 2009 was 2,512 consisting of 16 (UK) and 2,496 
(overseas). The average figures include staff from disposed businesses up to their effective date of 
disposal.   
The above average figures are further analysed as follows: 
Number 2009 2008
Engineered Steel Products 1,498 1,608
Galvanizing Services 881 933
Manganese Materials 189 206
Group Administration 15 15
 2,583 2,762
 
 
£million 2009 2008
The aggregate remuneration comprised: 
  
Wages and salaries 56.8 57.5
Social security costs 0.6 0.8
Other pension costs 3.7 3.7
 61.1 62.0
Wages and salaries include share-based payment expenses of £0.5 million (2008: £0.4 million). 
The Directors’ remuneration report contains disclosures relating to the emoluments, share options, 
pensions and long-term incentive interests of the directors.   
 
9 Investment income 
 
Continuing operations 
£ million Note 2009 2008
Interest on bank deposits  2.9 7.2
Dividends received from investment  0.3 -
Expected return on defined pension scheme assets 40 12.3 23.5
 15.5 30.7
 
 
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     60 
 
10 Finance costs (including Pension settlement)  
   
£ million   Note 2009 2008
Interest on borrowings 0.2 0.6
Expected interest on defined benefit scheme liabilities 40 12.4 25.1
 12.6 25.7
Pension settlement (0.5) 48.8
 12.1 74.5
11 Tax 
Tax expense 
   2009 2008  
£ million   Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total 
Corporate tax:  
Current tax - current year 15.4 - 15.4 9.5 - 9.5
Deferred tax - current year 0.1 - 0.1 2.1 - 2.1
Adjustment in respect   
of prior years    
 - current tax (0.4) - (0.4) (0.8) (0.2) (1.0)
 - deferred tax 0.2 - 0.2 (2.6) - (2.6)
Tax expense for the year 15.3 - 15.3 8.2 (0.2) 8.0
Following the change in rate on 1 April 2008 from 30% to 28%, prior year corporation tax is calculated 
at an average rate for the year of 28.5%.  
Tax in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. 
Reconciliation of tax expense 
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 
£ million      2009 2008
Profit/(loss) before tax:  
Continuing operations 56.6 (3.7)
Discontinued operations (including disposals) (1.6) 0.3
   55.0 (3.4)
    
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2008: 28.5%) 15.4 (1.0)
Tax effect of items not deductible/assessable for tax purposes:  
Non-deductible closure costs of EMD Australia business - 0.6
Net release of provisions relating to disposed entities 0.7 (0.1)
Deferred tax not recognised on Delta Pension Plan settlement costs - 10.4
IAS 19 pension deferred tax adjustment - 0.6
Other expenses that are not  tax deductible  (2.5) 0.2
Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses, capital allowances not previously 
recognised (2.4) (4.1)
Tax effect of unrelieved current year losses 0.3 2.8
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 0.1 0.1
Withholding tax 2.7 0.8
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.2) (3.6)
Other   1.2 1.3
Tax expense for the year 15.3 8.0 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     61 
 
12 Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the directors, either individually or, if 
of a similar type, in aggregate, as being material and which require disclosure in order to provide 
additional information to assist the understanding of the financial information.   
Continuing operations 
 
Year ended 
Restated 
Year ended 
31 December 31 December
£ million 2009 2008
Profit on sale of property (a) -               6.0 
Settlement costs in relation to Delta Pension Plan  (b) 0.5           (48.8)
Closure of site (c) -             (0.7)
Business closure costs (d) 5.7             (2.1)
Deferred tax arising from establishment of Australian 
consolidated tax group 
(e) -               1.5 
Reversal of impairment of share of net assets of associate (f) - 6.4
Loss on disposal of business (g) (0.4) -
Impairment of other investment (h) (0.3) -
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (i) (1.5) -
Tax credit on environmental remediation (j) 0.2 -
4.2           (37.7)
(a) The exceptional profit on sale of property of £6.0 million in the year ended 31 December 2008 
relates to the disposal of a former site of an Australian Engineered Steel Products business on 27 
June 2008. Total net consideration amounted to £8.6 million. 
(b) The 2008 settlement costs in relation to the Delta Pension Plan constituted a one-off contribution 
by, and charge to the Group of £49.9 million to the Trustees toward a total bulk annuity purchase 
of £450.9 million, incremental settlement-related credit of £2.1 million, together with associated 
advisors costs of £1.0 million.  The purchase of the bulk annuity was in relation to the funding of 
DPP liabilities pertaining to the pensioner population.  This pensioner population substantially 
relates to former employees of UK businesses no longer owned by the Group.   
 £0.5 million of the total settlement costs accrued for in 2008 was credited to profit for the year 
during 2009, since costs were lower than expected. 
(c) On 12 December 2008 the Group announced the closure of its machine tool manufacturing site at 
Kirkby, Nottinghamshire, UK. The costs associated with this closure amounted to £0.7 million. 
(d) On 18 December 2007, the Group announced the closure of its EMD Australian business, as part 
of a co-ordinated plan to address the on-going loss-making nature of that business. Additional 
liabilities of £2.1 million were recognised in 2008 as follows:  
(i) Site restoration and rehabilitation costs of £1.8 million. 
(ii) Impairment of plant and equipment to its recoverable amount of £0.3 million.   
 During 2009 the closure provisions previously established for the EMD Australia residue disposal 
site were reduced by £7.0 million. This is primarily due to the amendment of the environmental 
licence governing the Kooragang island site which will allow a more cost-effective rehabilitation. 
Offset against this are costs of £1.3 million incurred during the year in maintaining the sites prior 
to sale.  
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     62 
 
12 Exceptional items (continued) 
(e) In 2008 the Australian operations claimed a one-off tax credit arising from the establishment of a 
consolidated tax group for the Australian entities. 
(f) The reversal of the impairment of the net assets of the associate refers to the further recognition of 
£6.4 million in the year ended 31 December 2008 for Manganese Metal Company (MMC).  MMC 
was impaired by £8.5 million to a nil carrying value in the year ended 31 December 2005. This 
impairment is now fully reversed. 
(g) On 3 July 2009 the Group disposed of its machine tool manufacturing business at Manchester, 
UK.  The loss on disposal amounted to £0.4 million.  See note 35 for more details. 
(h) The investment in PT Bukit was impaired by £0.3 million to its recoverable amount, see note 20 
for more details. 
(i) Land and property of an Australian Galvanizing business, including remediation costs, was 
impaired by £1.5 million to its recoverable amount.  This land and property was vacant at the year 
end and will require further environmental remediation costs to be incurred prior to its disposal. 
(j) A tax credit on environmental remediation costs incurred, as described in note 12(i) above, 
amounted to £0.2 million. 
 
Discontinued operations 
 
Year ended 
Restated 
Year ended 
31 December 31 December
£ million 2009 2008
(Costs) / credit relating to disposed businesses (k)               (1.6) 0.3
Refund of South African capital gains tax (l)                - 0.2
(1.6) 0.5
(k) During the year, exceptional costs of £1.6 million were incurred in respect of disposed 
businesses (2008: £0.3 million credit) (see note 13). 
(l) During 2008, a refund of capital gains tax of ZAR3.0 million (£0.2 million) was received from 
the South African tax authorities in respect of the disposal of the former South African Industrial 
Supplies businesses in September 2005. 
 
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     63 
 
13 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 
The table below details the operating results on previously disposed businesses. 
Year ended 31 December 2009 
£ million    Notes Exceptional
Operating profit   -
Cost relating to disposed businesses  12 (1.6)
Loss before tax   (1.6)
Tax    -
Loss after tax   (1.6)
Net loss attributable to discontinued operations  (1.6)
Discontinued operations include a net receipt of £nil (2008: £1.6 million) to the Group’s net operating 
cash flows and a net payment of £1.5 million (2008: £nil) in respect of investing activities.  
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in note 5.   
Year ended 31 December 2008 
£ million    Notes Exceptional 
Operating profit   -
Adjustments to provisions  12 0.3
Profit before tax   0.3
Exceptional tax credit  12 0.2
Profit after tax   0.5
Net profit attributable to discontinued operations  0.5
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in note 5.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     64 
 
14 Dividends 
Preference dividends 
£ million    2009 2008
6.0% cumulative first preference shares and 4.5% cumulative second 
preference shares 0.1 0.1
Ordinary dividends 
£ million    2009 2008
Proposed dividends for the 
period: 
 
- ended 30 June 2008  (1.9 pence per share) - 2.9
- ended 31 December 2008 (4.6 pence per share) - 7.1
- ended 30 June 2009  (2.4 pence per share) 3.7 -
   
  3.7 10.0
   
£ million    2009 2008
Paid dividends for the period:  
- ended 31 December 2007 (3.4 pence per share) - 5.2
- ended 30 June 2008  (1.9 pence per share) - 2.9
- ended 31 December 2008 (4.6 pence per share) 7.1 -
- ended 30 June 2009  (2.4 pence per share) 3.7 -
  10.8 8.1
Total preference and ordinary dividends paid 10.9 8.2
 
Dividends in respect of minority interests 
£ million  2009 2008
Proposed dividends for the period:  
- ended 30 June 2008  - -
- ended 31 December 2008 - 2.9
- ended 30 June 2009  3.2 -
- ended 31 December 2009 8.7 -
  11.9 2.9
   
£ million  2009 2008
Paid dividends for the period:  
- ended 30 June 2008  - -
- ended 31 December 2008 - 1.5
- ended 30 June 2009  4.6 -
- ended 31 December 2009 7.3 -
  11.9 1.5
Delta EMD Limited, incorporated in South Africa, declared a final dividend of R0.80 per share, which 
will be payable on 15 March 2010.  The dividend was announced on 19 February 2010 and has not 
been included as a liability in these consolidated financial statements.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     65 
 
15 Earnings per share 
In addition to the IAS 33 measure of earnings per share, underlying earnings per share have been 
shown because the directors consider that this gives a more meaningful indication of the core 
performance of the Group by excluding those items that may distort comparability.   
 The calculation of the earnings per share figures is based on the earnings and weighted average number 
of shares tables presented below. 
 Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total operations 
Pence per share 2009
2008
Restated 2009
2008
Restated 2009 
2008
Restated
IAS 33 – after exceptional items   
Basic earnings per share 21.2 (6.0) (1.0) 0.3 20.2 (5.7)
Diluted earnings per share 21.2 (6.0) (1.0) 0.3 20.2 (5.7)
Before exceptional items  
Basic earnings per share 20.2 18.2 - - 20.2 18.2
Diluted earnings per share 20.2 18.2 - - 20.2 18.2
Earnings 
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total operations 
£ million 2009
2008
Restated 2009
2008
Restated 2009 
2008
Restated
IAS 33 – after exceptional items  
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity 
holders 31.0 (8.5) - - 31.0 (8.5)
Adjustments:  
Profit/(loss) from discontinued 
operations 1.6 (0.5) (1.6) 0.5 - -
Preference dividends (note 14) (0.1) (0.1) - - (0.1) (0.1)
32.5 (9.1) (1.6) 0.5 30.9 (8.6)
Before exceptional items  
Total per above 32.5 (9.1) (1.6) 0.5 30.9 (8.6)
Adjustments:  
Exceptional items – continuing   
(note 12) (4.2) 37.7 - - (4.2) 37.7
Minority interest share of above 2.5 (0.9) - - 2.5 (0.9)
Exceptional items – discontinued 
(note 12) - - 1.6 (0.5) 1.6 (0.5)
30.8 27.7 - - 30.8 27.7
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 
Number of shares (million) 2009 2008
For basic earnings per share  
Weighted average number of shares 
(1) 
152.7 152.2
For diluted earnings per share  
Total per above 
(1) 
152.7 152.2
Effect of dilutive share options 
(2) 
0.1 0.2
Revised weighted average number  152.8 152.4
(1) 
The number of ordinary shares represents the weighted average for the period.  The average number of ordinary 
shares in issue excludes those held in the Delta plc Employee Share Ownership Trust, which are treated as cancelled. 
(2) 
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume 
conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.  Where basic earnings per share are at a loss, the anti-dilutive 
effect of any further shares is ignored.    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     66 
 
16 Intangible assests 
£ million  Goodwill
Trade-
marks 
Customer 
lists 
Customer 
relation-
ships Total
Cost  
At 31 December 2007 6.7 - - - 6.7
Exchange differences 0.7 0.1 - - 0.8
Acquisition of subsidiary 1.6 0.3 0.1 0.1 2.1
At 31 December 2008 9.0 0.4 0.1 0.1 9.6
Exchange differences 0.9 - - - 0.9
At 31 December 2009 9.9 0.4 0.1 0.1 10.5
  
Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses  
At 31 December 2007 (0.6) - - - (0.6)
Amortisation charge for the year - (0.2) - (0.1) (0.3)
At 31 December 2008 (0.6) (0.2) - (0.1) (0.9)
Amortisation charge for the year - (0.1) - - (0.1)
At 31 December 2009 (0.6) (0.3) - (0.1) (1.0)
  
Carrying amount  
At 31 December 2009 9.3 0.1 0.1 - 9.5
At 31 December 2008 8.4 0.2 0.1 - 8.7
  
Goodwill by business segment  
£ million 
    
2009 2008
Engineered Steel Products 6.6 5.9
Galvanizing Services 2.7 2.5
Manganese Materials - -
 9.3 8.4
The Group’s goodwill at 31 December 2009 totalled £9.3 million, being approximately 2.5% of the 
Group’s total assets.  
The Group’s accounting policy regarding impairment testing of goodwill is stated in note 2 and 
includes testing annually for impairment or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. There has 
been no impairment to goodwill recorded in 2009 or 2008. The goodwill impairment testing uses a 
methodology similar to that described on the following page.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     67 
 
16 Intangible assets (continued) 
Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing to cash-generating units (CGUs) which reflect how it is 
monitored for internal management purposes, hence it is allocated to the primary segments noted 
above. Any goodwill associated with CGUs subsumed within the primary segments is not significant 
when compared to the goodwill of the Group, other than the £4.3m in Engineered Steel Products for the 
acquisiton of Webforge Australia.   
The recoverable amount of each CGU is determined based on calculating its value in use, which is 
calculated by discounting cashflow forecasts for the CGU. The cash flow forecasts are derived from the 
most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next three years and extrapolates cash 
flows into perpetuity based on an estimated growth rate, which is based on GDP for the territories in 
which the businesses operate. The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is based on an estimate 
of Delta’s weighted average cost of capital of 8.5% and is adjusted for factors specific to the particular 
CGU. 
Management believes that any reasonable change in the key assumptions would not cause the 
carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts. 
17 Property, plant and equipment   
£ million  
Land and 
buildings
Plant and 
machinery
Fixtures, 
fittings, tools 
and equipment Total
Cost  
At 31 December 2007 47.6 104.4 8.8 160.8
Capital additions 2.5 9.5 1.1 13.1
Exchange differences 8.3 11.1 1.1 20.5
Acquisition of business - 0.4 0.3 0.7
Disposals (3.0) (2.6) (1.3) (6.9)
At 31 December 2008 55.4 122.8 10.0 188.2
Capital additions 4.2 8.6 1.5 14.3
Exchange differences 2.2 12.2 0.8 15.2
Disposal of businesses (0.4) (1.6) (0.2) (2.2)
Disposals (0.5) (9.0) (1.1)  (10.6)
At 31 December 2009 60.9 133.0 11.0 204.9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     68 
 
 
17 Property, plant and equipment (continued)  
£ million 
Land and 
buildings
Plant and 
machinery
Fixtures, 
fittings, tools 
and equipment Total
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses  
At 31 December 2007 (14.1) (67.7) (7.1) (88.9)
Depreciation charge for the year (1.2) (4.6) (0.7) (6.5)
Exchange differences (3.1) (8.9) (0.8) (12.8)
Acquisition of business - (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
Impairment losses - 0.6 - 0.6
Depreciation written back on disposed assets 0.5 1.9 1.1 3.5
At 31 December 2008 (17.9) (78.8) (7.6) (104.3)
Depreciation charge for the year (1.6) (5.4) (0.9) (7.9)
Exchange differences (0.8) (7.5) (0.7)  (9.0)
Impairment losses (1.5) (0.6) - (2.1)
Disposal of businesses 0.1 1.5 0.1 1.7
Depreciation written back on disposed assets 0.1 8.7 1.0 9.8
At 31 December 2009 (21.6) (82.1) (8.1) (111.8)
  
Carrying amount  
At 31 December 2009 39.3 50.9 2.9 93.1
At 31 December 2008 37.5 44.0 2.4 83.9
Included in the previous tables are payments on account and assets in the course of construction: 
£ million  
Land and 
buildings
Plant and 
machinery
Fixtures, 
fittings, tools 
and equipment Total
At 31 December 2009 0.2 1.6 0.4 2.2
At 31 December 2008 0.1 0.9 0.1 1.1
Operating leases commitments are disclosed in note 38.   
The Group does not pledge any property, plant and equipment as security for liabilities (2008: £nil) or 
provide as collateral or hold guarantees over these assets (2008: £nil).   
Capital commitments 
£ million 2009 2008
Commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 1.1 3.0 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     69 
 
18 Principal Group and associated companies at 31 December 2009 
Country of 
 incorporation Company 
% 
Interest Activity 
Great Britain Delta plc n/a Parent holding company 
Australia Hi-Light Industries Pty Ltd 100% Galvanized steel products 
Australia Webforge Australia Pty Ltd 100% Galvanized steel products 
Australia Donhad Pty Limited  60% Mining consumables 
Australia Galvline Tasmania Pty Ltd 100% Galvanizing services 
Australia Industrial Galvanizers Corporation Pty Ltd 100% Galvanizing services 
China Chengdu Webforge Grating Co Ltd 100% Galvanized steel products 
China Guangzhou Webforge Grating Co Ltd 100% Galvanized steel products 
China Wuxi Webforge Grating Co Ltd 100% Galvanized steel products 
China Wuxi Webforge Trading Co Ltd 100% Galvanized steel products 
Indonesia PT Webforge Indonesia 100% Galvanized steel products 
Indonesia PT Bukit Terang Paksi Galvanizing 
(i)
 50% Galvanizing services 
Malaysia Webforge (KL) Sdn Bhd 100% Galvanized steel products 
Malaysia Industrial Galvanizers Corporation (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 70% Galvanizing services 
New Zealand New Zealand Webforge (NZ) Ltd 100% Galvanized steel products 
Philippines Webforge Philippines Inc 100% Galvanized steel products 
Philippines Industrial Galvanizers Corporation of the Philippine Inc 100% Galvanizing services 
Singapore Webforge (Singapore) Pte Ltd 100% Galvanized steel products 
South Africa Delta EMD (Pty) Ltd 
(ii)
 56.4% Electrolytic Manganese 
South Africa DEI Services (Pty) Ltd 100% Group services 
South Africa Manganese Metal Co (Pty) Ltd 
(iii)
 49% Manganese metal 
Thailand Webforge (Thailand) Ltd 100% Galvanized steel products 
Great Britain Delta Group Services Ltd 
(iv)
 100% Group services 
USA Industrial Galvanizers Alabama Inc 100% Galvanizing services 
USA Industrial Galvanizers South Carolina Inc 100% Galvanizing services 
USA Industrial Galvanizers Southeastern Inc 100% Galvanizing services 
USA Industrial Galvanizers Virginia Inc 100% Galvanizing services 
(i) Accounted for as a joint venture to 30 June 2008, and as an investment from 1 July 2008. Please see note 20 for 
disclosure concerning lack of significant influence. 
(ii) Delta plc’s interests in electrolytic manganese dioxide are held indirectly through Delta EMD Ltd which is listed 
on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and reports results to 27 December.   
(iii) Accounted for as an associate.  This was previously disclosed as “held for sale” but has been restated as at 30 
September 2009 - see note 41. The statutory annual financial statements of MMC are made up to 30 June each 
year.   
(iv) With the exception of Delta Group Services Ltd, all of the above named companies are indirectly owned by 
Delta plc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     70 
 
19 Interest in associate 
Consolidated statement of financial position  
Associates        Restated
£ million 2009 2008
Cost of investment 12.4 2.1
Share of post-tax profits 3.1 1.8
Exchange differences (1.4) 2.1
Reversal of impairment of associate - 6.4
Total Interest 14.1 12.4
The following 100% statement of financial position information is not included in the consolidated 
statement of financial position, but is detailed here for disclosure purposes only:   
Associates       Restated
£ million 2009 2008
Total assets (100%) 51.4 50.3
Total liabilities (100%) (22.6) (25.0)
Net assets 28.8 25.3 
Consolidated income statement 
Revenue 
The following revenue and profit before interest and tax figures are not included in the consolidated 
income statement, but are detailed here for disclosure purposes only:   
Associates        Restated
£ million 2009 2008
Revenue (100)% 55.5 54.2 
Profit before interest and tax (100)% 8.5 18.7 
Share of post-tax gains of associate 
Associates        Restated
£ million 2009 2008
Share of post-tax profits before asset impairment of associate 3.1 1.8
Partial reversal of exceptional asset impairment of associate - 6.4
Share of post-tax gains 3.1 8.2
The statutory annual financial statements of MMC are made up to 30 June each year.  For the purpose 
of applying the equity method of accounting, the latest monthly management accounts have been used 
with appropriate adjustments made, for statutory reporting purposes.   
 
   Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     71 
 
20 Other investments 
Following a regular review of the Joint Venture in 2008, the directors concluded that significant 
influence over the operations at PT Bukit no longer existed, and so, from 30 June 2008, the Joint 
Venture was reclassified as an Other Investment on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
Discussions and negotiations are taking place with the Joint Venture partner for sale of this investment 
and the directors expect to dispose of this asset in 2010 for net realisable value, which is reflected in the 
total fair value below. 
£ million     2009 2008
Cost of investment   1.0 0.6
Loans    - 0.2
Share of post-tax profits - 0.2
Impairment  (0.3) -
Repayment of loans   (0.2) -
Total Fair Value   0.5 1.0
   
Analysed as:  
Current assets 0.5 -
Non-current assets - 1.0
  0.5 1.0
21 Inventories  
£ million    2009 2008
Raw materials 22.1 27.2
Work-in-progress 4.0 3.3
Finished goods 20.6 24.0
 46.7 54.5
Impairment charges of £0.6 million (2008: £0.7 million) against Group inventories were made in the 
Income Statement (see note 6). The directors consider that there is no material difference between the 
statement of financial position value of inventories and their replacement cost. 
22 Trade and other receivables  
£ million    2009 2008
Amounts falling due within one year:  
Trade receivables 54.6 59.2
Allowance for doubtful debts (1.9) (1.8)
 52.7 57.4
Other receivables 1.4 0.7
Corporate tax receivables 0.2 1.0
Prepayments and accrued income 2.4 2.3
Trade and other receivables 56.7 61.4
Amounts falling due after one year:  
Other receivables 0.3 0.4
Prepayments and accrued income 0.1 0.1
Other receivables 0.4 0.5
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     72 
 
22 Trade and other receivables (continued)  
The directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair 
value.   
The average credit period on sale of goods is 37 days (2008: 39 days).  The time periods from date of 
invoice from which interest is charged on trade receivables varies from business to business within the 
Group.  The Group has provided fully for all trade receivables over 120 days overdue.  Trade 
receivables between 30 and 120 days are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts from 
the sale of goods, determined by reference to the past default experience of the business concerned.   
Included in the Group’s aggregate trade receivable balance are trade receivables with a carrying 
amount of £10.6 million (2008: £13.1 million) which are overdue at the reporting date for which the 
Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the Group 
believes that these amounts are still considered recoverable.  The Group does not hold any collateral 
over these balances.  The average age of these receivables is 50 days (2008: 54 days).   
Past due up to 30 days £7.7 million (2008: £9.6 million); past due between 30 and 60 days £1.7 million 
(2008: £3.5 million); past due between 60 and 90 days £1.2 million (2008: £nil) and past due greater 
than 90 days £nil (2008: £nil).   
The movement in the aggregate allowances for doubtful debts are as follows: 
£ million    2009 2008
Balance at the beginning of year 1.8 1.6
Exchange differences (0.1) 0.4
Amounts written off during the year (0.2) (0.6)
Increase in allowances recognised in profit and loss 0.4 0.4
Balance at the end of the year 1.9 1.8
In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit 
quality of the trade receivables from the date the credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.  
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large, diverse and unrelated.  
Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the 
aggregate allowances for doubtful debts detailed above.   
23 Other financial assets 
 
£ million      2009 2008
Other financial assets 2.8 2.7
 
 
 £2.8 million (2008: £2.7 million) cash has been secured as collateral in support of a €3.0 million letter 
of credit maturing in 2012.   
24 Cash and cash equivalents 
£ million  2009 2008
Cash  144.2 108.1
Cash and cash equivalents 144.2 108.1
 
Cash as at 31 December 2009 includes money market funds of £74.9 million (2008: £30.6 million) and 
bank and other deposits repayable in excess of 24 hours’ notice of £14.5 million (2008: £39.2 million).  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     73 
 
24 Cash and cash equivalents (continued) 
£30.1 million (2008: £24.2 million) of the Group’s net cash is subject to exchange controls or is 
similarly restricted. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s cash balances are denominated in the following currencies: 
At 31 December 2009 
£ million GBP AUD ZAR USD Other Total
Cash   75.2 41.1 9.6 3.2 15.1 144.2
 
At 31 December 2008 
£ million GBP AUD ZAR USD Other Total
Cash   27.2 50.9 9.5 7.4 13.1 108.1
25 Financial instruments 
Capital risk management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going 
concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity 
balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in 
note 27, cash and cash equivalents disclosed in note 24, other financial assets disclosed in note 23 and 
equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained 
earnings as disclosed in notes 30 to 32. 
Gearing ratio 
The Board reviews the capital structure on a semi-annual basis. As part of this review, the Board 
considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.The Group does not have 
significant debt, and does not therefore set a target gearing ratio. 
Externally imposed capital requirement 
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements. 
Significant accounting policies 
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for 
recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in 
respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 
to the financial statements. 
Fair value of financial instruments 
The directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recognised 
at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values, except for Other Investments 
in Note 20. Other investments are recognised at fair value through profit and loss and are measured 
subsequent to intial recognition at fair value and grouped under Level 3 fair value measurement based 
on the degree to which fair value is observable. Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from 
valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset which is not based on observable market data 
(unobservable inputs).  
 
As disclosed in Note 20, total impairment loss for the period of £0.3 million was recognised in the 
Consolidated Income Statement which represents the changes to fair value for the asset in order to 
arrive at total fair value of £0.5 million as at 31 December 2009. The fair value is obtained by reference 
to the net realisable value expected upon disposal of this asset.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     74 
 
 25 Financial instruments (continued) 
Financial risk management objectives 
The Group’s fundamental treasury policy remains one of risk management and control, and not to 
undertake speculative transactions.  Group Treasury does not operate as a profit centre, and all 
activities are closely monitored by the Group Finance Department, who make recommendations to the 
Board on matters of treasury policy and implement policies approved by the Board.   
Liquidity risk 
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors.  The Group 
manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and monitoring forecast and actual cash 
flows, as well as ensuring that the maturity profiles of the financial assets adequately provide for capital 
spending. Liquidity risk management is discussed in the Treasury policy section of the Financial 
Review on page 12. 
Credit risk 
The Group’s financial assets include investments, trade and other receivables, derivatives and cash and 
cash equivalents. 
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its obligations in respect of these 
instruments to the Group. 
With regard to trade receivables, Group policy is only to deal with counterparties with an appropriate 
credit rating. Furthermore, credit risk relating to trade receivables is considered lower than average due 
to the nature of our clients being large blue chip corporates and companies involved in government-
funded infrastructure work. Our clients are also spread across diverse industries and geographical areas. 
Appropriate credit checks are undertaken on potential customers before sales commence. 
Market risk 
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency 
exchange rates and interest rates. 
Foreign currency exchange risk 
Material currency exposures arising from trading transactions at most of the Group’s businesses are 
covered as they arise.   
The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.  
The derivative instruments used are foreign exchange swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.  
The Group does not trade in financial instruments, so there are no derivatives held for trading purposes. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary 
liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: 
    Liabilities Assets 
£ million    2009 2008 2009 2008
Australian Dollar             - (1.1) 41.1 50.9
US Dollar              -            - 3.2 7.4
South African Rand             -            - 9.6 9.5
Other  (0.1) (0.1) 15.1 13.1
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     75 
 
25 Financial instruments (continued) 
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis 
An analysis of cash and cash equivalents by currency is set out above.  As none of these balances are 
hedged, the Group’s sensitivity to currency gains or losses upon these balances is proportional to their 
values.  Significantly all such translation gains or losses would be reported within equity. 
The Group is mainly exposed to Australian Dollars, US Dollars and South African Rand.  
The following table details the Group’s sensitivities to a 10% increase and decrease in pounds sterling 
against the respective foreign currencies. The 10% is the rate used when reporting foreign currency risk 
internally to key management personnel, and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably 
possible change in foreign exchange rates in a normal year. The sensitivity analysis includes only 
outstanding foreign currency-denominated monetary items, and adjusts their translation at the period 
end for a 10%  change in foreign currency rates. The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well 
as loans to foreign operations within the Group where the denomination of the loan is in a currency 
other than the currency of the lender or the borrower. A positive number in the table indicates an 
increase in other equity where the pound sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency. For a 
10% weakening of the pound sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and 
opposite impact on other equity, and the balances in the tables would be negative. 
 
      Consolidated 
£ million      2009 2008
Australian Dollar  
Other equity (4.1)        (5.0)
US Dollar   
Other equity (0.3)        (0.7)
South African Rand  
Other equity (1.0)        (1.0)
Forward foreign exchange contract 
The sterling values of operating profits arising in other currencies are not hedged.  Consequently, the 
sterling value of overseas profits remains subject to currency exchange movements.  The Group does 
not normally use net investment hedging to protect the sterling value of its non-sterling assets and no 
such hedging was used in 2008 or 2009. 
 
The following comprise the book and fair values of foreign exchange contracts at each respective year 
end: 
    2009 2008 
    Book Fair Book Fair 
£ million    Value Value Value Value 
Foreign exchange contracts:  
Forward exchange contracts - - 1.7 1.7
All forward foreign exchange contracts are settled within a year. 
At the statement of financial position date, the total notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange 
contracts that the Group has committed was £2.0 million (2008: £7.8 million). 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     76 
 
25 Financial instruments (continued) 
Positive fair values for derivative financial instruments are disclosed as assets in the consolidated 
statement of financial position and negative fair value derivative financial instruments are disclosed as 
liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position.   
Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will 
fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.   
Due to the significant cash balances held by the Group, the Group is exposed to credit risks with 
counterparty banks. In particular, the Group has cash balances with banks located in the Republic of 
South Africa, Australia, China and the United States; and consequently has an exposure to those 
banking sectors.  The balances are held with large commercial banks. 
The Group has no outstanding interest rate hedges.  The Group’s only significant interest rate 
exposures are in respect of interest receivable on cash balances. 
The weighted average interest rates applied are as follows: 
Year ended 31 December 2009 
Interest rate (%)  GBP AUD ZAR USD Other Total
Cash  0.7% 3.2% 7.7% 0.7% 0.8% 2.2%
Year ended 31 December 2008 
Interest rate (%)  GBP AUD ZAR USD Other Total
Cash  5.5% 6.5% 12.7% 1.1% 1.2% 6.1%
All Group cash balances and borrowings attract interest at floating rates, thus exposing the Group to 
cash flow interest risk. A 1% change in interest rate would impact income by about £1.3 million (2008: 
£1.0 million). 
The directors estimate that the fair value of the Group’s cash balances and borrowings are equal to the 
book value shown.    
The other principal features of the Group’s cash balances and borrowings are as follows: 
(i) Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand; 
(ii) No overdrafts (2008: £nil) have been secured by a charge over certain of the Group’s assets. 
 
Intra-group loan economic hedges 
The Group has taken out financial instruments to economically hedge the sterling value of loans 
granted (or payable) by Delta plc and other Group companies, where the loan is not in Delta plc’s 
functional currency (pounds sterling).  The financial instruments used are forward foreign exchange 
contracts.    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     77 
 
 
26 Trade and other payables  
£ million       2009 2008 
Amounts falling due within one year:         
Trade payables       32.4 21.9 
Other payables       11.1 12.1 
Other taxation and social security payables     2.2 3.5 
Accruals and deferred income     14.5 16.2 
        60.2 53.7 
Amounts falling due in more than one year:        
Other payables       1.2 1.1 
Other taxation and social security payables     - 0.1 
Accruals and deferred income     - 3.1 
        1.2 4.3 
       61.4 58.0 
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair 
value. 
The average credit period on purchases of supplies is 50 days (2008: 43 days).  Arrangements differ 
between business units regarding the payment of interest on outstanding balances.  The Group has 
financial risk management policies in place to ensure that payables are paid within credit timeframes.   
27 Borrowings 
      
At At
      
31 December 31 December
£ million 
 
2009 2008
Bank loans  - 1.1
Finance lease liabilities 0.1 0.1
  0.1 1.2
Bank loans of £nil (2008: £1.1 million) are unsecured. 
At 31 December 2009, the Group had available £10.8 million (2008: £0.4 million) of undrawn 
committed facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met. The increase from 2008 
relates to a new facility established by Delta EMD South Africa during the year amounting to £10.3 
million.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     78 
 
27 Borrowings (continued) 
The directors estimate that the fair value of the finance lease liabilities is equal to the book value 
shown. 
Finance lease liabilities 
    Minimum lease payments 
Present value of minimum 
lease payments 
    
At At At At 
        
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 
£ million       2009 2008 2009 2008 
No later than 1 year                  0.1             0.1  0.1              0.1  
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years               -                 -                 -                 -   
Later than 5 years                   -                 -                 -                 -   
Less future finance charges                 -                 -                 -                 -   
Present value of minimum lease payments              0.1             0.1               0.1            0.1  
Finance leases relate to vehicles with lease terms of up to 5 years.  The Group's obligations under 
finance leases are secured by the lessors' title to the leased assets.   
  
28 Provisions  
    Restructuring Disposed   
£ million    provisions
(i) 
entities
(ii) 
Other
(iii) 
Total 
At 31 December 2008            0.9           1.5           3.8            6.2 
Additional provisions in the year 0.1 1.1 3.4               4.6
Utilisation of provisions in the year              (0.7)             (1.1) (1.4)              (3.2)
Release of provisions in the year -             (0.4) -              (0.4)
Exchange adjustments                -              -              0.7               0.7
At 31 December 2009             0.3           1.1           6.5            7.9
Analysed as:   
Current liabilities  0.3 0.7 2.0 3.0
Non-current liabilities                - 0.4 4.5 4.9
             0.3            1.1          6.5            7.9 
(i)
 Restructuring provisions relate to the closure of the EMD Australian business (see note 12).    
(ii)
 Provisions in respect of disposed entities relate to the current estimate of future liabilities expected to arise as a result 
of businesses disposed.  
(iii)
 Includes rehabilitation and employee-related provisions.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     79 
29 Deferred tax 
(Assets)/liabilities  Accelerated 
£ million 
Accelerated tax 
depreciation of 
plant and 
equipment 
tax 
depreciation 
and timing 
differences of 
property
Unremitted 
earnings Tax losses
Accrued leave 
and other 
timing 
differences Total
At 31 December 
2007 5.1 1.2 0.1 (4.4) (2.2) (0.2)
(Credit)/charge 
to income for the 
year (2.3) - - 3.6 (1.8) (0.5)
Exchange 
differences (0.1) 0.1 - (0.1) (0.6) (0.7)
At 31 December 
2008 2.7 1.3 0.1 (0.9) (4.6) (1.4)
Charge/(credit) 
to income for the 
year (0.3) (0.2) - 0.6 0.2 0.3
Exchange 
differences 0.5 0.2 - 0.1 (0.4) 0.4
At 31 December 
2009 2.9 1.3 0.1 (0.2) (4.8) (0.7)
 
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Group’s accounting 
policy.  The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balance (after offset) for statement of financial 
position  purposes: 
 
£ million   2009 2008
Deferred tax liabilities 4.9 4.6
Deferred tax assets (5.6) (6.0)
   (0.7) (1.4)
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     80 
29 Deferred tax (continued) 
Deferred tax not recognised 
£ million  2009 2008
Capital losses  (90.0) (71.8)
Tax losses  (19.9) (14.0)
Property, plant and equipment (0.2) (6.9)
Retirement benefit obligations (7.0) (10.9)
Unremitted foreign earnings 1.4 33.9
  (115.7) (69.7)
Deferred tax has not been recognised where it has been assumed that the deferred tax asset is not 
recoverable.  The amount of deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits 
for which no deferred tax is recognised at the statement of financial position date is £416.9 million 
(2008: £246.0 million) together with Virginia, USA state tax losses of £7.8 million at a tax rate of 6% 
(2008: £8.7 million).   
The substantial increase in capital losses arose in connection with the liquidation of a subsidiary. This 
crystallised a loss partly originating from the sale of Netherlands electrical trades in 2003, and partly 
from transactions in earlier years. However, the relevant submissions have not yet been agreed with 
HM Revenue and Customs, hence deferred tax has not been recognised.   
The accumulated losses reported by the Group for tax purposes in various tax jurisdictions include the 
following, most of which were incurred by disposed businesses.  The following figures are subject to 
audit by tax authorities and do not include amounts recognised as deferred tax assets that are expected 
to be utilised in future: £62 million in the UK (2008: £44 million), and £nil in Australia (2008: £3 
million).  The UK and Australian tax losses have no applicable expiry date.  The future use, if any, of 
these accumulated losses will depend upon applicable tax rules and regulations, and upon the Group 
generating appropriate taxable income in those countries.  Consequently, the figures include losses 
which it is improbable that the Group will be able to utilise in the future.   
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of temporary differences in the UK as there is 
insufficient evidence that the asset will be recovered.  The amount of the deductible temporary 
differences not recognised relates to capital allowances in excess of depreciation: £0.8 million (2008: 
£23.9 million). The asset would be recovered if there were sufficient UK profits in the future.  
No deferred tax has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and 
joint venture. The temporary differences at 31 December 2009 are significantly reduced from the 
previous year as a result of a change to UK tax legislation which largely exempts from UK tax, 
overseas dividends received on or after 1 July 2009. The temporary difference on unremitted foreign 
earnings in 2009 is in respect of secondary taxation on future distributions from South Africa.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     81 
30 Share capital, share premium and Employee Share Ownership Trust 
Share capital and share premium 
£ million    2009 2008
Share capital:   
Ordinary Shares 38.5 38.5
Preference Shares 2.8 2.8
 41.3 41.3
 
Ordinary shares 
  
 
Ordinary share capital Share premium 
£ million 2009 2008 2009 2008
Authorised:   
188 million ordinary shares of 25p each 47.0 47.0 - -
Issued and fully paid:  
At the beginning of the year 38.5 38.5 34.0 34.0
Exercise of share options - - - -
 38.5 38.5 34.0 34.0
The Company has one class of ordinary share. 
The total number of authorised ordinary shares was 188,000,000 (2008: 188,000,000) and 153,763,755 
were shares allotted and fully paid at 31 December 2009 (2008: 153,763,755).    
Preference shares 
£ million 2009 2008
Authorised:  
1,000,000 6% Cumulative first preference shares 1.0 1.0
2,000,000 4.5% Cumulative second preference shares 2.0 2.0
 3.0 3.0
Issued and fully paid:  
   866,152 6% Cumulative first preference shares 0.9 0.9
1,940,000 4.5% Cumulative second preference shares 1.9 1.9
 2.8 2.8
The total number of authorised cumulative first preference shares was 1,000,000 (2008: 1,000,000) and 
866,152 shares allotted and fully paid at 31 December 2009 (2008: 866,152).   The total number of 
authorised cumulative second preference shares was 2,000,000 (2008: 2,000,000) and 1,940,000 shares 
allotted and fully paid at 31 December 2009 (2008: 1,940,000).   The preference shares are not 
redeemable.     Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     82 
30 Share capital, share premium and Employee Share Ownership Trust (continued) 
Employee Share Ownership Trust  
Shares in the ESOT are valued at their original cost and deducted from equity.  The dividends on the 
shares held in the ESOT are waived except to the extent of 0.01p per share.   
In lieu of issuing new shares, it is intended that all share-based incentives will be satisfied through the 
Delta plc ESOT by way of market purchase.  During the year, 111,600 shares were purchased to satisfy 
share-based incentives at an average share price of 171p (2008: 962,500 shares at 119p).                      
At 31 December 2009, the four shares (2008: 1,537,197 shares) held by the ESOT had a market value 
of £nil (2008: £1.3 million).   
£ million 2009 2008
Balance at 1 January 2009 2.1 2.2
Acquisition of shares  - 1.1
Satisfaction of options (0.6) (0.9)
Cash remitted by Trustees (1.3) (0.3)
Balance at 31 December 2009 0.2 2.1
During the year, the Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT) satisfied options granted under the 1999 
Delta Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) totalling 1,576,661 shares (2008: 617,670 shares) and  
awards made under the Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) totalling 72,132 shares; none of these shares 
were cash settled. However, there were no awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan 2006 (“DBP”) 
(2008: 7,203 shares), and no awards in regards to the Save As You Earn and International Save As You 
Earn share option schemes (2008: 66,341 shares).  
31 Translation reserve 
   Foreign 
   currency 
   translation 
£ million     reserve 
(i)
 
Balance at 31 December 2007   (0.8) 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations     27.9 
Balance at 31 December 2008   27.1 
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations   10.2 
Balance at 31 December 2009     37.3 
 
(i)
  Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign operations on consolidation are included within the 
foreign currency translation reserve.  Cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero at the IFRS transition 
date of 4 January 2004.  Any gains and losses recognised in the consolidated income statement on subsequent disposal of 
foreign operations will therefore exclude translation differences prior to that transition date.    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     83 
32 Retained earnings 
£ million   Notes Total 
Balance at 31 December 2007     159.0 
Dividends paid    14 (8.2) 
Loss for the year    (8.5) 
Share-based payments    0.4 
Satisfaction of share options by ESOT    (0.8) 
Actuarial losses for year   40 (12.5) 
IAS 19 defined benefit pension asset recoverability assessment   40 9.5 
Balance at 31 December 2008    138.9 
Dividends paid    14 (10.9) 
Profit for the year    31.0 
Share-based payments    0.5 
Satisfaction of share options by ESOT    (0.6) 
Actuarial losses for year   40 (75.6) 
Balance at 31 December 2009     83.3 
33 Minority interests 
£ million   Notes Total 
Balance at 31 December 2007     27.5 
Dividends paid    14 (2.9) 
Share of capital distribution     (3.2) 
Exchange adjustments     1.6 
Share of profit for the year     5.3 
Balance at 31 December 2008     28.3 
Dividends paid    14 (10.5) 
Exchange adjustments     3.5 
Share of profit for the year     8.7 
Balance at 31 December 2009     30.0 
34 Related party transactions 
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated 
on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.  Transactions between the Group and its associates 
are disclosed below: 
 Sale of goods Purchase of goods
(1)
 
Amounts owed to 
related parties 
(1)
 
Amounts owed by 
related parties
 (2)
 
£ million 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 
Associates  - - (1.1) (4.8) (0.1) (0.5) - 0.2 
 
(1)
 The purchase of goods, and amounts owed to related parties relate to the supply of Manganese products by the 
Associate MMC. 
(2)
 The amounts owed by related parties is a loan due by the associate PT Bukit. 
 
The key management are considered to be the Board of Directors.  The remuneration of the directors is 
set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.   
 
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     84 
35 Disposal of businesses 
Continuing operations 
Effective 3 July 2009, the Group sold its machine tool manufacturing business in Manchester, UK for a 
total gross consideration of £0.5 million, of which £0.1 million is deferred consideration.  The loss on 
sale totalled £0.4 million.   
The net assets of the business at the date of disposal and at the end of the comparative year were as 
follows:    
    At At 
    date of 31 December 
£ million   disposal 2008 
Property, plant and equipment   0.5 0.5 
Inventories   0.1 0.1 
Trade and other receivables   0.5 0.5 
Trade and other payables   (0.2) (0.2) 
Net assets   0.9 0.9 
Net assets disposed   0.9 0.9 
Pre-tax (loss) on disposal of business   (0.4) 
Total consideration   0.5 
The total consideration for the business was satisfied as follows: 
    At date of 
£ million   disposal 
Cash   0.4 
Deferred consideration   0.1 
    0.5 
All of the £0.1 million deferred consideration is current.   
The net cash inflow arising on the disposal of the business was as follows: 
    At date of 
£ million   disposal 
Net cash consideration received   0.5 
Overdrafts disposed of   - 
    0.5 
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Manchester business contributed £nil to operating profit, 
contributed £nil to the Group’s net operating cash flows, contributed £nil to investing cash flows, and 
contributed £nil to financing cash flows.  In the year ended 31 December 2008, the Manchester 
business contributed £0.2 million to operating profit, contributed £0.1 million to the Group’s net 
operating cash flows, contributed £nil to investing cash flows, and contributed £nil to financing cash 
flows.   
Results through to the date of sale have been reported as part of the Engineered Steel Products segment 
within continuing operations. The loss on sale has also been reported within continuing operations.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     85 
36 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement  
£ million   2009 2008
Operating profit from continuing operations  50.4 39.9
Operating profit  50.4 39.9
    
Business closure costs 0.4 2.8
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 7.9 6.5
Amortisation of other intangible assets 0.1 0.3
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2.1 -
Reversal of provisions on disposed businesses - (0.3)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment - (6.0)
Movement in provisions  1.4 0.8
Movement in derivatives 1.7 (1.7)
Expense for share options 0.5 0.4
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 64.5 42.7
    
Decrease in inventories 12.5 7.6
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 8.3 (3.4)
Increase in payables 1.1 2.1
   21.9 6.3
Cash generated by operations before tax 86.4 49.0
Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated cash flow statement are reconciled to the consolidated 
statement of financial position as follows: 
£ million     2009 2008
Cash   144.2 108.1
Bank overdrafts  - -
Cash and cash equivalents per the consolidated cash flow statement 144.2 108.1
37 Contingent liabilities 
£ million     2009 2008
Financial guarantees 1.2 3.2
Other contingent liabilities 5.0 2.7
 6.2 5.9
Financial Guarantees 
It is not expected that any loss will arise in respect of these financial guarantees all of which were 
undertaken in the ordinary course of business. 
Other Contingent Liabilities 
The 2007 disposal of a German subsidiary included an indemnity provided to the purchaser for certain 
potential liabilities that may arise.  This was secured by a letter of credit amounting to €3 million   
(£2.7 million) which is included in other contingent liabilities. 
Following the Group’s 2005 disposal of its South African Industrial Services businesses, a tax 
assessment was received by a South African subsidiary company which resulted in a tax refund as 
reported in the Group’s 2007 accounts.  During 2009 a revised assessment of ZAR 27 million          
(£2.3 million) was issued by the South African tax authorities for additional capital gains taxation in 
respect of this disposal.  The Group has objected to the revised assessment, and £2.3 million has been 
included in other contingent liabilities in respect of this. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     86 
37     Contingent liabilities (continued) 
Other Matters 
During 2009 the US Internal Revenue Service issued summons requesting documentation related to 
UPC Holdings Inc. and the tax year ended 31 December 2001.  The Group disposed of the shares of 
UPC Holdings Inc. to DAI Acquisition Corp. on 29 December 2000 for approximately US$100 
million.  At that time, UPC Holdings Inc. held the shares of United Power Corporation, the Group's 
former power quality business.  Documents describing the transaction were provided to the Internal 
Revenue Service during September 2009, and no further correspondence has been received.  At this 
point in time, it is unclear whether any Group company is a target of the Internal Revenue Service's 
examination, however given the size and nature of the transaction further enquiry might follow. A 
contingent liability has not been quantified because the possibility of any liability arising from this 
matter is considered to be remote.  
38 Operating lease commitments  
At the statement of financial position date, the aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under 
non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 
 
£ million       2009 2008 
Within one year       4.5 4.0 
In the second to fifth years inclusive     8.4 8.0 
After five years       11.3 10.9 
Total commitments under operating leases   24.2 22.9 
Operating lease commitments relate to operating leases over property, plant and equipment in 
businesses throughout the Group. 
39 Share-based payments 
IFRS 2: Share-based payments has only been applied to equity instruments that were granted after         
7 November 2002 and that had not vested before 1 January 2005. 
Included within staff costs are IFRS 2 expenses related to share-based payments totalling £0.5 million 
(2008: £0.4 million).   
Save As You Earn schemes 
The Company has a scheme in place known as “Save As You Earn” (SAYE), and its international 
equivalent, known as “International Save As You Earn” (ISAYE).  There have been no SAYE or 
ISAYE grants since October 2002 (and thus this share-based payment scheme does not fall under the 
provisions of IFRS 2).  Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of 
the Company’s shares on the date of grant. In normal circumstances the options mature either 36, 60 or 
84 months following grant and can be exercised within six months of the relevant maturity date.  
Options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the option vests. 
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) 
The Company has a share option scheme for executives of the Group.  Options are exercisable at a 
price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant. The 
options are exercisable between three and ten years after the date on which the options were granted 
subject to performance criteria being met.  Options are forfeited if the executive leaves the Group 
before the options vest.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     87 
39 Share-based payments (continued) 
ESOS was approved by shareholders at the May 1999 Annual General Meeting.  The scheme was 
amended in 2002 to reflect the preferences of certain institutional investors.  Grants under the ESOS 
were made annually and had values of up to one times annual salary.  No grants have been made since 
2005.   
ESOS options are subject to the following performance conditions: 
(a) granted before 29 June 2001, on or before the tenth anniversary of the grant date: 
- earnings per share growth over a period of at least three consecutive years must equal or 
exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 3% per annum; and 
- earnings per share before exceptional items must equal or exceed twenty pence. 
 (b) granted on or after 29 June 2001, on or before the sixth anniversary of the grant date: 
- earnings per share growth over a period of at least three consecutive years must equal or 
exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 3% per annum. 
Details of the share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 
  2009 2008 
    Weighted   Weighted 
  Number average Number average 
  of share exercise of share exercise 
  options price (p) options price (p) 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,836,318 114.2 2,524,339 112.7 
(Forfeited) during the year (83,000) 154.0 (391,369) 120.7 
(Exercised) during the year (1,576,661) 109.0 (296,652) 92.9 
Outstanding at the end of the year 176,657 141.4 1,836,318 114.2 
Exercisable at the end of the year 176,657 141.4 1,836,318 114.2 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 
156.7p (2008: 111.8p).   
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 
2.2 years (2008: 4.8 years) and have exercise prices ranging from 120p to 150p. 
There were no options granted under this scheme in 2009 or 2008.  The scheme was replaced by the 
Performance Share Plan which was approved by shareholders on 28 April 2006.   
The Group recognised total expenses of £nil (2008: £nil) relating to the above equity-settled ESOS 
during the year.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     88 
39 Share-based payments (continued) 
Share Award Scheme for Chief Executive 
Details of the share award outstanding during the year are as follows: 
  2009 2008 
    Weighted   Weighted 
  Number average Number average 
  of share exercise of share exercise 
 options price (p) options price (p) 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year - - 264,961 Nil 
Dividends paid as share award during the year - - 56,057 Nil 
(Exercised) during the year - - (321,018) Nil 
Outstanding at the end of the year - - - - 
Exercisable at the end of the year - - - - 
The Group recognised an expense of £nil (2008: £0.1 million) related to the above equity-settled share 
award scheme during the year. 
Performance Share Plan 
The Performance Share Plan was introduced in 2006 to replace the ESOS.  The conditional awards 
generally have a three-year vesting period and an exercise price of £nil.  The extent to which an award 
under the plan may vest will be determined by the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) 
performance over the three-year period commencing the start of the financial year in which the grant 
was made against the TSR performance of the constituents of the FTSE SmallCap Index (excluding 
investment trusts) over the same period.  For median performance, one quarter may vest, rising 
proportionally to full vesting for upper quartile performance.  
Regardless of the Company’s TSR performance, no part of an award under the plan will vest unless the 
Financial Underpin Condition is met, the Financial Underpin Condition being that the Remuneration 
Committee considers that the Company’s underlying financial performance over the same measurement 
period is satisfactory. 
Awards are forfeited if the executive leaves the Group before the awards vest. 
Details of the share awards outstanding during the year are as follows: 
  2009 2008 
    Weighted   Weighted 
  Number average Number average 
  of share exercise of share exercise 
  options price (p) options price (p) 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,085,631 Nil 640,844 Nil 
Granted during the year 524,357 Nil 763,810 Nil 
(Exercised) during the year (72,132) Nil - - 
(Forfeited) during the year (27,586) Nil (319,023) Nil 
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,510,270 Nil 1,085,631 Nil 
Exercisable at the end of the year 140,280 Nil - -
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 
118.0p.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     89 
39 Share-based payments (continued) 
The awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.3 
years and have an exercise price of £nil (2008: 1.7 years and had an exercise price of £nil). 
In 2009, an award was granted on 26 March (2008: 28 March).  The estimated fair value of the award 
granted on this date was 95.7p (2008: 46.5p).  The total fair value was £501,810 (2008: £355,172). The 
fair values were calculated using a stochastic model.  The inputs used for fair valuing awards granted 
during 2009 were as follows: 
   2009 2008 
Weighted average share price at date of grant   108.5p 92.0p 
Weighted average exercise price   £nil £nil 
Weighted average expected volatility   37.4% 28.6% 
Weighted average expected life   3.0 years 3.0 years 
Risk-free rate   1.73% 4.0% 
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price 
over a historical period commensurate with the expected performance period for the award.  
Participants are entitled to receive the dividends that would have been received on the vested shares 
therefore the dividend yield does not impact on the valuation of the awards. 
The Group recognised total expenses of £0.3 million (2008: £0.2 million) related to the above equity-
settled share-based Performance Share Plan during the year.   
Deferred Bonus Plan 
The Deferred Bonus Plan was introduced in 2006.  One half of any bonus payable under the scheme is 
paid in cash with the other half being deferred in ordinary shares in the Company.   
Deferred bonus share awards are forfeited on cessation of employment prior to the third anniversary of 
award, except in the case of “good leavers” in which case the deferred shares are released early. 
Details of the share awards outstanding during the year are as follows: 
  2009 2008 
    Weighted   Weighted 
  Number average Number average 
  of share exercise of share exercise 
  options price (p) options price (p) 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 422,592 Nil 182,680 Nil 
Granted during the year 357,120 Nil 343,287 Nil 
(Forfeited) during the year - - (96,172) Nil 
(Vested) during the year - - (7,203) Nil 
Outstanding at the end of the year 779,712 Nil 422,592 Nil 
Exercisable at the end of the year - - - - 
The awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.5 
years and have an exercise price of £nil. (2008: 2.0 years and had an exercise price of £nil). 
In 2009, an award was granted on 26 March (2008: 27 March).  The estimated fair value of the award 
granted on this date was 93.4p (2008: 83.6p).  The total fair value was £333,550 (2008: £286,988).  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     90 
39 Share-based payments (continued) 
The fair values were calculated using Black-Scholes option pricing model.  The inputs used for fair 
valuing awards granted during 2009 were as follows: 
      2009 2008 
Weighted average share price at date of grant     108.5p 91.5p 
Weighted average exercise price     £nil £nil 
Weighted average expected volatility     37.4% 25.0% 
Weighted average expected life     3.0 years 3.0 years 
Risk free rate     1.73% 4.5% 
Expected dividend yield     5.0% 3.0% 
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price 
over a historical period commensurate with the expected performance period for the award.  
Participants are not entitled to receive the dividends that would have been received on the vested 
shares.  The share awards were issued for £nil consideration and the exercise price is £nil.   
The Group recognised total expenses of £0.2 million (2008: £0.1 million) related to the above equity-
settled Deferred Bonus Plan during the year.   
40 Retirement benefit schemes 
Defined contribution schemes 
The Group operates a number of defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for qualifying 
employees. The related pension assets are held in trustee-administered funds separate from the 
company, unless required otherwise by local best practice and regulations.  The total cost charged to 
income of £3.5 million (2008: £3.3 million) represents contributions payable to those schemes by the 
Group at rates specified in the rules of the respective schemes.  
Defined benefit scheme 
The Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme for qualifying employees in the United Kingdom 
via the Delta Pension Plan (DPP).  Under the DPP, participants are entitled to pension retirement 
benefits of 1.67% of final salary per year of service on attainment of a retirement age of 65 years.   
The Group has opted to recognise all actuarial gains and losses immediately via the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     91 
40 Retirement benefit schemes (continued) 
Details of valuation assumptions for the purposes of this Annual Report 
The most recent actuarial valuation of the DPP’s assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes 
was performed at 31 December 2009 by independent actuaries Xafinity Consulting Limited.   The 
projected unit credit method was used for valuation purposes.  The projected unit credit method is an 
accrued benefits valuation method in which the plan liabilities make allowance for projected earnings.   
The actuarial valuation used the following principal assumptions: 
    2009 2008 
Discount rate   5.7% 6.3% 
Inflation rate   3.6% 2.5% 
Expected return on equity instruments   7.5% 7.0% 
Expected return on debt instruments   5.7% 6.3% 
Expected return on cash 
Expected return on property   
2.0% 
7.5% 
5.0% 
7.0% 
Expected rate of salary increases   4.6% 3.5% 
Future pension increases   3.5% 3.0% 
Mortality assumptions:   PxA92 MC PxA92MC 
     1%(m)/0.75%(f)  
Expected future lifetimes from age 65    
    - Males aged 45   24.6 years 23.1 years 
    - Females aged 45   27.0 years 25.9 years 
    - Males aged 65   22.6 years 22.0 years 
    - Females aged 65   25.4years 24.9 years 
The expected return on DPP assets is a blended average of projected long-term returns for the various 
asset classes. Asset class returns are based on a forward-looking building block approach. Equity 
returns are developed based on the selection of an equity risk premium above the risk-free rate which is 
measured in accordance with yields on government bonds. Returns on property are assumed to be the 
same as those on equities. Bond returns are selected by reference to the yields on government and 
corporate debt as appropriate to the DPP holdings of these instruments.  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     92 
40 Retirement benefit schemes (continued) 
The estimated sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities 
as above are set out as follows: 
Assumption   Change in assumption  Impact on scheme liabilities 
Discount rate   Increase/decrease by 0.5% Decrease/increase by 11% 
Inflation rate   Increase/decrease by 0.5% Increase/decrease by 11% 
Rate of salary growth  Increase/decrease by 0.5% Increase/decrease 0.1% 
Rate of mortality   Increase by 1 year  Increase by 2% 
Amounts included in the consolidated income statement 
The amounts recognised in respect of the defined benefit scheme are as follows: 
£ million Notes 2009 2008 
Current service cost   (0.2) (0.4) 
Expected interest on defined benefit pension scheme liabilities 10 (12.4) (25.1) 
Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 9 12.3 23.5 
Amounts charged  to the consolidated income statement  (0.3) (2.0) 
Actuarial losses in consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income  (75.6) (12.5) 
   (75.9) (14.5) 
Current service cost is included in administrative expenses. 
Amounts included in the consolidated statement of financial position 
The aggregated amount recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position in respect of the 
Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are as follows:   
£ million 2009 2008 
Fair value of plan assets 217.8 194.7 
Present value of plan liabilities (289.0) (197.2) 
Net defined benefit deficit before consideration of the IAS 19 asset 
recoverability assessment (71.2) (2.5) 
Adjustment in respect of the IAS 19 asset recoverability assessment - - 
Net consolidated statement of financial position retirement benefit liability (71.2) (2.5) 
 
The cumulative amount of net actuarial losses taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income is £37.5 million since the date of transition to IFRS.   
Reconciliations of movements in the consolidated statement of financial position 
Overall movements in the present value of DPP were as follows: 
£ million 2009 2008 
Net liability/(asset) at start of year 2.5 (9.5) 
Current service cost 0.2 0.4 
Contributions (7.2) (50.3) 
Settlement - 47.8 
Net interest expense 0.1 1.6 
Actuarial losses 75.6 12.5 
Net liability at end of year 71.2 2.5 
The above aggregated table can be split into the following liabilities and assets tables.   
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     93 
40 Retirement benefit schemes (continued) 
Movements in the present value of DPP liabilities were as follows: 
£ million 2009 2008 
Opening present value of plan liabilities 197.2 631.2 
Service cost 0.2 0.4 
Interest cost 12.4 25.1 
Contributions 0.1 0.1 
Settlement - (413.7) 
Actuarial losses/(gains) 86.1 (27.3) 
Benefits paid (7.0) (18.6) 
Closing present value of plan liabilities 289.0 197.2 
 
Movements in the fair value of DPP assets were as follows: 
£ million 2009 2008 
Opening fair value of plan assets 194.7 640.7 
Expected return on plan assets 12.3 23.5 
Settlement - (461.5) 
Actuarial gains/(losses) 10.6 (39.8) 
Employer contributions 7.1 50.3 
Member contributions 0.1 0.1 
Benefits paid (7.0) (18.6) 
Closing fair value of plan assets 217.8 194.7 
The actual return on DPP assets was £22.9 million (2008: £(16.3) million). 
Following completion of the triennial valuation at 31 March 2009 employer contributions have been set 
at £6.3million per annum in accordance with the Plan’s 10-year recovery plan, along with a 
contribution to cover the administrative costs of the Plan of approximately £1.0 million per annum.  In 
addition the Group will continue to make regular contributions to cover the accrual of future benefits 
for existing staff. 
Further analysis of DPP’s assets 
Scheme assets are analysed as follows: 
£ million 2009 2008 
Equity instruments 9.6 5.3 
Debt instruments  200.3 175.7 
Property 
Cash 
0.2 
7.7 
10.5 
3.2 
  217.8 194.7 
 
Percentage 2009 2008 
Equity instruments 4% 3% 
Debt instruments  92% 90% 
Property 
Cash 
0% 
4% 
5% 
2% 
  100% 100% 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     94 
40 Retirement benefit schemes (continued) 
The expected rates of return on each of the scheme assets are disclosed in the valuation 
assumptions section above. The DPP assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial 
instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group. 
Five-year history 
The five-year history of aggregate experience adjustments is as follows: 
£ million 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
Fair value of scheme liabilities 289.0 197.2 631.2 652.0 672.8 
Fair value of scheme (assets) (217.8) (194.7) (640.7) (651.8) (670.6) 
Deficit/(surplus) in the schemes 71.2 2.5 (9.5) 0.2 2.2 
Experience adjustments on schemes’ 
liabilities           
Losses/(gains) (£m) 86.1 (27.3) (20.8) (14.2) 47.4 
Percentage of schemes’ liabilities 29.79% (13.84)% (3.30)% (2.18)% 7.05% 
Experience adjustments on schemes’ assets        
Losses/(gains) (£m) 10.6 (39.8) (11.9) (12.4) 60.0 
Percentage of schemes’ assets 4.87% (20.44)% (1.86)% (1.90)% 8.95% 
 
 
Additional information with respect to the DPP  
Triennial valuation 
The next triennial valuation for the DPP is due as of 31 March 2012. At the last valuation, as of           
31 March 2009, the DPP’s assets totalled £184.3 million and its liabilities totalled £232.8 million, 
resulting in a net deficit of £48.5 million.  The following assumptions were employed: discount rate 
5.9%; annual increase in pensionable earnings: 3.4%; annual pension increases: from 2.2% to 3.0%; 
cash commutation: 25%; and price inflation: 2.4%.  Mortality tables used were PxA92MC with a 
1%(m)/0.75%(f) floor, for both pensioner and non-pensioner members.   Further details, including 
major extracts of the valuation report, can be found on our website (www.deltaplc.com).   
Analysis of scheme assets 
The scheme assets of the Delta Pension Plan at 31 December 2009 may be further analysed as follows: 
£ million   2009 
UK index tracking equity instruments   3.3 
Non UK index tracking equity instruments   6.3 
Total equity instruments   9.6 
UK corporate bonds 
UK government bonds – index linked   
190.2
10.1 
Total debt instruments and insured policies   209.9 
Property 
Cash   
0.2
7.7 
    217.8 
Of the above table’s asset values, 96.4 % is managed by Legal & General Investment Management and 
0.1% by Blackrock Investment Management (UK) Ltd, a total of 96.5%.  The Trustee receives advice 
regarding investment strategy and asset allocation from Towers Watson.    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     95 
40 Retirement benefit schemes (continued) 
Participant population 
The Group continues to make pension contributions to the DPP for current participants.  
In the following tables, ‘M’ denotes Male, ‘F’ denotes Female, and ‘T’ denotes Total. ‘Current’ denotes 
participants in current employment with the Group’s UK businesses. ‘Deferred’ denotes  participants 
who have departed the Group’s UK businesses, however are not yet drawing a pension. ‘Pensioners’ 
are those in receipt of a pension. 
The number of plan participants as at 31 December 2009 for the years below was as follows: 
Number of participants Current Deferred Pensioners Total 
5 April 2004 94 10,291 10,845 21,230 
5 April 2005 86 9,681 10,799 20,566 
5 April 2006 79 7,824 10,600 18,503 
5 April 2007 72 7,564 10,349 17,985 
31 December 2008 57 7,114 197 7,368 
31 December 2009 7 6,694 507 7,208 
The 7,208 plan participants at 31 December 2009 may be analysed as follows: 
  Current Deferred Pensioners Total 
Age M F T M F T M F T M F T 
25-34 - - - 125 54 179 - - - 125 54 179 
35-44 - 1 1 820 459 1,279 - 1 1 820 461 1,281 
45-54 2 3 5 1,709 636 2,345 18 28 46 1,729 667 2,396 
55-64 1 - 1 2,153 314 2,467 123 118 241 2,277 432 2,709 
65-74 - - - 307 12 319 200 12 212 507 24 531 
75-84 - - - 103 2 105 4 3 7 107 5 112 
Total 3 4 7 5,217 1,477 6,694 345 162 507 5,565 1,643 7,208 
The liabilities of the Delta Pension Plan as at 31 December 2009 pertained to the participant population 
as follows: 
Age         Current Deferred Pensioners Total 
25-34         - 2.0 - 2.0 
35-44         0.1 35.2 - 35.3 
45-54         0.7 120.4 2.6 123.7 
55-64         0.3 98.0 18.1 116.4 
65-74         - 1.3 10.1 11.4 
75-84         - 0.1 0.1 0.2 
Total         £1.1m £257.0m £30.9m £289.0m 
  
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     96 
 
41 Restatement 
In accordance with IAS 1 (2007) Presentation of Financial Statements, retrospective restatements or 
reclassifications in the financial position has been presented for the current and the past two financial  
years.  
Following the initiation of a sales process in 2008 for the Group’s associate, Manganese Metal 
Company (MMC), the Group recognised the interest as “Asset held for sale” in accordance with IFRS 
5: Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. Uncertainties around this sale 
process have now required the restatement of MMC, to reflect the fact that our share since 30 
September 2009 has been reclassified as continuing. 
Variable costs within Cost of sales and Distributions costs have been reclassified for the 2008 financial 
year in order to be consistent with the current year when disclosing the classification.  
The following table provides a summary of the key changes to the income statement arising from the 
restatement for the comparative year: 
Consolidated income statement - year ended 31 December 2008 
  As     
  previously     
£ million reported Adjustment Restated 
Continuing operations:       
Revenue 330.8  330.8 
Cost of sales (243.8) 5.7 (238.1) 
Gross profit 87.0 5.7 92.7 
Distribution costs and administrative expenses (50.3) (5.7) (56.0) 
Operating profit before exceptional items 36.7  36.7 
Profit before tax before exceptional items 41.9 1.8 43.7 
(Loss)/profit before tax after exceptional items (3.7) 8.2 4.5 
Profit for the year from continuing operations before exceptional items 32.2 1.8 34.0 
Loss for the year from continuing operations after exceptional items (11.9) 8.2 (3.7) 
Discontinued operations: 
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 
8.7 (8.2) 0.5
Continuing and discontinued operations: 
Loss for the year (3.2) (3.2)
The following table provides a summary of the key changes to earnings per share for the comparative 
year arising from the restatement:  
Earnings per share – year ended 31 December 2008 
  As     
  previously     
Pence per share reported Adjustment Restated 
From continuing operations:        
After exceptional items:       
Basic (11.4) 5.4 (6.0) 
Diluted (11.4) 5.4 (6.0) 
Before exceptional items:    
Basic 17.0 1.2 18.2 
Diluted 17.0 1.2 18.2  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     97 
 
41 Restatement (continued) 
The following tables provides a summary of the key changes to the financial position arising from the 
restatement for the comparative years: 
Consolidated statement of financial position  - year ended 31 December 2008  
  As   
  previously   
£ million reported Adjustment Restated 
       
Non-current assets    
Interest in associate and joint venture - 12.4 12.4 
Total non-current assets 100.1 12.4 112.5 
Current assets    
Assets classified as held for sale 12.4 (12.4) - 
Total current assets 240.8 (12.4) 228.4 
Total assets 373.6 - 373.6 
Net assets 225.7 - 225.7 
 
Consolidated statement of financial position  - year ended 31 December 2007  
 
 As   
  previously     
£ million reported Adjustment Restated 
       
Non-current assets    
Interest in associate and joint venture 1.5 2.1 3.6 
Total non-current assets 82.7 2.1 84.8 
Current assets    
Assets classified as held for sale 2.1 (2.1) - 
Total current assets 239.3 (2.1) 237.2 
Total assets 322.0 - 322.0 
Net assets 258.8 - 258.8 
 
 
42 Postbalance sheet events 
Delta EMD Limited 
On 18 January 2010, the Group’s South African subsidiary Delta EMD Limited announced its 
commencement of a process to realise the value of its last operations, which may result in a possible 
disposal of operations. The timing and value of this event is still uncertain. In line with accounting 
guidelines the business is disclosed as continuing operations. It comprises the entire Manganese 
Materials segment in Note 5.  
 
 
 
 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     98 
43 Exchange rates 
   Year Ended Year ended 
   31 December 31 December 
   2009 2008 
Average Exchange Rates     
Australian Dollar   2.00 2.18 
South African Rand   13.05 15.07 
US Dollar   1.56 1.87 
    
   31 December 31 December
   2009 2008 
Closing Exchange Rates    
Australian Dollar   1.79 2.09 
South African Rand   11.89 13.45 
US Dollar   1.61 1.45 
 
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into pound sterling using the exchange rate at 
the balance sheet date and the income statements are translated into pound sterling using the average 
exchange rate for the year.  Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Delta plc 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     99 
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Delta Plc for the year ended 31st 
December 2009 which comprise the Individual Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to16.  
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 
16 of the Companies Act 2006.  Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no 
other purpose.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view.  Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).  Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.  This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2009; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires 
us to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for 
our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
  Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Delta plc 
(continued) 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     100 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of Delta Plc for the year ended 
31st December 2009. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Robert Matthews (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London, United Kingdom 
8 March 2010 
 
  Individual Company Balance Sheet 
at 31 December 2009 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     101 
£ million Notes 2009 2008
Fixed assets   
Investments in Group companies 2 192.6 222.6
 192.6 222.6
Current assets   
Debtors - amounts falling due within one year 3 0.5 0.4
Investments - money market funds on demand  74.9 27.1
Cash at bank and in hand  0.3 0.1
Derivative financial instruments at fair value 14 - 1.7
 75.7 29.3
Current liabilities   
Creditors - amounts falling due within one year   
Borrowings 4 - (8.3)
Other creditors 5 (1.8) (2.3)
 (1.8) (10.6)
Net current assets  73.9 18.7
Total assets less current liabilities  266.5 241.3
  
Net assets excluding pension deficit    266.5 241.3
Pension deficit 10 (71.2) (2.5)
Net assets including pension deficit  195.3 238.8
  
Capital and reserves   
Called up share capital 7 41.3 41.3
Share premium account 7, 8 34.0 34.0
Revaluation reserve 8 83.8 122.3
Profit and loss account 8 36.4 43.3
Employee share ownership trust 7, 8 (0.2) (2.1)
Total shareholders’ funds 9 195.3 238.8
 
The Company’s (registered number 00026077) balance sheet and related notes 1 to 16 were approved 
by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2010 and signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
 
 
Todd Atkinson Jon Kempster  
Chief Executive Finance Director   Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     102 
1 Principal accounting policies for the Company  
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 
2006.  As permitted by that Act, the parent company financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with UK Financial Reporting Standards. 
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost accounting convention, 
modified to include the revaluation of certain fixed assets, and in accordance with applicable 
Accounting Standards and law in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP).   
The principal accounting policies for the Company are summarised below.  They have all been applied 
consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.    
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its 
own profit and loss account for the year.  The Company reported a profit for the year ended 31 
December 2009 of £178.3 million (2008: loss of £5.4 million). 
Amounts payable to Deloitte LLP by the Company for its audit amounted to £0.2 million (2008: £0.1 
million).   
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the 
terms of FRS 1 (revised) - Cash Flow Statements.  The Company is also exempt under the terms of 
FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of the Delta plc Group.     
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 
The Company accounts for its investments in subsidiary undertakings by the equity method, whereby 
the original cost of the investments is adjusted for the movement in underlying net assets applicable to 
the investments since their date of acquisition with an adjustment to the Company’s revaluation 
reserve, except where any diminution in the value of the investment is considered permanent. In such 
cases the permanent diminution is recorded as a reduction in the Company’s profit and loss account. 
Foreign currency 
Transactions in overseas currencies are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of 
the transaction or, where forward foreign exchange contracts have been taken out, at the contractual 
rates.  
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at historical rates and monetary assets and liabilities 
are translated at the closing rate.  
Pensions 
The Company operates a defined benefit pension plan.  
A defined benefit pension plan is one that specifies the amount of pension benefit that an employee will 
receive on retirement. The Company operates a funded defined benefit pension plan, where actuarially-
determined payments are made to a trustee-administered fund.  
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit 
method and is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high 
quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and 
that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.  Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements(continued) 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     103 
1 Principal accounting policies for the Company (continued) 
The Company accounts for actuarial gains and losses in full through the profit and loss account reserve 
in the year in which they occur.  Where the actuarial valuation of the plan demonstrates that the plan is 
in surplus, the recognisable asset is limited to that for which the Group can benefit in the future.   
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in the 
Company profit and loss account.  
Past service costs, if any, are similarly included where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.  
The expected return on assets of the funded defined benefit pension plan and the expected interest on 
pension plan liabilities are recorded in the Company profit and loss account.  
Further details of the Company’s defined benefit pension plan are given in note 10.   
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when a present obligation (legal or constructive) exists in respect of a past 
event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and 
where the amount can be reliably estimated.  
Leases 
Leases are classified as finance leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are 
transferred to the Company. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of 
the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments 
are apportioned between the liability and finance charge to produce a constant rate of interest on the 
finance lease balance outstanding. Assets capitalised under finance leases are depreciated over the 
shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.  
Leases other than finance leases are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating 
leases are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease 
term. Any incentives to enter into operating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over 
the lease term on a straight-line basis.   
Tax 
The profit and loss account tax charge is calculated at current rates of corporation tax on the taxable 
profits/losses for the year. Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in an 
obligation at the statement of financial position date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a 
future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law. Timing 
differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in tax computations in periods 
different from those in which they are included in the financial statements. Deferred tax is not provided 
on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no binding contract to 
dispose of these assets. Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings where there is no binding 
commitment to remit those earnings. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded 
as more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not 
discounted. 
Borrowing costs 
Borrowing costs are recognised in the Company profit and loss account in the period in which they are 
incurred. 
 
  Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements(continued) 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     104 
1 Principal accounting policies for the Company (continued) 
Financial instruments  
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign 
exchange rates. The derivative financial instruments used are foreign exchange swaps and forward 
foreign exchange contracts.  
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value in the statement of financial position with 
changes charged to the profit and loss account.  
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in 
the profit and loss account.  The Company does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative 
purposes.   
Dividends 
Dividends declared after the year end represent a non-adjusting statement of financial position event 
and therefore no liability is recognised until the dividend is declared. 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares and preference shares are classified as equity instruments, and are recorded at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.    
Investments in own shares (held through an Employee Share Ownership Trust) are shown at cost as a 
deduction from shareholders’ funds. The costs of administration of the Employee Share Ownership 
Trust are included in the Company profit and loss account as they accrue. Dividends on shares held by 
the Trust have been waived. 
Share-based payments 
The Company operates various equity-settled incentive schemes for certain employees. For equity-
settled share options, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value 
of the share options granted in accordance with FRS 20.  Fair value is calculated at grant date and 
recognised in the profit and loss account, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders’ 
equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options 
that will eventually vest. Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, are not taken into account 
when estimating fair value.  
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes and Stochastic option pricing models. The expected life 
used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
Further information is given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report and in note 13. 
 
 
 
 
  Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements(continued) 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     105 
2 Investments in Group companies 
£ million Shares Net loans Total
Gross amount  
At 31 December 2007 930.9 (517.3) 413.6
Acquisition of additional share capital in subsidiary 17.6 - 17.6
Revaluations 15.8- 15.8
Increase in net loans - (6.0) (6.0)
At 31 December 2008 964.3 (523.3) 441.0
Acquisition of additional share capital in subsidiary 9.4 - 9.4
Revaluations (94.7)- (94.7)
Decrease in net loans - 97.3 97.3
At 31 December 2009 879.0 (426.0) 453.0
 
Provisions made for diminution in value  
At 31 December 2007 (209.4) (17.1) (226.5)
Revaluations 8.1- 8.1
At 31 December 2008 (201.3) (17.1) (218.4)
Revaluations (42.4)0.4 (42.0)
At 31 December 2009 (243.7) (16.7) (260.4)
 
Net book value  
At 31 December 2009 635.3 (442.7) 192.6
At 31 December 2008 763.0 (540.4) 222.6
 
(i) The net book value of shares is equivalent to the Company’s share of the issued share capital and 
reserves of the subsidiary companies. 
(ii) The cost of shares in subsidiary companies is £795.2 million (2008: £842.0 million). 
(iii) The names of the principal Group companies are given in note 18 to the consolidated financial 
statements. 
3 Debtors 
£ million    2009 2008
Amounts falling due within one year:  
Amounts owed by group companies 0.2 -
Other debtors 0.2 0.2
Prepayments and accrued income 0.1 0.2
 0.5 0.4
4 Borrowings 
Borrowings of £nil (2008: £8.3 million) consist of overdrafts repayable on demand and due within one 
year.    Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements(continued) 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     106 
 
5 Other creditors 
£ million    2009 2008
Amounts falling due within one year:  
Trade payables 0.1 -
Other taxation and social security 0.1 0.1
Other creditors 0.2 0.6
Accruals and deferred income 1.4 1.6
 1.8 2.3
6 Operating lease commitments 
At the statement of financial position date, the Company has annual commitments under operating 
leases expiring:   
£ million 2009 2008
Within one year - 0.1
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.1 0.1
Total annual commitments under operating leases 0.1 0.2
Company annual lease commitments are in respect of land and buildings.   
7 Share capital, share premium and Employee Share Ownership Trust 
Share capital and share premium 
£ million 2009 2008
Share Capital:  
   Ordinary shares 38.5 38.5
   Preference shares 2.8 2.8
41.3 41.3
Ordinary shares 
 Ordinary share capital Share premium 
£ million 2009 2008 2009 2008
Authorised:  
188 million ordinary shares of 25p each  47.0 47.0 - -
Issued and fully paid:  
At the beginning of the year 38.5 38.5 34.0 34.0
At the end of the year 38.5 38.5 34.0 34.0
The Company has one class of ordinary share. 
The total number of authorised ordinary shares was 188,000,000 (2008: 188,000,000) and 153,763,755 
were shares allotted and fully paid at 31 December 2009 (2008: 153,763,755).    
During the year, the Company did not issue any ordinary shares.    Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements(continued) 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     107 
7 Share capital, share premium and Employee Share Ownership Trust (continued) 
Preference shares 
              6% Cumulative first  4.5% Cumulative second 
preference shares preference shares 
£ million 2009 2008 2009 2008
Authorised:  
1 million ordinary shares of £1 each / 2 million    
ordinary shares of £1 each 1.0 1.0 2.0 2.0
Issued and fully paid:  
At the beginning of the year 0.9 0.9 1.9 1.9
At the end of the year 0.9 0.9 1.9 1.9
The total number of authorised cumulative first preference shares was 1,000,000 (2008: 1,000,000) and 
866,152 shares allotted and fully paid at 31 December 2009 (2008: 866,152).   The total number of 
authorised cumulative second preference shares was 2,000,000 (2008: 2,000,000) and 1,940,000 shares 
allotted and fully paid at 31 December 2009 (2008: 1,940,000). The preference shares are not 
redeemable.    
Employee Share Ownership Trust  
During the year, the Employee Share Ownership Trust (“ESOT”) satisfied options granted under the 
1999 Delta Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) (1,576,661 shares) and awards made under the 
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) (72,132 shares); none of these shares were cash settled.  
Shares in the ESOT are valued at their original cost and deducted from equity.  The dividends on the 
shares held in the ESOT are waived except to the extent of 0.01p per share.   
In lieu of issuing new shares, it is intended that all share-based incentives will be satisfied through the 
Delta plc ESOT by way of market purchase.  During the year, 111,600 shares were purchased to satisfy 
share-based incentives at an average share price of 171p.  At 31 December 2009, the 4 shares (2008: 
1,537,197 shares) held by the ESOT had a market value of £nil (2008: £1.3 million).    Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements(continued) 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     108 
 
8 Reserves 
Employee 
Share Profit Share 
premium Revaluation and loss Ownership 
£ million account reserve account Trust Total
At 31 December 2008 34.0 122.3 43.3 (2.1) 197.5
Satisfaction of share options by ESOT - - (0.6) 0.6 -
Cash remitted by Trustees - - - 1.3 1.3
Revaluation deficit on investments - (38.5) (98.6) - (137.1)
Profit for the year - - 178.3 - 178.3
Equity impact of share-based payments - - 0.5 - 0.5
Dividends paid - - (10.9) - (10.9)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plan - - (75.6) - (75.6)
At 31 December 2009 34.0 83.8 36.4 (0.2) 154.0
The profit and loss account reserve before the addition of the pension deficit of £71.2  million was 
£107.6 million (2008: before the addition of a pension deficit of £2.5 million was £45.8 million). 
9 Reconciliation of movements in Company shareholders’ funds 
£ million  2009 2008
Profit/(loss) for the year 178.3 (5.4)
Satisfaction of share options by ESOT (0.6) (0.8)
Equity impact of share-based payments 0.5 0.4 
Dividends paid (10.9) (8.2)
(Deficit)/surplus arising on revaluation of investments in Group companies (137.1) 23.9 
Actuarial loss (note 10) (75.6) (12.5)
FRS 17 asset recoverability assessment (note 10) - 9.5 
  (45.4) 6.9 
Acquisition of shares - (1.1)
Satisfaction of options by ESOT 0.6 0.9 
Cash remitted by Trustees 1.3 0.3 
Net (reduction in)/addition to shareholders’ 
funds 
(43.5) 7.0 
Opening shareholders’ funds 238.8 231.8 
Closing shareholders’ funds including pension deficit 195.3 238.8 
Pension deficit (note 10) 71.2 2.5 
Closing shareholders’ funds excluding pension deficit 266.5 241.3 
10 Pensions 
The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme for qualifying employees in the United 
Kingdom, being the Delta Pension Plan (DPP). The DPP is a final salary scheme.  Full information 
regarding the DPP is contained in note 40 of the consolidated financial statements of Delta plc. 
 
 
 
 
  Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements(continued) 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     109 
 
11 Dividends 
Preference dividends 
£ million     2009 2008 
6.0% cumulative first preference shares and 4.5% cumulative second 
preference shares 0.1 0.1 
Ordinary dividends 
£ million     2009 2008 
Proposed dividends for the period:     
- ended 30 June 2008   (1.9 pence per share) - 2.9 
- ended 31 December 2008   (4.6 pence per share)  - 7.1 
- ended 30 June 2009   (2.4 pence per share) 3.7 - 
    
      3.7 10.0 
 
£ million     2009 2008 
Paid dividends for the period:     
- ended 31 December 2007    (3.4 pence per share) - 5.2 
- ended 30 June 2008    (1.9 pence per share)  - 2.9 
- ended 31 December 2008    (4.6 pence per share) 7.1 - 
- ended 30 June 2009    (2.4 pence per share) 3.7 - 
      10.8 8.1 
 
 
12 Contingent liabilities  
£ million     2009 2008 
Financial guarantees     - 1.5 
 
13 Share-based payments 
FRS 20: Share-based payments has only been applied to equity instruments that were granted after       
7 November 2002 and that had not vested before 1 January 2005. 
Included within staff costs are FRS 20 expenses related to share-based payments totalling £0.5 million 
(2008: £0.4 million).  Full information regarding share-based payments is contained in note 39 of the 
consolidated financial statements of Delta plc. 
 
 
 
 
 
  Notes to the Individual Company Financial Statements(continued) 
 
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     110 
14 Financial instruments  
 2009 2008 
 Book Fair Book  Fair 
£ million Value Value Value Value 
Foreign exchange contracts  - - 1.7 1.7 
At the statement of financial position date, the total notional amount of outstanding foreign exchange 
contracts that the Company has committed was £0.9 million (2008: £7.1 million).   
Currency derivatives 
The Company utilises currency derivatives to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange 
rates.  The derivative instruments used are foreign exchange swaps and forward foreign exchange 
contracts.  The Company does not trade in financial instruments, so there are no derivatives held for 
trading purposes.    
Intra-group loan economic hedging 
The Company has taken out financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange 
movements on loans granted by (or payable to) Delta plc and other Delta Group companies, where the 
loan is not in Delta plc’s functional currency (pound sterling).  The financial instruments used are 
forward foreign exchange contracts.  The fair values of these contracts at the statement of financial 
position date are set out in the table above.Changes in the fair value of these contracts are recognised in 
the same line of the profit and loss account as the changes in the hedged item attributable to the hedged 
risk. 
The following methodology has been used to establish estimated fair values: 
Item Method 
Cash at bank, short-term borrowings The fair value of these items approximates to the carrying 
amount.  
Foreign exchange deals Fair value is calculated by marking each contract to 
market at appropriate spot or forward exchange rates 
prevailing at the statement of financial position date. 
15 Staff costs 
The average monthly number of employees (including directors) were: 
Number 2009 2008
UK - Group administration 15 15
 
£ million 2009 2008
The aggregate remuneration comprised:   
   Wages and salaries 1.7 1.7
   Social security costs 0.2 0.2
   Other pension costs 0.1 0.1
 2.0 2.0
16 Directors’ remuneration 
Directors’ remuneration details are given in the Directors’ remuneration report of the annual report on 
page 27.   
Delta plc: 2009 Annual Report     111 
 
