 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
BUILDING  
FOR THE  
FUTURE ‘10 ‘14 ‘13 ‘12 ‘11
232.3
242.7
241.1
227.7
213.6
‘10 ‘14 ‘13 ‘12 ‘11
13.7
20.8
19.4
19.9
16.6
‘10 ‘14 ‘13 ‘12 ‘11
30.3
42.1
42.4
42.5
36.2
‘10 ‘14 ‘13 ‘12 ‘11
8.8
8.8
8.5
8.0
7.0
DEVRO IS ONE OF  
THE WORLD’S LEADING 
MANUFACTURERS OF 
COLLAGEN FOOD 
PRODUCTS
2014 HIGHLIGHTS
devro.com/investors/annualreport2014
Group Revenue*  
£232.3m
Operating profit  
before exceptional items*
£30.3m
Earnings per share 
before exceptional items* 
13.7p
Dividends per share 
 
8.8p
*Continuing operations, and restated for revised pensions accounting rules (IAS 19R) where relevant.
Strategic  
Report
2014 Highlights  ................................. IFC
Devro at a Glance  ................................. 2
Understanding Our Markets ........... 4
Our Strategy ............................................. 6
Key Performance Indicators ........... 7
Chairman’s Statement  ....................... 8
Chief Executive’s Review ................ 10
Financial Review  ................................. 14
Principal Risks  
and Uncertainties  ............................... 18
Corporate Social  
Responsibility Report  ..................... 22
Report of  
Directors
Directors and  
Senior Management .......................... 28
Corporate Governance Report ... 30
Audit Committee Report ............... 36
Directors’ Remuneration  
Report  ...................................................... 39
Directors’ Report  ............................... 53
Financial  
Statements
Consolidated Income  
Statement  ...............................................58 
Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income  .......... 59
Balance Sheets  ................................... 60
Statements of Changes  
in Equity  ................................................... 61
Cash Flow Statements  ................... 63
Notes to the Financial  
Statements  ............................................ 64
Independent Auditors’  
Report  .................................................... 108
Financial Summary ............................ 115
Shareholder 
Information
Notice of AGM ...................................... 116
Explanatory Notes  
to the AGM Notice .............................. 118
Shareholder Information  .............. 122
Directors and Advisers .................. IBC 1 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Operating 
Responsibly
As a global manufacturer, we  
take our responsibilities to society 
and the environment seriously,  
and make sure this is reflected  
in our policies. 
Investing  
in the Future 
Devro is investing in the  
future of our company at  
unprecedented levels. 
P22
P11 & 12
Our Markets
Devro sells to over 1,500 customers 
in more than 100 countries in both 
developed and emerging markets.
How we 
Operate
We use our world-class collagen 
technology to make consistently 
better casing.
Our Strategy
Our strategic objective is to  
achieve sustained earnings growth 
and improve return on capital by 
growing revenue, improving 
manufacturing efficiency and 
product differentiation.
P4
P2
P6 2 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Why our business exists
Devro’s collagen casings are used to manufacture 
all varieties of sausage. Historically, animal 
intestines were used as casings for sausage, but 
over the past 50 years the use of collagen casing 
has increased, as it enables food manufacturers 
to automate production and reduce costs. It is 
better suited to contemporary food hygiene  
and traceability requirements, and technical 
specifications can be determined in advance. 
What our customers do
Devro’s customers manufacture branded and 
own-label sausage products worldwide,  
reaching consumers through retail and food 
service outlets.
How we create value
Devro creates value by converting a basic raw 
material, collagen, from the inner layer of cattle 
and sow hides, into a homogeneous gel and 
extruding it to tightly controlled dimensions, 
before being compressed and packed for supply 
to customers. Devro’s manufacturing processes 
are unique and have evolved over many years  
of technical development. 
Who we sell to
Devro’s revenue comes primarily from the  
sale of collagen products directly to food 
manufacturers and, in some markets, local 
distributors. Devro sells to over 1,500 customers 
in more than 100 countries, with a product range 
in excess of 500 individual items, covering eight 
principal types of application. 
Approximately one-third of Devro’s sales  
are in emerging markets and two-thirds are in 
developed markets. Over 100 Devro employees 
work in customer-facing operations as sales and 
technical advisers.
The market we are in
Devro is one of five significant global producers  
of collagen casings in the world market, with a 
number of smaller local or regional competitors. 
Additional value is created for the customer by 
collaborating with specialist food machinery 
manufacturers and suppliers of food ingredients 
to optimise product performance.
What makes us different
Devro differentiates itself from competitors  
by developing innovative new products, by 
working closely with customers to enhance their 
manufacturing efficiencies and by providing 
high-quality technical support to customers.
Why our customers choose Devro
To satisfy our customers’ demands, we use  
our knowledge of how to manipulate the 
complex chemistry of collagen to balance the 
requirements of food producers for strength  
and size stability with consumer preferences  
for tenderness and bite. 
DEVRO AT A GLANCE
WE MANUF ACTURE 
CONSISTENTL Y BETTER 
CASING FOR EVERY 
SAUSAGE TYPE
Our business model
Operating safely, to provide the world’s food manufacturers with a safe and 
secure supply of consistently better collagen products, helping them optimise 
efficiency and enhancing the value of their offering.
Our mission 3 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Our business process
Manufacture
Devro is a world leader in the manufacturing 
technology of this highly sophisticated process.  
Our casings are consistent, reliable and versatile to 
suit the needs of both sausage manufacturers and 
consumer preferences.
Extracting Collagen
Collagen used for casing is taken from the hides  
of carefully selected animals – officially approved 
for human consumption.
Sales, Marketing & Distribution
Devro products are sold across all continents  
in over 100 countries. We sell directly to food 
manufacturers and via agents and distributors.
Reinvesting in Our Business
Devro has a successful track record of  
applied research & development and focused 
capital investment.
Applied Technology
The production of collagen casing is a complex 
technological process. Devro combines expertise 
and innovation to produce casings that allow our 
customers to make better sausage.
Customer Products to Consumers
Devro’s innovation and casing performance allow  
our customers to produce differentiated products for 
the consumer. Our casings consistently score highly 
for appearance, colour, bite and overall acceptance  
in independent research and consumer testing. 4 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
2009 2014 2019 Estimates
7.6
10.1
13.4
12.0
14.8
18.8
38.2
44.3
53.8
‘04
‘05
‘06
‘07
‘08
‘09
‘10
‘11
‘12
‘14
‘13
25%
24%
27%
28%
30%
34%
36%
40%
42%
44%
45%
 Developed markets   World 
 Emerging markets
 Edible collagen casing   Animal intestines
UNDERSTANDING OUR MARKETS
Introduction
There have been many improvements  
in edible collagen casing over the past 
50 years; some as a result of technical 
developments and others as a result of 
improved plant manufacturing systems. 
The significant investment over many 
years by Devro has enabled the 
provision of a unique, modern, safe  
and secure, consistent edible collagen 
casing range. These casings run more 
efficiently on sausage production lines 
at much higher speeds and produce 
better sausage products that are widely 
accepted by consumers.
Today, Devro products are sold by  
our dedicated commercial teams,  
in association with our experienced 
distributor network, to over 100 
individual markets and are used in the 
production of a huge variety of regional 
and national sausage types.
Maintaining a detailed understanding  
of our markets and our customers has 
been, and continues to be, a key aspect 
of our business philosophy. 
Increasingly, we are partnering with our 
customers to develop innovative new 
products for growing market segments.
Growth
Lower cost opportunities for sausage 
producers and consumer acceptance 
continue to drive strong demand for 
edible collagen casings.
Over the past ten years there has been  
a steady increase in the global market 
share of edible collagen casing used in 
sausage production.
Trends
There are numerous social and 
demographic factors that are 
contributing significantly to the growth 
in the consumption of sausage, and 
consequently an increased growth in the 
use of edible collagen casings, across 
both developed and emerging markets.
The growth in global population is a  
key driver, particularly in relation to the 
rapid increase in the rate of urbanisation. 
Consumers are being exposed to a much 
wider choice and better availability of 
sausage within the urban environment, 
compared to those who are living in 
rural areas.
The global population living in an urban 
environment has surpassed that of rural 
and is forecast to continue to rise 
steeply. This urbanisation trend 
contributes significantly towards 
improved living standards and rising 
incomes which in turn influence the 
affordability of sausage and processed 
meat products.
The improvement in the availability  
of sausage and processed meat 
products gives rise to increased  
average meat consumption across  
both developed and emerging markets.
From our creation over 50 years ago, Devro has  
evolved into an established leading supplier of  
edible collagen casing throughout the world.
A GLOBAL FOOTPRINT  
IN CHANGING TIMES
GDP growth 
(US$’000 per capita)
Source: International Monetary Fund (IMF)  
– World Economic Outlook Database October 2014
Global market share of edible collagen casings used in sausage production
Market share almost doubled in last decade
Source: Devro plc/Collagen Casing Trade Association (CCTA) estimates 5 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
34.0
35.0
36.0
33.0
32.0
31.0
30.0
‘06
‘08
‘10
‘12
‘20
‘16
‘22
‘18
‘14
‘04
4,000
4,500
3,500
3,000
2,500
‘02
‘04
‘06
‘08
‘10
‘12
‘18
‘19
‘16
‘14
 Urban population (m)  Rural population (m)
Americas
The Americas remains a strong market 
for edible collagen casing, particularly 
small calibre sausage production in 
North America. Growth in demand in  
a number of Latin American countries 
continues, driven by increasing meat 
consumption and improving economic 
conditions. However, in some countries, 
volumes in 2014 were reduced by 
currency and economic instability.
   Global urban population 
(million) 
+24% in decade to 2014
Global meat consumption 
(kg per capita per year) 
+11% in decade to 2014
Europe, Middle East & Africa (EMEA)
EMEA continues to be a major market 
for the use of edible collagen casing  
and remains a market where there is 
excellent potential for future growth, 
including further conversions of gut 
(animal intestines) to edible collagen 
casing. Many regions within Western 
Europe, including Germany, are highly 
developed, sophisticated and mature 
markets for sausage manufacture. 
However, traditional techniques are  
still widely employed, and many of the 
premium products remain in gut.  
As Devro’s new generation of edible 
collagen products are introduced, more 
and more producers and retailers are 
looking closely at the cost savings that 
can be made by converting to edible 
collagen casings.
Asia-Pacific
In Asia and the Pacific region, growth  
in the use of edible collagen casing 
continues strongly. Asia-Pacific is the 
fastest-growing region, with the largest 
single edible collagen casing market 
being China. Use of the product has 
grown considerably, primarily due to the 
increase in urbanisation and the growing 
popularity for Western-style sausage. 
The need for efficient manufacturing  
of safe and secure quality sausage has 
driven producers to explore more 
urgently the benefits of edible  
collagen casing.
Edible collagen casing regional market share
Americas
Edible collagen casing
44%
Gut
56%
EMEA
Edible collagen casing
31%
Gut
69%
Asia-Pacific
Edible collagen casing
57%
Gut
43%
Source: Food and Agriculture Organization of the  
United Nations (FAO)
Source: OECD/FAO 6 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
OUR STRATEGY
Our approach Our priorities
REVENUE 
GROWTH
MANUFACTURING  
EFFICIENCY
DIFFERENTIATION
Growing in developed and  
emerging markets 
• Growth in developed markets through 
displacement of gut casing
• Volume growth in emerging markets where 
demand is rising
• Price and value enhancement
Optimising our use of existing  
assets and investing in new 
technology
• Upgrading existing assets to improve 
efficiency
• Bringing on new capacity using most-
efficient technology
• Improving raw material sourcing and cost 
management
Differentiating ourselves through  
research & development
• Investment in research & development
• Product and process technology 
development
• Unique collagen science knowledge built up 
over 50 years
Our aim is to achieve earnings growth and improve return  
on capital. We have three strategic priorities in place to 
achieve this: STRATEGY  
IN ACTION  Although revenue declined during  
the year by 4% in underlying terms, 
adjusting for movements in foreign 
currency, it grew by 2%. This is despite  
a slow start to the year. Sales volumes  
of edible collagen grew by 3%.
We had some notable successes in our 
key strategic markets.
China 
Our sales volumes more than doubled  
in the world’s largest collagen casing 
market, as we strengthened our market 
presence in advance of our new 
Nantong factory coming on-line  
in 2016.
North America
Solid volume growth of 6% in this 
mature market reinforces the 
opportunity for our £45 million 
investment in our new USA plant.
REVENUE GROWTH
STRATEGY IN ACTION
2014 highlights REVENUE GROWTH
Germany
Strong sales growth of 40% where our 
premium products perform well in this 
demanding market.
Japan
Another exacting market, in which sales 
volume grew by 13%, where we have 
partnered with customers to develop 
innovative products for the growing 
snack sector.
Co-extrusion gel
Another year of progress in what  
is becoming a dynamic global 
marketplace. MANUFACTURING 
EFFICIENCY
During the year, we invested £69 million 
as part of our three-year programme to 
transform our manufacturing footprint. 
This programme will reduce the unit cost 
of manufacture, increase capacity in 
Asia and align our product portfolio  
with local markets.
USA investment 
We have now completed the 
construction of the building and 
commenced installation of equipment 
for our new manufacturing hall in South 
Carolina. This high-technology plant will 
replace our existing ageing, inefficient 
manufacturing equipment and will 
produce proven products for the 
Americas snack stick market.
2014 highlights
STRATEGY IN ACTION China investment
Having secured land at a long-
established industrial development park 
earlier in the year, the construction of 
the new plant is well advanced with the 
building structure now in place and 
equipment arriving ready for installation. 
This new plant will create production 
capacity in the fastest-growing collagen 
market in the world.
Restructuring of existing operations
After careful consideration and planning, 
we have restructured our operations in 
Scotland to take out older, less efficient 
capacity and focus production on  
the products which best match our 
customers’ needs. In Australia, we have 
outsourced our hide preparation 
operations. Together these changes  
will reduce fixed costs and generate 
annual savings of £5 million. STRATEGY IN ACTION
Investment projects
The global research & development 
team, established in 2013, has 
successfully co-ordinated resources 
across our businesses to support 
product development for our new  
plants in the USA and China. This 
complex product development 
programme is now almost complete, 
ahead of the commissioning of the  
new plants in 2015/2016.
Significant developments 
A number of new products, and 
improvements to existing products, 
were developed in Europe and Australia. 
Building on the development work in 
2013, the new Select Fresh product was 
successfully launched in the UK, winning 
over customers with its greater clarity 
and translucency – attributes that 
customers normally associate with  
gut casings.
2014 highlights
DIFFERENTIATION Co-extrusion gel development
A new facility for manufacturing 
co-extrusion gel was commissioned at 
our Czech factory, aimed at servicing 
the growing European market.
DIFFERENTIATION 2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
30.3
42.1 42.4 42.5
36.2
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
3.0
7.1
4.6
2.2
(0.7)
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
1.6
1.3
8.1
5.2
5.6
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
11.8
17.6
19.1
21.4
20.7
#1 #3
#1 #3 #2
#1 #3 #2
#3 #2
MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE
Key Performance Indicators 
REVENUE GROWTH*
Value growth at constant currency (%)** 
SALES VOLUME GROWTH*
Volume growth of edible collagen 
casings (%) 
A key element underpinning the group’s strategy is to deliver growth in sales revenue. There are several 
components to revenue growth, including changes in sales volumes and in price/mix. As a result, the group 
monitors sales volume growth separately, and changes in price/mix are monitored through revenue growth. 
Devro sells to markets around the world from strategically located commercial operations and through an 
extensive network of distributors and agents. Revenue is monitored on the basis of operating segments as 
follows: Americas, Asia-Pacific and Europe. Given the significant distorting effects of movements in exchange 
rates, revenue growth is monitored in constant currency.**
OPERATING PROFIT* 
Operating profit before exceptional  
items (£m) 
While the group aims to take a long-term perspective 
on shareholder value, it also monitors the financial 
performance of each of its businesses in the shorter 
term. The KPI used in this monitoring process is 
operating profit before exceptional items. This 
measure is used to evaluate the performance of  
each business, including sales price, manufacturing 
efficiency and overhead and operating cost control.
RETURN ON CAPITAL 
EMPLOYED*
Return on capital employed (ROCE) represents 
operating profit before exceptional items as a 
percentage of average capital employed. Capital 
employed is defined as fixed assets plus current assets 
less current liabilities, excluding all balances related to 
interest-bearing assets and liabilities, any derivative 
financial instruments, any deferred tax balances, and 
any pension assets or liabilities. It is a key indicator of 
how the company is making use of its available capital, 
and is a good reflection of the performance of the 
company in terms of both earnings and cash flow.
Operating profit before exceptional  
items/average capital employed (%)
We monitor our performance against our 
strategic objectives by means of Key 
Performance Indicators (“KPIs”). The most 
important of these KPIs at a group level 
focus on the following areas: 7 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
48.1
43.8
48.1
45.1 44.5
2010 2014 2013 2012 2011
6.1
5.6
7.2
7.4
12.5
2010 2011 2012 20132014
12.2
22.7
26.1
35.8
69.2
70.0
70.5
64.9
55.1
21.7
0.2
0.4
0.4
0.6
1.5
#1 Revenue growth
#3
Differentiation
#2
Manufacturing efficiency
#1 #3 #2
#1 #3 #2
#2
OPERATING CASH FLOW* HEALTH AND SAFETY
DEBT*
Net debt/earnings before interest, tax, depreciation,  
and amortisation (EBITDA) measures the liquidity of  
the group. EBITDA/net interest measures our ability  
to service our net debt.
Operating cash flow before exceptional items is the 
amount of cash generated by the group through its 
trading activities and manufacturing operations 
before investment in capital expenditure. This measure 
is used to evaluate the performance of each business 
and to assist the management of working capital.
Health and safety matters are discussed further on 
pages 22 and 23 of this Annual Report. Safety 
performance is measured in various ways at a local 
level. At group level, it is measured by the rate of 
injuries requiring treatment by a health professional, 
which is calculated as the number of injuries per 
million hours worked, comprising both lost working 
day injuries and recordable injuries.
Net debt/EBITDA and EBITDA/net interest are the 
two key covenants for the short and long-term 
funding for the group, and are therefore monitored  
on an ongoing basis.
Cash generated from operations before 
exceptional items (£m)
Number of injuries requiring treatment by 
a health professional per million  
hours worked
REVENUE  
GROWTH
MANUFACTURING  
EFFICIENCY
DIFFERENTIATION
By the end of 2015, we  
will have completed the 
construction of our new  
plant in Nantong, China  
and have commissioning 
underway. This will provide 
the group with local 
production capacity from 
mid-2016 in the world’s 
fastest-growing collagen 
casing market, supporting 
future sales growth.
 
We will complete the 
restructuring of our 
operations in Scotland and 
Australia and start to realise 
the annual cost savings of  
£5 million.
We will also complete the 
construction of our new 
high-tech plant in the  
USA and commence 
commissioning ready for 
production from mid-2016.
A range of differentiated, 
value-added casings with 
enhanced cooking properties 
is under development and  
we expect to make significant 
progress within the course 
of 2015.
Selected  
2015 goals
* Continuing operations, and restated for revised pensions accounting rules (IAS 19R) where relevant.
** Constant currency growth rates are calculated by restating prior year figures using 2014 exchange rates.
 Net debt (£m)  EBITDA/interest (times)  Net debt/EBITDA (times) 8 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
We are currently undertaking a three-year 
programme to transform our business, 
which was initiated in 2013. This will 
support our strategy by growing revenue 
as a result of adding capacity in Asia and 
aligning all products with market opportunities, 
and by improving manufacturing efficiency 
and reducing unit costs. 2014 was an important 
year in this transformation.
Gerard Hoetmer
Chairman
In early 2014 we took the decision to accelerate the 
restructuring of our existing manufacturing footprint.  
This included taking out production of older, less efficient 
technology at one of our factories in Scotland. This step-
change in production capacity had an adverse impact on our 
profits for 2014 but was a critical step in aligning our product 
portfolio with the market opportunities and will improve our 
manufacturing efficiency from 2015.
During the year we also made significant progress on the 
implementation of our two strategic investment projects in 
China and the USA which are on plan to commence 
production in 2016 and start delivering benefits. 
Strategic investments
Devro has a three part strategy:
1. Revenue growth in developed and emerging markets, 
through gut displacement and meeting growing market 
demand; 
2. Manufacturing efficiency through optimising our existing 
assets and investing in new technology; and 
3. Differentiation through research & development, using our 
unique collagen science knowledge built up over 50 years.
In March 2014, we announced our plans to build a plant in 
China, to establish a manufacturing presence in the world’s 
largest collagen casing market. This followed our November 
2013 announcement of a new plant in South Carolina,  
USA which will reduce unit costs and improve  
manufacturing efficiency.
These two projects represent unprecedented levels of 
investment for Devro. The construction of the new plants, 
together with the restructuring actions undertaken this year, 
involve the investment of £95 million of capital over two years 
and of £24 million of exceptional items in 2014 to implement 
DURING THE YEAR WE MADE SIGNIFICANT 
PROGRESS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR 
TWO STRATEGIC INVESTMENT PROJECTS IN 
CHINA AND THE USA 9 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
the transformation which will complete in 2016. Both projects 
are on track to commence production in 2016, with the 
buildings now structurally complete.
There is, of course, much more to these projects than erecting 
new plants. In China, we are creating an entire regional 
business team with 200 employees. All will be trained to the 
highest technical standards in the industry, and integrated into 
our culture of innovation and excellence which has been the 
cornerstone of our success over the years. Whilst we have 
traded in China for many years, establishing a local 
manufacturing base represents a step-change in our 
commitment to the region. Progress to date has been highly 
encouraging as we build customer relationships, but we 
recognise that we have much work ahead of us.
The new factory in South Carolina will allow us to largely 
decommission the existing plant, which has continued to 
underperform in 2014 as it reaches the end of its useful life. 
The Americas will then be supplied from a combination of  
our plants in the USA and Europe, all using our most  
advanced technology. 
In anticipation of these significant investments, we raised 
US$100 million of long-term funding from a US private 
placement in the first half of 2014, and I am pleased to 
announce that we have now also successfully completed  
the refinancing of our shorter-term borrowing facilities. 
Together these facilities will cover our increased borrowing 
requirements for the next period of our growth.
Financial highlights
Trading, since the first quarter of 2014, has shown a steady 
recovery, with sales volumes of edible collagen for the full year 
3% ahead of prior year and sales value 2% ahead in constant 
currency terms. As previously announced, the decisions taken 
to manage production capacity, together with adverse foreign 
exchange movements, contributed to lower profits in 2014 
compared with 2013. Operating profit before exceptional 
items ended the year in line with management expectations  
at £30 million.
This business is very cash generative and in 2014 we saw 
operating cash flow before exceptional items rise above last 
year, despite lower operating profits, as we took actions to 
reduce our inventory levels and improve sales growth. 
Dividend
The Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend of 
6.1p per share (2013: 6.1p) bringing the total for the year to 
8.8p per share (2013: 8.8p). Subject to shareholder approval  
at the Annual General Meeting in April, the dividend will be 
paid on 15 May 2015, to those on the register at 27 March 2015.
Employees
Devro’s success is built upon the commitment of our 
employees and, on behalf of the whole Board, I would like  
to thank them for their efforts across our business in 2014. 
A number of people have left the business in 2014, or will 
leave in 2015, whose roles have been impacted by the 
restructuring actions taken. I am grateful to these people  
for their professionalism and support over many years and 
particularly during this difficult transition period.
Board
In May 2014, Steve Hannam stepped down from the Board.  
He left with our best wishes after five years as Chairman of the 
company. I was delighted to be elected as his successor at 
such an exciting period in the company’s evolution. 
Outlook
We enter 2015 with sales momentum which has been building 
through 2014, despite challenging economic conditions in 
some regions. In 2015 we will also begin to see the benefits  
of the restructuring actions taken in 2014. 
We have made good progress on the construction of the new 
plants in China and the USA, and are now entering a critical 
period of transition as we integrate these new operations into 
our global manufacturing footprint. This will be a complex 
transition but we have plans in place to manage this.
We are on course to develop the most advanced collagen 
casings company in the world, well placed to benefit from a 
dynamic and growing global market, to create long-term value 
for our shareholders.
Gerard Hoetmer
Chairman
DEVRO’S SUCCESS IS BUIL T UPON THE 
COMMITMENT OF OUR EMPLOYEES AND, ON 
BEHALF OF THE WHOLE BOARD, I WOULD LIKE 
TO THANK THEM 10 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Markets
Global demand for collagen casings remains strong with an 
estimated growth of 6% for the year.
In the first quarter of 2014, some issues impacted short-term 
demand, including the residual consequences of the 2013 
‘horsemeat scandal’ in Europe, an endemic porcine virus in the 
USA and an incidence of African swine fever in wild boar in 
Lithuania, which led to a ban on the importation of EU-
produced pork into Russia.
Overall, the opportunities for Devro remain attractive. 
Sales
Total sales volumes of edible collagen grew by 3% and 
revenues, in constant currency, were 2% ahead of 2013.  
There was some change in market mix as outlined below.
In line with our strategy, sales increased in developed markets 
that have been important targets for Devro in recent years, 
despite strong competitor activity.
Sales in Germany grew by 40% in volume and 45% in value  
in constant currency as the result of initiatives that match 
specific product attributes to identified customer needs. 
Japan had 13% volume growth in 2014, continuing the  
success of previous years. Product innovation in this market 
has led to new business in the snack and confectionery 
product categories.
Volumes in North America increased by 6%, principally in  
the snack stick category that requires large volumes of small 
diameter casings of consistent specification. 
The strategy also includes growth in emerging markets.  
In 2014 there was a particular effort to develop business in 
China, to build demand in anticipation of the new factory 
coming into production in 2016. This has proved successful 
with volumes in China growing by 154%, taking total volumes 
to 50% of the new factory capacity. 
Region-specific issues included currency issues in Latin 
America where sales volumes reduced by 10%, weaker 
consumer demand in the UK & Ireland and a temporary 
shortage of raw materials in Russia which contributed to a 
decline in sales volumes in Eastern Europe and Russia of 10%. 
Sales volumes in South East Asia were lower by 16%, following 
limitations in available capacity for this region in 2013 but 
these are now recovering well. 
Trading improved significantly during the second half of the 
year in all markets.
Manufacturing
2014 was the first full year of production at our Czech plant 
following a three-year, £25 million, investment programme to 
upgrade technology. This is part of our long-term strategy to 
reduce unit costs and is reflected in the manufacturing 
efficiency gains generated during 2014.
Output at the two factories in Scotland was reduced by 18% 
through a programme of redundancies and decommissioning 
capacity of the oldest technology. These facilities will now 
focus on the capacity upgraded by £30 million of capital 
investment in the past five years. Whilst it was expected that 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
2014 was an important year in the development of 
Devro with two major projects now well advanced. 
Total sales volumes of edible collagen grew by 3% and 
revenues, in constant currency, were 2% ahead of 2013.
Peter Page
Chief Executive
GLOBAL DEMAND IS STRONG AND THE 
OPPORTUNITIES FOR DEVRO REMAIN 
ATTRACTIVE 11 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Groundbreaking
Build month 4 – April 2014
Build month 13 – January 2015
North America is a large market for edible collagen casings, with major brands 
supplying a broad customer base. There are three main types of end product: 
snack sticks, fresh and cooked sausage. Each has specific requirements for 
casings. The company’s ambition is to lead the market in all three categories.
Devro’s USA manufacturing operation is 37 years old and now operates 
beyond its designed engineering life. Unit costs are high as a result of low 
yields and poor productivity.
During 2015, a new manufacturing hall will be completed on land adjacent to 
the existing factory, with plant and equipment installed prior to final 
commissioning in 2016.
The £45 million capital investment is part of a three-year transformation 
programme of Devro’s manufacturing footprint. Enhanced products are being 
developed for supply from both the new plant and facilities in Europe, to 
ensure that the company is capable of meeting customer needs by working in 
close partnership on operational performance and new product development. 
Increased expenditure on product development and customer service in the 
Americas will be funded by the reductions in unit costs expected at the new 
factory, which will use technology already installed in the Czech Republic  
and Scotland. The project is supported by Devro’s experienced team in the 
Czech Republic.
The new building has been designed so that further capacity can be added at 
relatively low cost and in less time, with higher returns on investment 
expected from the subsequent phases.
2015 will be a year of construction, installation and commissioning, and 
planning for the transition from old to new facilities in 2016. Improved earnings 
are expected from mid-2016 as the old plant is decommissioned.
CASE STUDY
AMERICAS INVESTMENT 12 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
continued
Groundbreaking
Build month 6 – December 2014
Build month 8 – February 2015
CASE STUDY
CHINA INVESTMENT
China will soon represent half of the world’s market for edible collagen 
casings. There have been significant investments in new sausage 
manufacturing capacity for domestic consumption. Rising demand stems 
from a growing proportion of the population living in urban areas with higher 
disposable incomes.
Devro has traded successfully in China for over ten years, importing product 
from our factories in Europe, America and Australia. The company and its 
products are well known to local food manufacturers. There is a well-
established sales team based in Beijing.
With the size of the market and the growing availability of raw materials, 
Devro is confident that now is the right time to commence production 
operations inside China. At the end of 2015, construction of a new factory will 
be completed, with commissioning at the end of the year and first sales in 
mid-2016.
A local operations management team has been recruited during 2014. During 
2015, there will be comprehensive training and commissioning programmes in 
all disciplines, from line operators to laboratory technicians. Establishing the 
business processes required to be an effective part of the Devro group will be 
managed in collaboration with the long-established team at Devro’s 
operations in Scotland.
The value of the investment is £50 million. This will establish a facility in China 
that supports two strategic objectives: volume growth in emerging markets 
and reduced unit costs. Once fully operational, the new plant will contribute  
at margins comparable to other factories, ensuring that group earnings 
continue to grow. 
Assuming successful commissioning of the new plant, there is considerable 
scope to expand the factory, with higher returns on investment in  
subsequent phases. 13 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
this change would be required at some stage in the future,  
it was brought forward to this year as a result of the weaker  
than anticipated demand during the last quarter of 2013 and 
the first quarter of 2014. 
The Australian plant improved productivity as a result of 
continuous improvement work and new line installations in  
the second half of the year. A restructuring has now been 
completed at this plant to reduce unit costs by outsourcing 
hide preparation which will also align these operations with 
our other manufacturing plants.
Performance at the 37-year-old plant in the USA caused 
considerable adverse costs as productivity and reliability  
were below management’s expectations. Whilst some steps 
were taken to address this, most effort has been directed to 
sourcing product from newer factories and pressing ahead 
with the project to build a new plant at the same site, which 
will be completed in 2016.
The increase in raw material costs in 2014 slowed considerably 
compared with the previous two years.
Research & development
A significant part of the strategy is to achieve differentiation 
through product development. Since mid-2013 there has been 
a single global R&D team, co-ordinating a wide variety of 
projects and initiatives.
The priority for 2014 and 2015 is to support the major 
investment programmes in China and the USA, to ensure  
that products from the new factories match and improve  
on the products currently supplied to customers. Good 
progress has been made during the year.
Select Fresh is a new casing introduced to the UK and Ireland 
in 2014. Based on Devro’s Select technology, this casing is  
for the fresh uncooked sausage segment that is the mainstay  
of these markets, particularly where sheep gut is used for 
higher-value products. The product has been well received  
by customers.
People
Devro’s three-part strategy involves transformation in a 
number of areas that affect people, particularly the growth  
in emerging markets and investments to reduce unit  
costs. Over the two years of 2014-2015, there will be 130 
redundancies in Scotland, 200 redundancies in the USA  
and 20 redundancies in Australia, whilst at the same time 
around 200 new colleagues are being recruited and trained  
in China. Whilst these changes have a significant impact  
on the people most affected by them, the levels of co-
operation and acceptance have been extremely helpful  
and greatly appreciated.
At the end of 2014, two new appointments were made to the 
Executive Board. Bill McGowan joins as the President for the 
Americas, with responsibility for sales and manufacturing in 
the region, particularly for ensuring that the major investment 
in manufacturing facilities is successfully integrated with 
leading customers. Sarah Murphy, as Group HR Director, joins 
with responsibility for ensuring that the organisation is aligned 
with the strategy.
Safety
Safety is the top priority for Devro. The objective is zero 
incidents. All efforts are directed to achieving this through  
a combination of ensuring that facilities and equipment  
are adequate, by providing appropriate training and, most 
importantly, ensuring that behaviours always support  
the objective. 
Devro works with all contractors to ensure that they meet  
our own expectations for safety. It is extremely regrettable 
that an employee of one of the sub-contractors working on 
the new factory site in China was killed in a fatal accident  
on the afternoon of 31 December 2014. A full and thorough 
investigation has been carried out by the local authorities,  
the general contractor and Devro. Whilst lessons have been 
learned, this tragedy has had a significant impact on the 
colleagues and employees who were most closely involved.
Outlook
Devro has started 2015 with good order levels and momentum  
in sales growth. Cost reductions from the restructuring 
programmes in Scotland and Australia will be achieved at  
the same time as a slowing of input cost increases compared  
with recent years.
2015 is an important year in the development of Devro with 
the construction of the two new plants in the USA and China 
reaching completion whilst continuing to decommission the 
older, less efficient capacity. 
These developments will enable Devro to take advantage  
of the considerable opportunities worldwide for long-term 
growth in demand for collagen casing.
Peter Page
Chief Executive
SAFETY IS THE TOP PRIORITY FOR DEVRO.  
THE OBJECTIVE IS ZERO INCIDENTS 14 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Actions taken to transform the manufacturing 
footprint, together with foreign exchange, 
impacted operating profits for 2014.  
However, sales volumes recovered  
well delivering 3% growth in edible  
collagen casings.
Simon Webb
Group Finance Director
Revenue
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m Change
Change 
constant 
currency
Revenue 232.3 242.7 -4.3% +1.6%
Overall Devro delivered 3.0% growth in edible casing sales 
volumes in 2014. This growth showed an improving trend 
during the year with second half volumes 7.1% ahead of the 
same period last year. China, Japan and Germany all grew 
strongly, together with the USA market, which benefitted from 
solid demand for snack stick products. Trading in Latin 
America and Russia continue to be volatile reflecting the 
underlying economic conditions.
Sales of gel continue to grow in the USA, as customers 
transfer from cellulose applications to collagen co-extrusion.
Year-on-year change in revenue can be analysed as follows:
2014 vs  
2013
2013 vs  
2012
2012 vs  
2011
Volume +2.6% -0.8% +5.3%
Price/mix -1.0% +2.1% +2.8%
Foreign exchange -5.9% -0.6% -2.2%
Total -4.3% +0.7% +5.9%
Revenue, excluding the impact of exchange, grew by 1.6%  
in 2014 predominantly as a result of improved volumes, 
particularly in China, Japan, Germany and North America.
Price/mix showed a small decline mainly reflecting the growth 
in sales in China as Devro looks to establish its presence in that 
market ahead of the completion of the new factory. 
Operating profit
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m Change
Operating profit before  
exceptional items 30.3 42.1 -27.9%
The movement in operating profit before exceptional items 
between 2013 and 2014 can be analysed as follows:
£’m 
Operating profit before exceptional items 2013 42.1
Volumes +2.2
Price/mix -2.6
Production capacity management -6.6
Manufacturing efficiencies +0.5
Foreign exchange -4.3
Input costs -1.6
Depreciation -0.8
Other costs +1.4
Operating profit before exceptional items 2014 30.3
Production capacity management
The restructuring of operations in Scotland during the year 
resulted in a permanent closure of some of the group’s older 
and less efficient capacity. In addition, certain lines in the USA 
were decommissioned ahead of the completion of the new 
factory and at other plants output was managed to ensure 
supply and demand remained in balance. Together these 
actions contributed a £6.6 million reduction in operating profit 
during the year, with less overhead recovery on the lower 
production volumes, but helped reduce inventory in 2014  
and will lead to savings in fixed costs in 2015. 15 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Further line closures are planned in the USA in 2015 as part  
of the transition to the new manufacturing plant.
Manufacturing efficiencies
The improved manufacturing efficiencies relate to the 
upgraded lines in the Czech Republic and Australia following 
the investments made at these plants in 2013 and 2014. The 
improvement in operating profits was partially offset by the 
continued manufacturing challenges at the USA plant, as this 
ageing plant nears the end of its useful life, underlining the 
importance of the investment in new technology being  
made at this plant.
As the investment projects in the USA and China are 
completed, overall group manufacturing costs will be reduced 
with the benefits being realised from mid-2016.
Foreign exchange
Devro has operations around the world in multiple currencies. 
The net foreign exchange loss in 2014 compared with 2013 
was £4.3 million, reflecting sterling being stronger against all 
other key trading currencies of the group for the majority of 
the year. This includes the adverse impact of the sharp decline 
in the value of the Japanese yen in 2013, the effects of which 
were largely mitigated in 2013 through hedging, deferring the 
impact to 2014.
Based on current levels of exchange, 2015 is expected to have 
further adverse exchange impact of between £1.0 million and 
£2.0 million which reflects the weaker euro/Czech koruna.
Input and other costs
Input costs have now stabilised with the increases in 2014 
lower than in recent years. Over the year they increased by 
£1.6 million with higher raw material costs in the USA and 
Australia being offset by lower costs in Europe and generally 
lower energy costs at most locations.
Higher depreciation of £0.8 million was incurred following the 
significant capital investment programme undertaken in the 
last three years, particularly the capacity expansion in the 
Czech Republic which was completed in the second half  
of 2013. 
Other costs include the benefits of some of the restructuring 
undertaken within the group and other cost saving measures, 
partially offset by wages and salaries inflation of £1.9 million.
Operating margin
2014 2013
Operating margin  
before exceptional items 13.0% 17.3%
We achieved an operating margin before exceptional items  
of 13.0%, compared with 17.3% in 2013, largely reflecting the 
production capacity management decisions and adverse 
foreign exchange movements highlighted above. 
Exceptional items
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Investment projects 7.0 1.3
Restructuring 16.9 –
Total exceptional items 23.9 1.3
Cash 15.4 1.1
Non-cash 8.5 0.2
Total exceptional items 23.9 1.3
Exceptional items relate to the actions being taken as part  
of the three-year programme to transform the business.  
These include the two investment projects to build and 
commission new plants in China and the USA, and a significant 
restructuring of existing operations, particularly in Scotland 
and Australia.
Investment projects exceptional items included redundancy 
provisions, accelerated depreciation and decommissioning 
costs related to the assets being made redundant by the  
USA investment, together with project management costs  
and professional fees for the two projects.
Restructuring exceptional items primarily relate to our 
operations in Scotland, where older, less efficient lines are 
being permanently shut down. Other restructuring actions 
relate to the outsourcing of hide preparation operations in 
Australia, which will reduce unit costs and align manufacturing 
processes with our other plants around the world, and 
changes to the global management structure. Together  
these actions will deliver annual cost savings of £5 million 
from early 2015.
These restructuring costs include redundancy costs of  
£7.1 million and accelerated depreciation of £5.7 million on  
the assets being made redundant in Scotland and Australia, 
together with decommissioning costs at these plants and an 
increase in the pension liability related to people leaving  
the business.
The non-cash exceptional items of £8.5 million comprise  
the accelerated depreciation of £6.5 million, the increased 
pension liability of £1.7 million and the write-off of raw 
materials which are specific to some of the equipment being 
decommissioned.
In 2015, further exceptional costs will be incurred, the majority 
of which will be related to the investment projects. 16 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
continued
Capital investment
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m Change
Capital investment 60.5 35.1 +72.4%
Devro is on track to invest £95 million on the two investment 
projects in China and the USA. Of this total, £45 million was 
deployed in 2014 and the remaining £50 million will be 
invested in 2015. This is marginally higher than the amount 
originally planned for the two projects in order to provide 
some additional functionality in the USA plant.
These two strategic projects are both on plan to be fully 
commissioned and contributing to the group’s operating 
results from mid-2016.
Working capital and cash flow
2014 2013
£’m
Number  
of days £’m
Number  
of days
Inventories 33 53 38 65
Trade and other 
receivables 34 49 34 49
Trade and other 
payables (34) 26 (29) 23
33 43
The actions taken to manage production capacity and the 
increase in sales have both contributed to reduced inventory 
levels during the year from their peak at the end of the first 
quarter of 2014.
The focus on working capital has enabled operating cash flow, 
excluding exceptional items and capital expenditure, to remain 
ahead of last year at £48.1 million (2013: £43.8 million), despite 
the reduction in operating profit. 
Cash out-flow from exceptional items was £6.5 million  
(2013: £1.1 million).
Financing and net debt
Key financial measures are as follows:
2014 2013
Net debt £69.2m £35.8m
Net debt/EBITDA 1.5 0.6
Return on capital employed (ROCE) 11.8% 17.6%
As expected, net debt increased during the year, principally 
reflecting progress on the two major investment projects. 
During 2014, the group’s funding structure was reshaped to 
provide secure medium and longer-term funds to support the 
business’s growth. This included raising US$100 million in a  
US private placement which took place in the first half of 2014. 
Further to this, a £110 million revolving credit facility was 
negotiated in December providing funding out to 2019.
Net debt/EBITDA ended the year at 1.5 times and is expected 
to peak towards the end of 2015 but will remain within the 
banking covenants of three times.
ROCE reduced from 17.6% to 11.8% which reflects the 
significant investment programme currently being undertaken 
by the group. 
Interest
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m Change
Net interest cost 2.2 1.1 +100.0%
Net finance cost on pensions 2.0 2.2 -9.1%
Total net interest cost 4.2 3.3 +27.3%
The net interest cost for the year was higher than 2013 which 
reflects the increased debt levels during the period and the 
borrowing costs for the US private placement. 
In addition to the interest charged to the income statement, 
the group has capitalised interest of £0.6 million, reflecting 
the capital invested in the group’s two major projects and 
funded by the US private placement. 
The small decrease in net finance cost on pensions over 2013 
reflects the decrease in the opening net pension liability. 
Pension schemes
We operate a number of defined benefit schemes around the 
group, although all of these are now closed to new entrants. 
The net pension liabilities of these schemes can be analysed 
as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Fair value of scheme assets 231.8 202.6
Present value of scheme liabilities (290.8) (248.7)
Net pension liabilities (59.0) (46.1)
The increase in the pension liability during the year largely 
reflects the decrease in the discount rates, together with 
amended life expectancy tables issued in the USA in 2014.
Devro is currently in discussions with the trustees of the UK 
scheme as part of the triennial valuation as at 31 March 2014. 
The conclusion of these discussions is anticipated in the first 
half of 2015.
Earnings per share (“EPS”)
2014 2013 Change
Basic earnings per share 2.6p 20.1p -87.1%
Basic earnings per share 
excluding exceptional items 13.7p 20.8p -34.1%
We have again presented an adjusted EPS to exclude 
exceptional items to provide a better indication of our 
underlying performance. The fall in EPS reflects the group’s 
lower operating profit before exceptional items. 17 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Tax
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Tax charge on profit before tax 
excluding exceptional items 3.2 4.1
Tax credit on exceptional items (5.4) (0.2)
Tax (credit)/charge in income 
statement (2.2) 3.9
The group operates around the world and earns profits which 
are subject to tax at varying rates. 
The 2014 effective rate of tax excluding exceptional items 
continues to be low due to the investment incentive scheme  
in the Czech Republic. This benefit was originally expected  
to continue into 2016 but, due to the higher profits now 
generated in the region, is likely to come to an end in 2015.
Dividend
2014 2013
Interim per share 2.7p 2.7p
Final per share 6.1p 6.1p
Total 8.8p 8.8p
The Board is recommending an unchanged dividend in 2014, 
which reflects its confidence for the future following the 
restructuring and the investment plans currently being 
undertaken.
Risks and uncertainties
There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the group’s 
operations which could have a significant impact on our 
business, results and financial position.
The group’s risk management processes identify, assess, 
monitor, manage and mitigate the risks involved in our 
operations. The more significant risks to which the group  
is exposed are:
• Delays or cost overruns on major projects 
• Foreign exchange rate movements
• Disruption to supply or increase in price of key raw 
materials
• Product contamination
• Higher levels of net debt and reduced headroom on bank 
covenants
• Increased funding requirements of pension schemes
• Loss of market share/profit margins due to increased 
competitive pressures
• Shortage of people with relevant technical expertise
• Impact of changes in regulations affecting food production
• Development of non-casing technologies
• Constitutional change
Going concern
As at 31 December 2014, the group was operating comfortably 
within the banking covenants related to the revolving credit 
facility and the US private placement facilities. The detailed 
financial forecasts indicate that there is sufficient headroom  
in the facilities for the foreseeable future and that they can be 
repaid in line with the expected terms.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the company and the group have adequate 
resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Simon Webb
Group Finance Director 18 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The group has set up risk management processes to monitor, 
manage and mitigate the risks involved in our operations.
The Board has established a Risk Committee specifically  
to address the risks to which the business is exposed. This 
Committee, which consists of the executive management of 
the group, met four times in 2014. The responsibilities of the 
Committee are:
1. To assess and monitor risk across the group and to 
recommend mitigating strategies in respect of the key risks;
2. To review and update the Risk Register four times a year;
3. To review the group process for evaluating risk to ensure  
it remains appropriate and relevant;
4. To co-ordinate an annual ‘bottom up’ review of risk across 
the group, culminating in formal reports to the Audit 
Committee and the Board in the fourth quarter of each year;
5. To agree with the Board an annual programme whereby 
several key risks will be thoroughly reviewed and evaluated;
6. To report on its work in the Annual Report; and
7. To review its own performance annually.
Particular attention is paid to those risks which may have  
an impact on the achievement of group strategy. Senior 
managers throughout the group are consulted to identify 
likely risks. 
In 2015, the Board will receive four reports from the Risk 
Committee, to assist it in monitoring and reviewing the risk 
management and internal control systems.
KEY RISK IMPACT MITIGATION TREND
Delays or cost overruns on  
major projects
The group is undertaking two 
investment projects in South 
Carolina, USA and Nantong, China.
Unexpected delays or cost overruns 
would reduce returns.
The capitalised project costs are estimated at 
£45 million (USA) and £50 million (China). Cost 
overruns would reduce the returns on these 
investments and use more cash resources.
A delay in completing the commissioning of 
these plants could significantly impact earnings 
in 2016 and 2017.
Dedicated project teams 
have been set up for each 
project. 
Experienced external 
engineers and contractors 
have been engaged. 
Decreased
Foreign exchange rate movements
As an international business, with 
costs being incurred and revenues 
earned in several different 
currencies, the group is exposed  
to the risk of changes in the relative 
strengths of currencies. This risk 
increases in times of international 
economic uncertainty.
This may result in adverse impacts on  
revenues, costs and the sterling value of 
reported profits. Almost 90% of the group’s 
revenues are currently invoiced in currencies 
other than sterling.
The financial impact of 
exchange rate fluctuations 
within our operating units is 
mitigated by a policy of 
hedging a substantial 
portion of transactional 
foreign exchange risk for 
periods of up to 12 months 
using forward contracts. 
The group does not hedge 
the risk arising from 
changes in the rates at 
which overseas earnings  
are translated into sterling. 
Increased
There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the group’s 
operations which could have a significant impact on our 
business, results and financial position.  19 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
KEY RISK IMPACT MITIGATION TREND
Disruption to supply or increase  
in price of key raw materials
The group’s most important raw 
material is collagen, a naturally 
occurring animal protein obtained 
from cattle and sow hides. 
There is a risk that changes may 
occur in the supply or demand for 
food grade collagen, resulting in 
significant cost increases for the 
group’s business.
Raw collagen represents approximately 15%  
of the group’s total operating costs.
Increase in price would adversely impact the 
group’s operating costs.
Disruption to supply could adversely affect 
manufacturing performance.
The group manages  
the collagen sourcing  
risk by, where possible, 
entering into long-term 
arrangements with 
specialised suppliers in 
various parts of the world.
We monitor developments 
and changes in the global 
abattoir and leather 
industries to maintain  
and develop appropriate 
relationships.
Unchanged
Product contamination
Raw materials and ingredients may 
contain impurities, contamination  
or disease. 
Contamination could lead to a product recall, 
loss of reputation, or significant costs of 
compensation.
All of our manufacturing 
sites have achieved 
FS22000 approval.  
This requires a Hazard 
Analysis and Critical Control 
Point programme to be 
implemented with the  
aim of preventing 
contamination.
Unchanged
Higher levels of debt and reduced 
headroom on banking covenants
The increased level of borrowing  
to support the group’s investment 
projects means that banking 
covenants are more challenging.
A breach of the banking covenants could result 
in a renegotiation of the loans on more costly 
terms or the requirement to raise further  
equity funding.
The Board’s detailed 
financial planning 
anticipates sufficient  
profits and cash flow 
growth to meet all relevant 
covenants. Scenario 
planning is used to develop 
mitigating strategies.
Unchanged 20 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 
continued
RISK IMPACT MITIGATION TREND
Increased funding requirements  
of pension schemes
Estimates of the amount and timing 
of future funding obligations for the 
group’s defined benefit pension 
schemes are based on various 
assumptions, including the 
projected investment performance 
of the pension scheme assets, 
future bond yields, changes to 
assumptions about the longevity  
of the schemes’ members and 
statutory requirements. 
Any significant deterioration in the schemes’ 
asset values or unforeseen increases in scheme 
liabilities might increase the group’s funding 
obligations and could adversely affect the 
group’s profits and financial strength.
The position and 
performance of each of the 
pension schemes are 
continually monitored by 
the group, in conjunction 
with pension trustees and 
professional advisers.
All defined benefit schemes 
are closed to new entrants, 
and the group is actively 
working to match assets to 
expected future cashflow.
Increased
Loss of market share/profit  
margins due to increased 
competitive pressures
The group operates in competitive 
markets throughout the world. 
A major change in the production capacities, 
pricing policies or behaviour of our  
competitors, or consolidation between  
either competitors or major customers, could 
have a significant adverse effect on sales 
revenues and profitability.
In addition to substantial 
capital investment, the 
group invests over £7 
million in research & 
development activities each 
year to extend and 
differentiate the product 
range and improve the 
quality of our products. 
We also expand the total 
collagen casings market by 
developing products which 
convert gut casing 
applications to collagen. 
Devro provides a high level 
of technical support to  
key customers.
Unchanged
People
Shortage of people with relevant 
technical expertise.
There is considerable competition for highly 
trained staff in certain areas. Devro’s strategy of 
significant investment in the company’s 
manufacturing base requires the recruitment 
and retention of highly-skilled technical 
managers and employees.
A number of internal 
programmes have been 
introduced to train and 
develop key employees. In 
addition, recruitment 
initiatives are underway in 
order to ensure that major 
capital projects will be 
managed effectively.
Unchanged 21 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
RISK IMPACT MITIGATION TREND
Impact of changes in regulations 
affecting food production
As a food manufacturer, the group 
complies with all relevant food 
safety regulations. These 
regulations are not only those of the 
jurisdictions where products are 
manufactured (the European Union, 
the USA and Australia), but also the 
regulations of the many countries in 
which products are sold. Regulatory 
authorities routinely enact changes 
to food safety legislation. 
Changes to food safety regulations could result 
in restrictions on the movement of the group’s 
products, or its raw materials, between 
territories, or necessitate changes to the 
production processes at one or more of the 
group’s manufacturing facilities. 
The Global Quality and 
Regulatory Affairs Director 
actively monitors planned 
and actual changes to 
regulations in all relevant 
jurisdictions in order to 
minimise disruption to our 
business. 
The group is a founder 
member of the Collagen 
Casings Trade Association, 
which represents the 
industry and promotes its 
excellent record in 
regulatory and health 
issues. Supplier approval 
and traceability are under 
constant review.
Increased
Development of non-casing 
technologies
More than 85% of the group’s 
revenue is derived from the 
manufacture and sale of edible 
collagen casings, primarily for 
sausages. For many years, several 
manufacturers of machinery used  
in the food industry have been 
promoting ‘co-extrusion’ systems 
for sausages which do not  
require casings. 
If there were to be a significant conversion to 
co-extrusion, there could be an adverse effect 
on the sales of casings, revenues and profits.
The group makes 
substantial investments in 
product development and 
manufacturing processes to 
sustain competitive 
advantage. 
Where there have been 
conversions to co-extrusion 
in the past, the group has 
often been successful in 
obtaining the business to 
supply the collagen gel 
required for such 
applications, and continues 
to be a world leader in this 
specialist category.
Unchanged
Constitutional change
One UK political party is promising 
a referendum on the UK’s continued 
membership of the European Union 
in 2017 if they win the 2015 UK 
General Election. This could result in 
significant constitutional change.
The proposed referendum could result  
in the UK exiting the European Union. Devro has 
two factories in Scotland with significant 
trading links to Europe. Trading and regulatory 
relationships beyond Europe are in many cases 
facilitated by EU membership.
The situation is uncertain 
and is being monitored.
Unchanged 22 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
As a global manufacturing business, we inevitably have an 
impact on the wider world. We take our responsibilities to 
society and the environment seriously and make sure they 
are reflected in all our group policies and statements.
Health and safety
Devro believes in strong health and safety principles. One of 
our core beliefs is that all accidents are preventable and we 
promote health and safety to work towards a target of zero 
accidents of employees, contractors, visitors and the public. 
The Board Health and Safety Committee reviews and monitors 
safety performance in each of the regions. In 2014, the  
Board met four times to review progress and meet with  
safety committees.
Safety underpins all our operational procedures with 
accountability for safety at every level of the organisation. 
We focus on three main aspects of safety:
• Process safety: ensuring safe equipment and processes;
• Procedural safety: ensuring that we have adequate 
procedures for the safe operation and maintenance  
of our equipment; and
• Behavioural safety: helping our employees to act in  
a safe way.
In 2010, we introduced the Golden Rules. Their purpose is to 
establish some basic guidelines to ensure that all locations 
have a set of key safety procedures. In 2013, we started to 
audit compliance with the Golden Rules requirements and,  
in 2014, extended this to the office locations. The Board 
Health and Safety Committee monitors the progress made  
by all locations throughout the year.
How we did in 2014
The reported rate of lost working day injuries (“LWDIs”) 
decreased in the past year. We recorded seven lost working 
day incidents in 2014 compared to nine in 2013. The number  
of working days lost due to injury was 144 (2013: 115).
Following every LWDI, a full report is drafted with all  
remedial actions put in place as soon as is practical, and  
the circumstances shared at all sites to ensure the chance  
of recurrence elsewhere in the group is minimised. The Chief 
Executive meets personally with every colleague who has 
been involved in an LWDI.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
BEING A RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS 23 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
‘09
‘10
‘11
‘12
‘13
‘14 4.6
3.7
6.3
4.9
9.2
10.7
‘05
‘06
‘07
‘08
‘09
‘10
‘11
‘12
‘13
‘14
1.5
1.9
0.9
2.5
3.3
1.8
6.3
4.9
3.7
5.8
‘05
‘06
‘07
‘08
‘09
‘10
‘11
‘12
‘13
‘14
31
24
36
68
154
134
246
143
183
156
reporting of unsafe acts and conditions so they can be 
addressed, which will enhance the safety culture and 
performance at our sites and should result in a reduction  
in actual accidents and injuries. 
The performance in the second half of the year showed 
marked improvement with two LWDIs and 25 working days 
lost compared to five LWDIs in the first half of the year and  
119 working days lost.
Safety Statistics
2014 2013
Number of LWDIs 7 9
Number of days lost 144 115
Number of cases of occupational illness 2 4
Number of dangerous incidents 18 9
Number of recordable injuries 21 18
Number of first aid cases 102 155
Number of minor incidents 112 98
Number of near misses 91 117
Unsafe act rate (per hour) 0.54 0.40
Employee hours worked 4,240,350 4,503,132
Contractor hours worked 332,351 304,686
Recordable injury rate 
(per million hours worked)
Lost working day injury rate 
(injuries per million hours worked)
Number of lost working days 
(per million hours worked)
OUR AIM IS TO DO EVERYTHING SAFEL Y AND  
WE HA VE A GOAL OF ZERO INJURIES
In late 2015, Devro will be commissioning a new factory in 
China; construction work started in 2014 and the site is under 
the control of a locally based General Contractor until 
completion and handover to Devro later this year.
On 31 December 2014, there was a fatal accident on the site. 
Mr Qingming Chen, a 46-year-old employee of a sub-
contractor died as a result of injuries sustained in a fall  
of eight metres. Following a thorough investigation in 
conjunction with the local authorities, specific actions were 
identified and implemented to prevent a recurrence, before 
work on-site recommenced. 
Safety is our number one priority and, while the Nantong site 
is under the control of others, we were deeply saddened by 
the loss of life at a project being conducted on our behalf.
We also measure our performance by looking at the number 
of recordable injuries; those that need more attention than 
basic first aid and require the attention of a health professional 
but do not result in lost working days. In 2014, 21 recordable 
incidents were reported, an increase from the 18 reported  
in 2013.
In 2014, we introduced contractor activities into our statistics. 
Our contractors hours worked during 2014 were the 
equivalent to 160 full time staff. In addition, contractor 
activities can be non-routine and high risk. Therefore, 
although we are disappointed to see an increase in the 
number of recordable incidents, these do include  
contractor incidents.
There were 1,965 behavioural audits conducted in 2014, 
lasting 702 hours, which identified over 1,000 unsafe acts 
which are seen as leading indicators. We encourage the 
Policies are reviewed annually and the latest 
versions were fully updated and endorsed by 
the Board at the end of 2014. They are 
available to read on our website.
devro.com 24 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
‘05
‘06
‘07
‘08
‘09
‘10
‘11
‘12
‘13
‘14
57
65
70
79
84
87
89
94
97
100
‘05
‘06
‘07
‘08
‘09
‘10
‘11
‘12
‘13
‘14
67
78
81
89
87
94
92
91
98
100
‘05
‘06
‘07
‘08
‘09
‘10
‘11
‘12
‘13
‘14
70
80
79
84
86
88
90
93
96
100
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
continued
Water use 
(m
3
 water/million metres equivalent casing sold)
2005 = 100; 2015 target = 77.6
Tonnes waste 
(converted to a solids basis)
(sent to landfill or incineration/million metres 
equivalent casing sold)
2005 = 100; 2015 target = 78.0
Environment
As a global manufacturer, the main environmental impacts  
of our processes are the emission of carbon dioxide and  
the generation of the solid waste we send to landfill or 
incineration. We operate our own waste water treatment 
plants in three of our manufacturing locations. In the fourth,  
Scotland, we discharge directly into the public sewerage 
system where our waste is combined with domestic effluent 
and treated by Scottish Water.
Our worldwide operations are subject to a variety of 
regulatory regimes and cultures. As a consequence, we deal 
with environmental issues through a network of specialists 
operating within the business units.
Individual business units will measure many environmental 
impacts aligned to the specific country or regional legislation, 
but at group level we collectively monitor our performance  
via three main measures:
• carbon dioxide (CO
2
) emissions from the use of fuels and 
electricity in our factories;
• water consumption; and
• solid waste we send to landfill or incineration.
All three are important to us but our major concern and, as 
such, a main area of focus remains climate change and the 
twin issues of fuel consumption and electricity-related CO
2
 
emissions. This year, our investments in the USA and China 
facilities have incorporated the best available technologies  
to ensure a positive impact on our emissions and energy 
usage per kilometre of product.
Targets
In 2011, we set ourselves the target of making 10% reductions 
in each of these measures per kilometre-equivalent-product 
by the year 2015.
Our 2014 performance shows that we are already surpassing 
these targets, and as we reach the target deadline of 2015  
we are now focusing on the next target period of 2025.  
This will outline our aspirations in making a step-change  
in environmental performance for the next decade and 
underlines our commitment and resolve as an organisation  
to address our environmental impacts and responsibilities.
CO
2
 emissions 
(tonnes CO
2
/million metres equivalent casing sold)
2005 = 100; 2015 target = 75.6
Environment key performance indicators
2014  
performance
2015  
target
Carbon dioxide 57 76
Water use 70 78
Solid waste 67 78
(per million metres equivalent casing, 2005 = 100)
Carbon dioxide
Last year we saw that the emissions as a result of energy  
used in our manufacturing plants were already below our  
2015 target. As a result of various group-wide reduction 
programmes and investments in cleaner and more carbon 
efficient equipment, we have again reduced our emissions  
in 2014.
Water
Overall water use has reduced in 2014 at all four production 
locations and, as a result, it is currently tracking below the 
group 2015 target. Changes in the USA process will also help 
strengthen this performance measure although the full effect 
will not be seen in 2015 figures. The 2014 performance 
demonstrates a 30% reduction from the baseline.
 
Solid waste to landfill or incineration
In the various regions in which we operate, local legislation 
governs landfill use, and is quite diverse. However, there is a 
common message and that is to reduce the impact wherever 
and whenever possible. In most areas landfill from inert 
sources (bricks, concrete, building waste) is under less 
restrictive control. We aim to reduce waste from our 
manufacturing processes in the short term and find new 
avenues for disposal in the longer term.
Environmental management systems
All our major manufacturing sites employ Environmental 
Management Systems, based around the ISO 14001 model. 
Four of the plants have now been accredited with the ISO 
14001 Standard and both the remaining plant and the Chinese 
operation are currently evaluating the accreditation process 
as part of their environmental strategies. 25 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
ALL OUR MAJOR MANUFACTURING SITES 
EMPLOY ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEMS, BASED AROUND THE ISO 14001 MODEL
GHG emissions data (tonnes of CO
2
e)
2014 2013 2012
Scope 1 emissions (tes) 76,805 79,297 76,958
Scope 2 emissions (tes) 65,240 67,584 66,605
Scope 1 + 2 emissions (tes) 142,045 146,881 143,563
Intensity measure (£’m turnover) 232.3 242.7 241.1
Normalised emissions (tonnes of CO
2
e per £’m turnover) 611 605 595
Greenhouse gas emissions
Our emissions of greenhouse gases are mainly due to the  
use of energy in our factories. In addition, we use HFCs and 
HCFCs in refrigeration equipment, own a number of vehicles 
and rent offices. The figures above cover all of these activities 
except where we rent an office where the energy use is not 
measured separately. The impact of this on our numbers is  
not material.
We started collecting information in this format in 2012 as  
part of our responsibilities as a FTSE4good company.
Methodology
We have reported on all of the emission sources required 
under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statement. 
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that 
are not included in our consolidated statement.
We have used emission factors from UK Government’s GHG 
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Note
 Overseas electricity conversion factors taken from DEFRA’s tables refer to tes  
CO
2
 rather than tes CO
2
e. In the UK the difference is less than 1%. 26 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
continued
disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical  
with that of other employees.
We employed 2,226 people, on average, around the world 
during 2014. As at 31 December 2014 the group employed 
2,162 people.
We encourage the development of employees through 
training and invest both time and money in this which provides 
benefits for both the group, through a more highly skilled 
workforce, and the individual employees, who gain both 
qualifications and experience that they can use to further  
their careers whilst with the group and in any future roles 
elsewhere. As at 31 December 2014 we were training 19 
apprentices around the world. During the course of the year 
ten apprenticeships were completed. As at 31 December 2014 
24 people who had successfully completed apprenticeships 
with us were still employed by the group.
People and human rights
The group places considerable value on the active 
involvement of its employees on matters affecting them 
locally and on matters that affect the group. This is achieved 
through visible and regular communications, both formal and 
informal, from their own management and that of visiting 
Executive Board members. Increasingly, we have brought 
together multi-cultural teams to work on strategically 
important projects with the benefit of creating a more unified 
and stronger business culture. Employee representatives are 
consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their 
current and future interests.
Devro is an equal opportunities employer and our employees 
and applicants are treated fairly and equally regardless of 
their age, colour, creed, disability, full or part-time status, 
gender, marital status, nationality or ethnic origin, race, 
religion or sexual orientation. Applications from disabled 
people are always fully considered, bearing in mind the 
aptitudes of the applicant concerned. In the event of members 
of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure  
that their employment with the group continues and the 
appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the group 
that the training, career development and promotion of 
WE ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT  
OF EMPLOYEES THROUGH TRAINING 27 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
As at the end of the year the gender breakdown of the workforce was as follows:
As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013
Male Female Total Male Female Total
Board of Directors 5 1 6 6 1 7
83% 17% 86% 14%
Executive Board (excluding directors) 3 1 4 6 1 7
75% 25% 86% 14%
Other senior managers 44 15 59 36 17 53
75% 25% 68% 32%
Other employees 1,352 741 2,093 1,459 764 2,223
65% 35% 66% 34%
Total 1,404 
65%
758 
35%
2,162 1,507 
66%
783 
34%
2,290
The group is supporting two employees in their MBAs  
through the Open University Business School, following 
successful Professional Certificate in Management 
accreditation in 2013. The group has introduced 10,000  
hours worth of Open University-supported web-based 
learning to give greater access to self-motivated training  
to a wider range of employees.
Devro does not have a specific human rights policy. However, 
we have judged that human rights are not a material risk for 
the business due to the existing regulatory requirements in  
the regions where the group’s significant operations are 
based. We run our business responsibly and ensure that all  
our employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders 
are treated fairly and with respect. We will continue to behave 
responsibly in all regions that the group may base operations 
in the future, and adhere to the highest standards, even where 
local regulatory requirements are not as advanced as those 
the group currently operates within.
The Strategic Report, comprising pages 1 to 27 inclusive, was approved by the Board of Directors of the company on  
17 March 2015.
John Meredith
Company Secretary
17 March 2015 28 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Board of Directors
Gerard Hoetmer 
Chairman 
Peter Page 
Chief Executive 
Simon Webb 
Group Finance Director
Jane Lodge 
Non-Executive Director 
Paul Neep 
Non-Executive Director  
Senior Independent Director
Paul Withers 
Non-Executive Director
Gerard joined Devro in July 2013. Peter joined Devro as Chief Executive in 
June 2007. 
Simon joined Devro at the start of 2011. Jane joined Devro in March 2012. Paul joined Devro in February 2005. Paul joined Devro in April 2011.
A Dutch national, Gerard was appointed 
Chairman of the Board on 15 May 2014, 
having joined the Board ten months earlier 
as a Non-Executive Director. 
Previously Chief Executive of Corbion, an 
international bio-based products company, 
Gerard started his career with Unilever in 
1980. He held a number of positions there 
until 2005, latterly as Senior Vice President 
Supply Chain, Unilever Foods and a member 
of the Unilever Foods Executive.
Gerard holds two unpaid positions. He is 
Chairman of the supervisory board of 
Feyenoord, the Rotterdam football club,  
and also of Spieren voor Spieren, a Dutch 
charity aimed at supporting research for 
muscular disease. 
Gerard is Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee.
Peter has worked for 28 years in the 
international food and agribusiness sector, 
as a general manager and as a marketing 
manager where he gained experience of 
managing the interface between technology 
and food manufacturers, which is relevant  
to Devro’s situation.
Peter is Chairman of the Non-Executive 
Directors’ Remuneration Committee.
Simon previously worked as Chief Financial 
Officer of De La Rue plc and has held senior 
finance positions in global manufacturing 
companies such as Enodis plc, Paxar Inc  
and BAT plc.
Jane is a Non-Executive Director and Audit 
Chairman of Costain Group PLC, DCC plc 
and Stemcor Holdings Limited. A Chartered 
Accountant, Jane was a senior audit partner 
with Deloitte, where she spent over 25 years 
advising global manufacturing companies 
including businesses in the food and 
automotive sectors. Jane was a member  
of the CBI Manufacturing Council until  
2011. Her extensive experience with 
manufacturing companies and her strategic 
work with Deloitte has given her a strong 
international business perspective.
 
Jane is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Paul is Chairman of The Glenmorangie 
Company, part of LVMH, having previously 
been President and Chief Executive. Paul’s 
knowledge of marketing and experience  
of international business development is 
particularly helpful in his role as a Non-
Executive Director. He is Senior  
Independent Director.
Paul is Chairman of the Executive Directors’ 
Remuneration Committee.
At BPB plc, Paul was Group Managing 
Director responsible for emerging  
markets and group development, giving  
him real insights into the challenges and 
opportunities for growth at Devro. He is a 
Non-Executive Director of Premier Farnell 
plc and Senior Independent Director at 
Keller Group plc, and is therefore able to 
bring experience of current thinking to 
Devro’s Board. 
Paul is Chairman of the Health and Safety 
Committee.
Executive Board
Gordon Frame 
Business Director
Bill McGowan 
Business Director
Sarah Murphy
Group Human Resources Director 
Michal Stocek 
Business Director
Gordon joined Devro in 1986. Over the past 
28 years, Gordon has worked for Devro in 
the USA, the UK, Europe and Asia, and so 
has a broad understanding of markets, 
technologies and customer applications. 
Gordon has been based in Hong Kong since 
2011 and is responsible for the group’s 
activities in China, Japan and South  
East Asia.
Bill joined Devro in January 2015 as Business 
Director with responsibility for all the 
group’s activities in the Americas region.  
He brings with him over 37 years’ experience 
in both B2B and B2C food-related industries 
holding senior level positions in sales, 
marketing and supply chain. His most  
recent role was President, America’s for 
Corbion, an international bio-based 
products company.
Sarah joined the company in December 
2014, bringing 30 years of experience across 
a broad range of technology-based industry 
sectors. A metallurgist and mechanical 
engineer holding operational roles for 
12 years, she subsequently held 
responsibility for executive level, global  
HR management positions. Sarah brings 
with her a practical understanding of how  
to develop organisational effectiveness and 
strong leadership teams. She is a Fellow  
of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and 
Development, a Fellow of the Institution  
of Mechanical Engineers and holds 
qualifications in executive coaching  
as well as mediation practice.
Michal has worked in product development 
and, more recently, general management for 
30 years, bringing in-depth knowledge of 
collagen products. A chemical engineer, he 
was appointed to the Czech management 
team in 1997 and became a member of the 
Executive Board of Devro and Business 
Director with responsibility for Eastern 
Europe in August 2006. In 2011, his remit was 
expanded to include all of Europe and Africa 
and in 2014 he assumed responsibility for 
Devro’s research & development activities. 29 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Board of Directors
Gerard Hoetmer 
Chairman 
Peter Page 
Chief Executive 
Simon Webb 
Group Finance Director
Jane Lodge 
Non-Executive Director 
Paul Neep 
Non-Executive Director  
Senior Independent Director
Paul Withers 
Non-Executive Director
Gerard joined Devro in July 2013. Peter joined Devro as Chief Executive in 
June 2007. 
Simon joined Devro at the start of 2011. Jane joined Devro in March 2012. Paul joined Devro in February 2005. Paul joined Devro in April 2011.
A Dutch national, Gerard was appointed 
Chairman of the Board on 15 May 2014, 
having joined the Board ten months earlier 
as a Non-Executive Director. 
Previously Chief Executive of Corbion, an 
international bio-based products company, 
Gerard started his career with Unilever in 
1980. He held a number of positions there 
until 2005, latterly as Senior Vice President 
Supply Chain, Unilever Foods and a member 
of the Unilever Foods Executive.
Gerard holds two unpaid positions. He is 
Chairman of the supervisory board of 
Feyenoord, the Rotterdam football club,  
and also of Spieren voor Spieren, a Dutch 
charity aimed at supporting research for 
muscular disease. 
Gerard is Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee.
Peter has worked for 28 years in the 
international food and agribusiness sector, 
as a general manager and as a marketing 
manager where he gained experience of 
managing the interface between technology 
and food manufacturers, which is relevant  
to Devro’s situation.
Peter is Chairman of the Non-Executive 
Directors’ Remuneration Committee.
Simon previously worked as Chief Financial 
Officer of De La Rue plc and has held senior 
finance positions in global manufacturing 
companies such as Enodis plc, Paxar Inc  
and BAT plc.
Jane is a Non-Executive Director and Audit 
Chairman of Costain Group PLC, DCC plc 
and Stemcor Holdings Limited. A Chartered 
Accountant, Jane was a senior audit partner 
with Deloitte, where she spent over 25 years 
advising global manufacturing companies 
including businesses in the food and 
automotive sectors. Jane was a member  
of the CBI Manufacturing Council until  
2011. Her extensive experience with 
manufacturing companies and her strategic 
work with Deloitte has given her a strong 
international business perspective.
 
Jane is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Paul is Chairman of The Glenmorangie 
Company, part of LVMH, having previously 
been President and Chief Executive. Paul’s 
knowledge of marketing and experience  
of international business development is 
particularly helpful in his role as a Non-
Executive Director. He is Senior  
Independent Director.
Paul is Chairman of the Executive Directors’ 
Remuneration Committee.
At BPB plc, Paul was Group Managing 
Director responsible for emerging  
markets and group development, giving  
him real insights into the challenges and 
opportunities for growth at Devro. He is a 
Non-Executive Director of Premier Farnell 
plc and Senior Independent Director at 
Keller Group plc, and is therefore able to 
bring experience of current thinking to 
Devro’s Board. 
Paul is Chairman of the Health and Safety 
Committee.
Executive Board
Gordon Frame 
Business Director
Bill McGowan 
Business Director
Sarah Murphy
Group Human Resources Director 
Michal Stocek 
Business Director
Gordon joined Devro in 1986. Over the past 
28 years, Gordon has worked for Devro in 
the USA, the UK, Europe and Asia, and so 
has a broad understanding of markets, 
technologies and customer applications. 
Gordon has been based in Hong Kong since 
2011 and is responsible for the group’s 
activities in China, Japan and South  
East Asia.
Bill joined Devro in January 2015 as Business 
Director with responsibility for all the 
group’s activities in the Americas region.  
He brings with him over 37 years’ experience 
in both B2B and B2C food-related industries 
holding senior level positions in sales, 
marketing and supply chain. His most  
recent role was President, America’s for 
Corbion, an international bio-based 
products company.
Sarah joined the company in December 
2014, bringing 30 years of experience across 
a broad range of technology-based industry 
sectors. A metallurgist and mechanical 
engineer holding operational roles for 
12 years, she subsequently held 
responsibility for executive level, global  
HR management positions. Sarah brings 
with her a practical understanding of how  
to develop organisational effectiveness and 
strong leadership teams. She is a Fellow  
of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and 
Development, a Fellow of the Institution  
of Mechanical Engineers and holds 
qualifications in executive coaching  
as well as mediation practice.
Michal has worked in product development 
and, more recently, general management for 
30 years, bringing in-depth knowledge of 
collagen products. A chemical engineer, he 
was appointed to the Czech management 
team in 1997 and became a member of the 
Executive Board of Devro and Business 
Director with responsibility for Eastern 
Europe in August 2006. In 2011, his remit was 
expanded to include all of Europe and Africa 
and in 2014 he assumed responsibility for 
Devro’s research & development activities. 30 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
From 1 January 2014 until 31 December 2014, the company applied the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code  
(the “Code”). 
1. Board composition
Mr G J Hoetmer, Chairman, Mr P W B Page, Chief Executive, Mr S C Webb, Group Finance Director, Ms J A Lodge, Non-
Executive Director, Mr P A J Neep, Non-Executive Director, and Mr P N Withers, Non-Executive Director, served as directors 
throughout 2014. Mr S J Hannam stepped down from the Board on 15 May 2014.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered to be “independent” directors. This opinion is based primarily on careful 
consideration of their character and judgement and their contribution to the work of the Board and its committees. None holds 
any external position which would impinge upon his or her independence or objectivity, nor are there any relationships or 
circumstances such as are envisaged by Provision B.1.1 of the Code, other than as set out in the following paragraph.
Mr P A J Neep has held the position of “Senior Independent Director” since October 2005. The Board recognises in terms of 
Provision B.2.3 of the Code that the independence of any Non-Executive Director may be compromised if he or she has been  
in that role for a long period of time. The Board, with the assistance of the Nomination Committee, has therefore rigorously 
evaluated Mr P A J Neep’s performance, and the Chairman is satisfied that he continues to be effective and to demonstrate 
commitment to the role. The Board has therefore decided to recommend the re-election of Mr P A J Neep at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”). 
The Board views the Senior Independent Director’s role generally as a passive one, but acknowledges that there can be 
occasions where there may be a need for shareholders to convey concerns to the Board other than through the Chairman or 
the Chief Executive. The company’s major shareholders are reminded that the Senior Independent Director is willing to meet 
with them if they wish.
All directors will stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM. As in previous years, brief biographies of Board members, giving details 
of their experience and other main commitments, can be found on pages 28 and 29, allowing shareholders to make an informed 
decision on the question of re-election. All the directors have had their performance reviewed recently, as described on page 33 
below, and the Chairman is satisfied that each continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role. 
The leadership and effectiveness of the Board are 
primarily the Chairman’s responsibility. We recognise  
the importance of, and are committed to, high standards 
of corporate governance, aligned with the needs of the 
company and the interests of all our stakeholders.  
My fellow directors and I fully appreciate the importance 
of sound governance in the efficient running of the 
company, and in particular to the effectiveness and 
independence of the Board and the management of 
risks faced by the group. The following report sets  
out how we do this. It covers how the Board and its 
committees operated in 2014.
Gerard Hoetmer 
Chairman
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 31 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
20%
45%
35%
  Strategy and planning
   P e r f o rm a n c e r e v i e w
   Cor p or a t e g o v e r na n c e
There is a clear division of authority and responsibility through the separation of the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive. 
This demarcation is set out in writing and was reviewed by the Board in 2014. 
Directors of the company and its subsidiaries have the benefit of a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy.
The directors believe that it is essential that the group should be led and controlled by an effective board. The Board has 
adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it including:
 
• the setting of corporate strategy;
• approval of the annual budget; and
• major decisions on capital expenditure.
In 2014, the Board broadly divided its time as follows:
The day-to-day management of the business is the responsibility of executive management.
Balance and diversity 
The Chairman and the Board understand the need to ensure that the balance of the Board is appropriate for the requirements 
of the business, and the benefits of diversity in its broadest sense are clearly understood. However, for a relatively small Board, 
it remains difficult to set targets for members of any particular background, and this applies to the issue of women on the 
Board. The Board’s policy is therefore to actively encourage women to apply to join the Board whenever a vacancy exists,  
and the report from the Nomination Committee on page 34 sets out how we do this. Ultimately, however, any appointments 
must be made on merit, taking account of the specific needs of the business at the relevant times, for the benefit of the 
company and its stakeholders.
Information flow
On appointment to the Board, directors are provided with an induction programme to familiarise themselves with the group’s 
businesses and the risks and strategic challenges facing the group, as well as the economic, competition, legal and regulatory 
environments in which the group operates.
The directors are supplied with detailed papers covering the group’s operating functions in advance of all Board meetings and 
a secure web-based portal is used to disseminate additional relevant information on a regular basis. 
Members of the executive management team attend and make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board.  
A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with training provided during the year, ensures that the directors 
continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the group’s businesses, as well as their awareness of industry,  
risk, legal, regulatory, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil their role on the Board and committees of the 
Board effectively.
The directors are authorised to obtain independent professional advice at the company’s expense in performance of their 
duties as directors, although none has done so in the period under review. In addition, all directors have access to the services 
of the Company Secretary, who is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are observed and for advising the Board 
on Corporate Governance matters. 32 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT  
continued
1. Board composition (continued)
Board and committee proceedings
The Board acknowledges that it is collectively responsible for the success of the company by providing entrepreneurial 
leadership, setting the company’s strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place and 
reviewing management performance.
A number of committees carry out detailed independent oversight on behalf of the Board in relation to the audit of the 
company, health and safety issues, the remuneration of directors, appointments to the Board and the risks facing the group.
In order to discharge these responsibilities, the Board and its committees meet on a regular basis throughout the year. In 2014, 
the Board held seven meetings. Full details of the Board and committee attendance are shown in the table below:
G J Hoetmer
1
P W B Page S J Hannam
2
J A Lodge P A J Neep S C Webb P N Withers
Board – 7 meetings 7 7 4 7 7 7 7
Audit Committee – 5 meetings 2 – – 5 5 – 5
Executive Directors’
Remuneration Committee – 3 meetings 3 – 1 3 3 – 3
Non-Executive Directors’
Remuneration Committee – 2 meetings – 2 – – – 2 –
Nomination Committee – 3 meetings – – 3 3 3 – 3
Health and Safety Committee – 4 meetings – 4 1 – – – 4
Risk Committee – 4 meetings – 3 – – – 3 –
1.  Mr G J Hoetmer stepped down from the Audit Committee and Health and Safety Committee upon his election to Chairman on 15 May 2014.
2.  Mr S J Hannam stepped down from the Board on 15 May 2014.
Board papers are generally circulated one week before the meetings. Comprehensive monthly management accounts in an 
agreed format are also sent to directors in a timely manner.
The Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Health and Safety and Risk Committees, all appropriately resourced, met a total of  
21 times during the year.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors met informally during the year, providing an opportunity to review the 
business without the Executive Directors being present.
Board evaluation
In December 2014, the Board conducted an evaluation process based on a detailed questionnaire which was distributed to the 
directors for their consideration. Results were collated confidentially by the Company Secretary, and reviewed by the Chairman. 
Individual and collective discussions on the Board’s performance then followed. 
The questionnaire examines the balance of the skills of the directors, the operation of the Board in practice, including 
governance issues, and the content of Board meetings. Feedback from the process is used to identify opportunities to improve 
the performance of the Board and the directors.
This process also addresses the effectiveness of the Board committees, covering such matters as meeting arrangements, and 
information provision. The results of the 2014 process were discussed by the Board and, where areas of improvement were 
identified, actions were agreed. 
A satisfactory review of the performance of the Chairman was completed by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior 
Independent Director.
  33 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
2. Relationship with shareholders
The company communicates with institutional investors primarily though analysts’ briefings and meetings with major 
shareholders, as well as timely Stock Exchange announcements. The Board, and in particular the Non-Executive Directors,  
are kept informed of investors’ views in the main through distribution of analysts’ and brokers’ briefings. The Chairman is  
willing to meet with shareholders to discuss matters such as strategy and governance and, as mentioned above, the Senior 
Independent Director is available in the event of shareholder concerns which cannot be addressed through the usual channels.
Broader shareholder communication takes place through the company’s website, which contains significant company 
announcements and other relevant information, and also through the Annual Report and AGM. All directors attend the AGM, 
and shareholders have the opportunity to hear presentations on the group’s financial and business performance as well as to 
question any member of the Board on any relevant topic.
Votes at the AGM are conducted by way of a poll to ensure that the votes of shareholders who are unable to attend may be 
taken into account. The results are announced to the Stock Exchange.
Each substantial issue is proposed as an individual resolution of the AGM. Notice of the meeting is sent to shareholders at least 
20 working days before the meeting.
3. Directors’ remuneration
Details of the level of remuneration received by the directors in 2014 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 52. 
The Board believes that the current levels of remuneration are at the right level to attract and retain the directors needed to run 
the company successfully, without being excessive. Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed against those paid for 
similar positions in comparable companies. Professional advice from independent advisers is sought each year in this regard by 
the Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee.
An explanation of the company’s incentive schemes, including how these are linked to the company’s strategy, is set out in  
the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 52. The provisions of Schedule A to the Code are applied when incentive schemes  
are discussed.
The Executive Directors’ service contracts provide for notice periods of one year. Due to the technical nature of the business, 
these contracts contain restrictive covenants which will be rigorously applied and, taking this into account, the Board and the 
Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee believe that the notice periods are reasonable and in the best interests of the 
company, having regard to prevailing market conditions and current practice among public companies.
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration is reviewed annually by the Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee, taking 
independent external advice as appropriate.
Mr P A J Neep chaired the Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee throughout 2014. The other members of the 
Committee were Mr G J Hoetmer, Ms J A Lodge and Mr P N Withers for the full year. Mr S J Hannam stepped down from the 
Committee on 15 May 2014 when he left the Board. The Committee met three times in 2014. 
Throughout 2014, the Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee was chaired by Mr P W B Page, with Mr S C Webb  
as the other member. This Committee met twice in 2014.
The Remuneration Report contains a detailed statement of the remuneration of each director for 2014, including details of the 
company’s pension policy for Executive Directors.
The written remit of the Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee is available on the company’s website.
 
4. Report from the Nomination Committee
The members of the Committee during the year were Ms J A Lodge, Mr P A J Neep and Mr P N Withers, with Mr G J Hoetmer 
joining as Committee Chairman on 15 May 2014. Mr S J Hannam stepped down as Committee Chairman when he left the Board 
on 15 May 2014. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
The Committee has written terms of reference which can be found on the company’s website. These include the regular review 
of the structure, size and composition of the Board. In 2014, the Committee met formally on three occasions. 
During the course of the year, the Committee sought a new Chairman of the Board following Mr S J Hannam’s decision to step 
down. Mr P A J Neep, Senior Independent Director, chaired the proceedings for this process.
Mr G J Hoetmer, already a Non-Executive Director of the company, put himself forward, and after a comprehensive search of 
external candidates using independent consultants, a number of additional strong contenders were identified. The Committee 
then reviewed the various candidates against the agreed specification before unanimously agreeing to nominate Mr G J 
Hoetmer to the Board for the post. 34 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT  
continued
4. Report from the Nomination Committee (continued)
The question of succession planning for senior management below Board level is primarily the responsibility of the  
Chief Executive. 
Following a review of the Davies Report by the Board in the course of 2011, the Committee will continue to facilitate the 
candidature of women for Board appointments, and recruitment consultants will be instructed to ensure, whenever possible, 
that a significant proportion of any longlist put forward should be women. Shortlists will, where possible, be drawn up in a way 
which forces diversity amongst the final candidates.
5. Report from the Health and Safety Committee
This Committee was formed in 2009, reflecting the Board’s commitment to health and safety matters.
The members of the Committee during the year were Mr P N Withers, who chaired the Committee, Mr P W B Page and 
Ms F L Curran, the company’s Group Health and Safety Manager. Mr G J Hoetmer stepped down from the Committee following 
his election as Chairman in May 2014.
The Committee has written terms of reference which can be found on the company’s website.
The Committee convened four times in 2014 and on all of these occasions met (either by video, telephone or in person) with 
representatives of the safety committee of one of the group’s main manufacturing facilities.
The safety performance of the group is reviewed at each meeting, and the Committee receives and reviews reports on all 
serious safety incidents. The Committee also reviewed and endorsed the safety plans for each of the main sites at the beginning 
of the year.
6. Report from the Risk Committee
An ongoing process is in place to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks the group faces, which accords with the 
Turnbull Guidance and the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code. A Risk Committee was formed in 2010, chaired 
by the Group Company Secretary and comprising the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Board, as listed 
on pages 28 and 29. This Committee meets four times a year and is charged with reviewing risk throughout the group and 
reporting thereon to the Board. As part of the process, risk assessment procedures are applied across the group. Each group 
operating company prepares a risk assessment for its business. This involves each company preparing a report identifying the 
relevant risks to both current operations and future strategy, the process for managing and mitigating these risks and the 
means by which management might be assured that the processes are effective. A similar exercise is also conducted at group 
level, taking account of any significant risks identified by each of the individual operating companies. The risk assessment 
reports are collated and considered by the Risk Committee, and then the Audit Committee, before being reviewed and finalised 
by the Board. The Board and the Risk Committee also agree a number of key risks for in-depth review by the Committee in the 
course of the following year. The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives. The principal risks and uncertainties identified as part of the group risk assessment process, and how they are 
managed or mitigated, are summarised on pages 18 to 21.
7. Financial reporting
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the company’s 
position and prospects. The Annual Report contains a Strategic Report on pages 1 to 27, including a Chairman’s Statement, 
Chief Executive’s Review and Financial Review. The Board believes that this additional narrative sets the accounts in context 
and promotes a better understanding of the current status of the business and its outlook.
To ensure consistency of reporting, the group has an established consolidation process as well as formal financial and 
operational procedures manuals. Management monitors the publication of new reporting standards and works closely with the 
external auditors in evaluating the impact of these standards. 
8. Internal control
The Board of Directors, being ultimately responsible for the group’s system of internal control, has established an internal 
financial control structure which is designed to provide the Board with reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that it can rely 
on the accuracy and reliability of the financial records.
The structure, which is based on an assessment of material financial risks, can be described under the following headings:
Financial reporting 
There is a budgeting system in place which includes an annual budget approved by the Board. Monthly actual results are 
reported against budget. Revised forecasts for the year are prepared regularly. The company reports formally to shareholders 
twice a year, with two additional Interim Management Statements to provide trading updates. 35 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Operating controls
Financial and operational policies and procedures are set out in formal procedures manuals. Business directors and senior 
financial staff are responsible for ensuring that all relevant staff are familiar with their content and application. 
Treasury 
Formal written treasury procedures are in operation, covering banking arrangements, hedging instruments, investment of cash 
balances and borrowing procedures. Individual staff responsibilities and levels of delegated authority in relation to treasury 
matters are defined.
Internal audit
The company has an internal audit function, which has a reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and also direct 
access to the Chairman of the Board. The internal auditor normally attends Audit Committee meetings and makes a formal 
report to the Committee annually.
Capital investment appraisal
The company has clearly defined guidelines for the approval and review of capital expenditure projects, which include annual 
budgets and designated levels of authority.
Integrity of personnel
The company has a Policy on Business Conduct which sets out specific requirements for all staff to meet the company’s 
standards of conduct and integrity in their business dealings.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and considers that the group has an established 
system of internal control which the directors believe to be appropriate to the business.
9. Going concern
The group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 27, along with the financial position of the group, its debt levels and borrowing 
facilities.
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the company and the group 
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Key factors to support the going concern basis of accounting include:
• As at 31 December 2014, the group was operating within the £110 million revolving credit facility negotiated in December 
2014, and due to expire in 2019, and the US$100 million US private placement, completed in June 2014 and due to expire 
between 2021 and 2026, and related key covenants.
•  Forecasts of profits and cash flow have been prepared which indicate that the group is expected to operate within its key 
covenants and funding facilities for the foreseeable future.
 
10 .  Shar e capital 
The Takeover Directive disclosures regarding the company’s share capital structure are included in the share capital section  
of the Directors’ Report on pages 54 to 56 of this report. 
11.  Statement on compliance
This statement, together with the Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on pages 39 to 52, and the Audit Committee report 
on pages 36 to 38, describes how, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014, the company has applied the provisions and 
principles of corporate governance as set out in the 2012 edition of the Code. The company has complied with all the Code’s 
provisions throughout the period in question, with one exception. The company’s remuneration committee structure does not 
fully comply with Provision D.2.2, as the remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration 
Committee comprising the Executive Directors instead of by a committee of Non-Executive Directors, as proposed by the 
Code. The company’s two-committee approach, which is more fully described and explained in the Remuneration Report, is 
designed to ensure that no director is involved in setting his or her own remuneration, thus avoiding any potential conflict of 
interest, while ensuring that the experience of the Chairman is available to the Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee. 
The Board believes that this arrangement is an appropriate and effective use of the available resources and is fully aligned with 
the spirit of the Code.
Gerard Hoetmer 
Chairman 36 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
The Audit Committee (the “Committee”) has written terms of reference, which are available on the company’s website, and 
include the responsibilities set out in Provision C.3.2 of the Code. 
Ms J A Lodge chaired the Committee throughout the period under review. The other members of the Committee throughout 
2014 were Mr P A J Neep and Mr P N Withers. Mr G J Hoetmer resigned from the Committee on 15 May 2014 when he was 
elected as Chairman of the Board. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Board views Ms J A Lodge as the Committee member with both recent and relevant financial expertise as stipulated in 
Provision C.3.1 of the Code.
In the course of the year there were five meetings, which were attended as required by the Group Finance Director, 
management and the Group Risk and Control Manager, as invitees. Representatives of the auditors also attend as appropriate.
The Committee and the external auditors operate procedures to ensure that the auditors remain objective and independent. 
These procedures include the pre-approval of the scope of the audit by the Committee.
Change of statutory auditor
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) have been statutory auditors to the company since it was formed in 1991. In view of this 
long period of appointment, and following emerging best practice, the Committee recommended that the audit contract be put 
out to tender in 2014. This process was concluded during the course of the year and from 2015, if agreed by shareholders, 
KPMG LLP (“KPMG”) will be the company’s statutory auditors.
The tender process was led by the Group Financial Controller and overseen by the Committee Chairman. In view of PwC’s  
very long tenure, they were excluded from the process. Careful consideration was given as to which firms to invite to tender, 
including consideration of firms outside the “Big Four”. Following initial discussions with a number of firms, the two strongest 
candidates were identified and invited to participate in the final, decisive stage of the process. 
Each participant was allowed extensive access to company information and to key members of senior management both within 
the central team and the regional teams. This included meetings with local management at each of the manufacturing locations 
across the group, with feedback from these sessions being summarised and presented to the Committee.
In December 2014, the two candidates each submitted detailed proposals to the Committee, and gave individual presentations 
followed by rigorous question and answer sessions.
The Committee acknowledged that both candidates had the capability and global reach to conduct a high-quality audit, but 
after careful deliberation, the Committee agreed to propose to the Board that KPMG be appointed as statutory auditor, subject 
to approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The Board accepted this recommendation.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
I am pleased to present the report in 
respect of 2014. This report summarises 
the work of the Committee in the course 
of the year, including the decision to 
change the statutory auditor.
Jane Lodge
Chairman, Audit Committee 37 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
The Committee thanks the firms who participated in the tender process and, on behalf of the Board, would like to warmly thank 
PwC for many years of service to the company as statutory auditors.
In February 2015, KPMG attended, with the current statutory auditors, the meeting of the Committee at which the preliminary 
results for 2014 were considered and commended to the Board.
Statutory audit
Prior to the 2014 audit process commencing, the Committee had already decided to recommend a change in statutory  
auditor for subsequent years for the reasons described above. Having made the decision to change, and to exclude PwC  
from the tender process, the Committee still had to consider carefully their fitness for the 2014 audit, and in particular their 
independence and objectivity. During a pre-audit meeting between the Committee and PwC, the Committee received 
confirmation of the actions PwC had taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements, as well as current best 
practice, in order to demonstrate their independence. There are no contractual commitments restricting the Committee’s 
choice of statutory auditors. 
As part of the review of PwC’s independence, the Committee looked carefully at the level of non-audit work conducted by them 
and the detailed safeguards which they have in place. In 2013, the company’s policy covering the pre-approval of non-audit 
work was reviewed and clarified. The Committee acknowledged that the non-audit fees were significant, but in view of the 
safeguards in place, was satisfied that there is no risk to the objectivity and independence of the external auditors as a result. 
The fees paid to the statutory auditors in 2014 are set out in Note 8 to the financial statements on page 75. Almost all of the 
non-audit fees relate to tax and pension advice. The Committee appreciates the sensitivity of the non-audit fees being 
significant, but believes that there are sound commercial and practical reasons for the tax and pension work being  
conducted by PwC.
Following completion of the 2014 audit, a number of processes were used to judge the effectiveness of the statutory auditors:
• A survey was conducted of all businesses within the group to assess the effectiveness of the group and local statutory  
audit teams. 
• The Committee received a detailed audit plan from the statutory auditors at the beginning of the annual audit process which 
included an outline of the proposed scope of the audit, and identification of key audit risks and areas of focus. This was 
discussed and agreed with the Committee.
• The Committee challenged the work done by the statutory auditors to test management’s assumptions and estimates in 
relation to the significant issues.
• At the completion of the statutory audit the Committee received feedback from the Group Finance Director on how 
effectively issues were addressed at the statutory audit clearance meetings.
Based on the above processes and feedback, and its own ongoing assessment of the statutory auditors’ performance  
(for example through consideration of the statutory auditors’ reports and interactions with the group audit partner) the 
Committee was satisfied with the independence, objectivity and overall effectiveness of the statutory auditors with regard to 
the 2014 audit process.
Significant issues
The significant issues considered by the Committee during 2014, and how these were addressed, are as follows:
Investment projects and restructuring activities
In 2013 and 2014 the group approved significant capital expenditure to construct new manufacturing plants in the USA and 
China. During 2014 significant progress has been made on the implementation of these two projects and alongside them the 
group took the decision to accelerate the restructuring of its existing manufacturing operations in Scotland and Australia. 
Together these actions give rise to a number of areas of judgement, including whether amounts incurred in relation to the 
investment projects should be expensed as incurred or capitalised, and whether any existing assets should be impaired or 
useful lives should be amended as a result of either the restructuring or the investment projects. Where amounts have been 
expensed in relation to the investment projects or the restructuring, judgement is also required to determine whether these 
amounts should be disclosed as exceptional items, taking account of their nature and size, and in particular whether they are 
incremental to normal operations. The implementation of the investment projects and the scope of the restructuring activities 
undertaken during the year have generated a significant level of exceptional items, which would have distorted the reported 
results had they not been disclosed separately. This includes the recognition of liabilities related to activities that will be 
implemented in the future, but for which there was an obligation at 31 December 2014. Quantifying these liabilities involves 
some estimation, since there is a degree of uncertainty over the amounts involved, which will be resolved as the detailed plans 
are finalised. After reviewing and discussing reports from management outlining the nature and amount of the relevant costs, 
the impairment assessments of remaining assets, the estimates involved and the proposed accounting treatments, in particular 
reviewing the disclosure of amounts presented as exceptional items in the financial statements, the Committee was satisfied 
with the treatment of these matters. The statutory auditors have also carefully examined this area and have reported their 
assessment to the Committee. 38 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
continued
Significant issues (continued)
Carrying value of inventory
The transformation of the group’s manufacturing footprint involving the construction of two new plants and a restructuring of 
existing production operations will result in significant changes in the group’s supply chain. This, combined with the ongoing 
manufacturing challenges at our ageing USA plant, increases the level of judgement required relating to the carrying value of 
inventory. The Committee has assessed the judgements of management over the carrying value of inventory and challenged 
assumptions over the recoverability of the carrying value by reviewing data on inventory ageing, the level of historic inventory 
write-offs and future sales projections. Additionally, the Committee has discussed with management the application of the 
group’s accounting policy with respect to provisioning for inventory obsolescence and the need for additional specific 
provisions where heightened risk has been identified. This was also an area of focus identified by the statutory auditors, and 
they provided detailed reporting on this area to the Committee.
Valuation of net pension obligations
The group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes around the world. Valuation of these schemes is dependent 
on certain key assumptions and complex calculations. External actuaries are engaged to provide advice on key assumptions 
and determine the value of the pension obligations. During the year, the movement in assumptions over discount rates and 
mortality assumptions in the USA have had a significant impact on the value of the group’s pension obligations. These areas 
have been addressed by the Committee through receiving reports from management outlining the key assumptions and the 
resulting valuations from actuaries. The Committee discussed these topics with management and challenged the key 
assumptions, including the degree to which these were supported by professional advice from the external actuaries.  
The statutory auditors have also focused attention on this area, including consultation with their own actuarial experts, and 
have provided their report to the Committee.
Whistleblowing procedure 
The company’s whistleblowing procedures are also reviewed annually. Following a decision by the Committee in 2013,  
a new, confidential, multi-language system, entitled ‘SpeakUp’, was set up and communicated to everyone in the group. 
The Committee believe that these arrangements will facilitate a proportionate and independent investigation of such matters.  
In 2014, two matters were logged through the ‘SpeakUp’ system. Neither involved any suggestion of financial impropriety,  
and both were referred to executive management for resolution.
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Committee acknowledges that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts should be fair, balanced and 
understandable. The Committee advises the Board on whether it believes that the Annual Report and Accounts meet this 
requirement. In order for the Committee to make this assessment, it considers reports from management received during  
the year, monitoring financial performance and at year end in support of the financial statements, and also reports from the 
statutory auditors on the findings of their annual audit. Formal review processes are in place to ensure that the Annual Report 
and Accounts are factually accurate.
The Committee also satisfies itself that the key messages in the narrative are consistent with the financial reporting, and that 
the Annual Report and Accounts as a whole are clear and understandable both in terms of the language used, and the layout 
and framework.
Following its review, the Committee was satisfied that the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts present a fair, balanced and 
understandable overview, including the necessary information for shareholders to assess the group’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
The responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts is on pages 55 and 56.
Jane Lodge
Chairman, Audit Committee
17 March 2015 39 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Overview of policy and link to our business strategy
The Committee sets the strategy, structure and levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors and reviews the remuneration 
of other members of senior management in the group generally. It does so in the context of the group’s overall strategy and 
performance to align the financial interests of the Executive Directors and other senior managers with the achievement of the 
group’s objectives, and with shareholder returns. 
How we do this is set out in the policy table on pages 41 and 42 but, broadly speaking, here is how we address the three  
main elements:
• Salary is set at a level which enables us to attract and retain individuals with the experience and commitment we need to 
implement a challenging strategic programme.
• Annual bonus rewards performance against specific near-term goals and milestones, and is only paid for out-performance.
• Long-term incentives aim to reward value-creation over the longer term. The targets, which are consistent with our strategy, 
are group Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) growth, and Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”).
The Committee believes that the policy which was approved at the 2014 AGM remains appropriate, and should continue for 
2015 and we have included it again for reference on pages 41 to 45. The Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 46 to 52 sets 
out how our policy was operated in 2014 and will be operated in the current year. This will be subject to an advisory vote at the 
2015 AGM.
Base salary
Our long-standing policy is for base salaries of Executive Directors to be around mid-market levels. In 2014, the Committee 
awarded the Group Finance Director an increase of 2%, a little less than the average of other pay rises elsewhere in the group. 
The Chief Executive declined an increase. 
For 2015, an increase of 2% will be made for both Executive Directors, effective from 1 April 2015. Again this is consistent with 
average increases made across the group.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased  
to present the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for 2014. This report explains the 
group’s remuneration policy and provides 
details of the remuneration paid to 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors for 
services to the company during the year, 
as well as how our remuneration policy  
will be operated in 2015. 
Paul Neep
Chairman, Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee 40 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Annual bonus 
The Committee believes annual bonus targets should be genuinely challenging, clearly linked to the company’s strategy and 
performance, and designed to align the interests of executives and shareholders. In 2014, the company faced a number of 
challenges, and the financial performance was significantly behind prior year. As a result, no bonus was paid in respect  
of 2014. Further details are on page 48.
For 2015, we have introduced non-financial strategic targets for the first time to the annual bonus, accounting for a maximum  
of 20% of the award. These targets are specific, measureable and, above all, designed to support delivery of key milestones in 
our strategy. The Committee has made this change for 2015 recognising that the company is at a crucial point in its strategic 
development. The objectives include delivery of the two major capital projects underway in Nantong, China and South Carolina, 
USA, on which much of our strategic planning is based. They are underpinned by a condition requiring underlying profit growth 
in 2015. Further details can be found on page 46 of this report.
Long-term incentive plan
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director received conditional awards under the 2003 Performance Share Plan in 2012 
and 2011 respectively. The performance targets for these awards were partly based on EPS growth and partly on relative TSR 
measured across a performance period ending on 31 December 2014. The Committee reviewed the performance of the 
company against these conditions in February 2015, and concluded that neither threshold had been met. As a result, the awards 
in question have lapsed. A full explanation of the performance metric is shown on page 51. 
Summary
We continue to monitor our approach to remuneration to ensure it remains relevant and consistent both with our strategy and 
performance, and is aligned to shareholder values. I look forward to your support of the advisory vote on our 2014 Annual 
Report on Remuneration at the forthcoming AGM.
Paul Neep
Chairman, Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee
17 March 2015 41 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Policy report 
This part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy for the company directors, approved at  
the 2014 AGM. It has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the “Regulations”). 
The remuneration policy
The company’s remuneration policy must enable it to attract and retain leaders with the skills, experience and drive to execute 
the company’s business strategy within a framework which is aligned to the interests of the company’s shareholders, for 
example, through the deferral of bonuses and the requirement to hold shares. The Executive Directors’ Remuneration 
Committee (the “Committee”) believes that a significant proportion of Executive Directors’ remuneration should be 
performance related. 
Each year, the Committee conducts a formal review of risk in the context of remuneration. A review of pay for other employees 
across the group, particularly salary increases, is also carried out each year when reviewing overall remuneration policy and this 
is taken into account when setting policy for the Executive Directors. No consultation process with employees was conducted 
in 2014 in respect of the directors’ remuneration policy.
The Committee welcomes dialogue with shareholders and consults with its major investors and investor bodies regarding 
changes to Executive Director remuneration policy. Any views and feedback on arrangements from our investors will be 
considered by the Committee as part of its annual review of directors’ remuneration. 
Remuneration of Executive Directors 
The following table summarises each element of the Executive Directors’ remuneration package, the policy for how these are 
operated and their link to the company’s strategy. 
 
Policy table 
Element of pay Purpose and link to 
company’s strategy
How operated  
in practice
Maximum  
opportunity
Performance metrics 
where relevant
Base salary Reflects the value of the 
individual and their role. 
Takes account of 
experience and personal 
contribution to group 
strategy. Set at a level to 
facilitate recruitment 
and retention of suitably 
experienced executives.
Salaries are reviewed 
annually on 1 April. Policy 
is for salaries to be around 
those paid by other 
companies comparable on 
the basis of size and 
complexity, but also takes 
account of other factors 
including any change in 
responsibilities or the 
scope of the role.
There is no prescribed 
annual increase. The 
Committee is guided 
by the wider workforce 
increases, but may also 
need to recognise 
increases in certain 
circumstances such as 
assumed additional 
responsibility, or an 
increase in the scope 
or size of the role.
Takes into account the 
performance and 
personal contribution 
of the individual and 
performance of the 
company.
Annual Bonus Plan 
(including Devro 2009 
Deferred Share Bonus 
Plan)
Rewards performance 
against specific 
near-term goals which 
are consistent with the 
strategic direction of 
the business.
Deferred bonus plan 
aligns the interests of 
executives and 
shareholders and 
provides a retention 
tool.
Clawback and deferral 
discourage excessive 
risk-taking and 
encourage a long-term 
view.
Assessed by the 
Committee against the 
audited results of the 
company, where relevant. 
Any bonus paid in excess 
of 50% of salary is 
deferred into shares for 
three years subject to 
continued employment 
but no further 
performance conditions. 
Clawback may be applied 
to all of the bonus (cash 
and share deferred 
amounts), in the event of: 
(i) material misstatement 
of the company’s 
accounts; (ii) an error in 
the computation of a 
bonus amount; or (iii) 
termination of service for 
gross misconduct.
A bonus of up to a 
maximum of 100% of 
salary may be awarded.
No less than 80% of 
the bonus is based on 
one or more relevant 
financial performance 
metrics such as group 
operating profit. 
Up to 20% of the 
bonus may be based 
on appropriate 
non-financial targets. 
Any non-financial 
target will be subject 
to an appropriate 
financial underpin. 42 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Element of pay Purpose and link to 
company’s strategy
How operated  
in practice
Maximum  
opportunity
Performance metrics 
where relevant
Devro plc Performance 
Share Plan (“PSP”)
Aims to reward 
long-term value 
creation. 
Facilitates share 
ownership and provides 
further alignment with 
shareholders. Provides  
a retention tool.
PSP awards structured as 
nil-cost options are usually 
granted annually so that 
no undue emphasis is 
placed on performance  
in any one particular 
financial year. 
Awards generally vest  
on the third anniversary  
of award subject to 
performance over three 
financial years. 
Clawback may be applied, 
in the event of: (i) material 
misstatement of the 
company’s accounts;  
(ii) an error in the 
computation of a bonus 
amount; or (iii) termination 
of service for gross 
misconduct. 
The Committee has 
discretion under the PSP 
rules to pay dividend 
equivalents for the vesting 
period in respect of any 
awards which vest. 
Any shares vesting from 
the PSP must be held for  
a further period of two 
years post-vesting,  
subject to the right to  
sell sufficient shares to 
cover tax charges arising 
on vesting.
Under the PSP rules, 
150% of salary with 
scope for higher 
awards in exceptional 
recruitment situations, 
but not exceeding 
200% of salary. The 
Committee will not 
increase above the 
2014 award levels 
without prior 
consultation with the 
company’s major 
shareholders. 
50% subject to EPS 
growth targets (or 
some other financial 
measure deemed to  
be appropriate) with 
25% of the award 
vesting for threshold 
performance, and 50% 
subject to relative  
TSR targets. 
TSR performance  
is compared to a 
comparator group to 
be selected by the 
Committee at the time 
of grant. No vesting 
below median, 25% 
vesting at median and 
full vesting at upper 
quartile performance 
with straight-line 
vesting in between. 
Three financial year 
performance periods. 
A sliding scale for 
performance targets  
is used to provide 
incremental awards  
for additional 
performance 
delivered, in order to 
discourage excessive 
risk-taking.
Benefits To remain competitive 
in the market place, and 
provide medical care for 
the Executive Directors 
and their families. 
Executive Directors are 
entitled to private medical 
insurance.
There is no prescribed 
maximum. The value of 
the benefit is 
determined by the cost 
to the company.
Not performance 
related.
Pension contribution/ 
payment in lieu
To remain competitive 
in the market workplace 
and facilitate retirement 
planning. 
A contribution equivalent 
to 10% of salary is made to 
both Executive Directors, 
paid either into a pension 
scheme, or paid direct to 
the individual in lieu.
10% of base salary. Not performance 
related. 
Policy for Non-Executive Chairman and Directors’ fees
Non-Executive 
Chairman and  
Directors’ fees
To attract and retain 
high-quality and 
experienced Non-
Executive Chairman  
and Directors. 
The Non-Executive 
Chairman and Directors 
are paid an annual fee.
Fee levels are determined 
and reviewed taking into 
account experience,  
time commitment, 
responsibility and scope 
of role as well as market 
data for similar roles in 
other companies of a 
similar size and complexity 
to Devro.
There is no prescribed 
maximum fee or 
maximum increase. 
There may be a need  
to recognise increases 
in certain 
circumstances such  
as assumed additional 
responsibility (for 
example, taking on  
the Chairmanship of  
a Committee) or an 
increase in the scope 
or size of the role.
No performance-
related element  
of remuneration. 43 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Notes to the policy table
1. Annual Bonus Plan performance metrics 
Performance measures, the weighting between them and stretching targets will be set at the start of each year by the 
Committee, based on the company’s financial KPIs and strategic priorities for the year and taking account of the business plan, 
budget for the year and market conditions. At least 80% will be based on relevant financial targets and up to 20% may be 
attributed to a relevant non-financial target. Together, these targets are intended to incentivise and reward shorter-term 
performance, consistent with the interests of the shareholders and the overall strategy of the company.
2. PSP metrics
The Committee selects performance measures for the PSP awards that are aimed at incentivising and rewarding performance 
over the medium term, aligned with the interests of the shareholders and consistent with the group strategy. For a comparative 
TSR measure, the targets are as set out in the policy table with the Committee selecting the most appropriate comparator 
group at the time awards are made. For EPS growth and any other relevant financial targets, the Committee will set stretching 
targets based on the company’s budget, business plan, and external economic environment at that time.
3. Deferred Share Bonus Plan
The Deferred Share Bonus Plan contains no additional performance conditions as any awards arise from an annual bonus which 
was itself subject to performance conditions.
4. Comparison with employees’ remuneration policy 
The key differences between Executive Directors’ remuneration policy and that of employees generally is that, for the Executive 
Directors, there is significantly more weighting to variable performance-related pay. Variable pay is seen as more relevant for 
senior executives because of their greater ability to influence the overall performance of the company.
Shareholding guidelines
To provide alignment between shareholders and directors, the Executive Directors are required to build up a holding of 100%  
of salary over time. Any shares vesting from share incentive plans must be retained (subject to sales to meet tax and incidental 
costs of sale) until the target is reached.
Remuneration awarded prior to the effective date
For the avoidance of doubt, following approval of this Policy Report, authority was given to the company to honour any 
commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration 
reports including those share plan awards set out on pages 50 and 51. Details of any payments to former directors will be set 
out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
Annual Bonus Plan and PSP policy
The Committee will operate the Annual Bonus Plan and PSP according to the rules of each respective plan and consistent with 
normal market practice and the Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange, including flexibility in a number of aspects. How 
the Committee will retain flexibility includes (albeit with quantum and performance targets restricted to the descriptions 
detailed above):
• Who participates in the plans.
• When to make awards and payments.
• How to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and how much of an award should vest.
• How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the group.
• Whether a director is a “good/bad” leaver for incentive plan purposes and whether and what proportion of awards vest at 
the time of leaving or at the original vesting date(s).
• How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain circumstances (e.g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring or for 
special dividends). 
• What the weighting, measures and targets should be for the Annual Bonus Plan and PSP from year to year.
The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust targets and/or set different measures and alter weightings 
for the Annual Bonus Plan and to adjust targets for the PSP if events happen that cause it to determine that the metrics are 
unable to fulfil their originally intended purpose, provided the new metrics are not materially less difficult to satisfy. Any 
adjustments will be fully disclosed in the following year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
All historic awards that were granted under any current or previous share schemes operated by the company but remain 
outstanding, detailed on page 50, remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.  44 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
£507 100%
 34% 32% £1,475 34%
 26% 23% £991 51%
Fixed pay
Target pay
Maximum pay
Chief Executive 
£’000
Assumptions:
1. Based on policy to be applied for Financial Year 2015. 
2. Salaries are based on salaries as at 1 April 2015. Taxable benefits are based on those disclosed for 2014.
3. Pension is 2015 policy applied to 1 April 2015 salaries.
4. No share price appreciation is assumed in long-term incentive awards.
 Fixed 
 Bonus 
 Long-term incentive
£327 100%
 32% 32% £920 36%
 24% 24% £624 52%
Fixed pay
Target pay
Maximum pay
Group Finance Director 
£’000
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Payment under different scenarios
Under the Regulations, we are required to show a bar-chart indicating the level of remuneration which would be received by the 
Executive Directors in 2015 under different scenarios. Three scenarios are shown below:
• “Fixed pay” is based on salary, benefits and pension contributions;
• “Target pay” is fixed pay, plus 50% of the maximum of variable pay; and
• “Maximum pay” is fixed pay, plus the maximum of variable pay. 
Service agreements and payments for loss of office of Executive Directors
It is the company’s policy that Executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term, which are subject to one year’s 
notice by the company and the director. In the event of early termination (including following a change of control in the 
company), the directors’ contracts provide for compensation in line with their contractual notice period. In summary, the 
contractual provisions are as follows:
Provision Detailed terms
Notice period 12 months by the company, 12 months by the director.
Termination payment There is no provision for specific payment. If any existing 
contract is breached by the company, it would be liable to pay, 
as damages, an amount approximating to the net loss of salary 
and contractual benefits for the unexpired notice period, 
subject to mitigation and phased payments where appropriate. 
Any statutory amounts would be paid as necessary.
Remuneration entitlements Pro-rata bonus may also become payable for the period of 
active service along with vesting for outstanding share awards 
(in certain circumstances – see below). 
In all cases performance targets would apply.
Change of control No Executive Director’s contract contains additional provisions 
in respect of change of control. 
   
Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the company’s share plans will be determined based on 
the relevant plan rules. The default treatment under the PSP is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment. 
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement or other 
circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, “good leaver” status may be applied. For good leavers, awards will normally 
vest on cessation, or on the original vesting date, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions at that time 
and reduced pro-rata to reflect the proportion of the three-year period actually served. However, the Committee has discretion 
to determine that awards vest at a later date and/or to disapply time pro-rating.
The default treatment under the 2009 Deferred Share Bonus Plan is that any awards lapse on cessation of employment. 
However, good leavers are entitled to retain their awards, and to vest after leaving, subject to the rules of the Plan. 45 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Details of the service agreements of the Executive Directors are shown in the table below:
 
Director
Date of  
initial contract
Date term  
due to expire
Notice period  
from company 
(months)
Notice period 
from the director 
(months)
Termination  
payment
Remuneration 
entitlement  
on termination  
of contract  
by company
Termination on 
change of control
P W B Page 25 April 2007 N/A 12 12 No contractual 
termination 
payments other 
than detailed 
above
12 months’ 
notice
12 months’ 
notice; “good 
leaver” status 
under share 
schemes
S C Webb 14 January 2011 N/A 12 12
Recruitment and promotion policy for directors
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the company’s prevailing 
approved remuneration policy at the time of appointment and take into account the skills and experience of the individual,  
the market rate for a candidate of that experience and the importance of securing the relevant individual.
Salary would be provided at such a level as is required to attract the most appropriate candidate. It may be set initially at a 
below mid-market level on the basis that it may progress towards the mid-market level once expertise and performance has 
been proven and sustained. The annual bonus potential would be limited to 100% of salary, and conditional awards under the 
Devro plc Performance Share Plan may be up to the Plan maximum of 150% of salary or 200% on recruitment in exceptional 
circumstances. In addition, the Committee may offer additional cash and/or share-based elements to replace deferred or 
incentive pay forfeited by an executive leaving a previous employer. It would seek to ensure, where possible, that these awards 
would be consistent with awards forfeited in terms of vesting periods, expected value and performance conditions.
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed 
to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment. In addition, any other ongoing 
remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue. For external and internal appointments, the Committee 
may agree that the company will meet certain relocation and other incidental expenses as appropriate.
If appropriate, the Committee may agree on the recruitment of a new executive to a notice period in excess of 12 months but to 
reduce to 12 months over a specified period.
The fees for a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be reflective of experience, time commitment, responsibility and 
scope of the role and will be consistent with the approved remuneration policy at the time.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors are engaged for fixed terms, with no notice period, with an entitlement to accrued fees and 
expenses only up to the date of termination. These appointments are subject to the company’s Articles of Association.  
All directors submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate  
Governance Code.
The dates of the initial letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors are as follows:
Name Date of letter of appointment Date term due to expire
G J Hoetmer 30 July 2013 29 July 2016
J A Lodge 27 February 2012 AGM 2018
P A J Neep 5 February 2005 AGM 2016
P N Withers 12 April 2011 AGM 2017 46 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Annual Report on Remuneration 
How the policy will be implemented in 2015
Executive Directors’ salaries
Current salaries for Executive Directors at the date of this report are as follows:
Chief Executive: £451,880
Group Finance Director: £291,321 
From 1 April 2015 the salaries will be increased by 2% as follows:
Chief Executive: £460,918
Group Finance Director: £297,147
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The fees for Non-Executive Directors in 2015 are as follows:
Name
Base annual  
remuneration
Additional fee  
for committee 
chairmanships
Total annual  
remuneration
G J Hoetmer £130,000 N/A £130,000
P A J Neep £41,500 £5,000 £46,500
P N Withers £41,500 £5,000 £46,500
J A Lodge £41,500 £5,000 £46,500
Annual bonus
For 2015, 80% of the annual bonus for Executive Directors will be determined by growth in group operating profit and 20% by 
non-financial strategic targets. The non-financial targets are linked to key milestones in our strategy, including the delivery of 
the two major investment projects underway in Nantong, China and South Carolina, USA. They are underpinned by a condition 
requiring underlying profit growth in 2015.
When reviewing the profit performance condition for 2015, the Committee will look at operating profit before exceptional items 
and will restate the actual figures using the budgeted exchange rates in order to strip out the effect of currency fluctuations.
The Board considers that the actual targets for the 2015 bonus are commercially sensitive and full details will be fully disclosed 
in the 2015 report provided they are not considered commercially sensitive at that time.
Long-term incentive plan
Awards will be made in 2015 to the Chief Executive to the extent of 110% of base salary; and to the Group Finance Director to 
the extent of 100% of base salary. The performance measures for these awards will be reviewed by the Committee when the 
awards are made.
Pension and other benefits
The pension and benefits arrangements are as set out in the policy table above.
External appointments
Neither of the Executive Directors has any external paid directorships. Executive Directors are permitted to accept external 
board or committee appointments provided they do not interfere with the Executive Directors’ obligations to the company.  
The Board will decide at the time of appointment whether an Executive Director may retain the fees for such appointments.
The Remuneration Committees
The members of the Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) throughout 2014 were Mr P A J Neep 
(Committee Chairman), Mr G J Hoetmer, Ms J A Lodge and Mr P N Withers. Mr S J Hannam stepped down from the Board and 
the Committee on 15 May 2014. 
The Committee received advice from:
• The Company Secretary (as Secretary to the Committee) and the Chief Executive.
• New Bridge Street (a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited being a group company of Aon plc) as independent adviser to the 
Committee. New Bridge Street were appointed as advisers by the Committee. 47 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
0
100
200
300
400
500
Value £
31 Dec 2008
Devro plc
31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013
FTSE Small Cap Index excluding Investment Trusts FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts
No director is involved in any part of a meeting of the Committee when their individual remuneration or contractual terms are 
being decided.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman is set by the Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration 
Committee, whose members in 2014 were Mr P W B Page and Mr S C Webb. The two-committee approach ensures that no 
director is involved in setting his or her own remuneration.
Advisers to the Committee
New Bridge Street is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants’ Code of Conduct and has confirmed to the Committee that 
it adheres in all respects to the terms of the Code. The Committee has satisfied itself that advice from New Bridge Street is 
objective. The total fees paid to New Bridge Street for the advice provided to the Committee during the year were £24,770. 
Fees are charged predominantly on a ‘time spent’ basis. Neither New Bridge Street, nor its parent company Aon plc, has 
provided any other services to the company during the year.
Engagement with investors
The Committee understands the need to engage with major investors when considering significant changes to remuneration 
policy. This was not considered necessary in 2014. The Chairman of the Committee is always available to talk to investors should 
they have any concerns.
Statement of shareholding voting at AGM
At the Annual General Meeting held on 30 April 2014, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the directors’ 
remuneration were as follows:
Resolution
Votes  
For
%  
For
Votes  
Against
%  
Against
Total  
votes  
cast
Votes  
withheld 
(abstentions)
Approval of remuneration report 115,993,434 99.92 97,120 0.08 116,090,554 55,373
Approval of remuneration policy 115,886,098 99.88 134,045 0.12 116,020,143 122,784
Performance graph
Total Shareholder Return
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters)
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2014, of £100 invested in Devro plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE SmallCap 
excluding Investment Trusts and the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
General FTSE indices have been used as the number of comparable UK-listed food producers is too small to form a sufficiently 
broad-based index for this purpose. Under legislative requirements, the graph shows Total Shareholder Return over the last  
six years.  48 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Table of historic data
The following table sets out the total remuneration and the amount vesting under short-term and long-term incentives  
(as a percentage of the maximum that could have been achieved) in each of the past six years for the Chief Executive.
Year
Chief Executive single figure of total 
remuneration (£’000)
Annual bonus payout against  
maximum opportunity %
Long-term incentive vesting rates 
against maximum opportunity %
2014 498 0 0
2013 565 0 18.25
2012 1,154 0 100
2011 1,670 40 100
2010 1,767 100 100
2009 862 100 100
Single total figure of remuneration
 
Base salaries/fees  
in payment at  
31 December
Base  
salaries/fees Bonuses Benefits in kind
Pension 
contributions 
or payments in 
lieu of pension 
contributions
Long-term  
incentives with 
performance  
period ending  
during the year
Single total  
figure of  
remuneration
Director
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2014 
£’000
2013 
£’000
G J Hoetmer 130 40 107 17 – – – – – – – – 107 17
P W B Page
1
452 452 452 449 – – 1 1 45 45 – 56
3
498 551
S J Hannam
2
N/A 110 41 110 – – – – – – – – 41 110
J A Lodge 45 45 45 45 – – – – – – – – 45 45
P A J Neep 45 45 45 45 – – – – – – – – 45 45
S C Webb
1
291 286 290 284 – – 1 1 29 28 – 45
3
320 358
P N Withers 45 45 45 45 – – – – – – – – 45 45
Total 1,008 1,023 1,025 995 – – 2 2 74 73 – 101 1,101 1,171
1. Benefits in kind for Mr P W B Page and Mr S C Webb relate to medical insurance.
2. Mr S J Hannam stepped down from the Board on 15 May 2014.
3. Based on the share price on the date of exercise.
Details of variable pay earned in the year
Annual bonus
Set out below are the performance conditions which applied to the 2014 Annual Bonus Plan:
Proportion of total bonus available
Performance condition
% of  
maximum 
% of  
salary
Actual 
performance 
achieved
Performance 
target for 
threshold  
vesting
Performance 
target for 
maximum 
vesting
Resulting  
bonus  
out-turn
Group Operating Profit
1
80% 80% £30.3m £42.5m £47.5m 0%
Operating Cash Flow
2
20% 20% £52.1m £55.8m £61.7m 0%
Total 100% 100% 0%
1. Adjusted to exclude exceptional items.
2. Adjusted to exclude additional pension contributions. 49 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
The Devro 2003 Performance Share Plan
The three-year performance period for the award under the Devro 2003 Performance Share Plan made to Mr P W B Page  
on 2 April 2012, and the award made to Mr S C Webb on 24 February 2011 with a four-year performance period ended on 
31 December 2014. The performance conditions which applied, and performance achieved against them, are set out below. 
Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) relative  
to comparator group consisting of the FTSE small  
cap index (excluding Investment Trusts) (50%) Earnings Per Share (“EPS”) growth (50%)
Performance  
required
Performance 
achieved
Performance 
required 
Performance 
achieved
Vesting 
%
Number of shares  
vesting in 2014
Value  
of shares  
vesting  
in 2014
30% vesting for median 
performance rising 
to maximum vesting 
for upper quintile 
performance with 
straight-line vesting in 
between
Ranking below 
median
30% vesting for 
RPI + 3% p.a. 
rising to RPI + 
12% p.a.  
or above 
-17% for 2011 
awards
-31% for 2012 
awards
0% P W B Page 
S C Webb
Nil
Nil
£0
£0
The TSR condition and performance set out above were independently reviewed by New Bridge Street. 
Relative importance of spend on pay 
Total remuneration  
of all employees of 
the Devro group 
£’000
Dividends 
paid
£’000
2014 81,399 (+4.3%) 14,663 (+3.6%)
2013 78,049 14,151 
Percentage change in Chief Executive’s remuneration
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000 % change
Salary 452 449 +0.7
Benefits 1 1 0
Bonus 0 0 0
Percentage change in average remuneration of all Devro Group employees
2014  
£’000
2013  
£’000 % change
Salary 27
1
29 -7
Benefits 1 1 0
Bonus 1 1 0
1. The decrease reflects significant currency movements, as the majority of Group employees are paid in currencies other than Sterling.
Performance Share Plan awards granted on 9 June 2014 
Plan
Basis of  
award granted
Face value  
of award
1
 
£,000
Maximum  
vesting  
(% of face value)
Percentage  
vesting for  
threshold  
performance
Vesting and 
performance  
period
P W B Page The Devro plc 
Performance  
Share Plan
110% of salary
185,400 shares
496,872 100% 25% under
TSR & EPS 
element  
together  
(i.e., 12.5% for 
each part of the 
award)
Performance 
period 3 financial 
years from  
1 January 2014. 
Vesting period  
3 years from  
date of grant.
S C Webb The Devro plc 
Performance  
Share Plan
100% of salary
108,700 shares
291,316 100%
Further details regarding the Performance Share Plan, together with the performance conditions applying to the above awards 
are set out on pages 50 and 51. 
1. Based on share price of 268p on 6 June 2014, being the working day before the date of grant. 50 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Audited information
The following information has been audited by the company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The single total figure 
table on page 48 is incorporated into this section by reference.
 
Company pensions and life assurance policy regarding Executive Directors
During the year, company contributions to pension schemes amounted to £28,989 (2013: £28,373) in respect of Mr S C Webb. 
Mr P W B Page’s contributions to a pension scheme ceased in March 2012, and thereafter he received a monthly payment in lieu, 
amounting to 10% of his base salary. The contribution in respect of 2014 is shown in the table on page 48.
The company provides life assurance cover for senior executives, under which the Executive Directors have cover of five times 
base salary capped at £1.75 million.
The Devro Performance Share Plans
The Executive Directors’ awards outstanding under the Devro plc Performance Share Plan and its predecessor, the Devro 2003 
Performance Share Plan, are as follows:
 
Director Date awarded
Market value 
at date of 
award (pence 
per share)
Market value 
at date of 
vesting of 
shares (pence 
per share)
Number of 
shares at  
1 January  
2014
Number 
of shares 
awarded 
during  
year
Number 
of shares 
exercised 
during year
1
Number of 
shares lapsed 
during year
Number of 
shares at  
31 December 
2014
Earliest normal  
vesting date
P W B Page 29 March 
2011 287 .8p 55,845 21,900 – (21,900) – –
29 March 
2014 
2 April  
2012 315.9p N/A 118,000 – – – 118,000
2
2 April  
2015
11 September 
2013 336.2p N/A 150,800 – – – 150,800
11 September 
2016
9 June  
2014 268p N/A – 185,400 – – 185,400
9 June  
2017
S C Webb
1
24 February 
2011 256.6p 45,058 18,952 – (18,952) – –
24 February 
2014
24 February 
2011 256.6p N/A 103,846 – – – 103,846
2
24 February 
2015
11 September 
2013 336.2p N/A 86,670 – – – 86,670
11 September 
2016
9 June  
2014 268p N/A – 108,700 – – 108,700
9 June  
2017
1. Mr S C Webb was awarded two tranches under the Devro 2003 Performance Share Plan, as part of his recruitment arrangements in 2011. One of the awards is for the 
usual three-year performance period, and the other for a four-year period, with the targets extended pro rata. No awards were made to him in 2012.
2. These shares lapsed following a review of the relevant performance conditions by the Committee in February 2015.
Conditional nil-priced options under the Devro plc Performance Share Plan are considered annually, with earliest vesting 
occurring generally after three years and normally being dependent on both continued employment with the group and the 
extent to which the performance conditions set out below are met. Vesting of 50% of shares awarded is based upon the group’s 
Earnings Per Share before exceptional items (“EPS”) growth over the relevant performance period, with the other 50% being 
dependent upon the group’s Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance measured over the same period against the 100 
listed companies (excluding Investment Trusts) closest to the company in terms of market capitalisation (i.e. 50 higher and  
50 lower). 51 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
The awards made in 2013 and the year under review were granted as nil-priced options subject to the performance conditions 
below. These conditions will also apply to the awards to be made in 2015:
Annual EPS growth during the performance period Performance shares vesting percentage
Less than 6% per annum 0%
6% per annum 12.5%
Between 6% and 14% per annum On a straight-line basis between 12.5% and 50%
14% per annum or more 50%
 
TSR ranking relative to comparator group Performance shares vesting percentage 
Below median 0%
Median 12.5%
Between median and upper quartile On a straight-line basis between 12.5% and 50%
Upper quartile or above 50%
Awards made in 2011 and 2012 to Executive Directors were granted as nil-priced options subject to the performance  
conditions below:
EPS growth above RPI during the performance period Performance shares vesting percentage
 
For three-year performance period
Below 9% 0%
9% 15%
9%–36% Pro rata 15%–50%
At or above 36% 50%
For four-year performance period (applies only to an award made in 2011 to Mr S C Webb)
Below 12% 0%
12% 15%
12%–48% Pro rata 15%–50%
At or above 48% 50%
TSR ranking relative to comparator group Performance shares vesting percentage
Below median 0%
Median 15%
Between median and upper quintile Pro-rata 15%–50%
Upper quintile or above 50%
The Devro 2009 Deferred Share Bonus Plan
There are no outstanding awards under the Devro 2009 Deferred Share Bonus Plan at the date of this report. The following 
table gives details of an award to Mr P W B Page in 2011 which was exercised on 31 July 2014.
Director Date awarded
Market  
value at  
date of 
award 
(pence per 
share)
Market  
value at  
date of 
vesting 
of shares 
(pence per 
share)
Number of 
shares held 
at 1 January 
2014
Number 
of shares 
exercised 
during year
Number 
of shares 
lapsed 
during year
Number 
of shares 
held at  
31 
December 
2014
Earliest normal  
vesting date
P W B Page 9 March 2011 287 .0p 255.0p 58,025 (58,025) – – N/A
The above award was granted as a nil-priced option. No performance conditions applied to this award, which was made in 
respect of past performance. 
The market price of the company’s shares at the end of the financial year was 305p. The range of market prices during the year 
was between 210p and 324.8p. 52 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
continued
Directors’ interests
The interests, all of which are beneficial, of the directors (and their immediate families) in the share capital of the company 
(ordinary shares of 10 pence each), and details of awards held under the Devro plc Performance Share Plan and its predecessor, 
the Devro 2003 Performance Share Plan (which have performance conditions) and the Devro 2009 Deferred Share Bonus Plan 
(which have no performance conditions) at the beginning and end of the financial year, are as follows:
Director
Total number of 
ordinary shares 
1 January 2014
Total number of 
ordinary shares 
31 December 
2014
Performance 
Share Plans  
1 January  
2014
Performance 
Share Plans  
31 December 
2014
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan  
1 January  
2014
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan  
31 December 
2014
G J Hoetmer 10,000 30,000 – – – –
P W B Page 600,080 662,440 388,800
2
454,200
4
58,025 –
S J Hannam
1
223,622 N/A – – – –
J A Lodge 17,500 17,500 – – – –
P A J Neep 220,893 220,893 – – – –
S C Webb 24,000 42,952 294,362
3
299,216
5
– –
P N Withers 70,000 90,000 – – – –
1. Mr S J Hannam stepped down from the Board on 15 May 2014.
2. Includes 98,100 shares which lapsed following a review by the Committee in February 2014.
3. Includes 84,894 shares which lapsed following a review by the Committee in February 2014.
4. Includes 118,000 which lapsed following a review by the Committee in February 2015.
5. Includes 103,846 which lapsed following a review by the Committee in February 2015.
On 3 March 2015, Mr G J Hoetmer notified the company that he had purchased a further 15,000 ordinary shares in the company.
Shareholding guidelines
To provide alignment between shareholders and directors, the Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding 
equivalent to 100% of base salary over time. Any shares vesting from share incentive plans must be retained (subject to sales  
to meet tax and incidental costs of sale) until the target is reached. 
Director
Number of 
shares held 
(including family 
interests) as at  
31 December 
2014
Shares held as  
a % of salary
1
Number of 
shares vested in 
2014
Number of  
shares vested 
under share 
schemes, but 
unexercised
P W B Page 662,440 393% Nil Nil
S C Webb 42,952 39% Nil Nil
1. Calculated on basis of three-month average share price to 31 December 2014, using salaries at 31 December 2014.
The company operates an employee share ownership plan (“ESOP”). All employees of the group, including the Executive 
Directors, are beneficiaries of the ESOP and are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the ESOP which, at 31 December 
2014, amounted to 75,285 ordinary shares.
On behalf of the Board
Paul Neep
Chairman, Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee 
17 March 2015 53 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Introduction
The directors of Devro plc (the “company”) are pleased to present this Directors’ Report for the year ended 31 December 2014 
which sets out certain disclosures about the Devro group of companies (including the company) (the “group”), required under 
the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) and under the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules (“LRs”) and Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules (“DTRs”). 
The Corporate Governance Report, which can be found on pages 30 to 35 also forms part of this Directors’ Report as do other 
disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, incorporated by cross reference in this Directors’ Report.
In accordance with the Act, we have chosen to set out information about the following items in the discrete Strategic Report 
section of this Annual Report on pages 1 to 27:
 
• An indication of future developments in the business of the group;
• Its activities in the field of research & development;
• Greenhouse gas emissions; and
• Employee equality, diversity and involvement.
The information required to be included in the Annual Report under LR9.8.4R which is applicable to the company is set out  
as follows:
Section Topic Location
9.8.4R(1) Capitalised interest Note 14 to the financial statements
 
The company
The company is a public limited company and is incorporated in Scotland under number SC129785.
The company’s principal subsidiary undertakings and branches, including those located outside the UK, are listed in Note 15  
to the financial statements.
Amendment of the company’s articles of association (the “Articles”)
Any amendments to the company’s Articles must be made in accordance with the provisions of the Act by way of  
special resolution.
Directors
The names and biographical details of the directors of the company at the date of this Directors’ Report, having also been 
directors during the year ended 31 December 2014, are set out on pages 28 and 29. Additionally, Mr S J Hannam served as  
a director until he stepped down from the Board on 15 May 2014.
Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 11 in number. Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary 
resolution or by the Board. A director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next Annual General Meeting of the 
company (“AGM”) and is then eligible for election by the shareholders. 
In line with the recommendations of the Code, the company requires every director to stand for election or re-election by the 
shareholders at each AGM, if he or she wishes to continue being a director.
The company may, by ordinary resolution, remove any director before the expiration of his or her term of office. The office of 
director shall also be vacated if: (i) he or she resigns; (ii) where he or she has been appointed for a fixed term, the term expires; 
(iii) he or she ceases to be a director by virtue of a provision of the Act, is removed from office pursuant to the company’s 
Articles or becomes prohibited by law from being a director (including circumstances in which a director is declared bankrupt 
or, suffering from mental ill health, the Board resolves that the director’s office should be vacated); (iv) he or she is absent, 
without the permission of the Board, from Board meetings for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her 
office be vacated; or (v) he or she is removed from office by notice addressed to him or her at his or her last-known address  
and signed by all his or her co-directors.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 54 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  
continued
Directors (continued)
The company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance for the benefit of personnel throughout the group including its 
directors and the directors of its subsidiary undertakings in respect of their duties as directors. Following shareholder approval, 
the company has also provided an indemnity for its directors and the Company Secretary, which is a qualifying third party 
indemnity provision for the purposes of the Act. This indemnity was in force throughout the year and remains in place at the 
date of this Directors’ Report.
None of the directors had, during the year ended 31 December 2014, or has an interest in any material contract relating to the 
business of the company or of any of its subsidiary undertakings.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company as at 31 December 2014 are shown on page 52.
Share capital
The share capital of the company consists entirely of ordinary shares of 10 pence each. The company had 166,921,042 shares  
in issue at 31 December 2014 (2013: 166,779,230) as shown in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2014 of 6.1 pence per share (2013: 6.1 pence), making a total dividend 
for the year of 8.8 pence per share (2013: 8.8 pence). If approved, the final dividend will be payable to shareholders on the 
register as at 27 March 2015. 
Shareholders’ rights
Subject to applicable laws and the Articles, each registered holder of ordinary shares is entitled to receive all communications 
that the company sends to its members generally, including the Annual Report and notice of any general meeting; to attend, 
speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either in person or by proxy; and to participate in any distribution of 
income or capital. 
The company’s Articles specify a deadline for receipt of electronic and paper proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before  
a general meeting.
Subject to applicable laws and regulations, there are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of shares and no 
requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the company.
The company is also not aware of any agreements between its shareholders which may restrict the transfer of their shares  
or the exercise of their voting rights.
Shares acquired through company share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights. 
During the year 141,812 shares were issued under the rules of the Devro 2003 Performance Share Plan (2013: 1,145,666) and Nil 
shares were issued under the rules of the Devro plc Performance Share Plan (2013: Nil).
Powers of the directors
The business of the company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the company, subject to the 
provisions of the company’s Articles and applicable legislation.
At the company’s AGM on 30 April 2014, shareholders renewed the authority for the directors to exercise all powers of the 
company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of £11,000,000.
At the same AGM, shareholders granted the company authority to make market purchases of up to 16,600,000 of its issued 
ordinary shares, provided that: the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 10 pence (exclusive of 
expenses), its par value; the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount  
equal to not more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the 
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which that ordinary 
share is purchased. Except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded before this 
authority expires and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, the authority granted 
shall expire at the conclusion of this year’s AGM. 55 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Political contributions
The group made no political donations and incurred no political expenditure in 2014 (2013: Nil).
Post balance sheet events
There have been no material events from 31 December 2014 to the date of this Directors’ Report.
Financial instruments
Details of the group’s financial risk management policies and objectives in respect of its use of financial instruments are 
included in Note 23 to the financial statements together with a description of its exposure, including its exposure to market risk, 
credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk of the group, in connection with such financial instruments.
Change of control
The company has a number of financial agreements which it considers significant, with major banks containing certain 
termination rights for those banks upon a change of control of the company.
The company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office  
or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the company’s share schemes and plans may cause options 
and awards granted to directors and employees under such schemes and plans to become exercisable on takeover.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 31 December 2014, the company had been notified of the following material interests in the issued ordinary share capital 
of the company under DTR5:
Notified number 
of ordinary 
shares
Notified 
Percentage (%) 
of issued  
share capital
ING Groep N.V. 16,727,056 10.02
Marathon Asset Management 11,492,268 7.06
Neptune Investment Management Limited 8,520,812 5.10
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 8,350,475 5.01
During the period 1 January 2015 to 17 March 2015 the company has received no additional notifications of material interests  
in the issued ordinary share capital of the company under DTR5.
 
Annual General Meeting 
The AGM of the company will be held on 29 April 2015 at 11am at Glasgow City Halls, Candleriggs, Glasgow G1 1NQ. The notice 
of meeting is set out on pages 116 to 117. Shareholders will be asked for their approval of the items of business which are 
explained in the notes on pages 118 to 121.
Disclosure of information to auditors
So far as each person who is a director at the date of approval of this Report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the auditors are unaware. Each of the directors has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in 
order to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware of 
that information.
A resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as auditors to the company will be proposed at the AGM.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have 
prepared the group and company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union. Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the 
group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will 
continue in business. 56 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  
continued
Statement of directors’ responsibilities (continued)
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors’ remuneration report comply with the Act and, as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of corporate and financial information published on the 
company’s website (www.devro.com). Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 28 to 29, confirms that, to the best of his or her 
knowledge and belief:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view  
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company and of the group included in the consolidation taken  
as a whole; and
• the management report required by DTR4.1.8R (set out in the Strategic Report and this Directors’ Report) includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and group included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In addition, each of the directors considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
John Meredith 
Company Secretary
17 March 2015 57 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
57 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
CONTENTS
Financial Stat ements
Consolidated Income  
Statement  .............................................. 58
Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income  .......... 59
Balance Sheets  ................................... 60
Statements  
of Changes in Equity  ........................ 61
Cash Flow Statements  ................... 63
Notes to the Financial  
Statements  ............................................ 64
Independent Auditors’  
Report  .................................................... 108
Financial Summary  ........................... 115
Notice of Annual  
General Meeting ...................................116
Explanatory Notes to  
the AGM Notice.....................................118
Shareholder information ................122 58 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
2014 2013
Note
Before 
exceptional 
items  
£’m
Exceptional 
items  
£’m
Total  
£’m
Before 
exceptional 
items  
£’m
Exceptional 
items  
£’m
Total  
£’m
Revenue 2 232.3 – 232.3 242.7 – 242.7
Operating profit 3,4 30.3 (23.9) 6.4 42.1 (1.3) 40.8
Finance income 7 0.1 – 0.1 – – –
Finance cost 7 (2.3) – (2.3) (1.1) – (1.1)
Net finance cost on pensions 7 (2.0) – (2.0) (2.2) – (2.2)
Profit before tax 8 26.1 (23.9) 2.2 38.8 (1.3) 37.5
Tax 9 (3.2) 5.4 2.2 (4.1) 0.2 (3.9)
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 22.9 (18.5) 4.4 34.7 (1.1) 33.6
Earnings per share
Basic 12 2.6p 20.1p
Diluted 12 2.6p 20.0p
All results relate to continuing operations. 59 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Note
2014  
£’m
2013  
£’m
Profit for the year 4.4 33.6
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Pension obligations:
– re-measurements 25 (11.2) 11.3
– movement in deferred tax 24 4.6 (4.9)
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (6.6) 6.4
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Cash flow hedges:
– net fair value losses 29 (0.9) (1.2)
– reclassified and reported in operating profit 29 0.2 (1.5)
– movement in deferred tax 29 0.1 0.6
Net investment hedges:
– fair value gains 29 0.7 0.9
– movement in deferred tax 29 (0.1) (0.2)
Net exchange adjustments 29 (8.1) (13.5)
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (8.1) (14.9)
Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax (14.7) (8.5)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year attributable to owners of the parent (10.3) 25.1
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 60 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Group Company
Note
 
2014  
£’m
2013  
£’m
2014  
£’m
2013  
£’m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 13 4.0 3.2 0.8 1.5
Property, plant and equipment 14 230.3 199.1 0.3 0.9
Investments 15 – – 153.7 138.7
Deferred tax assets 24 24.5 14.8 – –
Trade and other receivables 17 – – 63.2 26.3
258.8 217.1 218.0 167.4
Current assets
Inventories 16 33.4 38.1 – –
Current tax assets 0.2 0.5 6.5 6.7
Trade and other receivables 17 33.7 33.6 3.1 2.8
Derivative financial instruments 23 1.7 2.1 0.8 0.9
Cash and cash equivalents 18 11.1 6.0 0.1 –
80.1 80.3 10.5 10.4
Total assets 338.9 297.4 228.5 177.8
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings 22 1.7 2.4 1.8 2.7
Derivative financial instruments 23 2.7 1.4 0.5 –
Trade and other payables 19 31.7 26.7 2.6 1.6
Current tax liabilities 5.3 4.2 – –
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 21 6.3 – – –
47.7 34.7 4.9 4.3
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 22 78.6 39.4 66.5 28.4
Deferred tax liabilities 24 15.4 17.3 0.1 –
Pension obligations 25 59.0 46.1 – –
Other payables 20 2.4 1.9 15.8 12.2
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 21 2.6 – – –
158.0 104.7 82.4 40.6
Total liabilities 205.7 139.4 87.3 44.9
Net assets 133.2 158.0 141.2 132.9
EQUITY
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the parent
Ordinary shares 26 16.7 16.7 16.7 16.7
Share premium 28 9.3 9.0 9.3 9.0
Other reserves 29 56.5 64.9 45.2 45.2
Retained earnings 30 50.7 67.4 70.0 62.0
Total equity 133.2 158.0 141.2 132.9
The financial statements on pages 58 to 107 were approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
S C Webb, Group Finance Director
17 March 2015
BALANCE SHEETS
at 31 December 2014 61 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Group Note
Ordinary 
shares
£’m
Share 
premium
£’m
 Other 
reserves
£’m
Retained 
earnings
£’m
Total equity 
attributable 
to owners of 
the parent
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2014 16.7 9.0 64.9 67.4 158.0
Comprehensive expense
Profit for the year – – – 4.4 4.4
Other comprehensive (expense)/income
Cash flow hedges, net of tax 29 – – (0.6) – (0.6)
Net investment hedges, net of tax 29 – – 0.6 – 0.6
Pension obligations, net of tax 25,24 – – – (6.6) (6.6)
Exchange adjustments 29 – – (8.1) – (8.1)
Total other comprehensive expense – – (8.1) (6.6) (14.7)
Total comprehensive expense – – (8.1) (2.2) (10.3)
Transactions with owners
Performance Share Plan charge 29 – – 0.2 – 0.2
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of shares vested 29 – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of awards lapsed 29 – – (0.2) 0.2 –
Issue of share capital – 0.3 – – 0.3
Dividends paid 11 – – – (14.7) (14.7)
Total transactions with owners – 0.3 (0.3) (14.5) (14.5)
Balance at 31 December 2014 16.7 9.3 56.5 50.7 133.2
Balance at 1 January 2013 16.6 8.0 80.7 41.6 146.9
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year – – – 33.6 33.6
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Cash flow hedges, net of tax 29 – – (2.1) – (2.1)
Net investment hedges, net of tax 29 – – 0.7 – 0.7
Pension obligations, net of tax 25,24 – – – 6.4 6.4
Exchange adjustments 29 – – (13.5) – (13.5)
Total other comprehensive (expense)/income – – (14.9) 6.4 (8.5)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) – – (14.9) 40.0 25.1
Transactions with owners
Performance Share Plan charge 29 – – 0.2 – 0.2
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of shares vested 29 – – (1.1) – (1.1)
Issue of share capital 0.1 1.0 – – 1.1
Dividends paid 11 – – – (14.2) (14.2)
Total transactions with owners 0.1 1.0 (0.9) (14.2) (14.0)
Balance at 31 December 2013 16.7 9.0 64.9 67.4 158.0 62 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Company Note
Ordinary 
shares
£’m
Share 
premium
£’m
 Other 
reserves
£’m
Retained 
earnings
£’m
Total equity 
attributable 
to owners of 
the parent
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2014 16.7 9.0 45.2 62.0 132.9
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year – – – 22.5 22.5
Cash flow hedges, net of tax 29 – – 0.3 – 0.3
Total comprehensive income – – 0.3 22.5 22.8
Transactions with owners
Performance Share Plan charge 29 – – 0.2 – 0.2
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of shares vested 29 – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of awards lapsed 29 – – (0.2) 0.2 –
Issue of share capital – 0.3 – – 0.3
Dividends paid 11 – – – (14.7) (14.7)
Total transactions with owners – 0.3 (0.3) (14.5) (14.5)
Balance at 31 December 2014 16.7 9.3 45.2 70.0 141.2
Balance at 1 January 2013 16.6 8.0 45.9 60.7 131.2
Comprehensive income
Profit for the year – – – 15.5 15.5
Transactions with owners
Performance Share Plan charge 29 – – 0.2 – 0.2
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of shares vested 29 – – (0.9) – (0.9)
Issue of share capital 0.1 1.0 – – 1.1
Dividends paid 11 – – – (14.2) (14.2)
Total transactions with owners 0.1 1.0 (0.7) (14.2) (13.8)
Balance at 31 December 2013 16.7 9.0 45.2 62.0 132.9
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 2014 
continued 63 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Group Company
Note
 
2014  
£’m
2013  
£’m
2014  
£’m
2013  
£’m
Cash flows from operating activities
– Cash generated from/(used in) operations 31 41.6 42.7 (35.4) (15.2)
– Interest received 0.1 – 1.2 0.3
– Interest paid (2.3) (1.2) (2.0) (0.7)
– Tax paid (2.7) (3.8) (0.1) (0.1)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 36.7 37.7 (36.3) (15.7)
Cash flows from investing activities
– Purchase of property, plant and equipment (53.0) (35.8) – (0.4)
– Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment – – 0.4 –
– Purchase of intangible assets (1.9) (1.0) (0.1) –
– Capital grants received 0.7 0.4 – –
– Investment in subsidiary undertakings – – (15.0) –
– Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings – – 25.9 14.6
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (54.2) (36.4) 11.2 14.2
Cash flows from financing activities
– Proceeds from the issue of ordinary shares 0.3 1.1 0.3 1.1
– Repayment under the loan facilities (31.1) – (22.1) –
– Borrowing under the loan facilities 8.0 12.0 2.0 10.3
– Proceeds from issue of other loans 60.6 – 60.6 –
– Dividends paid 11 (14.7) (14.2) (14.7) (14.2)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities 23.1 (1.1) 26.1 (2.8)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5.6 0.2 1.0 (4.3)
Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 3.6 3.7 (2.7) 1.6
Exchange gain/(loss) on cash and cash equivalents 0.2 (0.3) – –
Cash and cash equivalents 18 11.1 6.0 0.1 –
Bank overdrafts 22 (1.7) (2.4) (1.8) (2.7)
Net cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 9.4 3.6 (1.7) (2.7) 64 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Devro plc (“the company”) is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated  
and domiciled in Scotland. The address of its registered office is Moodiesburn, Chryston, Glasgow G69 0JE.
1. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.  
These policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with European Union endorsed International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”), IFRS IC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, under the historical cost 
convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments and pension scheme assets.
The group’s reporting currency is sterling and unless otherwise stated the financial statements are rounded to the nearest 
£0.1 million.
Going concern
The group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position  
are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 27, along with the financial position of the group, its debt levels and  
borrowing facilities.
In addition, Note 23 includes the group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; its financial risk 
management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and  
liquidity risk.
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the company and the group 
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Key factors to support the going concern basis of accounting include:
• As at 31 December 2014 the group was operating within the £110 million revolving credit facility negotiated in December 
2014 and due to expire in December 2019, and the US$100 million US private placement, completed in June 2014 and due  
to expire between 2021 and 2026, and related key covenants.
• Forecasts of profits and cash flows have been prepared which indicate that the group is expected to operate within its key 
covenants and funding facilities for the foreseeable future. 
Critical estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses during the reporting year. Although these estimates are based on management’s best assessments of amounts, 
events or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates. The key uncertainties that have a significant risk  
of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the accounting 
for the group’s investment projects and restructuring activities, carrying value of inventory, measurement of pension 
obligations and tax.
Investment projects and restructuring activities
The group’s two major investment projects, to construct new manufacturing plants in the USA and China, and the restructuring 
of its existing manufacturing operations in Scotland and Australia, require judgement including whether related costs should be 
expensed as incurred or capitalised, and whether any existing assets should be impaired or their useful lives amended. Both the 
investment project and the restructuring activities involve some elements which will be implemented over a number of months 
or longer, including redundancy programmes and decommissioning of equipment. Provisions are recognised when the 
obligation arises and judgement is applied relating to the timing of recognition and in estimating the amount of the provisions. 
Where amounts are expensed, judgement is also required to determine whether these amounts should be disclosed as 
exceptional items, taking account of their nature and size, and in particular whether they are incremental to normal operations. 
An analysis of exceptional items recognised is included in Notes 3 and 4. Details of provisions are included in Note 21.
Carrying value of inventory
Determining the carrying value of inventory involves a degree of judgement as to whether the group will be able to sell the 
inventory it has on hand for more than the value recorded in the balance sheet, which is typically the cost of production.  
The group adopts a policy of providing for inventory when it reaches a certain age, and also for any inventory where there are 
specific concerns. These estimated provisions are based on management’s best assessments of future sales volumes and the 
likely selling prices, and actual results may differ from these estimates.  65 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Pension obligations
The cost of defined benefit pension schemes is determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial valuation involves certain 
key assumptions and complex calculations. The key assumptions include discount rates, future salary increases, mortality rates 
and future pension increases. Due to the long-term nature of these schemes, such estimates are subject to significant 
uncertainty. An analysis of the sensitivity of the pension obligations to changes in key assumptions is provided based on 
movements in key assumptions that could reasonably occur. Further details are provided in Note 25.
Tax
The group’s tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax rates effective at the balance sheet date. In addition to 
corporation tax, the group is subject to indirect taxes such as sales and employment taxes across the tax jurisdictions in the 
countries in which it operates. The varying nature and complexity of these tax laws requires the group to review its tax positions 
and make appropriate adjustments at the balance sheet date. In addition the recognition of deferred tax assets is dependent 
upon an estimation of future taxable profits that will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. In the event that actual taxable profits are different, such differences may impact the carrying value of such deferred 
tax assets in future years. Further details are provided in Notes 9 and 24.
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
(a)  New standards, amendments to standards and interpretations effective in 2014
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations became mandatory for the first time during the 
financial year beginning 1 January 2014. All were either not relevant for the group or had no material impact on the financial 
statements of the group:
    Effective date
IFRS 10 (amendment) – Consolidated financial statements  1 January 2014
IFRS 12 (amendment) – Disclosure of interest in other entities 1 January 2014
IAS 27 (amendment) – Separate financial statements 1 January 2014
IAS 32 (amendment) – Financial instruments: Presentation 1 January 2014
IAS 36 (amendment) – Impairment of assets 1 January 2014
IAS 39 (amendment) – Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement 1 January 2014
IFRIC 21 – Levies 1 January 2014
(b) New standards, amendments to standards and interpretations not applied
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations 
were in issue but have not been applied in these financial statements:
    Effective date
IFRS 9 – Financial instruments 1 January 2018
IFRS 10 (amendment) – Consolidated financial statements 1 January 2016
IFRS 11 (amendment) – Joint arrangements 1 January 2015
IFRS 14 – Regulatory deferral accounts 1 January 2016
IFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2017
IAS 16 (amendment) – Property, plant and equipment 1 January 2016
IAS 19 (amendment) – Employee benefits 1 January 2015
IAS 27 (amendment) – Separate financial statements 1 January 2016 
IAS 28 (amendment) – Investments in associates 1 January 2016
Annual improvements 2012 1 January 2015
Annual improvements 2013 1 January 2015
Annual improvements 2014 1 January 2016
It is expected that the group will adopt these amendments to standards on their effective dates. The directors do not anticipate 
that the adoption of these amendments to standards will have a material impact on the financial statements of the group, apart 
from IFRS 9 which will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the company and all its subsidiary undertakings made 
up to 31 December 2014. Intra-group sales and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation. The purchase method of accounting 
is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings by the group. The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired 
or disposed of are consolidated for the period from or to the date on which control passed. Uniform accounting policies are 
applied across the group.
The subsidiaries are entities over which the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies. The cost of 
acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred. Any identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured at their fair values at 
the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest. Any unrealised losses are also eliminated unless 
the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. 66 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Intangible assets
Intangible assets within the group principally comprise computer software and certain types of development costs. 
Computer software costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the software, 
normally four to five years. Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as 
an expense as incurred.
Costs incurred on development projects are recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that the project will be a 
success, considering its commercial and technological feasibility, and costs can be measured reliably. Development costs are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the related asset, normally 15 years. External and internal 
costs are capitalised to the extent that they enhance the future economic benefit of the asset.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working 
condition for its intended use.
Intangible assets are valued at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Research & development
In general, research & development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the year in which it occurred. However, 
as set out above, under certain conditions development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. The cost of property, plant and equipment is its 
purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition and directly attributable costs. Provision for depreciation is 
made so as to write off the costs of the assets on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic lives.
Principal useful economic lives
Freehold buildings 50 years
Plant and machinery 8-15 years
Computer equipment 4-5 years
Motor vehicles  4 years
Fixtures and fittings 10 years
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or on assets under construction.
Assets under construction are transferred to the appropriate asset category when they come into use. Depreciation on assets 
so transferred is provided with effect from the month following the date of transfer.
Asset residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date, or more frequently 
if there have been indications of any significant change in either.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with carrying amounts and are recognised within 
other operating income/expense in the income statement. 
Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the year in which they are incurred.
Impairment of non-financial assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation but are tested for impairment annually or whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Assets that are subject to 
depreciation or amortisation are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the asset’s 
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell 
and its value in use. 
Grants
Grants relating to property, plant and equipment are included in current and non-current liabilities as appropriate and credited 
to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the related assets.
Grants relating to costs are deferred and recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match them with the 
costs they are intended to compensate.
Fixed asset investments
The company’s investments in subsidiary undertakings are shown at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 67 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating 
leases. Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a first in, first out basis and includes 
transport and handling costs. In the case of manufactured products, cost includes all direct expenditure and production 
overheads based on the normal level of activity. Net realisable value is the price at which inventories can be sold in the normal 
course of business after allowing for the costs of realisation and, where appropriate, the cost of conversion from their existing 
state to a finished condition. Provision is made, where appropriate, for obsolete, slow-moving and defective inventories.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised 
cost, less provision for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Estimated irrecoverable amounts are based on historical experience, 
together with specific amounts that are not expected to be collectible. The amount of the provision is the difference between 
the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. 
Individual trade receivables are written off when management deems them not to be collectible.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short-term deposits with maturity dates of less than three months 
which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. For the 
purposes of the cash flow statement, net cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and cash equivalents net of bank overdrafts. 
Foreign currencies
Items included in the financial statements of each of the group’s subsidiary undertakings are measured using the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). The consolidated financial 
statements are presented in sterling, which is the company’s functional and presentation currency. 
Foreign currency transactions in each entity are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at 
the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the 
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive 
income as qualifying cash flow hedges. 
Other gains and losses arising from foreign currency transactions are included in the income statement.
The trading results of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries are translated into sterling, the presentation currency of the 
group and functional currency of the parent, using average rates of exchange for the year. The balance sheets of foreign 
currency denominated subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end and exchange 
differences arising are taken directly to the translation reserve in equity. On disposal of a foreign denominated subsidiary, the 
deferred cumulative amount recognised in the translation reserve (since 1 January 2004 under the transitional rules of IFRS 1) 
relating to that entity is recognised in the income statement. All other translation differences are taken to the income statement, 
with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts which are used to 
provide a hedge against the group’s net investments in foreign enterprises. These are taken directly to equity until the disposal 
of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the income statement. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods in the ordinary course of the 
group’s activities. Sales revenue, which is net of returns, rebates and discounts, and which excludes value added tax and sales 
between group companies, represents the net invoiced value of goods supplied and is recognised when the goods have either 
been delivered to or collected by the customer and the risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to 
them. 
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised by the company when payment is made by subsidiary undertakings.
Tax
The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowable.  
It is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is 
provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the financial statements.  68 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Tax (continued)
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the related asset is realised or the liability is settled. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income 
statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt 
with within equity.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except for deferred tax liability where 
the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current 
tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on either 
the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Pensions 
The group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans. All defined benefit pension plans are 
now closed to new entrants.
Payments to defined contribution pension plans are charged as an expense as they fall due.
The group’s obligations in respect of defined benefit pension plans are valued by independent actuaries using the projected 
unit credit method. All group plans are funded externally, with the exception of Germany, where, in line with local practice, 
obligations are supported by insurance policies. Plan assets are valued at fair market value and are held completely separate 
from the group’s assets. Full formal actuarial valuations of obligations are carried out at frequencies of not more than three 
years and are updated regularly for reporting purposes. 
Amounts recorded in the balance sheet represent the fair value of external plan assets less the present value of the defined 
benefit obligations. 
Amounts recorded in the income statement represent the current service cost over the reporting year, which is included in 
operating profit, and net finance income or cost , i.e. interest income on assets less interest cost on liabilities calculated using 
the discount rate, which is included as a separate component of finance income and cost. Other income statement credits or 
charges can arise for special events, such as a past service benefit improvement or settlement and curtailment of plan liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. Actuarial gains and losses  
on liabilities occur due to changes in actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date and also due to any differences between 
assumptions and actual outcomes. Gains and losses on plan assets represent the difference between interest income over the 
year, and the actual return achieved. 
Share schemes
The group operates a number of equity-settled share based incentive plans as consideration for services received from 
employees. The fair value of services received in exchange for the grant of share awards is recognised as an expense with the 
total amount to be expensed being determined by reference to the fair value of the awards granted. The fair value of the 
awards includes any market performance conditions, but excludes the impact of any service or non-market performance 
vesting conditions and is reduced by any consideration received from employees. Any non-market performance or service 
conditions are included in assumptions over the number of awards expected to vest, and the total expense is recognised over 
the full vesting period in the income statement with a corresponding credit made to equity. At the end of each year the group 
revises its estimates of the number of awards expected to vest based on non-market vesting conditions and recognises the 
impact of any revision in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The social security contributions payable on share awards granted is recognised in the income statement over the vesting 
period and is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
Dividends payable
The liability for final dividends is recorded when the dividends are approved by the company’s shareholders. Interim dividends 
are recorded when paid.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently re-measured at fair value 
where associated risks are hedged by derivative financial instruments. Un-hedged borrowings are subsequently carried at  69 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Borrowings (continued) 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the 
income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current 
liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance 
sheet date.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the year in which they are incurred, except where they are directly attributable 
to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised as part of the cost of  
that asset. 
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective  
interest method.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges
Provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is 
probable that the group will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present 
obligation at the balance sheet date, with the present value of estimated cash flows used if the effect of the time value of 
money is material.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when the group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has either started 
implementing the plan or announced its main features to those affected by it. The measurement of the obligation comprises 
costs which are directly related to the restructuring.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments used to hedge risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations are initially 
and subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The fair values of forward exchange contracts are calculated by reference to market forward rates at the balance sheet date. 
The fair values of interest rate swap contracts are calculated on a discounted cash flow basis using market forward rates.
Gains or losses arising from the movement to fair value are taken to the income statement except where the derivative is 
designated as a cash flow hedge or net investment hedge. 
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being 
hedged and the hedging instrument, and demonstrate that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis. This 
effectiveness testing is re-performed at each reporting date to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Cash flow hedges
The group has designated forward foreign exchange contracts and the interest rate differential of cross currency interest rate 
swaps as cash flow hedges.
For cash flow hedges, the effective part of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognised in other comprehensive 
income. Gains or losses relating to any ineffective part of changes in fair value are taken immediately to the income statement. 
Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period as the hedged transaction occurs, 
for example, when the forecast sale or purchase transaction takes place. 
Any movements in fair value occurring after the time when hedging contracts cease to be cash flow hedges are taken directly 
to the income statement. 
Fair value hedges 
The group has designated the exchange element of cross currency interest rate swaps as fair value hedges. 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in the income 
statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the 
hedged risk. The fair value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged risk is amortised in the income statement from the 
time the hedging contracts cease to be fair value hedges.
Net investment hedges
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Gains or losses on the hedging 
instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income. Gains or losses relating 
to any ineffective portion are taken immediately to the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to 
the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold. 70 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-
maker. The chief operating decision-maker has been identified as the Board, which is responsible for allocating resources and 
assessing the performance of the operating segments. 
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those significant items which are incremental to normal operations and are separately disclosed by virtue 
of their nature or size to enable a better understanding of the group’s underlying financial performance.
2. Segment information 
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the Board. The Board reviews the group’s financial results on a 
geographical segment basis with three identifiable operating segments:
• Americas: which includes North America and Latin America.
• Asia-Pacific: which includes Australia, New Zealand, Japan, China and the rest of South East Asia.
• Europe: which includes Continental Europe, UK, Ireland and Africa.
The Board assesses the performance of the operating segments based on operating profit. This measurement basis excludes 
the effects of exceptional income and expenditure from the operating segments. During the year the basis used by the Board to 
allocate operating profits between segments was amended to focus on group profit for external sales in each region, rather 
than statutory profit for the region which included profit on intercompany sales. As a result the segmental information has been 
presented on this amended basis and the prior year figures have been restated on a consistent basis.
Finance income and cost, and net finance cost on pensions, are not included in the segment results that are reviewed by  
the Board.
Segment assets exclude tax assets, which are managed on a central basis.
Segment liabilities exclude tax liabilities and non-current borrowings, which are managed on a central basis. 
Information provided to the Board is consistent with that in the financial statements.
Americas Asia-Pacific Europe Total group
2014 
£’m
2013* 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013* 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013* 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Revenue
Sales to external customers 57.8 62.4 70.1 68.9 104.4 111.4 232.3 242.7
Operating profit before corporate 
 overheads & exceptional items 1.8 6.2 8.7 10.9 21.8 26.6 32.3 43.7
Corporate overheads (2.0) (1.6)
Operating profit before exceptional 
items 30.3 42.1
Exceptional items (5.3) (0.3) (4.9) (1.0) (12.6) – (22.8) (1.3)
Corporate exceptional items (1.1) –
Operating profit after exceptional items 6.4 40.8
Finance income 0.1 –
Finance cost (2.3) (1.1)
Net finance cost on pensions (2.0) (2.2)
Profit before tax 2.2 37.5
* Restated
The reduction in operating profit in each of the regions relates principally to adverse exchange movements and higher unit 
costs of production due to the actions taken across all regions to manage production capacity, together with the effects of the 
manufacturing challenges in the USA, increased sales volumes partially offset by changes in sales mix towards China within the 
Asia-Pacific region and improved manufacturing efficiencies in Europe. 71 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
2. Segment information (continued)
Other Segment information
Americas Asia-Pacific Europe Total group
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Additions to property, plant and 
equipment:
– Segment 29.4 7.1 22.6 6.6 6.6 20.0 58.6 33.7
– Corporate – 0.4
Total 58.6 34.1
Additions to intangible assets:
– Segment 0.7 0.8 0.7 – 0.4 0.2 1.8 1.0
– Corporate 0.1 –
Total 1.9 1.0
Depreciation of property, plant and 
equipment:
– Segment 2.8 2.3 5.2 3.4 14.6 11.1 22.6 16.8
– Corporate 0.2 0.1
Total 22.8 16.9
Amortisation of intangible assets:
– Segment 0.1 0.1 – – 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3
– Corporate 0.8 0.8
Total 1.1 1.1
Segment assets and liabilities can be analysed as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Assets
Americas 73.3 41.8
Asia-Pacific 81.6 62.3
Europe 155.5 173.8
Total segment assets 310.4 277.9
Corporate assets 3.8 4.2
Tax 24.7 15.3
Total assets 338.9 297.4
Liabilities
Americas 33.6 17.5
Asia-Pacific 15.4 10.0
Europe 52.5 46.7
Total segment liabilities 101.5 74.2
Corporate liabilities 4.9 4.3
Borrowings 78.6 39.4
Tax 20.7 21.5
Total liabilities 205.7 139.4 72 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
2. Segment information (continued)
The company is domiciled in the United Kingdom. Revenue by destination is presented based on the location of the customer 
receiving the supply and can be analysed as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
United Kingdom 28.2 27.9
Other Europe 77.2 84.6
Total Europe 105.4 112.5
USA 40.5 40.1
Other Americas 17.8 22.6
Total Americas 58.3 62.7
   
Australia 21.3 23.3
Other Asia-Pacific 47.3 44.2
Total Asia-Pacific 68.6 67.5
Total 232.3 242.7
The total of non-current assets other than deferred tax can be analysed as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Americas 56.6 26.4
Asia-Pacific 53.0 36.2
Europe 123.6 137.3
Corporate 1.1 2.4
Total 234.3 202.3
  
3. Operating profit 
2014 2013
Before 
exceptional 
items  
£’m
Exceptional 
items  
£’m
Total  
£’m
Before 
exceptional 
items  
£’m
Exceptional 
items  
£’m
Total  
£’m
Revenue 232.3 – 232.3 242.7 – 242.7
Cost of sales (161.8) (20.5) (182.3) (157.3) (0.2) (157.5)
Gross profit 70.5 (20.5) 50.0 85.4 (0.2) 85.2
Selling and distribution costs (15.2) – (15.2) (18.4) – (18.4)
Administrative expenses (17 .2) (3.4) (20.6) (18.7) (1.0) (19.7)
Research & development expenditure (6.0) – (6.0) (6.6) (0.1) (6.7)
Other expenses (1.9) – (1.9) (2.2) – (2.2)
Total operating expenses (40.3) (3.4) (43.7) (45.9) (1.1) (47.0)
Other operating income 0.1 – 0.1 2.6 – 2.6
Net operating expenses (40.2) (3.4) (43.6) (43.3) (1.1) (44.4)
Operating profit/(expense) 30.3 (23.9) 6.4 42.1 (1.3) 40.8
An additional £1.6 million (2013: £0.7 million) of development expenditure has been capitalised within intangible assets  
(Note 13). 73 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
4. Exceptional items
Exceptional charges included in operating profit were £23.9 million (2013: £1.3 million).
2014 2013
Investment 
projects 
£’m
Restructuring 
£’m
Total  
£’m
Total  
£’m
Redundancy costs (i) 1.6 7.1 8.7 –
Pension charge (ii) – 1.7 1.7 –
Costs to establish new manufacturing plants (iii) 2.0 – 2.0 1.1
Accelerated depreciation (iv) 0.8 5.7 6.5 0.2
Decommissioning costs (v) 2.6 2.1 4.7 –
Other costs (vi) – 0.3 0.3 –
7.0 16.9 23.9 1.3
Exceptional items relate to the actions being taken to transform the business. These include the two investment projects to 
build and commission new plants in China and the USA, and a significant restructuring of existing operations, particularly in 
Scotland and Australia. The restructuring of operations in Scotland involves older, less efficient lines being permanently shut 
down and the restructuring in Australia relates to the closure of the hide preparation plant.
(i)   Redundancy costs principally relate to the restructuring of operations in Scotland where 130 roles have been impacted. 
Redundancy costs have also been incurred in the USA where the completion of the new plant will require significantly 
fewer operators compared with the existing less efficient operation, in Australia related to the outsourcing of hide 
preparation operations and in relation to changes to the global management structure. The costs include provisions for 
redundancy costs of £4.2 million that are expected to be paid in 2015. 
(ii)   Estimate of the incremental UK pension liability expected to arise related to people leaving the business as part of the 
restructuring of operations in Scotland. 
(iii)  Incremental costs related to the projects to establish new manufacturing plants in China and the USA, including project 
management, legal and professional fees. These costs do not meet the recognition criteria of intangible assets (under IAS 
38) or tangible assets but are of such significance, in terms of nature and size, that they have been shown separately from 
the underlying operating profits of the business. 
(iv)  An accelerated depreciation charge incurred on assets that will be replaced earlier than their previously estimated useful 
economic lives due to the group’s planned investment in the new USA plant, and the restructuring actions in Scotland and 
Australia. The 2013 charge related entirely to the new USA plant. 
(v)   Estimate of the costs that will be incurred to ensure the affected sites are made safe and that food hygiene and 
environmental standards are maintained, for which a constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date. These costs 
relate to the removal of equipment that will no longer be used once the restructuring is complete in Scotland and Australia, 
and the new manufacturing plant is operational in the USA. These costs are expected to be settled over the next  
two years. 
(vi)  Costs related to the write-off of raw materials which are specific to some of the equipment being decommissioned as part 
of the restructuring of operations in Scotland.
5. Directors’ emoluments
A detailed analysis of directors’ emoluments, shareholdings, long-term incentive schemes and pension arrangements is 
provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 46 to 52. Emoluments are summarised as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Aggregate emoluments (including long-term incentives with performance period  
ending during the year) 1.0 1.1
Payments in lieu of pension contributions 0.1 0.1
Details of the emoluments of the highest-paid director are as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Aggregate emoluments (including long-term incentives with performance period  
ending during the year) 0.4 0.5
Payments in lieu of pension contributions 0.1 0.1 74 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
6. Employee information
The average monthly number of persons (including Executive Directors) employed by the group during the year was:
2014 2013
By employee category
Operations and engineering 1,833 1,883
Sales and marketing 96 100
Distribution 33 37
Administration 153 142
Research & development 111 107
2,226 2,269
Staff costs for the group were:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Wages and salaries (including bonus and other benefits) 63.6 70.1
Social security costs 7.7 8.9
Pension obligation costs (Note 25) 8.9 7.7
Performance Share Plan charge 0.2 0.2
Redundancy costs 8.7 –
89.1 86.9
£11.4 million (2013: £0.2 million) of staff costs above were included within exceptional items.
The key management of the group comprises of the directors and the Executive Board. 
7. Finance income and cost 
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Finance income  
Interest receivable and similar income:
– On bank balances 0.1 –
Finance cost
Interest payable and similar charges:  
– On loans and overdrafts (2.3) (1.1)
Net finance cost on pensions (2.0) (2.2) 75 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
8. Profit before tax
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Profit before tax is stated after charging/(crediting):
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – including exceptional items of £6.5 million  
(2013: £0.2 million) 22.8 16.9
Amortisation of intangible assets 1.1 1.1
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.7
Inventory recognised as an expense 125.8 121.1
Inventory written down or written off – including exceptional items of £0.3 million (2013: Nil) 5.5 3.5
Repairs and maintenance expenditure 15.2 16.8
Research & development expenditure 6.0 6.7
Hire of assets – operating leases 1.7 1.7
Net foreign exchange losses/(gains) 0.4 (2.4)
Auditors’ remuneration (see below) 0.6 0.6
The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables is included in other expenses in the income statement (Note 3). 
Amounts provided are written off when there is no expectation of them being collected. 
Services provided by the company’s auditors and its associates
During the year the group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the company’s auditors and 
its associates:
Group
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Fees payable to the company’s auditors and its associates for the audit of the parent company and 
consolidated accounts 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the company’s auditors and its associates for other services:
– The audit of the company’s subsidiaries 0.2 0.2
– Audit related assurance services – –
– Tax advisory services 0.1 0.1
– Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1
– All other services 0.1 0.1
0.6 0.6
In addition to the above services, the company’s auditors acted as auditor to some of the group’s pension schemes. The 
appointment of auditors to the group’s pension schemes and the fees paid in respect of those audits are agreed by the trustees 
of each scheme, who act independently from the management of the group. The aggregate fees paid to the company’s 
auditors for audit services to the pension schemes during the year were £36,000 (2013: £18,000). 76 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
9. Tax
2014
Before 
exceptional 
items  
£’m
Exceptional 
items
£’m
Total  
£’m
Current Tax
United Kingdom corporation tax at 21.5% – – –
Foreign tax 5.6 (1.0) 4.6
5.6 (1.0) 4.6
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.4) – (0.4)
Total current tax charge/(credit) 5.2 (1.0) 4.2
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences representing:
– United Kingdom corporation tax (0.3) (2.4) (2.7)
– Foreign tax (2.2) (2.0) (4.2)
(2.5) (4.4) (6.9)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 – 0.5
Total deferred tax credit to the income statement (Note 24) (2.0) (4.4) (6.4)
Tax (credit)/charge for the year ended 31 December 2014 3.2 (5.4) (2.2)
Tax on items charged to equity 
Deferred tax credit on pension obligations (4.6) – (4.6)
Deferred tax credit on net fair value losses on cash flow hedges (0.2) – (0.2)
Deferred tax charge on other hedges 0.2 – 0.2
Total deferred tax on items charged to equity (4.6) – (4.6)
Total current tax charge/(credit) for the year ended 31 December 2014 5.2 (1.0) 4.2
Total deferred tax credit for the year ended 31 December 2014 (6.6) (4.4) (11.0) 77 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
9. Tax (continued)
2013
Before 
exceptional 
items  
£’m
Exceptional 
items
£’m
Total  
£’m
Current Tax
United Kingdom corporation tax at 23.25% – – –
Foreign tax 5.1 (0.2) 4.9
5.1 (0.2) 4.9
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.6) – (0.6)
Total current tax 4.5 (0.2) 4.3
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences representing:
– United Kingdom corporation tax (0.3) – (0.3)
– United Kingdom corporation tax rate change (0.4) – (0.4)
– Foreign tax 1.1 – 1.1
0.4 – 0.4
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.8) – (0.8)
Total deferred tax credited to the income statement (Note 24) (0.4) – (0.4)
Tax charge/(credit) for the year ended 31 December 2013 4.1 (0.2) 3.9
Tax on items charged to equity 
Deferred tax charge on pension obligations 4.9 – 4.9
Deferred tax credit on net fair value losses on cash flow hedges (0.6) – (0.6)
Deferred tax charge on net fair value gains on net investment hedges 0.2 – 0.2
Total deferred tax on items charged to equity 4.5 – 4.5
Total current tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2013 4.5 (0.2) 4.3
Total deferred tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2013 4.1 – 4.1
  78 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
9. Tax (continued) 
The effective rates for both years are lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The differences are  
explained below:
2014
Before 
exceptional 
items  
£’m
Exceptional 
items
£’m
Total  
£’m
Profit before tax 26.1 (23.9) 2.2
Profit before tax multiplied by the blended rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.5% 5.6 (5.1) 0.5
Effects of:
– Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 – 0.1
– Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates (1.2) (0.9) (2.1)
– Permanent differences (1.3) 0.6 (0.7)
Tax (credit)/charge for the year ended 31 December 2014 3.2 (5.4) (2.2)
2013
Profit before tax 38.8 (1.3) 37.5
Profit before tax multiplied by the blended rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.25% 9.0 (0.3) 8.7
Effects of:
– Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.4) – (1.4)
– Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates (1.1) 0.1 (1.0)
– Permanent differences (2.4) – (2.4)
Tax charge/(credit) for the year ended 31 December 2013 4.1 (0.2) 3.9
During the year, a change in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21%, effective from 1 April 2014, was substantively 
enacted. A further reduction to 20% from 1 April 2015 was substantively enacted in July 2013 and the relevant deferred tax 
balances have been re-measured accordingly. 
Permanent differences have principally arisen due to an investment incentive scheme in the Czech Republic.
10.  Profit for the year
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent company’s income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income have not been presented in these financial statements. 
The parent company profit for the year is £22.5 million (2013: £15.5 million).
11. Dividends
  
Group and company
2014  
£’m
2013  
£’m
Final paid of 6.10 pence per share (2013: 5.85 pence) 10.2 9.7
Interim paid of 2.70 pence per share (2013: 2.70 pence) 4.5 4.5
14.7 14.2
During the year, dividends totalling £0.1 million (2013: £0.1 million) were waived in respect of shares owned by the Devro 
Employee Share Ownership Trust.
The directors propose a final dividend of 6.10 pence per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 which 
will absorb an estimated £10.2 million of shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 15 May 2015 to shareholders who are on the 
register at close of business on 27 March 2015. 79 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
12.  Earnings per share
2014  
£’m
2013  
£’m
Profit attributable to equity holders 4.4 33.6
Profit attributable to equity holders excluding exceptional items 22.9 34.7
Earnings per share
– Basic 2.6p 20.1p
– Basic excluding exceptional items 13.7p 20.8p
– Diluted 2.6p 20.0p
– Diluted excluding exceptional items 13.6p 20.7p
 
Shares in issue 2014 2013
Weighted average number of shares 166,866,949 166,405,899
Adjustments for:
– Performance Share Plan 1,032,452 843,314
Weighted average number of shares – diluted earnings per share 167,899,401 167,249,213
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent of £4.4 million 
(2013: £33.6 million) by 166,866,949 (2013: 166,405,899) shares, being the weighted average number of shares in issue 
throughout the year.
Shares arising from the Performance Share Plan are only treated as dilutive where the effect is to reduce earnings per share. 
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of £4.4 million 
(2013: £33.6 million) by the average number of shares, including the effect of all dilutive potential shares, of 167,899,401 
(2013: 167,249,213).
Earnings per share before exceptional items is calculated in order to eliminate the effect of exceptional items after tax in 2014  
of £18.5 million (2013: £1.1 million) on the results. Basic earnings per share before exceptional items is calculated by dividing the 
profit attributable to ordinary shareholders before exceptional items, after attributable tax, of £22.9 million (2013: £34.7 million) 
by 166,866,949 (2013: 166,405,899) shares, being the weighted average number of shares in issue throughout the year. 80 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
13.  Intangible assets
Group
Computer 
software  
£’m
Development 
costs  
£’m
Total 
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 8.0 1.9 9.9
Exchange differences (0.1) – (0.1)
Additions 0.3 1.6 1.9
At 31 December 2014 8.2 3.5 11.7
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2014 6.0 0.7 6.7
Exchange differences (0.1) – (0.1)
Charge for year 1.0 0.1 1.1
At 31 December 2014 6.9 0.8 7.7
Net book value at 31 December 2014 1.3 2.7 4.0
Cost
At 1 January 2013 7.9 1.3 9.2
Exchange differences (0.2) (0.1) (0.3)
Additions 0.3 0.7 1.0
At 31 December 2013 8.0 1.9 9.9
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2013 5.3 0.6 5.9
Exchange differences (0.3) – (0.3)
Charge for year 1.0 0.1 1.1
At 31 December 2013 6.0 0.7 6.7
Net book value at 31 December 2013 2.0 1.2 3.2
Cost at 1 January 2013 7.9 1.3 9.2
Accumulated amortisation at 1 January 2013 (5.3) (0.6) (5.9)
Net book value at 1 January 2013 2.6 0.7 3.3
Included in the net book value of intangible assets is £2.5 million (2013: £0.9 million) relating to internally generated 
development costs.
In the income statement, amortisation of £0.2 million (2013: £0.2 million) is included in cost of sales and £0.9 million  
(2013: £0.9 million) in administrative expenses.
  81 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
13.  Intangible assets (continued)
Company
Computer 
software 
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 3.5
Additions 0.1
At 31 December 2014 3.6
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2014 2.0
Charge for year 0.8
At 31 December 2014 2.8
Net book value at 31 December 2014 0.8
Cost
At 1 January 2013 & 31 December 2013 3.5
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2013 1.2
Charge for year 0.8
At 31 December 2013 2.0
Net book value at 31 December 2013 1.5
Cost at 1 January 2013 3.5
Accumulated amortisation at 1 January 2013 (1.2)
Net book value at 1 January 2013 2.3 82 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
14.  Property, plant and equipment 
Group
Freehold land 
and buildings  
£’m
Plant and 
machinery, and 
motor vehicles  
£’m
Fixtures and 
fittings,and 
computer 
equipment  
£’m
Assets in the 
course of 
construction  
£’m
Total 
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 86.8 252.0 10.4 19.4 368.6
Exchange differences (3.9) (4.5) (0.2) 1.4 (7.2)
Additions 0.9 5.0 0.5 52.2 58.6
Disposals – (0.3) (0.2) – (0.5)
Reclassification 2.5 10.7 0.5 (13.7) –
At 31 December 2014 86.3 262.9 11.0 59.3 419.5
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 28.4 132.7 8.4 – 169.5
Exchange differences (1.1) (1.3) (0.2) – (2.6)
Charge for year 3.3 18.7 0.8 – 22.8
Disposals – (0.3) (0.2) – (0.5)
At 31 December 2014 30.6 149.8 8.8 – 189.2
Net book value at 31 December 2014 55.7 113.1 2.2 59.3 230.3
Cost
At 1 January 2013 87.3 254.8 4.0 16.9 363.0
Exchange differences (6.0) (15.5) – (1.6) (23.1)
Additions 3.0 13.7 1.0 16.4 34.1
Disposals (0.1) (4.9) (0.4) – (5.4)
Reclassification 2.6 3.9 5.8 (12.3) –
At 31 December 2013 86.8 252.0 10.4 19.4 368.6
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2013 28.2 135.0 3.9 – 167.1
Exchange differences (2.0) (8.3) 0.5 – (9.8)
Charge for year 2.2 14.0 0.7 – 16.9
Disposals – (4.3) (0.4) – (4.7)
Reclassification – (3.7) 3.7 – –
At 31 December 2013 28.4 132.7 8.4 – 169.5
Net book value at 31 December 2013 58.4 119.3 2.0 19.4 199.1
Cost at 1 January 2013 87.3 254.8 4.0 16.9 363.0
Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 2013 (28.2) (135.0) (3.9) – (167.1)
Net book value at 1 January 2013 59.1 119.8 0.1 16.9 195.9
In the income statement, depreciation of £15.4 million (2013: £15.7 million) has been charged in cost of sales before exceptional 
items; £0.1 million (2013: £0.1 million) in selling and distribution costs; £0.7 million (2013: £0.7 million) in administrative expenses; 
£0.1 million (2013: £0.2 million) in research & development expenditure and £6.5 million (2013: £0.2 million) in exceptional items.
Borrowing costs of £0.6 million (2013: Nil) have been capitalised to property, plant and equipment with a tax effect of  
£0.1 million (2013: Nil). 83 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
14.  Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Company
Plant and 
machinery, and 
motor vehicles  
£’m
Assets in the 
course of 
construction  
£’m
Total  
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 0.8 0.4 1.2
Disposals – (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 December 2014 0.8 – 0.8
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2014 0.3 – 0.3
Charge for year 0.2 – 0.2
At 31 December 2014 0.5 – 0.5
Net book value at 31 December 2014 0.3 – 0.3
Cost
At 1 January 2013 0.6 0.2 0.8
Additions 0.2 0.2 0.4
At 31 December 2013 0.8 0.4 1.2
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2013 0.2 – 0.2
Charge for year 0.1 – 0.1
At 31 December 2013 0.3 – 0.3
Net book value at 31 December 2013 0.5 0.4 0.9
Cost at 1 January 2013 0.6 0.2 0.8
Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 2013 (0.2) – (0.2)
Net book value at 1 January 2013 0.4 0.2 0.6
 
15.  Investments
Company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Interest in group undertakings
Cost and net book value at 1 January 138.7 138.5
Additions 15.0 0.2
Cost and net book value at 31 December 153.7 138.7
Additions during the year have arisen due to the company’s investment in its China subsidiary and Performance Share Plan 
charges for employees within subsidiaries which will be settled with the company’s shares. 84 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
15.  Investments ( continued)
The company’s subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2014 are shown below:
Proportion of nominal value  
of issued shares held by:
Proportion of voting rights 
represented by shares held:
Name of undertaking
Country of 
incorporation  
or registration
Nature of  
business
Class of  
shares held Group Company Group Company
Devro (Scotland) Limited Scotland Casings Ordinary 100% 100%
Devro New Holdings 
Limited Scotland Holding Ordinary 100% 100%
Devro Acquisition Corp USA Holding Common 100% 100%
Devro Asia Limited Hong Kong Casings Ordinary 100% 100%
Devro Pty Limited Australia Casings Ordinary 100% 100%
Devro KK Japan Casings Ordinary 100% 100%
Devro Inc USA Casings Common 100% 100%
Devro s.r.o
Czech 
Republic Casings Ordinary 100% 100%
Devro Trading (Beijing) 
Co. Limited China Casings Ordinary 100% 100%
Devro (Nantong) 
Technology Co. Limited China Casings Ordinary 100% 100%
Devro Pty Limited has a branch located in New Zealand. 
Devro (Scotland) Limited has a non-trading branch located in Hamburg. 
16.  Inventories
Details of inventories relating to the group are as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Raw materials and consumables 5.7 6.0
Work in progress 3.9 4.2
Finished goods and goods for resale 23.8 27.9
33.4 38.1
At 31 December 2014, inventories amounting to £4.5 million (2013: £3.1 million) were held at net realisable value.
 
17.  Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 63.2 26.3
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables 29.6 28.8 – –
Less: provision for doubtful debts (0.9) (0.2) – –
Trade receivables – net 28.7 28.6 – –
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 1.3 1.9
Other receivables 2.4 3.2 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 2.6 1.8 1.8 0.9
33.7 33.6 3.1 2.8 85 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
17.  Trade and other receivables (continued)
Group
At 31 December 2014, trade receivables of £0.2 million (2013: £0.2 million) were impaired and fully provided. It was assessed 
that none of the impaired receivables would be recovered. The ageing of these receivables was as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Less than 30 days past due 0.1 0.1
Greater than 90 days past due 0.1 0.1
0.2 0.2
Movements on the group’s provision for impairment of receivables were as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
At 1 January 0.2 0.2
Receivables impaired 0.9 0.1
Receivables written off as uncollectible (0.2) (0.1)
At 31 December 0.9 0.2
 
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. 
The group does not hold any collateral as security.
 
At 31 December 2014, trade receivables of £5.5 million (2013: £3.9 million) were past due but not impaired. These related to a 
number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default. The ageing of these receivables was as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Less than 30 days past due 3.6 3.7
30 to 90 days past due 1.9 0.2
5.5 3.9
Formal procedures are in place to minimise, as far as possible, losses from non-collection of receivables. These procedures, 
which include designated levels of authority, cover the opening of new accounts, payment terms and the setting up and review 
of credit limits. Where considered appropriate, payment in advance or confirmed letters of credit are required before product is 
released to customers.
There have been no significant losses due to the impairment or non-collection of receivables in recent years.
The carrying amounts of the group’s trade and other receivables were denominated in the following currencies:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
US dollar 10.0 9.3
Euro 5.5 6.8
Japanese yen 4.1 4.2
Sterling 5.8 5.7
Australian dollar 3.3 3.1
Czech koruna 2.1 1.8
Other currencies 2.9 2.7
33.7 33.6 86 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
17.  Trade and other receivables (continued)
Company
At 31 December 2014, trade receivables of Nil (2013: Nil) were neither past due nor impaired. 
At 31 December 2014, receivables due from subsidiary undertakings of £64.5 million (2013: £28.2 million) were neither past due 
nor impaired.
The carrying amounts of the company’s trade and other receivables were denominated in the following currencies:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Sterling 15.2 11.9
Japanese yen 3.8 4.8
US dollar 43.6 12.0
Other currencies 3.7 0.4
 66.3 29.1
18.  Cash and cash equivalents
Group Company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Cash at bank and in hand 10.3 4.6 0.1 –
Short-term bank deposits 0.8 1.4 – –
 11.1 6.0 0.1 –
19.  Trade and other payables – current
Group Company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Trade payables 12.6 8.7 0.1 0.4
Tax and social security payable 1.7 2.6 0.2 0.1
Accruals and deferred income 17 .4 15.4 2.3 1.1
31.7 26.7 2.6 1.6
Accruals and deferred income include £0.3 million (2013: £0.1 million) in respect of government grants payable within one year. 
20. Other payables – non-current
Group Company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 15.8 12.2
Accruals and deferred income 2.4 1.9 – –
2.4 1.9 15.8 12.2
Accruals and deferred income include £2.0 million (2013: £1.6 million) in respect of government grants payable after more than 
one year. Government grants are primarily used for the purpose of funding capital expenditure. 87 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
21.  Provisions for other liabilities and charges
Group £’m
At 1 January 2014 –
Charge to the income statement during the year 13.4
Utilised during the year (4.5)
At 31 December 2014 8.9
Non-current 2.6
Current 6.3
Total 8.9
The closing provision as at 31 December 2014 includes redundancy provisions of £4.2 million which are expected to be paid 
before the end of 2015. The provision also includes an estimated £4.7 million for decommissioning costs for the sites that need 
to be made safe following the cessation of associated manufacturing activities, and to ensure food hygiene and environmental 
standards are maintained at those sites. The amounts are expected to be settled over the next two years.
22. Financial liabilities – borrowings
Group Company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Current
Bank overdrafts due within one year or on demand 1.7 2.4 1.8 2.7
Non-current
Unsecured bank loans 15.8 39.4 3.7 28.4
US dollar private placement 62.8 – 62.8 –
78.6 39.4 66.5 28.4
Bank overdrafts and bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies, and bear interest based on the London Interbank 
Offered Rate (LIBOR) as set by ICE Benchmark Administration or equivalent rates appropriate to the country in which the 
borrowing is incurred. The group is exposed to short-term interest rate changes on all of its bank borrowings.
The group issued a US private placement of senior unsecured notes on 17 April 2014 for a total of US$100 million, of which 
US$50 million was received in April 2014 and the remainder was received in June 2014. The US private placement notes provide 
funding with fixed terms of between 7 and 12 years, with an average fixed interest rate of 4.48%.
US$60 million of this cash was retained in US dollars to fund the investment project in the USA, and the remainder has been 
swapped into sterling at an average fixed interest rate of 4.49%. 88 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
22. Financial liabilities – borrowings (continued)
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows:
Currency Rate 2014 2013
Bank overdrafts: 
Sterling*
Bank of England base rate plus 150 basis 
points 2.00% 3.00 %
US dollar US 1 month LIBOR plus 200 basis points 2.17% 2.17 %
Australian dollar 
National Australia Bank business overdraft 
prime rate minus 100 basis points 6.97% 6.97 %
Czech koruna PRIBOR plus 90 basis points 1.06% 1.05 %
Euro EUR LIBOR plus 90 basis points 0.93% 1.22 %
Bank borrowings:
 Floating rate Sterling
LIBOR plus 100 basis points  
(2013: plus 100 basis points) 1.50% 1.49%
 Floating rate US dollar
US LIBOR plus 100 basis points  
(2013: plus 100 basis points) N/A 1.17%
 Floating rate Australian dollar
BBSW (Bank Bill Swap Rate) plus 100  
basis points (2013: AUD LIBOR plus 100 
basis points) 3.69% 3.62%
 Floating rate Japanese yen
JPY LIBOR plus 100 basis points  
(2013: plus 100 basis points) N/A 1.11%
Average bank 
borrowings rate 2.97% 1.95%
Other debt payable:
Fixed rate US dollar 4.48% N/A
* Includes overdrafts in certain currencies pooled with sterling for interest calculation purposes.
Borrowings were denominated in the following currencies:
Group Company
Bank 
borrowings
£’m
Other  
debt 
£’m
Total 
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Bank 
borrowings
£’m
Other  
debt 
£’m
Total 
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Sterling 3.7 – 3.7 13.0 5.5 – 5.5 15.6
Australian dollar 12.1 – 12.1 11.0 – – – –
Japanese yen – – – 5.2 – – – 5.2
Czech koruna 1.7 – 1.7 2.3 – – – –
US dollar – 62.8 62.8 10.3 – 62.8 62.8 10.3
17.5 62.8 80.3 41.8 5.5 62.8 68.3 31.1 89 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
23. Capital and financial risk management and financial instruments
Financial risk management
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of the risks associated with capital, interest rate, foreign exchange, 
credit and liquidity. It is the group’s policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. These 
policies have remained unchanged throughout the year, are consistent with the previous year and are summarised below:
Capital risk
When managing capital, the group’s objectives are to safeguard the business as a going concern, provide returns to 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and maintain an optimal capital structure. The group’s capital structure 
consists of net debt and equity of the group. In order to maintain its capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of 
dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The covenants related to the group’s bank loan facilities determine a minimum EBITDA to net interest payable ratio and a 
maximum net debt to EBITDA ratio. EBITDA is measured as operating profit before exceptional items excluding depreciation, 
amortisation and profit or loss on disposal of assets. The group had significant headroom within both covenants throughout the 
years ending 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013.
Another measure used to monitor the strength of the group’s balance sheet is the gearing ratio, which expresses the group’s 
net debt as a percentage of its equity. Net debt is total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Equity comprises issued 
share capital, reserves and retained earnings. The covenant and gearing ratios at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 
were as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Total borrowings (Note 22) 80.3 41.8
Less: cash and cash equivalents (Note 18) (11.1) (6.0)
Net debt (Note 32) 69.2 35.8
Equity 133.2 158.0
Bank loan covenant ratios:
Net debt to EBITDA 1.5 0.6
EBITDA to net interest payable 21.7 55.1
Gearing ratio 52.0% 22.7%
Market risk
a) Interest rate risk
The group’s interest rate risk arises from borrowings, cash and short-term deposits, together with currency swaps used to 
hedge inter-company loans.
The group borrows in the desired currencies at both floating and fixed rates of interest and may use forward rate agreements  
or interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile and manage the group’s exposure to interest rate 
fluctuations. The US dollar private placement completed during the year means that the majority of the group’s debt is 
currently at a fixed rate of interest. The group entered into cross currency interest rate swaps of US$40 million during the  
year to convert a portion of the US dollar private placement into synthetic sterling denominated debt at a fixed rate of interest. 
These swaps are measured at fair value, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the income statement to offset any 
fair value gains or losses on the hedged portion of the US dollar private placement.
No interest rate hedging was in place at 31 December 2013. 90 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
23. Capital and financial risk management and financial instruments (continued)
Cash is held in interest-bearing current accounts where practicable with any excess cash placed on deposit. Any deposits made 
are for periods of less than three months.
The sensitivity of net finance costs to a movement in interest rates is restricted by the level of fixed rate borrowing now in place. 
A variation of, for example, 100 basis points in interest rates, applied to the group’s borrowings, cash and short-term deposits at 
31 December 2014, would result in a movement in finance costs of £0.2 million (2013: £0.4 million) and finance income of  
£0.1 million (2013: £0.1 million). This would result in an adverse post-tax impact on the group’s income statement of £0.1 million 
(2013: £0.3 million) and a post-tax impact on the group’s equity of £0.1 million (2013: £0.3 million).
b) Foreign exchange risk
The group has several significant overseas subsidiary undertakings whose revenues and expenses are denominated in a variety 
of currencies. Group policy dictates that foreign currency exposures arising from future commercial transactions are reviewed 
by group treasury and hedging activities are undertaken as appropriate in order to manage the net foreign exchange risks 
arising. Group policy permits the hedging of up to a maximum of 80% of the net external currency transaction exposures for 
periods of up to a maximum of 12 months forward. It is not group policy to routinely hedge translation exposures apart from 
those created by inter-company loans or where foreign currency denominated assets are planned to be returned to the UK in 
the form of a dividend. Specific Board approval is required for any other translation exposure hedging.
The table below details the impact changes in foreign exchange rates would have had on the group’s operating profit before 
exceptional items and post-tax profit for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 due to the translation of 
both subsidiary profits from their functional currency into sterling, and also underlying currency transactions and balances 
within group companies which are denominated in currencies other than the reporting currency of that group company. The 
movements in equity as at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 includes the impact changes in foreign exchange rates 
would have on the translation of subsidiary net assets, as well as the effect of cash flow currency and net investment hedges.
In each case, it is assumed that the named currency is strengthening or weakening against all other currencies, while all the 
other currencies remain constant. The percentage foreign currency movement is based on the maximum annual percentage 
movement against sterling during the previous four years. Results are shown for all currencies where the impact on group 
post-tax profits would be more than £25,000.
Impact on group operating  
profit before exceptional items   
gains/(losses)
Impact on group profit  
after tax and exceptional items 
gains/(losses)
Impact on equity  
increase/(decrease)
Foreign currency movement
Strengthening 
£’m
Weakening 
£’m
Strengthening 
£’m
Weakening 
£’m
Strengthening 
£’m
Weakening 
£’m
2014
Australian dollar: 19% (0.2) 0.4 (0.7) 1.0 5.3 (5.1)
Czech koruna: 8% 0.6 (0.2) 0.5 (0.2) 6.8 (6.6)
Euro: 7% 1.4 (1.4) 1.3 (1.3) 0.4 (0.4)
Japanese yen: 25% 2.0 (2.0) 1.8 (1.8) 0.4 (0.4)
US dollar: 6% 0.7 (0.7) 0.2 (0.2) 2.0 (2.0)
2013
Australian dollar: 19% – 0.4 (0.1) 0.4 6.0 (5.1)
Czech koruna: 7% 0.6 (0.3) 0.5 (0.3) 6.8 (6.2)
Euro: 3% 0.8 (0.8) 0.7 (0.7) 0.2 (0.2)
Japanese yen: 25% 1.1 (1.1) 1.0 (1.0) 0.3 (0.3)
US dollar: 4% 0.8 (0.8) 0.7 (0.6) 1.3 (1.3)
Credit risk
The group considers its exposure to credit risk at 31 December to be as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Cash and cash equivalents 11.1 6.0
Derivative financial instruments 1.7 2.1
Trade receivables 28.7 28.6
Other receivables 2.4 3.2
43.9 39.9 91 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
23. Capital and financial risk management and financial instruments (continued)
The group monitors its credit exposure using credit ratings, where applicable, and through its policy of requiring appropriate 
credit checks on potential customers before sales commence. These procedures limit the group’s exposure to any one party to 
approved levels. Exposure to banking counterparties is only permitted with approved banks which have one minimum short-
term rating of A1/P1/F1 with rating agencies S&P, Moody’s or Fitch. At the reporting date no single banking exposure was 
greater than £2.4 million (2013: £1.1 million). The group does not hold any collateral as security.
Liquidity risk
Alongside the longer-term funding provided by the US dollar private placement completed during 2014, which was put in place 
to support the group’s two major investment projects, the group has medium-term loan facilities which are regularly reviewed 
to ensure that they provide adequate liquidity for the group. The facilities are managed on a centralised basis with appropriate 
local availability. Details of the undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 
are shown below:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Expiring in more than two years 94.2 21.6
At 31 December 2014, the group had in place unsecured floating rate committed loan facilities totalling £110.0 million
(2013: £61.0 million). These facilities consist of a single syndicated revolving credit facility with four banks, negotiated in 
December 2014 and expiring on 19 December 2019. This facility replaced the previous co-ordinated bilateral facilities which 
were due to mature on 30 September 2016.
 
In addition to the committed facilities, local uncommitted working capital facilities of £9.5 million (2013: £7.5 million), US dollars 
2.0 million (2013: US dollars 2.0 million), Czech koruna 120.0 million (2013: Czech koruna 120.0 million) and Australian dollars  
0.5 million (2013: Australian dollars 0.5 million) were also in place at 31 December 2014. These facilities are renewable within  
one year.
Financial instruments
Disclosures regarding financial instruments are set out below: 
Fair value of derivative financial instruments
The fair values of derivative financial instruments were as follows:
Group Company
Asset 
£’m
Liability 
£’m
Asset 
£’m
Liability 
£’m
At 31 December 2014
Forward foreign exchange contracts
– cash flow hedge 0.7 1.9 – –
– net investment hedge 0.2 – 0.2 –
– other 0.4 0.8 0.2 0.5
Cross-currency interest rate swap 0.4 – 0.4 –
1.7 2.7 0.8 0.5
At 31 December 2013
Forward foreign exchange contracts
– cash flow hedge 1.0 1.1 – –
– net investment hedge 0.9 – 0.9 –
– other 0.2 0.3 – –
2.1 1.4 0.9 – 92 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
23. Capital and financial risk management and financial instruments (continued)
Forward foreign exchange contracts – other, shown in the table above, relates to cash flow hedges that have been 
derecognised due to the relevant sales and purchases having already taken place, together with currency swaps used to hedge 
exposures in respect of inter-company loans.
Derivative financial instruments that are measured at fair value are disclosed by level of the following fair value  
measurement hierarchy:
Level 1    Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities
Level 2     Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either 
directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices)
Level 3    Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs)
All of the group’s derivative financial instruments that are measured at fair value were classified as Level 2 as at 31 December 
2014 (2013: Level 2) and comprise forward foreign exchange contracts as disclosed in the table above. There are no financial 
instruments measured as Level 3. 
At 31 December 2014, the net fair value losses on open forward foreign exchange contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk 
of anticipated future sales and purchases amounted to £1.2 million (2013: £0.1 million). These will be transferred to the income 
statement and recognised in other operating income or expense when the forecast sales and purchases occur during 2015. 
At 31 December, the principal amounts of the outstanding financial instruments were: 
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Forward foreign exchange contracts 99.0 64.6
Currency swaps 51.2 27.2
Fair values of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities
2014 2013
Group
Book value 
£’m
Fair value 
£’m
Book value 
£’m
Fair value 
£’m
Fair value of non-current borrowings
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost
Long-term borrowings (Note 22) (54.4) (52.1) (39.4) (39.4)
Other financial liabilities at fair value
Long-term borrowings (Note 22) (24.2) (24.2) – –
(78.6) (76.3) (39.4) (39.4)
Fair value of other financial assets and liabilities    
Loans and receivables
Trade and other receivables (Note 17) 31.1 31.1 31.8 31.8
Short-term bank deposits (Note 18) 0.8 0.8 1.4 1.4
Cash at bank and in hand (Note 18) 10.3 10.3 4.6 4.6
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost
Trade and other payables (Note 19) (30.0) (30.0) (24.1) (24.1)
Short-term borrowings (Note 22) (1.7) (1.7) (2.4) (2.4)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges (Note 21) (8.9) (8.9) – –
    
The fair values of the group’s bank borrowings are equivalent to the carrying values reported in the balance sheets as they are 
floating rate borrowings where interest rates are re-set to market rates at intervals of up to six months. 
The fair values of trade and other receivables, short-term deposits and trade and other payables are equivalent to the carrying 
values because of the short-term nature of these instruments. 93 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
23. Capital and financial risk management and financial instruments (continued)
Maturity of financial liabilities
The tables below analyse the group’s and company’s financial liabilities, which will be settled on a net basis, into relevant 
maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity dates at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 
2013. The amounts disclosed in the tables are the relevant undiscounted cash flows.
Group
Less than 
1 year 
£’m
Between 1 
and 2 years  
£’m
Between 2 
and 5 years 
£’m
Over 5 
years 
£’m
At 31 December 2014
Bank borrowings 2.2 0.5 17.2 –
US dollar private placement 2.8 2.8 8.4 74.5
Derivative financial instruments 2.7 – – –
Trade and other payables 30.0 – – –
Provisions for liabilities and other charges 6.3 2.6 – –
At 31 December 2013
Borrowings 3.2 0.8 40.0 –
Derivative financial instruments 1.4 – – –
Trade and other payables 24.1 – – –
Company
Less than 
1 year 
£’m
Between 1 
and 2 years  
£’m
Between 2 
and 5 years 
£’m
Over 5 
years 
£’m
At 31 December 2014
Bank borrowings 2.0 0.1 4.0 –
US dollar private placement 2.8 2.8 8.4 74.5
Trade and other payables 2.4 – – –
At 31 December 2013
Borrowings 0.5 0.4 28.7 –
Trade and other payables 1.5 – – –
The amounts shown as borrowings in the above tables include the capital outstanding at each balance sheet date, together 
with the estimated interest thereon calculated at the effective interest rates at these dates for the periods until the contractual 
maturity of the relevant borrowing facilities. There is no certainty that these amounts will be outstanding for all of the period 
involved or that these interest rates will be applicable during these periods.
The amounts showing as trade and other payables in the above tables exclude tax and social security payable. 94 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
23. Capital and financial risk management and financial instruments (continued)
Maturity of derivative financial instruments
The table below shows the group’s and company’s derivative financial instruments, which will be settled on a gross basis.  
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
At 31 December 2014
Less than 
1 year 
£’m
Between 1 
and 2 years  
£’m
Between 2 
and 5 years 
£’m
Over 5 
years 
£’m
Group
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges
 Outflow (91.2) – – –
 Inflow 88.4 – – –
Forward foreign exchange contracts – net investment hedges
 Outflow (12.6) – – –
 Inflow 12.8 – – –
Forward foreign exchange contracts – other
 Outflow (12.5) – – –
 Inflow 12.1 – – –
Cross-currency interest rate swaps
 Outflow (0.8) (0.8) (2.5) (21.9)
 Inflow 0.8 0.8 2.6 22.2
Company
Forward foreign exchange contracts – net investment hedges
 Outflow (12.6) – – –
 Inflow 12.8 – – –
Forward foreign exchange contracts – other
 Outflow (4.7) – – –
 Inflow 4.6 – – –
Cross-currency interest rate swaps
Outflow (0.8) (0.8) (2.5) (21.9)
Inflow 0.8 0.8 2.6 22.2
At 31 December 
2013
Less than  
1 year
£’m
Group
Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges
 Outflow (55.4)
 Inflow 54.8
Forward foreign exchange contracts – net investment hedges
 Outflow (13.8)
 Inflow 14.7
Forward foreign exchange contracts – other
 Outflow (22.2)
 Inflow 22.1 95 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
23. Capital and financial risk management and financial instruments (continued)
At 31 December 
2013
Less than  
1 year
£’m
Company
Forward foreign exchange contracts – net investment hedges
 Outflow (13.8)
 Inflow 14.7
Forward foreign exchange contracts – other
 Outflow (12.3 )
 Inflow 12.3
24. Deferred tax
Group Company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Net (liability)/asset at 1 January (2.5) 1.0 – (0.1)
Exchange differences 0.6 0.6 – –
Credit for the year to profit 6.4 – – 0.1
Credit/(charge) to equity 4.6 (4.5) (0.1) –
United Kingdom corporation tax rate change – 0.4 – –
Net asset/(liability) at 31 December 9.1 (2.5) (0.1) –
Group
Deferred tax assets can be analysed as follows:
Pension 
obligations 
£’m
Short term 
timing 
differences 
£’m
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances
£’m
Total 
£’m
At 1 January 2014 11.2 3.6 – 14.8
Exchange differences 0.4 – – 0.4
Credit/(charge) for the year to profit (0.8) 4.6 0.9 4.7
Credit to equity 4.6 – – 4.6
At 31 December 2014 15.4 8.2 0.9 24.5
At 1 January 2013 16.4 3.3 – 19.7
Exchange differences 0.1 (0.2) – (0.1)
(Charge)/credit for the year to profit (0.4) 0.4 – –
(Charge)/credit to equity (4.9) 0.1 – (4.8)
At 31 December 2013 11.2 3.6 – 14.8 96 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
24. Deferred tax (continued)
Deferred tax liabilities can be analysed as follows:
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£’m
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
£’m
Total 
£’m
At 1 January 2014 (13.4) (3.9) (17.3)
Exchange differences 0.3 (0.1) 0.2
Credit/(charge) for the year to profit (1.3) 3.0 1.7
At 31 December 2014 (14.4) (1.0) (15.4)
At 1 January 2013 (14.6) (4.1) (18.7)
Exchange differences 0.6 0.1 0.7
Credit/(charge) for the year to profit 0.6 (0.2) 0.4
Credit to equity – 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 2013 (13.4) (3.9) (17.3)
   
The net deferred tax asset/(liability) can be analysed as follows:
Asset Liability Total
 2014  
£’m
2013  
£’m
2014  
£’m
2013  
£’m
 2014  
£’m
2013  
£’m
Due within one year 1.4 3.0 (0.3) – 1.1 3.0
Due after more than one year 23.1 11.8 (15.1) (17.3) 8.0 (5.5)
24.5 14.8 (15.4) (17.3) 9.1 (2.5)
Company
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£’m
Short-term 
timing 
differences 
£’m
Total 
£’m
Liability at 1 January 2014 – – –
Charge to equity – (0.1) (0.1)
Liability at 31 December 2014 – (0.1) (0.1)
Liability at 1 January 2013 (0.1) – (0.1)
Credit for the year to profit 0.1 – 0.1
Liability at 31 December 2013 – – –
The deferred tax liability can be analysed as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Due after more than one year (0.1) –
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset to the extent that there is a legally enforceable right to do so, as permitted  
by IAS 12.
At 31 December 2014, unrecognised deferred tax is Nil (2013: Nil).
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of any withholding or other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted 
earnings of subsidiaries. There are no unremitted earnings on which UK tax is expected to become payable if repatriated  
(2013: Nil). 97 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
25. Pension obligations
The amounts recognised as charges in the income statement are as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Defined benefit schemes:  
– Current service cost 1.8 2.2
– Scheme administrative expenses 1.0 0.8
Defined benefit costs included within operating profit before exceptional items 2.8 3.0
Defined benefit schemes curtailment – restructuring exceptional item 1.7 –
Defined benefit costs included within operating profit after exceptional items 4.5 3.0
Net finance cost 2.0 2.2
Net defined benefit scheme charge 6.5 5.2
Defined contribution schemes 2.4 2.5
Total pension obligation costs 8.9 7.7
The amounts recognised as non-current liabilities in the balance sheet are as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Fair value of scheme assets 231.8 202.6
Present value of scheme liabilities (290.8) (248.7)
Pension obligations (59.0) (46.1)
The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world. The major schemes are of the defined benefit type 
and, with the exception of Germany where book reserves are supported by insurance policies, the assets of the schemes are 
held in separate trustee-administered funds. The defined benefit schemes are closed to new entrants. The total pension 
obligation cost for the group was £8.9 million (2013: £7.7 million), of which £3.0 million (2013: £3.5 million) related to the 
overseas schemes. On the advice of the actuaries, cash contributions to the group’s defined benefit schemes are expected  
to be £5.4 million for the year ending 31 December 2015 (2014: £6.0 million).
The most significant defined benefit scheme within the group is the Devro Limited (UK) Pension Plan, which operates in the 
United Kingdom. The latest formal actuarial valuation of the scheme was at 31 March 2014, and the full results are expected 
during 2015. The other major defined benefit schemes operate in Australia and the USA. 
Actuarial assumptions appropriate for each country have been used.
The last formal actuarial valuations of the group’s material defined benefit schemes have been updated to 31 December 2014  
by qualified independent actuaries. The major assumptions used by the actuaries in the following principal countries were:
Australia United Kingdom USA
2014 
%
2013 
%
2014 
%
2013 
%
2014 
%
2013 
%
Discount rate 3.10 4.30 3.55 4.50 3.80 4.60
Rate of increase in salaries* 3.50 3.50 1.00 1.00 – –
General inflation 2.50 2.50 2.95 3.30 – –
*  As part of the changes to the United Kingdom plan agreed in 2010, future pensionable salary increases are capped at 1% per annum. No rate of increase in salaries has 
been assumed in respect of the USA plan as the plan is now frozen. 98 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
25. Pension obligations (continued)
Demographic assumptions, such as mortality rates, are set having regard to the latest trends in life expectancy plan  
experience. These assumptions are under continual review. The mortality assumptions at 31 December 2014 are based on the 
following tables:
2014 2013
Years of life expectancy for current pensioners aged 65 Male Female Male Female
SAPS ‘Normal’ (YOB)*
United Kingdom – PA92 mc (YOB) +1% underpin + 2 22.4 24.7 22.4 24.6
USA – RP-2014 and projection scale MP-2014 21.1 23.3 18.6 20.5
*  Adjusted by -0.2 years for male non-pensioners and -1.1 years for female non-pensioners (-0.4 for female pensioners) with CMI improvements using a long-term rate  
of 1.25% per annum.
The Australian defined benefit scheme provides only for a lump sum payment on retirement.
In addition to the above schemes, the group operates a defined benefit pension plan in Germany which, in common with  
typical practice in that country, is supported by insurance policies. At 31 December 2014, the value of the insurance asset was 
£2.2 million (2013: £2.4 million) and the value of the liability was £3.5 million (2013: £3.0 million). A proportion of the assets and 
liabilities of the German plan, relating to the period when the business operated as a branch of Devro Inc or Devro (Scotland) 
Limited, was retained by the group after the sale of Devro GmbH in September 2011.
In addition, the group has benefit arrangements in respect of two former executives in the USA for which the group has made 
adequate provisions on the advice of the actuaries. There is also an individual pension arrangement in Japan in respect of which 
appropriate contributions are made annually. The plan in Germany and these additional arrangements in the USA and Japan are 
included under the ‘other’ heading in this note. 
The aggregate fair values of assets in the group’s defined benefit schemes at 31 December 2014 were estimated to be:
Australia United Kingdom USA Other Total
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Assets with quoted market prices 
Equities 6.0 6.0 45.6 48.9 14.4 16.1 – – 66.0 71.0
Bonds 1.7 1.6 97.0 83.7 31.7 25.7 – – 130.4 111.0
Other 1.6 1.5 30.7 15.7 0.4 0.3 2.2 2.4 34.9 19.9
Assets without quoted market prices
Other 0.5 0.7 – – – – – – 0.5 0.7
9.8 9.8 173.3 148.3 46.5 42.1 2.2 2.4 231.8 202.6
Investments in each of the main schemes are well diversified. Strategy is split between liability matching and return generating 
assets determined depending on the duration of the scheme, the funding position and the relevant country’s pension rules. For 
the UK scheme the investment managers are mandated to invest 60% of the portfolio in growth assets with the remainder in UK 
government bonds matched to scheme liabilities. The increased value of other assets within the UK scheme during the year 
principally reflects the increased value of the interest rate hedging instruments which have helped to mitigate the effect of the 
lower discount rate on the net deficit of the scheme. For the USA scheme a defensive approach is taken given the shorter 
maturity of the scheme liabilities with around 70% of the portfolio to be invested in fixed income assets and the remainder in 
growth assets, principally equities. For the Australian scheme the strategy is for 70% of the portfolio to be invested in growth 
assets, with the remainder invested in defensive, primarily fixed income assets. In all three schemes, the investment approach 
will be de-risked over time as the funding position improves and market conditions allow. 99 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
25. Pension obligations (continued)
Net pension assets and liabilities at 31 December 2014 were as follows:
Australia United Kingdom USA Other Total
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Fair value of 
scheme assets 
(as above) 9.8 9.8 173.3 148.3 46.5 42.1 2.2 2.4 231.8 202.6
Present value of 
scheme liabilities (10.0) (9.7) (207.1) (180.4) (70.0) (55.3) (3.7) (3.3) (290.8) (248.7)
(Deficit)/surplus (0.2) 0.1 (33.8) (32.1) (23.5) (13.2) (1.5) (0.9) (59.0) (46.1)
Related deferred 
tax assets 0.1 – 6.8 6.4 8.0 4.5 0.5 0.3 15.4 11.2
Net pension 
(liabilities)/assets (0.1) 0.1 (27.0) (25.7) (15.5) (8.7) (1.0) (0.6) (43.6) (34.9)
The net deficit position has increased during the year. The discount rate fell for all of the group’s schemes, increasing the 
present value of the liabilities in each of the schemes. The impact of the fall in the discount rate on the net deficit of the UK 
scheme was mitigated by the increase in the value of the scheme assets which benefit from the hedging strategy put in place. 
The value of the USA scheme liabilities was also increased by around £6.0 million due to the amended life expectancy tables 
issued by the US Society of Actuaries during the year. Additional contributions will be made to the schemes in 2015 to reduce 
the deficit as part of a contribution profile agreed with Trustees following the results of the triennial valuation of the UK scheme 
as at 31 March 2011. The group continues to pay contributions to pension schemes in accordance with local regulatory 
requirements and on the advice of qualified independent actuaries. The latest triennial valuation of the UK scheme as at 
31 March 2014 will be finalised during 2015 and the group will make any changes to contributions as appropriate. 
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
At 1 January 202.6 203.1
Interest income 8.9 8.2
Scheme administrative expenses (1.0) (0.8)
Employer contributions 5.8 6.8
Member contributions 0.3 0.4
Benefits paid (12.8) (13.0)
Re-measurements – return on plan assets (excluding interest income) 25.7 1.3
Exchange gains/(losses) 2.3 (3.4)
At 31 December 231.8 202.6
Changes in the present value of defined benefit scheme liabilities were as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
At 1 January 248.7 262.4
Service cost 1.8 2.2
Interest cost 10.9 10.4
Curtailment cost (restructuring exceptional items) 1.7 –
Member contributions 0.3 0.4
Benefits paid (12.8) (13.0)
Re-measurements – changes in financial assumptions 34.1 (10.4)
Re-measurements – changes in demographic assumptions 6.5 0.1
Re-measurements – experience adjustments (3.7) 0.3
Exchange losses/(gains) 3.3 (3.7)
At 31 December 290.8 248.7 100 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
25. Pension obligations (continued)
Amounts charged/(credited) to the income statement were as follows:
Australia United Kingdom USA Other Total
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Amounts charged to the income statement
Current service 
cost 0.3 0.6 1.4 1.3 – – 0.1 0.3 1.8 2.2
Scheme 
administrative 
expenses 0.3 0.2 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.2 – – 1.0 0.8
Restructuring 
costs included in 
exceptional items – – 1.7 – – – – – 1.7 –
Net charge to 
operating profit 0.6 0.8 3.5 1.7 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.3 4.5 3.0
Interest income on 
pension scheme 
assets (0.4) (0.4) (6.6) (6.3) (1.9) (1.5) – – (8.9) (8.2)
Interest on 
pension scheme 
liabilities 0.4 0.4 8.0 7.6 2.5 2.3 – 0.1 10.9 10.4
Net interest cost – – 1.4 1.3 0.6 0.8 – 0.1 2.0 2.2
Net charge to 
profit 0.6 0.8 4.9 3.0 0.9 1.0 0.1 0.4 6.5 5.2
Amounts (charged)/credited to other comprehensive income were as follows:
Amounts recognised in statement of comprehensive income 
Return on plan 
assets less 
interest income 0.4 1.1 24.0 (1.7) 1.3 1.9 – – 25.7 1.3
Experience gains/
(losses) on 
liabilities 0.2 0.1 4.4 (0.1) (0.8) (0.3) (0.1) – 3.7 (0.3)
Changes in 
financial 
assumptions (1.0) 0.8 (27.5) 3.1 (5.0) 6.5 (0.6) – (34.1) 10.4
Changes in 
demographic 
assumptions – – (0.4) – (6.1) (0.1) – – (6.5) (0.1)
Re-measurements (0.4) 2.0 0.5 1.3 (10.6) 8.0 (0.7) – (11.2) 11.3 101 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
25. Pension obligations (continued)
Movements in the deficit during the year were as follows:
Australia United Kingdom USA Other Total
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
(Deficit)/surplus 
in scheme at 
beginning of year 0.1 (2.1) (32.1) (33.3) (13.2) (22.9) (0.9) (1.0) (46.1) (59.3)
Movement in year:
Pension charge (0.6) (0.8) (4.9) (3.0) (0.9) (1.0) (0.1) (0.4) (6.5) (5.2)
Employer 
contributions 0.6 0.9 2.7 2.9 2.4 2.6 0.1 0.4 5.8 6.8
Re-measurements (0.4) 2.0 0.5 1.3 (10.6) 8.0 (0.7) – (11.2) 11.3
Exchange (losses)/
gains 0.1 0.1 – – (1.2) 0.1 0.1 0.1 (1.0) 0.3
(Deficit)/surplus 
in scheme at end 
of year (0.2) 0.1 (33.8) (32.1) (23.5) (13.2) (1.5) (0.9) (59.0) (46.1)
The actual return on plan assets in 2014 was £33.6 million (2013: £8.7 million). 
The cumulative re-measurements in other comprehensive income are £72.2 million loss (2013: £61.0 million loss).
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 15 years, with benefit payments over the next ten years 
expected to be as follows:
2014 
£’m
In the next year 11.5
In years 2-5 46.9
In years 6-10 64.0
122.4
The schemes’ funds have been invested in a range of assets which are due to be realised in line with the associated liabilities. 
The trustees review the schemes’ assets and adjust the weighting between short-term and long-term assets to combine 
security and growth with the liquidity required to meet the obligations as they fall due. 
Sensitivity analysis of the principal assumptions used to measure defined benefit obligations:
Assumption Change in assumption
Indicative impact on defined benefit 
obligation (before deferred tax)
Discount rate Increase by 0.25% Decrease by £11.5m
Decrease by 0.25% Increase by £11.2m
Rate of salary increase Increase by 0.25% Increase by £0.2m
Decrease by 0.25% Decrease by £0.2m
General inflation Increase by 0.25% Increase by £3.3m
Decrease by 0.25% Decrease by £3.2m
Life expectancy Increase by 1 year Increase by £8.9m
      
The above sensitivity analyses are based on the same change in assumption in each of the group’s schemes (except where 
changes are limited through the individual scheme rules), while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is 
unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined 
benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the projected unit credit method is applied in the same way as for the 
calculation of the pension liability recognised in the financial statements. 102 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
25. Pension obligations (continued)
Risks
Through its defined benefit pension obligations, the group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are 
detailed below:
 
Market volatility
The accounting estimate of net pension obligations is very sensitive to changes in market conditions. The discount rate used  
to estimate the defined benefit obligation is linked to yields on AA-rated corporate bonds, or similar, whilst scheme assets are 
invested in a range of other assets, which are themselves subject to fluctuations in value. Changing market conditions and 
movements in the discount rate will lead to volatility in the net pension obligation on the group’s balance sheet, in other 
comprehensive income and in the income statement.
Choice of accounting assumptions
The value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by actuarial valuations over long-term cash flows. The actuarial 
valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, future salary increases, mortality rates and future inflation. Due to 
the long-term nature of these schemes these estimates are subject to significant uncertainty, and the final outcome could be 
significantly different to the assumptions used. 
However, the risk is limited in certain respects for some schemes. The Australian scheme allows for a lump sum payment on 
retirement, so is not sensitive to changes in mortality assumptions, whilst the USA scheme is frozen so that it is not sensitive  
to inflation or salary rises. Similarly the rate of increase in UK salaries is limited to 1% per annum.
26. Ordinary shares
Group and company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Issued and fully paid
166,921,042 (2013: 166,779,230) ordinary shares of 10 pence each 16.7 16.7
141,812 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued during the year in connection with the Devro 2003 Performance Share 
Plan (2013: 1,145,666).
27.  Share based payments
Under the Devro plc Performance Share Plan and its predecessor, the Devro 2003 Performance Share Plan (together “the 
plans”), the Executive Directors’ Remuneration Committee made provisional allocations of ordinary shares in the company  
to employees of the group, including Executive Directors. No payment for an allocation is made by a participant. Allocations 
normally vest over a three-year period, are conditional on the continued employment of the participant and are subject to 
certain performance conditions. These performance conditions relate to growth in the company’s earnings per share, the 
company’s Total Shareholder Return in comparison to its peer group.
For awards where vesting is subject to the growth in earnings per share the fair value of an allocation represents the market 
value of the ordinary shares in the company on the date of the provisional allocation, less the discounted value of estimated 
dividends expected to be paid during the vesting period. A participant is not entitled to receive dividends during this period. 
The fair value of awards subject to the company’s Total Shareholder Return performance is determined using a Monte Carlo 
option valuation methodology. The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year using this method was £1.69 
(2013: £2.07) with the significant inputs to the model being the share price at the grant date, an expected volatility in the share 
price of 26.0% (based on historic trends), the term of three years, risk free interest rate of 1.1% and expected dividend yield.
Amounts provided in the accounts are based on an estimate of the probability of the targets in respect of allocations  
being achieved.
During the year 141,812 shares vested under the Devro 2003 Performance Share Plan (2013: 1,145,666). 103 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
27.  Share based payments (continued)
At 31 December 2014, the maximum number of shares which may vest under the plans is as follows:
Grant date
Fair value per 
share Normal vesting date
Number of 
shares at 
1 January 
2014
Number 
of shares 
awarded 
during the 
year
Number 
of shares 
vested and 
exercised 
during the 
year
Number 
of shares 
lapsed 
during the 
year
Number of 
shares at 31 
December 
2014
Weighted 
average 
share price 
at exercise
26 September 2008 £0.693 26 September 2011 20,000 – (15,000) – 5,000 £2.38
24 March 2010 £1.475 24 March 2013 40,000 – (40,000) – – £2.38
24 February 2011 £2.329 24 February 2014 18,952 – (18,952) – – £2.38
24 February 2011 £2.242 24 February 2015 103,846 – – – 103,846 –
29 March 2011 £2.640 29 March 2014 90,840 – (67,860) – 22,980 £2.41
2 April 2012 £2.900 2 April 2015 358,000 – – (120,000) 238,000 –
1 August 2012 £2.620 1 August 2015 40,000 – – (40,000) – –
12 September 2013 £2.080 12 September 2016 677,470 – – (160,000) 517,470 –
20 December 2013 £1.840 20 December 2016 40,000 – – – 40,000 –
9 June 2014 £1.690 9 June 2017 – 954,100 – (120,000) 834,100 –
1,389,108 954,100 (141,812) (440,000) 1,761,396 £2.39
A more detailed summary of the performance conditions of the plans is included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 39 to 52. 
28. Share premium
Group and company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
At 1 January 9.0 8.0
Premium on shares issued under the Devro 2003 Performance Share Plan 0.3 1.0
At 31 December 9.3 9.0
29. Other reserves
Group
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£’m
Special 
reserve  
£’m
Performance 
Share Plan  
£’m
Hedging 
reserve  
£’m
Cumulative 
translation 
adjustment  
£’m
Total  
£’m
At 1 January 2014 35.6 8.9 0.7 0.6 19.1 64.9
Exchange adjustments – – – – (8.1) (8.1)
Cash flow hedges, net of tax – – – (0.6) – (0.6)
Net investment hedges, net of tax – – – 0.6 – 0.6
Performance Share Plan charge – – 0.2 – – 0.2
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of shares vested – – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of awards lapsed – – (0.2) – – (0.2)
At 31 December 2014 35.6 8.9 0.4 0.6 11.0 56.5
At 1 January 2013 35.6 8.9 1.6 2.0 32.6 80.7
Exchange adjustments – – – – (13.5) (13.5)
Cash flow hedges, net of tax – – – (2.1) – (2.1)
Net investment hedges, net of tax – – – 0.7 – 0.7
Performance Share Plan charge – – 0.2 – – 0.2
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of shares vested – – (1.1) – – (1.1)
At 31 December 2013 35.6 8.9 0.7 0.6 19.1 64.9 104 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
29. Other reserves (continued)
Company
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£’m
Special 
reserve  
£’m
Performance 
Share Plan  
£’m
Hedging 
reserve  
£’m
Total  
£’m
At 1 January 2014 35.6 8.9 0.7 – 45.2
Cash flow hedges, net of tax – – – 0.3 0.3
Performance Share Plan charge – – 0.2 – 0.2
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of shares vested – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of awards lapsed – – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 31 December 2014 35.6 8.9 0.4 0.3 45.2
At 1 January 2013 35.6 8.9 1.4 – 45.9
Performance Share Plan charge – – 0.2 – 0.2
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of shares vested – – (0.9) – (0.9)
At 31 December 2013 35.6 8.9 0.7 – 45.2
The balance on the capital redemption reserve represents the amount which arose at the time of the redemption of the 
preference share capital in 2002.
The balance on the special reserve account represents the remaining undistributable proportion of the amount which arose on 
the acquisition of Teepak International Inc in 1996 under the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 1985. 
30. Retained earnings
Group Company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
At 1 January 67.4 41.6 62.0 60.7
Profit for the year 4.4 33.6 22.5 15.5
Dividends paid (14.7) (14.2) (14.7) (14.2)
Re-measurements of pension obligations, net of tax (6.6) 6.4 – –
Performance Share Plan credit in respect of awards lapsed 0.2 – 0.2 –
At 31 December 50.7 67.4 70.0 62.0 105 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
31.  Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations
Group Company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Profit before tax 2.2 37.5 22.9 13.4
Adjustments for:
Finance income (0.1) – (1.2) (0.3)
Finance cost 2.3 1.1 2.6 0.7
Dividends from subsidiaries – – (25.9) (14.6)
Net finance cost on pensions 2.0 2.2 – –
Pension cost adjustment for normal contributions 2.7 0.8 – –
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.7 – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 22.8 16.9 0.2 0.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 1.1 1.1 0.8 0.8
Release from capital grants balance (0.1) (0.1) – –
Additional cash contributions to pension schemes (4.0) (4.6) – –
Performance Share Plan 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 4.2 (13.0) – –
Increase in trade and other receivables (0.2) (0.2) (39.0) (15.4)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (0.4) 0.1 4.0 (0.1)
Increase in provisions 8.9 – – –
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 41.6 42.7 (35.4) (15.2)
Of which:
Cash generated from/(used in) operations before exceptional items 48.1 43.8 (34.3) (14.5)
Exceptional items (6.5) (1.1) (1.1) (0.7)
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 41.6 42.7 (35.4) (15.2)
    
32. Analysis of net debt
Group Company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Cash and cash equivalents 11.1 6.0 0.1 –
Bank overdrafts (1.7) (2.4) (1.8) (2.7)
 9.4 3.6 (1.7) (2.7)
Other bank borrowings (15.8) (39.4) (3.7) (28.4)
US dollar private placement (62.8) – (62.8) –
Net debt (69.2) (35.8) (68.2) (31.1) 106 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
for the year ended 31 December 2014
continued
33. Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Group Company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Property, plant and equipment 31.1 4.5 – –
The directors expect the group to enter into further capital expenditure commitments as it progresses with its investment 
projects to establish new manufacturing plants in the USA and China. 
34. Contingent liabilities
In the opinion of the directors, the group has no material contingent liabilities (2013: Nil).
35. Financial commitments
Operating leases
At 31 December 2014, the future aggregate minimum lease payments were as follows:
Group Company
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
No later than one year 0.7 0.7 0.1 0.1
Later than one year and no later than five years 0.9 0.9 0.2 0.4
1.6 1.6 0.3 0.5
36. Related party transactions
The group had no related party transactions, other than key management compensation. Key management are deemed to be 
the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Board of the group as together they have the authority and 
responsibility for controlling group activities. The compensation paid or payable to key management for employee services is 
shown below:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Emoluments payable to executive and non-executive directors
Short-term employee benefits 1.0 1.0
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share based payments – 0.1
1.1 1.2
Emoluments payable to remainder of the Executive Board
Short-term employee benefits 1.2 1.6
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share based payments – 0.1
Compensation for loss of office 1.0 –
2.3 1.8
Total emoluments payable to key management 3.4 3.0
   107 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
36. Related party transactions (continued)
Related party transactions carried out by the company during the year ended 31 December 2014 were as follows:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Sale of services to subsidiary undertakings 4.3 4.9
Purchase of services from subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.1
Royalty income received from subsidiary undertakings 1.1 1.2
Interest received from subsidiary undertakings 1.2 0.3
Interest paid to subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.1
Balances at 31 December arising from transactions with subsidiary undertakings:
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Receivables
– current 1.3 1.9
– non-current 63.2 26.3
Payables
– non-current 15.8 12.2
  
Current receivables from subsidiaries arise mainly on the sale of services. The receivables are unsecured and do not bear 
interest. No provisions are held against receivables from subsidiaries, and all sales are made on an arm’s length basis.
Non-current receivables and payables principally relate to loans to and from subsidiaries and interest is charged on them at 
commercial rates. 108 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of 
focus
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVRO PLC
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• Devro plc’s group financial statements and company financial statements (the “financial statements”) give a true and fair 
view of the state of the group’s and of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the group’s profit and the 
group’s and the company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
• the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union;
• the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
Devro plc’s financial statements comprise:
• the group and company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2014;
• the Consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended;
• the group and company Cash Flow Statements for the year then ended;
• the group and company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach
Overview
• Overall group materiality: £1.75 million which represents 5% of the 3 year average  
profit before tax and exceptionals.
•  We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 4 reporting units  
and the central head office function. 
• Our audit scope addressed 83% of the group’s revenues and 95% of the group’s  
result before tax.
Our audit focused on the following areas:
• Accounting for investment projects; 
• Accounting for restructuring programme;
• Presentation of exceptional items;
• Carrying value of inventory; and
• Pension obligations. 109 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. 
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, 
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of 
bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, 
are identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific 
areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our 
procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for investment projects
(refer to page 37 “Investment projects and restructuring activities” within the Audit Committee report and page 64  
(Critical accounting estimates and judgements))
The group has been progressing with two significant 
investment projects, one in the USA and one in China. The 
total capital spend in the year on these two projects was  
£45 million, with other costs incurred of £7 million which 
have been expensed and are included in exceptional items 
on the face of the income statement. 
We focused on this area as the capital expenditure is 
significant and involves building specialised factories with 
complex technical production processes for the manufacture 
of collagen casings and also involves product development 
processes at the new manufacturing facilities that are 
specific to local conditions in the USA and China. As a result 
there are significant judgements and estimates associated 
with the categorisation and capitalisation of costs.
In the USA we also focused on the impact of the 
construction of the new factory and introduction of new 
production lines on the carrying value of existing property, 
plant and equipment. Revising asset lives, the costs of 
decommissioning existing plant and the costs of 
environmental and other obligations associated with 
decommissioning are based on estimates of future costs  
and actions which require significant judgement. The revised 
useful lives of plant and equipment being decommissioned 
reflect the project timeline for the new factory which has 
resulted in accelerated depreciation of £0.8 million. A 
decommissioning provision of £2.6 million has been 
estimated and we focused on this due to the judgements 
involved in assessing the costs and the timing of recognition.
We performed detailed testing over the amounts capitalised 
as property, plant and equipment and intangibles assets by 
tracing items of expenditure to supporting evidence 
including invoices and payroll records and checked that the 
costs were correctly capitalised and categorised, finding 
that they were. As part of this testing, we confirmed internal 
costs relating to capitalised intangible assets were related 
directly to the development of new products for the new 
factories. 
We assessed the impact of the new factory build on the 
carrying value of the existing property, plant and equipment 
in the USA (after accelerated depreciation charge), 
considering the directors’ identification of assets to be 
decommissioned by checking these against the detailed 
project plans and recalculating the accelerated depreciation 
charge. We assessed whether all assets to be directly 
impacted had been captured by comparing the detailed 
asset register with the project plan. We assessed whether 
there was any impairment on the remaining assets by 
evaluating the USA production forecasts for these assets. 
Our testing supported the carrying value of the USA assets. 
We evaluated the estimates of decommissioning costs which 
were based on estimates from independent third parties of 
the costs of removing surplus equipment and addressing 
environmental, food hygiene and health and safety 
requirements. We consider the evidence supports the 
existence of an obligation at the balance sheet date.  
The detailed decommission plan will be finalised as the 
investment project continues, and as such the estimate of 
decommissioning costs has some uncertainty and will be 
refined as more information becomes available. 110 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVRO PLC
continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Accounting for restructuring programme
(refer to page 37 “Investment projects and restructuring activities” within the Audit Committee report and page 64  
(Critical accounting estimates and judgements))
During the year the group commenced a significant 
restructuring programme related to the change to the 
group’s manufacturing footprint. The most significant 
elements include the decommissioning of production lines at 
one of the two plants in Scotland and the decommissioning 
of the hide processing facility in Australia. Total costs of 
restructuring incurred in the year were £16.9 million which 
are included in exceptional items in the income statement. 
As part of the restructuring a significant number of 
employees have been made redundant; determining the 
amount and timing of redundancy payments requires 
judgement and affects both the expense recognised in the 
year and the year-end provision. Redundancy costs of £7.1 
million have been recognised in Australia and the UK, not all 
of which had been settled at the year end. 
The restructuring has also had an impact on the useful lives 
of the existing property, plant and equipment and will cause 
the group to incur decommissioning costs in those locations. 
Revising useful lives of assets and estimating the costs of 
decommissioning involves significant judgement at each  
of these sites. Revised useful lives have resulted in 
accelerated depreciation of £5.7 million in Scotland and 
Australia. Decommissioning provisions of £2.1 million in 
Scotland and Australia have been estimated for the removal 
of the machines and associated costs of obligations arising 
as a result of the decision. Production will continue at the 
factory in Scotland after lines are decommissioned, but at 
significantly reduced volumes and in assessing the carrying 
value of the remaining assets there is significant judgement.
We obtained the detailed redundancy calculations along 
with redundancy letters and recalculated the costs of 
redundancies to which the group was committed for both 
Scotland and Australia. We tested the timing of recognition 
of redundancy provisions by checking that the group was 
committed to the redundancy programme prior to the 
year-end, obtaining evidence confirming the existence of  
an obligation at 31 December 2014. 
Estimates of costs for decommissioning provisions for 
Scotland and Australia have been based on previous 
experience of decommissioning lines in Scotland and we 
evaluated the estimates against costs previously incurred  
at the same location. We considered the obligation as a 
result of the decision to decommission the assets in Scotland 
and concluded that the health and safety, food hygiene and 
environment requirements support the recognition of a 
provision in this year’s financial result. 
We considered the directors’ revised useful lives for the 
Scotland and Australian assets and found them to be 
consistent with the decommissioning plans and re-
performed the accelerated depreciation calculations. 
We tested the impairment assessment of the remaining 
assets at the factory in Scotland with decommissioned lines 
by confirming that the forecasts used in the impairment 
calculations agreed to approved budgets. We assessed the 
key sales, costs and production assumptions against the 
group’s production plans, which include this factory, the 
discount rate against Devro’s weighted average cost of 
capital and performed sensitivity analysis and agree with  
the conclusion that no further impairment was required at 
the year end. 
Exceptional items
(refer to page 37 “Investment projects and restructuring activities” within the Audit Committee report, page 64  
(Critical accounting estimates and judgements) and page 73 (Note 4))
The financial statements include certain items which are 
disclosed as exceptional. There are exceptional items of  
£7.0 million in respect of the incremental costs associated 
with building the two new factories in the USA and China 
which include expenses of decommissioning existing plant, 
redundancy in relation to employees and other direct costs 
associated with the projects. There is a further £16.9 million 
related to the restructuring programme which includes 
redundancy costs, accelerated depreciation and other  
direct costs associated with the group’s restructuring plan. 
We focused on exceptional items because they are not 
defined by IFRS as adopted by the EU and therefore require 
judgement by the directors in identifying exceptional costs 
and considering the impact they have on the underlying 
performance and disclosed results of the group.
We tested the presentation of the exceptional items in  
the financial statements against the group’s defined 
exceptional items accounting policy (page 70) and against 
our understanding of the nature of these expenses from 
work carried out on the investment projects and 
restructuring programme. We also considered whether  
there were other significant items which should have been 
included as exceptional by considering any significant 
one-off transactions and assessing these against the policy 
for exceptional items.
We found that the classification judgements and disclosures 
made by management were in line with the policy and that 
the expenses are appropriate to include within exceptional 
costs in the income statement.  111 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Carrying value of inventory
(refer to page 37 “Carrying value of inventory activities” within the Audit Committee report and page 64  
(Critical accounting estimates and judgements))
The group holds £33.4 million of perishable inventory on the 
balance sheet at the year-end date. Establishing a provision 
for slow-moving, obsolete and damaged inventory requires 
significant judgement taking into account customer 
demand, quality of product and manufacturing processes 
and cost of manufacturing. 
In 2014 the decommissioning of production processes in 
Scotland and Australia and the production performance of 
the existing USA plant, where performance was lower than 
plan, were a factor in considering the appropriate calculation 
of the cost of inventory by way of overhead cost absorption 
and adjustments for variances from standard costs.
As the group continues to face market change, there is a 
higher risk that inventory is sold at less than attributable cost.
We tested the inventory provision calculations for each of 
the four separate manufacturing sites against the group’s 
policy for the calculation of provisions for obsolete and 
slow-moving inventory and by evaluating the inventory 
quality reports which supported the provisions which have 
been recognised. 
For the Australia, Scotland and USA plants we obtained and 
re-performed the variance and cost absorption adjustments 
to the closing balance of inventory. We considered the sales 
and manufacturing performance of each of the factories, 
including the production yields and average cost per km, 
and assessed the adjustments to inventory for variances 
from standard cost and overhead cost absorption as 
appropriate against the underlying production performance 
of each plant. 
We also tested a sample of inventory to sales subsequent to 
the year end and confirmed that they were sold at more than 
net book value. 
Pension obligations
(refer to page 38 “Valuation of net pension obligations activities” within the Audit Committee, page 65  
(Critical accounting estimates and judgements) and page 97 (Note 25))
The group has defined benefit obligations in Australia, 
Germany, Scotland and the USA. We focused on this area 
because of the materiality of the obligations to the financial 
statements, particularly the UK scheme, and the key 
judgements involved in determining the net pension 
obligation including discount rates, inflation rates and 
mortality rates and the geographical locations of each  
of the schemes. 
We evaluated the group’s key judgements taking into 
account the specific characteristics of each of the group’s 
pension schemes. We assessed the assumptions with 
respect to discount rates, inflation rates and mortality rates 
used by the directors by comparing them to our own, 
independently formed expectations for Australia, Germany, 
Scotland and the USA. We found the assumptions adopted 
by the directors to be in line with our expectations. 
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and 
the industry in which the group operates. 
The group has manufacturing facilities in Australia, Czech Republic, Scotland and the USA, supplying markets in Asia-Pacific, 
Europe and North and South America. The group financial statements are a consolidation of eight reporting units, comprising 
the group’s manufacturing locations, sales offices and centralised functions of which the four manufacturing facilities and head 
office are the most significant. 
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the 
reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under 
our instruction. Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to 
have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been 
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole. 
Accordingly, of the group’s eight reporting units, we identified one that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial 
information due to their financially significant contribution to the group’s overall results. We carried out audits of the complete 
financial information of four further reporting units which we considered necessary to achieve sufficient audit evidence over the 
group’s activities. Together the reporting units where we performed full-scope audit work comprised 83% of revenue and 95% 
of the group’s result before tax. Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 
reporting unit where the significance of accounts receivables held by this reporting unit to the overall group financial 
statements had increased. This, together with additional procedures performed at the group level, gave us the evidence we 
needed for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole. 112 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Materiality
The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, 
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our 
audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality £1,750,000 (2013: £1,935,000)
How we determined it Three year average, 5% of profit before tax and before exceptional costs
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items, provides us with a 
consistent year on year basis for determining materiality by eliminating the non-recurring 
disproportionate impact of these items. We also believe the current year circumstances 
have resulted in volatility which is related to the investment and restructuring decisions 
taken and do not reflect the normal level of profitability of the underlying activities. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £60,000 
(2013: £95,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 35, in relation to going concern.  
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements 
using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the group and company have adequate 
resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial 
statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis  
is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the group’s 
and company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVRO PLC
continued 113 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• Information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 –  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge  
of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions  
to report arising from this 
responsibility.
• the statement given by the directors on page 56, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the  
UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a 
whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
members to assess the group’s and parent company’s performance, business model and 
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions 
to report arising from this 
responsibility.
• the section of the Annual Report on pages 36 to 38, as required by provision C.3.8 of the  
Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters 
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions 
to report arising from this 
responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our 
review.  114 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on pages 55 and 56, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs  
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may 
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.  
This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s and the company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, 
substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”)  
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for  
our report.
Caroline Roxburgh (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Edinburgh
17 March 2015
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEVRO PLC
continued 115 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
for the years ended 31 December
2014 
£’m
2013 
£’m
Restated 
2012 
£’m
Restated 
2011 
£’m
Restated 
2010 
£’m
Revenue* 232.3 242.7 241.1 227.7 213.6
Operating profit before exceptional items* 30.3 42.1 42.4 42.5 36.2
Exceptional items* (23.9) (1.3) – – 18.8
Operating profit* 6.4 40.8 42.4 42.5 55.0
Profit before tax* 2.2 37.5 39.3 41.2 53.0
Profit after tax* 4.4 33.6 32.0 32.7 40.8
Net assets 133.2 158.0 146.9 140.5 153.0
Earnings per share:
 – Basic* 2.6p 20.1p 19.4p 19.9p 25.0p
 – Basic before exceptional items* 13.7p 20.8p 19.4p 19.9p 16.6p
 – Diluted* 2.6p 20.0p 19.2p 19.6p 24.5p
Dividends per share 8.8p 8.8p 8.5p 8.0p 7.0p
Net assets per share 79.8p 94.9p 88.7p 85.1p 93.5p
* The information above refers to continuing operations exclusive of the discontinued operation, Devro GmbH, which was sold on 30 September 2011, and restated  
for revised pension accounting rules (IAS 19R) where relevant.  116 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the twenty-fourth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Devro plc (the “Company”) will be held at 
Glasgow City Halls, Candleriggs, Glasgow, G1 1NQ on 29 April 2015 at 11am.
THIS NOTICE IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own financial advice from your 
stockbroker or other independent adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in the Company, please forward this notice, together with the accompanying 
documents, as soon as possible either to the purchaser or transferee or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they 
can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Shareholders will be asked to consider and, if thought fit, pass at the AGM the resolutions below. Resolutions 1 to 12 will be 
proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 13, 14 and 15 will be proposed as special resolutions.
Recommendation
The directors of the Company (“Directors”) consider that all the proposals to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests 
of the Company and its members as a whole and are most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its 
members as a whole. The Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the proposed resolutions  
as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Ordinary resolutions
1. To receive the Company’s accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014, together with the Directors’ Report, the Strategic 
Report and the Auditors’ Report on those accounts.
2. To declare a final dividend of 6.1 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2014.
3. To re-elect as a Director Mr Gerard Hoetmer.
4. To re-elect as a Director Mr Peter Page.
5. To re-elect as a Director Mr Simon Webb.
6. To re-elect as a Director Ms Jane Lodge.
7. To re-elect as a Director Mr Paul Neep.
8. To re-elect as a Director Mr Paul Withers. 
9. To appoint KPMG LLP as the Company’s Auditors to hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
10. To authorise the Audit Committee of the Board to determine the remuneration of the Company’s Auditors.
11. THAT the Directors’ Remuneration Report contained within the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 
31 December 2014, excluding the Directors’ Remuneration Policy set out on pages 41 to 45 of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for reference only, be and is hereby approved.
12. THAT, in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”), the Directors be generally and unconditionally 
authorised to allot Relevant Securities (as defined in the explanatory notes to this resolution) up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £5,500,000 provided that this authority shall, unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company, expire at the 
close of business on 30 June 2016 or, if earlier, the date of the Company’s next AGM, save that the Company may, before 
such expiry, make offers or agreements which would or might require Relevant Securities to be allotted and the Directors 
may allot Relevant Securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the authority conferred by this 
resolution has expired.
   117 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
Special resolutions
13. THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 12, the Directors be given the general power to allot equity securities (as defined 
by section 560 of the Act) for cash, either pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 12 or by way of a sale of treasury 
shares, as if section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to:
 13.1.   the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities:
    a.  to the holders of ordinary shares in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their respective holdings; and
    b.  to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise 
consider necessary, 
     but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to 
treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems in or under the laws of any territory or 
the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange; and
 13.2.   the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to paragraph 13.1 above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £834,000.
 The power granted by this resolution will expire at the close of business on 30 June 2016, or, if earlier, the conclusion of the 
Company’s next AGM (unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company prior to or on such date) save that the Company 
may, before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such 
expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the 
power conferred by this resolution has expired.
 This resolution revokes and replaces all unexercised powers previously granted to the Directors to allot equity securities as if 
section 561(1) of the Act did not apply but without prejudice to any allotment of equity securities already made or agreed to 
be made pursuant to such authorities.
14. THAT the Company be and is generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases (within the meaning of 
section 693(4) of the Act) of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company (“Ordinary Shares”) provided 
that: 
 14.1.   the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares that may be purchased is 16,600,000;
 14.2.   the minimum price (excluding expenses) which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is 10 pence;
 14.3.   the maximum price (excluding expenses) which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is the higher of:
    a.  105% of the average market value of an Ordinary Share for the five business days prior to the day the purchase is 
made; and
    b.   the value of an Ordinary Share calculated on the basis of the higher of the price quoted for:
     i. the last independent trade of; and
     ii.  the highest current independent bid for, 
    any number of Ordinary Shares on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
 14.4.  the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at close of business on 30 June 2016 or, if earlier, at the 
conclusion of the Company’s next AGM, save that the Company may, before the expiry of the authority granted by this 
resolution, enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the 
expiry of such authority.
15. THAT a general meeting of the Company, other than an AGM of the Company, may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ 
notice, provided that this authority expires at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date of passing this 
resolution. 
By order of the Board
John Meredith
Company Secretary
Devro plc
17 March 2015
Registered Office:
Moodiesburn, Chryston, G69 0JE 118 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE AGM NOTICE
EXPLANATORY NOTES
1. Appointment of proxies
A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his/her rights to attend, speak and vote at a 
general meeting of the Company. A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each 
proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member. A proxy need not be a 
member of the Company but must attend the meeting in person. 
Members may register their appointment of a proxy either electronically or by returning the hard copy proxy form (where 
supplied) in accordance with the instructions set out below.
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is 
signed (or a copy of such power or authority, certified by a notary) must be deposited at the office of the Company’s registrars, 
Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY, not later than 11am on 27 April 2015. 
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending or voting in person at the AGM, if they 
wish to do so. 
Shareholders can also register their appointment of a proxy to attend the AGM electronically via the internet by visiting  
https://www.investorcentre.co.uk/eproxy where full instructions are given. A proxy appointment made electronically will not be 
valid if sent to any address other than that provided or, if received after 11am on 27 April 2015 or, if the meeting is adjourned, if 
received less than 48 hours (excluding any part of a day which is a non-working day) before the time of the adjourned meeting. 
Please note that any electronic communication found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted. 
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service  
may do so for the AGM and any adjournment(s) of it by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual (available via 
www.euroclear.com). CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have 
appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take  
the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a CREST Proxy 
Instruction) must be properly authenticated in accordance with specifications of Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited (“EUI”) and 
must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message must be 
transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID number 3RA50) no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for 
holding the AGM. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to 
the message by the CREST Applications Host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to 
CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make 
available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply 
in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the 
CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure 
that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is 
transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, 
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning 
practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
2. Nominated persons
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) to 
enjoy information rights (a “Nominated Person”) may, under an agreement between him/her and the registered shareholder by 
whom he/she was nominated, have a right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the meeting. If a 
Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he/she may, under any such agreement, 
have a right to give instructions to the registered shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in section 1 above does not apply to 
Nominated Persons. The rights described in that section can only be exercised by registered shareholders of the Company.
3. Corporate representatives
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all  
of the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member provided they do not do so in relation  
to the same shares. 119 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
4. Entitlement to attend and vote
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting (and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they 
may cast), shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the Company at 6pm on 27 April 2015 (or, in the event 
of any adjournment, not less than 48 hours (excluding any part of a day that is not a working day) before the time of the 
adjourned meeting). Changes to the register of members of the Company after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in 
determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
5. Poll vote
All resolutions at the AGM will be taken on a poll rather than on a show of hands, so as to reflect accurately the view of all of the 
Company’s shareholders by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including the votes of shareholders who are unable to 
attend the AGM but who have appointed a proxy. On a poll, each shareholder has one vote for each share held.
6. Website publication of audit concerns
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the 
Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Company’s accounts (including 
the Auditors’ Report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the meeting. The Company may not require the 
shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with section 527 or 528 of the Act. 
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement 
to the Company’s Auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website. The business which 
may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to 
publish on a website.
7. Shareholders’ right to ask questions
Any member of the Company attending the meeting has the right to ask questions. The Company must cause to be answered 
any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: (a) to do so 
would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information; (b) the answer 
has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question; or (c) it is undesirable in the interests of the 
Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
8. Documents available for inspection
Copies of all service contracts of the Executive Directors, and all appointment letters of the Non-Executive Directors are 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office, Gartferry Road, Moodiesburn, Chryston, G69 0JE and at the offices 
of Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ during usual business hours. They will also be available at the 
place of the AGM from 10.45am until the close of the meeting.
9. Issued share capital and total voting rights
At 6 March 2015 (being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this notice) the issued share capital of the 
Company consists of 166,921,042 Ordinary Shares, carrying one vote each. Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company  
as at 6 March 2015 are 166,921,042.
10. Electronic publication
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.devro.com.
11. Resolutions
Resolution 1: Accounts and reports of the Directors and the Auditors, and the Strategic Report
The Directors of the Company have a duty to present (to shareholders in general meeting) the annual accounts together with 
the Directors’ Report, the Strategic Report and the Report of the Auditors. The Auditors’ Report can be found on pages 108 to 
114 of this Annual Report.
Resolution 2: Final dividend 
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 6.1 pence per share be paid on 15 May 2015 to shareholders whose names 
appear on the register of members at the close of business on 27 March 2015. Payment of the final dividend will bring the total 
dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 to 8.8 pence per share.
Resolutions 3 to 8: Re-election of Directors
In line with best practice on corporate governance, each Director of the Company wishing to remain a Director is subject to 
election or re-election by shareholders at each AGM. All of the current Directors are standing for re-election to the Board and 
their biographies are set out on pages 28 and 29 of this Annual Report. 120 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE AGM NOTICE
continued
Resolutions 9 and 10: Appointment and remuneration of the Company’s Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC (“PwC”) have acted as the Auditors to the Company since its formation in 1991. In accordance 
with good governance the Board decided in 2014 that it should seek to appoint new statutory auditors. Following a thorough 
tender process, the Board has approved its Audit Committee’s recommendation that KPMG LLP (“KPMG”) should replace PwC 
as the Company’s Auditors. As required by section 519 of the Act, PwC has provided to the Company a statement of the 
circumstances in which they have ceased to be the Company’s Auditors and this statement is reproduced in the letter from the 
Company Secretary also included in this Annual Report communication.
Resolutions 9 and 10 are standard resolutions proposing the appointment of KPMG as the Company’s Auditors and authorising 
the Audit Committee of the Board to determine the remuneration of the Company’s Auditors.
Resolution 11: Directors’ Remuneration Report
Shareholders will be invited to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on 
pages 39 to 52 (other than the part containing the Directors’ Remuneration Policy which is included in this year’s report for 
reference only, having been approved at the Company’s AGM in 2014).
Resolution 12: Allotment of new shares
This resolution seeks authority for the Directors to allot Relevant Securities similar to the authority given to the Directors at the 
Company’s last AGM, held on 30 April 2014.
This resolution complies with the guidelines of the Investment Management Association Share Capital Management Guidelines 
issued in July 2014 (which replace guidelines previously issued by the Association of British Insurers).
The resolution will authorise the Directors to allot Relevant Securities up to a maximum nominal amount of £5,500,000 which 
represents approximately one-third of the Company’s issued Ordinary Shares (excluding treasury shares) as at 6 March 2015.
Other than in relation to the Company’s employee share plans, the Directors have no present intention to use this authority, 
which will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company and 30 June 2016. As is normal practice,  
the Directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent AGMs.
In this resolution, Relevant Securities means: 
• shares in the Company, other than shares allotted pursuant to:
• a right to subscribe for shares in the Company where the grant of the right itself constituted a Relevant Security; or
• a right to convert securities into shares in the Company where the grant of the right itself constituted a Relevant Security; 
and
• any right to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company. References to the allotment of Relevant 
Securities in this resolution include the grant of such rights.
Resolution 13: Pre-emption rights
This resolution seeks to renew the authority conferred on the Directors at the last AGM, pursuant to the authority to allot 
granted by resolution 12, to allot equity securities (as defined by section 560 of the Act) or to sell treasury shares for cash 
without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings: (a) in relation to pre-emptive offers 
and offers to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise consider 
necessary, up to a maximum nominal amount of £5,500,000 which represents approximately one-third of the Company’s 
issued Ordinary Shares (excluding treasury shares) as at 6 March 2015; and (b) in any other case, up to a maximum nominal 
amount of £834,000 which represents slightly less than 5% of the Company’s issued Ordinary Shares (excluding treasury 
shares) as at 6 March 2015, which is the latest practicable date before publication of this notice.
 
In compliance with the guidelines issued by the pre-emption group, the Directors confirm their intention that, other than in 
relation to a rights issue, no more than 7.5% of the issued Ordinary Shares (excluding treasury shares) will be allotted for cash on 
a non pre-emptive basis over a rolling three-year period unless shareholders have been notified and consulted in advance.
This resolution complies with relevant guidance issued by the pre-emption group and the Investment Management Association. 121 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
The power granted by this resolution will expire at close of business on 30 June 2016 or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next 
AGM of the Company.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority.
Resolution 14: Authority for market purchases by the Company of its own shares
The authority for the Company to purchase its own Ordinary Shares granted at last year’s AGM will expire on the date of the 
forthcoming AGM. The Directors wish to renew this authority and a special resolution will be proposed to give the Company the 
authority to purchase its own Ordinary Shares in the market as permitted by the Act. The resolution gives authority for the 
Company to purchase up to 16,600,000 of its Ordinary Shares, representing just under 10% of the Company’s issued Ordinary 
Share capital as at 6 March 2015.
The resolution specifies the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid for any Ordinary Shares purchased under this 
authority. The authority will expire on the earlier of close of business on 30 June 2016 and the end of the Company’s 2016 AGM.
Although the Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Company’s Ordinary Shares, they 
consider that it is in the best interests of the Company to have available this authorisation, in case of circumstances when it 
would be appropriate to use it. They would only use it when satisfied that this would result in an increase in earnings per share 
and was in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any Ordinary Shares purchased pursuant to this authority may either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the Company, 
depending on which course of action is considered by the Directors to be in the best interests of shareholders at the time.
As at 6 March 2015, there were share scheme award options over 1,419,550 Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company, 
which represents 0.85% of the Company’s issued Ordinary Share capital. If the authority to purchase the Company’s Ordinary 
Shares were exercised in full, these options would represent 0.94% of the Company’s issued Ordinary Share capital. As at 
6 March 2015, the Company did not hold any treasury shares in the Company and no warrants over Ordinary Shares in the 
capital of the Company existed.
Resolution 15: General meeting notice
Changes made to the Act by the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations increased the notice period required for general meetings of 
the Company from 14 clear days to 21 days, unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less 
than 14 clear days, and certain requirements are satisfied. In accordance with the Act, AGMs will continue to be held on at least 
21 clear days’ notice.
At the last AGM, the shareholders approved a notice period of not less than 14 clear days (other than for AGMs) effective until 
the forthcoming AGM. The Directors believe it is in the best interests of shareholders to preserve this ability and this resolution, 
which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks such approval. The approval will be effective until the Company’s next 
AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
It is intended that this flexibility will only be used for non-routine business and where merited in the interests of shareholders 
generally.
It should also be noted that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days’ notice, the Company must 
make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting. This condition is met if there is a facility to 
appoint a proxy by means of a website. 122 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
If you have sold or transferred all of your holding of ordinary shares, you should pass this document and the accompanying 
form of proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Financial calendar 
29 April 2015 Annual General Meeting
15 May 2015 Final Dividend Paid
5 August 2015 Half Year Results and Interim Dividend Announced
October 2015 Interim Dividend Paid
31 December 2015 Financial Year End
March 2016 2015 Results and Proposed Final Dividend Announced
Dividends
The final dividend will be paid on 15 May 2015 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 27 March 2015.
 
Dividend mandates
Shareholders wishing dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should apply online at  
www.investorcentre.co.uk or, alternatively, contact the registrar for a dividend mandate form at the address below.  
Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing System (BACS).
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
Dividends are normally paid twice a year in May and October. We offer shareholders the opportunity to join the Computershare 
regulated Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“the Plan”), which allows you to reinvest your cash dividend in Devro plc ordinary 
shares. If you wish to participate in the Plan, please apply online at www.investorcentre.co.uk or, alternatively, you can complete 
a mandate form and return it to the registrar. If you do not have a mandate form, please contact our registrar at the address 
below.
Payment of dividends in foreign currency
The company’s registrar offers a Global Payment Service which is available in certain countries. This may make it possible to 
receive dividends direct into your bank account in your local currency. Please note that a payment charge would be deducted 
from each individual payment before conversion into your local currency. This service can be set up at www.investorcentre.co.uk 
or by contacting the registrar.
Half year results
Any shareholder wishing to receive a paper copy of the Interim Report and Results for the six months to 30 June 2015 should 
contact the Company Secretary.
Shareholder enquiries
For all share registration and dividend For other shareholder enquiries contact: 
mandate enquiries contact:
The Registrar Company Secretary
Computershare Investor Services PLC Devro plc
The Pavilions Moodiesburn
Bridgwater Road Chryston
Bristol G69 0JE
BS99 6ZZ  
Telephone – 0870 889 4050  Telephone – 01236 879191
Website – www.investorcentre.co.uk
Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website provided by Computershare. This service allows you to view your 
share portfolio and see the latest market price of your shares, check your dividend payment and tax information, change your 
address, update payment instructions and receive your shareholder communications online. To take advantage of this service, 
please register at www.investorcentre.co.uk.
To register you will be required to enter Devro as the name of the company in which you hold shares, your Shareholder 
Reference Number (SRN) which can be found on your share certificate or on your dividend tax voucher, your postcode or 
country if outside of the UK or Channel Islands and security code (provided on screen). For security purposes, Computershare 
will send a unique activation code to your registered address to complete registration. 
Website
The company has a website (www.devro.com) which provides up-to-date information on the company and its products.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 123 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Shareholder’s 
Information
Report of  
Directors
NOTES 124 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
NOTES DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS
Executive Directors
P W B Page
S C Webb 
Non-Executive Directors
G J Hoetmer 
J A Lodge 
P A J Neep
P N Withers 
Company Secretary and registered office
J Meredith
Moodiesburn
CHRYSTON
G69 0JE
Registered number: SC129785
Chartered accountants and statutory auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Atria One
144 Morrison Street
EDINBURGH
EH3 8EX
Solicitors 
Clifford Chance LLP 
10 Upper Bank Street 
Canary Wharf  
LONDON 
E14 5JJ
Financial advisers  
Lazard & Co., Limited
50 Stratton Street
LONDON
W1J 8LL
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank plc
1st Floor, Aurora Building
120 Bothwell Street
GLASGOW
G2 7JT
HSBC Bank plc
Thames Valley
Corp. Banking Centre
5th Floor
Apex Plaza
READING
RH1 1AX
KBC Bank NV
111 Old Broad Street
LONDON
EC2N 1BR
Rabobank International
Thames Court
One Queenhithe
LONDON
EC4V 3RL
Stockbrokers 
Investec Securities
2 Gresham Street
LONDON
EC2V 7QP
Registrars
Computershare Investor
Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
BRISTOL
BS99 6ZZ Registered Office
Devro plc
Moodiesburn
Chryston
G69 0JE
Scotland
Tel: +44 (0) 1236 879191
www.devro.com 
