 Challenging 
the status quo 
in the lighting 
industry
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2010
Access this report online
ar10.dialight.com Watch  
Our brief video to discover how Dialight is defining the 
current state of LED lighting technology worldwide:
scan this code with your smartphone camera:
or visit
A constituent of the FTSE All Share Index 
and headquartered in the UK, Dialight is 
making a world of difference by delivering 
innovations in LED lighting that:
. 
dramatically reduce total cost of ownership; 
. 
significantly improve the safety of our customers; and
. 
advance the health of our planet.
 
www.dialight.com/aboutus
Signals/Illumination LED Indication Components Electromagnetic Components
We deliver through three business segments: 
Dialight supports the increasing 
global demand for energy-efficient 
lighting solutions that are engineered 
to endure the harshest environments 
for years to come. Dialight has the 
largest installed base of LED traffic 
and obstruction signals in the world.
Signals/Illumination continues 
to demonstrate strong growth and 
margins, as the following markets for 
these products continue to expand:
. Industrial
. Infrastructure
. Hazardous locations
. Traffic/rail signals
. Obstruction lights
For more than three generations, 
Dialight OEM status indication 
components have continually been 
specified into many of the world’s 
leading electronic products and 
control systems.
LED Indication Components generates 
strong profits and cash although 
performance can fluctuate with that 
of the general electronics market.
The segment serves the 
following markets:
. Cloud computing
. Server, storage and networking devices
. Power supplies
. Electrical and control panels
. Test and measurement equipment
Dialight supplies SMar T meter 
switches used by utility companies 
to remotely manage electrical supply 
from a centrally monitored system. 
With strong prospects for the coming 
year in the US and with the rest of 
the world also moving towards mass 
conversion to SMar T metering, the 
segment serves the following market:
. Residential Overview 
Business review  .
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
01 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
2010 highlights
Dialight’s performance provides a solid foundation 
for continued worldwide growth.
Group revenue (£m)
Cash balance (£m)
07
07
08
08
09
09
10
10 10
£99.2m
+28.3%
£10.4m
+13.9%
.   Record Group revenue of £99.2 million up 
28.3% on last year
.  Group operating profit more than doubled 
to £11.2 million
.  Signals/Illumination segment revenues 
increased by 31.7% to £61.1 million
.  Proposed final dividend of 5.2 pence per 
ordinary share, total dividend for the year 
of 8.0 pence, an increase of 21.2%
.  Contribution margins increased from 39.3% 
to 41.0%
. Acquisition of BTI Light Systems A/S (“BTI”)
In this report
Overview
 01  2010 Highlights
 02  Dialight at a glance
 02  – Revolutionary technology
 04  – Global customer focus
 06  – Enabling sustainable practices
Business review
 08  Our strategy and KPIs
 10  Chairman’s statement
 11  Chief Executive’s review
 20  Financial review
 24  Principal risks and uncertainties
 26  Corporate social responsibility
Governance
 28 Board of Directors
 30  Directors’ report
 34  Corporate governance statement
 39  Directors’ remuneration report
 44   Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
Financial statements
 45   Independent auditors’ report
 47  Consolidated income statement
 48   Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
 49   Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
 50   Consolidated statement 
of total financial position
 51   Consolidated statement 
of cash flows
 52   Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
 75  Company balance sheet
 76   Notes to the Company 
financial statements
 84   Five year summary
Shareholder information
 85   Notice of Annual General 
Meeting
 88   Explanatory notes
 IBC   Directory and Shareholder 
information 
63.4
77.9 77.3
Operating profit (£m)
07 08 09 10
£11.2m
+105.0%
3.9
5.3
5.5
6.6
4.1
9.1
Dividend per share (p)
07 08 09
8.0p
+21.2%
5.7
6.0
6.6
8.0
11.2
10.4
99.2 02 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Overview
Dialight at a glance
Revolutionary technology
At the forefront of a lighting revolution, Dialight is continually 
raising the bar with best-in-class, innovative products to serve 
its customer base worldwide. As LEDs become brighter , Dialight 
looks at ways to re-engineer products to improve not only their 
efficiency, but the value proposition for customers as well.
Dialight’s highly skilled engineering team is comprised of technical 
experts around the world who hold multiple PhD and Master’s 
degrees in science and engineering.
Through the development of new and improved products that keep 
it one step ahead of the competition, Dialight’s intellectual property 
remains of real importance to the Group’s continued competitive edge. 
In 2010 alone, 29 new patents have been filed; 16 have been granted 
with more pending.
LED strobe
LED High Bay
Key products include:
Vigilant™ Series LED Dual Red/White Beacon
Dialight’s latest Vigilant Series LED Dual Beacon 
is 75% smaller, 10 lbs lighter and up to 95% 
more energy-efficient than traditional xenon 
based dual beacons. Now in its fourth generation, 
the LED Dual Beacon continues to shine as the 
only currently qualified product in its class in 
the US.
Safesite
®
 LED Wallpack
With its low profile, rugged design ensuring 
long life, and high reliability, the Wallpack 
is ideally suited for oil platforms, explosive 
environments, mills, chemical plants and 
other hazardous applications.
 
DuroSite™ Series LED High Bay
Introduced in late 2009, the DuroSite LED 
High Bay has been re-engineered to further 
increase light output by 50%, competing 
directly with light sources up to 450W, while 
only consuming 150W. Setting an industry 
benchmark with over 14,000 units sold to 
date, many global Fortune 500 companies 
have installed these units realising instant 
energy and maintenance cost savings.
LED Wallpack Overview 
Business review  .
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
03 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
View our complete product range
www.dialight.com
Low Beam
LED Linear Fixture
90mm Low Beam Headlamp 
A true advance in LED technology for transit 
buses in the US, Dialight has introduced the 
9W LED Headlamp to replace 50W halogen 
bulbs, which typically require replacement 
twice a year. The Headlamp is backed by 
a seven year warranty which promises to 
deliver dramatic cuts in maintenance costs 
for municipalities and commercial operators.
As part of a corporate sustainability initiative, Rockline 
Industries Inc. replaced 140 inefficient 400W metal 
halide fittings with 140 Dialight 150W DuroSite LED 
High Bays, while maintaining the same levels of lighting in 
their manufacturing facility. Not only has the conversion 
reduced energy consumption and operating costs, 
but it has positioned the company to receive a $50,000 
rebate incentive from its local utility company, as part 
of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
Rockline Industries
ExCeL London is a world-class events venue, located 
in the commercial heart of the UK. After trialing just 
eight samples of Dialight’s LED High Bay, ExCeL decided 
to re-fit 250 inefficient 450W high-pressure sodium 
lamps with the same number of Dialight’s product in a 
number of applications around the site including outdoor 
walkway canopies, perimeter lighting and the impressive 
half-mile long and highly used public space corridor. 
70% energy savings have been reported and ExCeL 
London is now considering other areas to convert to 
LED lighting.
ExCeL Centre
SafeSite
®
 LED Linear Fixture
The first complete LED lighting fixture on 
the market which carries an explosion proof 
rating, the SafeSite Linear, was designed to 
replace linear fluorescents, whilst reducing 
energy consumption by 50%.
 
Read more
www.dialight.com/news/details/rockline_case_study
Read more
www.dialight.com/news/details/ExCeL_centre_case_study 04 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Farmingdale, NJ
Roxboro, NC
York, UK
Newmarket, UK
Wang, Germany
Copenhagen, Denmark
Perth, Australia 
Ensenada, Mexico
Singapore 
Global customer focus
Dialight identifies and pursues markets with strong value 
prospects. As new LED applications evolve, it develops 
products targeting the needs of its ever expanding global 
customer base.
Whilst there are many areas where LEDs can be used,  
Dialight has been careful to select those markets  
which fit its strategy and allow defensible  
and profitable growth.
Dialight continues to expand its 
presence worldwide.
Serving the North and Central American markets, 
Dialight operates out of Farmingdale, New Jersey 
with manufacturing facilities in Ensenada, Mexico 
and Roxboro, North Carolina.
2010 saw the installation of a strategic sales channel including a 
new Director of Sales, strategically placed regional sales managers 
and an outside sales force that totals more than 200 people. 
The creation of a new position of President in our Mexico facility 
will assist the Group in leading commercial activities in this region.
Markets in focus:
With facilities in the UK, Germany and Denmark 
(following the Group’s acquisition of BTI) and a sales 
office in Dubai, Dialight is well placed to service the 
growth in its European markets.
Strengthening of the management team in this region as 
well as strategic additions to the existing sales force will 
improve capabilities in 2011 and beyond.
MedSafe
Houston, Texas, US
Distribution centre
When business demanded a move to a more spacious warehouse 
and distribution facility, MedSafe insisted on Dialight’s high-efficiency, 
long-life DuroSite LED High Bay and area lighting fixtures to not only 
deliver superb energy savings and crisp, clear white light, but also 
instant restrike to eliminate downtime in the wake of a power outage. 
With 141 DuroSite LED High Bay interior fixtures and 18 exterior 
area lights in place at this facility, MedSafe can now light four times 
the square footage at the same cost as its previous building.
The Americas Europe/Middle East
Read more 
www.dialight.com/news/details/medsafe_case_study
Overview
Dialight at a glance continued
£68.2 million 
Revenue
£22.2 million 
Revenue Overview 
Business review  .
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
05 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Farmingdale, NJ
Roxboro, NC
York, UK
Newmarket, UK
Wang, Germany
Copenhagen, Denmark
Perth, Australia 
Ensenada, Mexico
Singapore 
Farmingdale, NJ
Roxboro, NC
York, UK
Newmarket, UK
Wang, Germany
Copenhagen, Denmark
Perth, Australia 
Ensenada, Mexico
Singapore 
Aisin AW
Anjo City, Japan
Manufacturing facility
Aisin, the world’s number one manufacturer of automatic 
transmissions, installed 72 of Dialight 150W DuroSite LED High Bays 
to replace traditional 400W mercury vapour fittings in a one-for-one 
swap. The light fixture replacement represents Aisin’s ambitious 
environmental program in which the company pledges to respect 
the environment in all its business activities and in every product 
it develops.
Markets in focus:
Further to the Group’s acquisition of 75% of its 
Australian distributor Lightday Investments Pty Ltd 
(now trading as Dialight ILS) (“ILS”) at the beginning of 
2011, the Group now has sales offices in both Singapore 
and Australia. This serves to demonstrate Dialight’s 
commitment to growth in the Asia/Pacific region.
March Foods Ltd
Cambridgeshire, UK
Food packaging centre
To improve light quality and save on energy and maintenance, 
March Foods Ltd replaced a total of 84 outdated 450W high-pressure 
sodium lamps, with an equivalent number of Dialight LED High Bays. 
As a British Small and Medium Enterprise (“SME”), March Foods was 
able to have its LED installation funded by a four-year interest-free 
loan of £38,000 from the Carbon Trust. The Carbon Trust offer 
a £1,000 loan for every 2.5 tonnes of CO2 saved, so capital 
expenditure is effectively funded by the energy savings.
Asia/Pacific
Read more 
www.dialight.com/news/details/march_foods_case_study
Key:
 Sales/Administration offices
 Manufacturing facilities
£8.8 million 
Revenue 06 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Enabling sustainable practices
Going green can be good for you and your business
Dialight’s advances in ultra-bright LED obstruction 
lighting solutions continue to improve with the 
introduction of its newly expanded Vigilant Series 
product line. Energy efficiency combined with 
unparalleled maintenance and environmental 
benefits make these units the first choice for 
cell tower and other obstruction applications.
Ever vigilant lighting technology 
Dialight’s SMART meter switches are used by utility 
companies to remotely manage the electrical supply 
of residential, commercial and industrial customers 
from a centrally monitored control system, thereby 
providing energy managers with new and improved 
levels of automation, control, productivity and 
operational savings.
SMART grid is coming to your neighbourhood
Dialight’s environmentally friendly LED lighting solutions 
are helping organisations worldwide reduce their carbon 
footprint while achieving increases in energy efficiency, 
productivity and profit.
As incandescent lighting bans take hold and Dialight’s LED 
installations multiply, the planet that we all share benefits 
from the dramatic reduction in CO
2
 emissions.
Adoption of Dialight’s DuroSite LED High Bay fixture continues to exceed 
expectations as industrial markets experience unparalleled levels of light 
output and reduction in energy consumption and operating cost.
Overview
Dialight at a glance continued 07 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Overview 
Business review .
Governance .
Financial statements .
Shareholder information  .
Wind Turbine Lighting
 
Dialight’s patented optical design creates 
the sharpest cut-off beam in the industry, 
achieving near-zero light pollution at ground 
level while beaming 2,000 candelas to aircraft 
pilots. It consumes 98% less energy than the 
incandescent light it normally replaces.
Dialight’s Vigilant Series LED Beacon is 75% smaller , 
75% lighter and 98% more efficient than traditional 
incandescent beacons, making it the smallest, most 
efficient beacon in the world.
20W LED vs. 1400W Incandescent Beacon 
Enabling sustainable practices
Going green can be good for you and your business 08 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Business review
Our strategy and KPIs
Dialight’s key strategy of addressing large niche markets, each with 
a barrier to entry, is continuing to generate success. The Signals/
Illumination business delivers growth and profit at the level forecast, 
with sales in Lighting for industrial applications now playing a 
significant part in this development.
Improvements in LED technology and availability to turn these 
into even stronger value propositions for its customers represents 
an exciting opportunity for the Group over the coming years.
High growth
1. Identify niche markets 
Focus on niche markets with compelling operational and cost 
efficiency benefits for its customers and expand its presence 
in new markets enabled by advances in LED technology.
2. Focus on research and development
Use its technological expertise in thermal management, 
optics and electronic circuitry to develop innovative products 
in niche markets.
3. Develop defensible technology
Create Intellectual Property Rights (“IPR”) across all 
research teams and develop new products incorporating 
this defensible technology.
4. Seek selective acquisitions
Consider acquisitions with valid channel to market, strong 
geographical coverage and proven technology.
5. Protect its profits
Use its low-cost manufacturing base and continually review and 
monitor cost-saving opportunities to reduce its material cost.
Dialight will:
In 2010 Dialight has:
.  Doubled Lighting revenues
.  Introduced a dedicated European 
Industrial Lighting sales force
.  Grown Signals/Illumination in its nominated 
markets of Lighting, Obstruction and 
European Traffic by 31.7%
.  Maintained its position as the only 
qualified supplier of strobe lighting 
to tall structures in US
.  Acquired BTI in April 2010
.  Signed a supply agreement with a third 
major meter manufacturer in the US market
In 2011 Dialight will:
.  Continue to innovate through the 
development and improvement of 
new and existing products
.  Deliver further efficiencies through cost 
improvements and product design
.  Consider possible additional acquisition 
targets and partners in regions to expand 
growth opportunities and global reach Financial KPI
Signals/Illumination revenue
£m
08 09 10
£61.1m
+31.7%
07
Total revenue for the Signals/Illumination 
segment including Traffic, Obstruction, 
Transportation and Lighting. This has 
grown over 30% on 2009.
33.4
43.4
46.4
61.1
Financial KPI
Signals/Illumination profit
£m
07 08 09 10
£8.7m
+163%
Total profit for the Signals/Illumination 
segment including Traffic, Obstruction, 
Transportation and Lighting.
0.1
1.7
3.3
8.7
Financial KPI
Operating cash as % of operating profit
07 08 09 10
125% 
Operating cash as a percentage of operating 
profit shows the amount of cash made by 
Dialight’s business.
149
113
165
125
Non-financial KPI
Lighting sales
‘000 units sold
07 08 09 10
Lighting sales include those relating to 
products for hazardous, industrial and 
rugged environments.
14.9k
+198.0%
Financial KPI
Total revenue
£m
07 08 09 10
63.4
77.9 77.3
99.2
£99.2m
+28.3%
Financial KPI
Earnings per share (“EPS”)
p per share
07 08 09 10
8.8
Profit for the period attributable to equity 
holders, excluding the effect of exceptional 
items, divided by the weighted average 
number of shares in issue during the period 
and excluding the Company’s own shares held.
11.2
10.6
23.8
23.8p
+124.5%
Total revenue from the Group’s 
continuing businesses.
2.1
4.6
5.0
14.9
Non-financial KPI
In 2010 Dialight had 61 patents pending, 
29 having been filed and 16 granted. 
This contrasted with figures of 65, 17 
and 8, respectively, in 2009. 
Patents filed, pending and granted
2010
.
 Filed 29
.
 Granted 16
.
 Pending 61
09
Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
How Dialight tracks its progress  
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
Read more in our Chief Executive’s 
review pages 11-19 10 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010 10
the Board and left the Company. On behalf of the 
Board I would like to express my thanks to both 
Robert and George for their contribution to Dialight.
Staff
The contribution of our staff is critical to our continued 
success and I would like to express my thanks for our 
people’s commitment, hard work and support over 
the past year. There are exciting but challenging 
times ahead and the Group can approach these with 
confidence in the knowledge that everyone in the 
organisation is working towards a common goal.
2010 has also seen a comprehensive review of 
Dialight’s management and organisational structure. 
The resulting strengthening at both an operational 
and a corporate level will provide the necessary 
foundation for the Company to move forward into 
2011 and beyond.
Acquisitions and investments
On behalf of the Board I would like to welcome 
BTI and ILS to the Dialight Group. These additions 
further strengthen the capability of the Group in its 
chosen markets whilst expanding its presence into 
new geographic areas.
Current trading and outlook
Our LED Indication business recovered somewhat 
from the downturn of 2009 and delivered its usual 
strong profits. Once again SMART meter disconnects 
grew and we look forward to continued expansion 
in this market. 
Our Signals/Illumination business is delivering the 
level of growth and profit that we had forecasted 
and is no longer merely a business with a promising 
future. We are, however, still at the early stages of 
what the Board believes will be a period of continued 
high growth. Improvements in LED technology and 
our ability to turn them into even stronger value 
propositions for our customers represents an exciting 
opportunity for the Company over the coming years.
The Board’s continued confidence in the Group’s 
excellent prospects is supported by the strong 
performance in 2010 and in particular by the 
progress in ultra-efficient lighting and signalling.
Business review
Chairman’s statement
Financial results
I am extremely pleased to present an excellent set 
of results for 2010. The year has seen unprecedented 
growth in the Signals/Illumination business that serves 
to demonstrate the success of the Group’s strategy 
to focus on defensible niche markets. More than 60% 
of total Group revenue has come from this business 
with a doubling in Lighting sales and excellent growth 
in Traffic and Obstruction lighting.
Revenue in 2010 grew by 28.3% to £99.2 million 
compared with £77 .3 million in 2009. This is a strong 
performance and is particularly pleasing given that 
there has been growth in each of the reported market 
segments and in each of the major reported territories. 
Contribution margins have increased from 39.3% to 
41.0% with the benefit of significant investment in 
product re-engineering and cost reduction. Overall 
Group operating profit has more than doubled to 
£11.2 million (2009: £5.5 million) and with tight working 
capital control, the Group has generated operating 
cash flow of £14.0 million leading to a year-end cash 
balance of £10.4 million. These results provide a solid 
base for future growth and continued commercial 
and technical investment will support that growth 
for the coming years.
Dividend
In line with the Group’s progressive dividend policy, 
the Board has proposed a final dividend of 5.2 pence 
per share (2009: second interim: 4.3 pence) giving 
a total dividend of 8.0 pence which is an increase 
of 21.2% (2009: 6.6 pence). Dividend cover is 3.0 times. 
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”), this dividend will be paid 
on 6 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at 
close of business on 8 April 2011. The total dividend 
on a paid basis in respect of 2010 is 7.1 pence 
(2009: 6.2 pence per share).
Board changes 
In the middle of 2010, Robert Jeens retired 
from the Board after over nine years of service 
and Robert Lambourne joined the Board as his 
replacement. In September 2010 Mark Fryer 
joined the Board as Group Finance Director 
and consequently George Ralph, who had been 
serving as Interim Finance Director , resigned from 
Harry Tee CBE
Chairman
Summary of Chairman’s statement:
.  Revenue grown by 28.3% to record level of £99.2 million
.  Board recommends final dividend of 5.2 pence per 
ordinary share
.  Acquisition of BTI and investment in ILS demonstrate 
commitment to strategic selective acquisitions Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc 11
Business review
Chief Executive’s review
Whilst global economic conditions showed modest 
recovery, our Signals/Illumination business saw 
full year revenues increase by 31.7% on the prior 
year, with Lighting revenues doubling versus 
2009 as well as doubling half-on-half within 2010. 
Both Obstruction Lighting and European Traffic 
demonstrated very strong growth also. Our strategy 
in this segment of focusing on defensible niche 
markets is proving to be effective.
Revenues in the LED Indication Components segment 
had been affected by the global economic downturn 
in the early part of 2009. This market saw recovery 
in 2010 although inventory build in the first half of 
this year was reversed in the second with revenues 
overall well ahead of 2009. 
Sales of Electromagnetic Components grew single 
digit on 2009 but significantly we secured a new 
customer for Electromagnetic Disconnect devices 
in the form of a major US meter manufacturer. 
Of the more than £20 million of growth in 2010, 
65% came from the Signals/Illumination segment. 
As the efficiencies and cost of LED devices continue 
to improve, Dialight’s product offerings to this market 
will provide even stronger financial returns for our 
customers whilst at the same time contributing 
strongly to a better environment through significant 
reduction in energy consumption. 
Signals/Illumination
Overall growth of more than 30% for the year 
with significant gains in Lighting, Obstruction and 
European Traffic Lights – our three nominated 
growth markets – is a very pleasing result. Lighting 
in particular, with sales of over £7.5 million in the 
second half, is showing an accelerating trend which 
bodes well for the coming years. Once again margins 
strengthened showing better than five percentage 
points improvement over 2009. 
During the year we were able to take advantage of 
the increased capacity in the white LED supply chain 
to reduce the prices we pay for our LEDs. This price 
reduction, along with a spectacular improvement in 
the efficiencies available, has allowed us, in some cases 
to reduce the LED cost in our products by almost 50%. 
We anticipate that this will be a long-term trend and 
will both improve our margins and open up more 
applications where, solid state lighting can add value 
to our customers.
Roy Burton 
Group Chief Executive
Summary of Chief Executive’s review:
.  Excellent 2010 performance
.  Signals/Illumination experiences record  
year-on-year growth
.  New contract for SMART meters
.  Traffic lights assembly moved to Roxboro, 
North Carolina, US
.  LED cost per fixture reduced by 50% in the year
£46.4m
total revenue
2009
.
 Sales £46.4m
.
 Profit £3.3m
£61.1m
total revenue
2010
.
 Sales £61.1m
.
 Profit £8.7m
Signals/Illumination
Segment sales/profits Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010 12
Dialight North American Manufacturing Expansion
Roxboro, North Carolina, US
In 2010, Dialight expanded a significant portion of its product manufacturing, 
including moulding and hard coating operations, at its Roxboro, North Carolina 
facility. This has effectively created more than 50 production jobs and spurred 
more than $1.0 million in facility upgrades and investments to make this 
facility the only qualified US manufacturing facility for stimulus funded 
(American Recovery and Reinvestment Act) traffic signal projects.
Read more
www.dialight.com/News/Details/Traffic_Buy_American
www.dialight.com/News/Details/Roxboro_Jobs
LED Traffic Signal Lens 
+95%
 
efficiency of LED T raffic 
Signals as compared 
to traditional 150W 
incandescent
 Expansion for  
 the future  Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc 13
Signals/Illumination continued
Traffic signals
Sales into the European traffic market grew by over 
34% with over half of that growth coming from the 
UK. We continue to conduct our business through 
major systems OEMs such as Siemens who supply 
a complete system to towns and cities throughout 
Europe. Whilst the UK provided the major part of 
our growth in 2010 the rest of Western Europe also 
demonstrated significant improvement. Adoption 
levels in Europe remain low and we expect increasing 
sales in this market to continue. 
As previously reported, the market for LED traffic 
signals in the US is mature, much of the traffic light 
infrastructure having already been converted to LED. 
Although we do not expect to see sales growth in 
this market, 2010 saw some modest improvement 
in sales despite the lack of any major retrofit projects. 
Towards the end of the year we moved assembly 
of our traffic light products from our Mexican plant 
to our facility in North Carolina. This move gave us 
two benefits; firstly this significantly reduced our 
supply chain costs but also this allowed us to claim 
“Buy American” status relating to the US stimulus 
programme (American Recovery and Reinvestment 
Act). Structurally there has been no change to the 
business and our extensive and exclusive dealer 
network remains as strong as ever. 
As probably the largest supplier of LED traffic lights 
in the world, Dialight continues to improve both the 
performance and cost of these products to offer even 
more value to our customers. Our latest offering for 
the European market, for example, uses only a single 
LED with the same performance guarantee of more 
than five years’ life.
Obstruction lighting
For many years, tall structures of all kinds have 
been marked by red lights and white strobes as a 
collision warning for nearby aircraft. These lights 
have long been a source of challenge to maintain 
since their location, is by its nature, difficult to 
access and maintenance is of course essential 
if they are to fulfil their function.
Dialight first produced LED versions of these lights 
back in 2002 using over 1,000 red LEDs for the 
largest lights. Constant improvement and development 
has produced the latest versions using only 24 LEDs 
and using only 20W compared to over 1,400W for the 
conventional version. However, power consumption 
is not the main driver for the use of LEDs in this 
application; maintenance can be an expensive and 
risky business and Dialight’s five year warranty on 
its products is a major saver for our customers.
Whilst there exists an extensive installed base of 
obstruction lights, two specific applications offer 
Dialight substantial potential for growth. In the 
United States, structures over 199 feet require 
a white daytime strobe light and the cellular 
telephone network uses many of these towers. 
In total there are over 80,000 structures requiring 
such lighting and Dialight’s LED strobe replaces an 
unreliable xenon based strobe tube. This market 
represents over a quarter of a billion dollar opportunity 
for the Company and we remain the only qualified 
supplier of this product in the United States. In 2009 
the Company sold over 1,000 strobes and in 2010 
this number grew to almost 2,500 units. To date 
less than 5% of the current installed base of xenon 
strobes has been replaced with our high reliability 
LED product. The LED strobe is guaranteed for five 
years of use although it is quite possible that our 
strobe may outlast the tower itself! Dialight has 
supplied to eight of the top ten tower operators 
in the US in 2010 as well as many more smaller 
users and growth in this application is expected 
to continue to be strong.
+34%
growth for Dialight European LED T raffic 
Signals in 2010
98%
improved efficiency for Dialight’s LED 
red beacon compared to conventional 
incandescent systems Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010 14
Business review
Chief Executive’s review continued
Signals/Illumination continued
Obstruction lighting continued
The second growth market for obstruction lighting 
is in the wind turbine market for both on and 
offshore use. Whilst Dialight has been successful 
in addressing the North American wind turbine 
market – all of which has been onshore – we had 
been less successful in penetrating the European 
market and in particular the offshore portion of that. 
In April of 2010 we acquired the Danish company, 
BTI. BTI has strong ties to a number of European 
wind turbine manufacturers and supplies a lighting 
system for offshore application. As one might expect, 
offshore installations can be a hazard to shipping 
as well as aircraft and BTI opens up a new market 
to Dialight for not only its existing products but also 
LED products for the marine market. Although the 
wind energy market has been depressed on both 
sides of the Atlantic in 2010, the long-term future 
for wind energy and associated lights is promising 
and the BTI acquisition is key to our long-term 
success in this market outside of North America.
As ever we continue to be at the cutting edge of 
solid state lighting technology and, through BTI, 
in late 2010 we demonstrated a 100,000 candela 
strobe light for a very tall turbine tower in Sweden. 
This was not only five times brighter than our current 
strobe but will spend most of its life turned off as 
it is activated by an integral radar which will detect 
the presence of nearby aircraft and only then activate 
our strobe. This is a prime example of BTI’s channel 
presence bringing Dialight’s technology to a market 
which would otherwise have been difficult to access.
Sales in Obstruction lighting grew by over 70% 
in 2010 to £12.3 million and by almost 50% even 
excluding the acquisition of BTI. Dialight’s position 
in this market should generate strong growth over 
the next several years.
Solid state lighting
In recent years many lighting suppliers have 
concentrated on architectural and entertainment 
applications as the first uses of solid state lighting. 
By contrast Dialight has looked for those applications 
which deliver immediate value to our customers 
and has chosen lighting for hazardous, industrial 
and rugged applications as the primary thrust. 
Lights for these markets frequently need to be 
qualified to exacting international standards. 
The years 2008 and 2009 were really a period 
of foundation building for this strategy, when not 
only product needed to be developed, but also 
sales teams were being recruited and trained, 
brand awareness was being created and channels 
to market developed. The last year’s results clearly 
demonstrate that our preparation has started to 
deliver its rewards and Dialight can surely claim 
to be the clear market leader in solid state lighting 
for industrial applications.
In 2009, Dialight sold approximately 3,000 light 
fixtures in industrial markets, twice as many as 
in 2008. At the close of 2010 we had sold over 
five times as many units with sales accelerating 
throughout the year. Much of this growth has 
come from the DuroSite High Bay light which was 
introduced in late 2009, although our original 
Safesite continued to grow in sales in spite of being 
superceded in the beginning of 2011 by an improved 
version. Our customer base in 2010 comprised over 
300 companies in diverse industries from oil and 
gas to pharmaceuticals to power generation to 
cold stores and many in between. Many of these 
customers are still at the trial stage with our 
products and it is possible to view many of 
these sales as merely “seeding” the market.
95%
towers in the US that still use outdated 
xenon based dual red/white technology 
in North America Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc 15
DuroSite LED High Bay
 Mustard manufacturer   
 leading the pack 
Read more
www.dialight.com/News/Details/GSDunn_case_study
30%
 
output increase of white 
LED lighting technology 
over the past year
G.S. Dunn Customer Installation
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada
At the G.S. Dunn quality control and inspection facility in Hamilton, Ontario, 
light quality and accuracy is a primary concern to ensure the company’s dry 
mustard products meet its stringent standards. As part of a strategic plan 
to optimise visibility and reduce energy consumption, the company replaced 
the existing 450W metal halide fittings with Dialight’s 150W LED High Bay. 
The lighting upgrade resulted in both superior colour rendering, and significant 
cost and energy savings to align with the company’s fiscal and sustainability goals. Street Light Installation
Cape Girardeau, Missouri, US
Using a US stimulus funded energy block grant, the city of Cape Girardeau 
installed 104 Dialight StreetSense LED Street Lights, replacing 250W 
high-pressure sodium fittings with the 120W LED street light. Introduced 
in December 2010, the second generation street light is providing the city 
with more uniform illumination on the street and significantly improved 
colour rendering compared to the traditional fitting.
StreetSense™ LED Street Light 
Read more 
www.dialight.com/News/Details/Cape_Girardeau_Case_Study
16 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010 16
50%
 
typical energy savings with 
new StreetSense Series 
LED Street Lights
 LED lighting is the  
 buzz on the street  Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc 17
Signals/Illumination continued
Solid state lighting continued
As always our products are in a mode of continuous 
improvement and the DuroSite High Bay which was 
initially introduced as a device with 8,000 lumens 
of light at 150W is now available with 12,000 lumens 
at the same wattage and with the added features 
of being dimmable and with the option of proximity 
sensing for even more efficiency. Our main strategy 
in this market is to offer immediate value to our 
customers and we are regularly calculating payback 
periods of less than a year in installations where 
lighting is heavily used.
During the year we introduced a number of new 
products as well as improving existing fixtures. As 
mentioned earlier, LED performance has improved 
markedly over the year and we now have three viable 
suppliers of the best performing LEDs. At the end 
of 2009 we were using 100 lumen/watt devices in 
our lights and we now have a good supply at close 
to 140 lumens/watt with 160 not too far away. This 
allows us either to downsize a given fixture with the 
consequent cost reduction or improve the output 
at little to no extra cost. 
Throughout 2010, most of our sales have been 
in North America having successfully set up an 
extensive network of Dialight sales managers, 
independent manufacturers representatives and 
electrical distributors. During the latter part of 2010 
we introduced product more specifically for the 
European and Asia/Pacific markets and made some 
key recruitment decisions to drive our sales into 
these geographies. We now have an Industrial 
lighting organisation based in the UK with Dialight 
sales managers in the UK, France, Germany, Dubai 
and Singapore. In addition to these appointments, 
we have recently acquired a major share in an 
Australian lighting distributor to address this 
sizeable industrial and mining marketplace.
Having enjoyed a successful 2010, we look forward 
to continued strong growth and a good return on 
the organisation investment we have made. 
LED Indication Components
The LED Indication business consists of the supply 
of small LED assemblies for status indication for 
use by major OEMs in the professional end of 
electronics. This market has been a strong profit 
and cash generator for Dialight over many years. 
This is a niche business which we do not expect 
to grow over the long term but rather to fluctuate 
with the general market. More than half of our sales 
are channelled through electronics distributors who 
address over 15,000 Dialight customers. The balance 
of the business goes through contract manufacturers 
who build for our major OEM customers like IBM, Cisco, 
Lucent Alcatel and others. During the first half of 2010 
we saw continuation of the strong finish to 2009. 
This resulted in a build up of inventory in the distributor 
channel with a consequent correction in the second 
half of the year . Encouragingly sales by our distributors 
to end users remained flat throughout the year. 
There was no price erosion and the business continues 
to be fundamentally sound but is also expected to 
continue to follow the fluctuations of the general 
electronics market.
Electromagnetic Components
Sales in this segment grew by approximately 10%. 
All of that growth came from sales into the utility 
market driven by demand for high current switches 
to be used in SMART meters for the US. A key event 
for Dialight in 2010 was the signing of a supply 
agreement with a third major meter manufacturer 
for the US market. Shipments to this new customer 
were modest in 2010 but we expect more significant 
revenues in the coming year. 
LED Indication Components
Segment sales/profits
£23.5m
total revenue
£17.6m
total revenue
2010
.
 Sales £23.5m
.
 Profit £5.6m
2009
.
 Sales £17 .6m
.
 Profit £3.2m 18 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18
Electromagnetic Components continued
Although shorter term prospects for the SMART 
metering market are strongest in the US with over 
100 million meters to be converted, the rest of the 
world is also moving towards mass conversion to 
SMART metering. We are working on geographical 
expansion of this business where we believe we can 
generate long-term growth for the business.
As commented last year, although the growth 
potential is significant, margins are and will remain 
tight in this market.
Operations and engineering
Once again our Operations and Engineering units 
have been an important factor in the success of 
Dialight. Timely new product developments and 
continued cost and performance improvements 
can be seen in both the volume of sales for the 
Signals/Illumination segment and in the further 
enhancement to margins. Contribution margins 
improved by over 3% following the 6% 
improvement in 2009.
In 2010 we filed 29 new patents, 16 were granted 
and 61 are pending. Continuous innovation and the 
refusal to accept that status quo is good enough is 
endemic in the thought processes of our technical 
staff and this driven approach is fundamental to 
our continued success. 
Operationally we continue to tighten our supply 
chains and expand capacity ahead of the expected 
demands for our products. Investment in our North 
Carolina and Newmarket facilities has brought our 
manufacturing closer to our customers as well as 
reducing our dependence on third party suppliers. 
Inventories have remained nicely under control 
in spite of the increased volumes going through 
our factories and we are well prepared for the 
challenges that growing sales will bring in 2011.
Summary
2010 both started and ended very strongly as our 
innovative products begin to penetrate their individual 
markets bringing savings in energy, savings in 
maintenance and improved safety to our customers. 
Our strategy of selecting niche markets with strong 
growth potential for our products should set the 
scene for sustained improvements in the Group’s 
revenues along with the demonstrated margin 
improvement in our Signals/Illumination business. 
Our strategy is proving to be effective in delivering 
both top and bottom line growth and we see the 
exciting performance of our ultra-efficient lighting 
business as being just the start of accelerating 
adoption of this technology in our chosen markets.
Roy Burton 
Group Chief Executive
Business review
Chief Executive’s review continued
Electromagnetic Components
Segment sales/profits
£14.6m
total revenue
£13.3m
total revenue
2010
.
 Sales £14.6m
.
 Profit £0.1m
2009
.
 Sales £13.3m
.
 Profit £0.7m Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc 19
DuroSite LED High Bay
Read more 
www.dialight.com/News/Details/US_Financing_Program
In 2010, Dialight partnered with Capital One Leasing and Finance and 
SME Eurofinance, two leaders in flexible and affordable equipment financing 
solutions. This partnership allows customers to take advantage of affordable 
and flexible leasing and lending options when upgrading their existing lighting 
fixtures to Dialight’s high-efficiency, long-life LED lighting solutions. As financing 
options become a more critical component of many LED upgrade projects 
Dialight is now in a position to help customers by funding assets over their 
useful economic life and thereby protect their valuable working capital for 
more productive purposes.
100%
 
project financing from 
Capital One can help 
customers become cash 
positive from day one
 Financing just makes  
 dollars and sense!  20 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Income statement
Revenue in 2010 grew by 28.3% to £99.2 million 
compared with £77.3 million in 2009. This is an 
excellent performance in mixed market conditions 
and is particularly welcomed given that there has 
been growth in each of the reported market segments 
and in each of the major reported territories. Overall, 
sales pricing has remained broadly constant with 
growth achieved purely in volume alone. The strongest 
growth areas were: Obstruction, with almost 50% 
growth excluding acquisition; Lighting more than 
doubling; and European Traffic growth in excess of 
30%. Electromagnetic Components achieved high 
single digit growth albeit with the foundation set with 
new contract wins in 2010 to achieve improved 
returns in 2011.
Revenue in 2010 is split geographically:
    2010 2009 
    % of total % of total
North America   68.7 68.2
UK    10.2 10.1
Rest of Europe   11.3 10.9
Rest of World   9.8 10.8
This demonstrates the Group’s sensitivity to our 
North American business and the potential impact 
of US Dollar exchange rates. The Group also has 
exposure to the Euro.
The following exchange rates were used in 
translating the income statement and balance 
sheet of the Group and Company:
   2010  2009 
  2010 at 2009 at 
  average reporting average reporting 
  rate date rate date
US Dollar  1.53 1.56 1.57  1.62 
Euro   1.17 1.16 1.12  1.13 
The overall impact of the stronger US Dollar has 
been to increase turnover by £1.9 million and 
operating profit by £0.3 million. This has been 
partially offset by the weaker Euro which has 
reduced turnover by £0.3 million and operating 
profit by £0.1 million.
The LED Indication Components business has had 
a better year, improving, as expected, with market 
conditions. During the first half of 2010, we achieved 
strong growth which resulted in inventory build up 
in the distributor channel leading to a flat second 
half of 2010 compared with the second half of 2009. 
Our key business segment is Signals/Illumination. 
The table on the next page demonstrates the major 
advances that have been made in this business 
segment which in 2010 generated a return on sales 
of over 14% and contributed in excess of 75% of 
Group operating profit.
20
Business review
Financial review
Mark Fryer
Group Finance Director
Summary of Financial review:
.  Strong revenue growth in mixed market conditions
.  Investment of £3.7 million in engineering and cost 
reductions, over 6% of Signals/Illumination revenue
.  Lower tax rate of 34.0% with further small 
reductions expected in coming years
.  Cash contribution into US pension of £1.3 million 
ready for buyout of US scheme in H1 2011
.  Strong net cash from operations of £14.0 million
.  New banking relationship with Barclays Bank PLC
.  Customer financing schemes established Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
      2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Turnover (£m)   61.1 46.4 43.4 33.4 28.6
Operating profit (£m)   8.7 3.3 1.7 0.1 (0.5)
Return on sales (%)   14.2 7.1 3.9 0.3 N/A
Proportion of Group operating profit (%)   77.7 60.0 32.2 2.9 N/A
21
A significant contributor to these increasing returns 
is the impact of the Group’s re-engineering and 
cost reduction initiatives. In 2010, the Group invested 
over £3.7 million on research and development 
which largely relates to Signals/Illumination and 
represents 6.0% of Signals/Illumination revenue. 
The key focus will be to drive down the material 
cost of sales which for the Group as a whole 
represents 50.9% of revenue (2009: 52.5%) 
compared to direct labour which only represents 
5.2% of revenue (2009: 5.2%). The largest single 
material cost item the Group is exposed to is the 
cost of LEDs. Forecast market price reductions in LEDs 
as well as increases in LED light output give the 
Group confidence to make significant investment 
in re-engineering to reduce the number of LEDs 
purchased per product.
Administrative expenses increased by 24.3% to 
£8.9 million in 2010 driven by the inclusion of BTI 
administrative expenses, bonuses to staff, higher levels 
of headcount (particularly in sales and marketing) 
and costs of acquiring BTI (£0.1 million). These 
increased costs grew in particular in the second 
half of 2010 as we invested for the future growth 
of the Group.
The operating profit of £11.2 million is more than 
double that of the 2009 profit of £5.5 million and 
has been achieved through strong sales volume 
increases and improved contribution levels as a 
result of product introduction and re-engineering.
In 2009, there was an exceptional profit of £2.1 million 
from non-cash adjustments arising from the disposals 
of businesses in 2003 and 2005. There have been 
no exceptional losses or profits in 2010.
The tax charge for 2010 is £3.8 million 
(2009: £2.0 million) which represents 
an effective tax rate of 34.0%. 
Signals/Illumination
50%
 
Obstruction has delivered almost 
50% growth excluding acquisition
30%
 
European Traffic growth 
in 2010 was in excess of 30% 22 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Income statement continued
This is lower than the effective rate of 37.7% in 
2009 as the mix of profit generated in the UK has 
increased and deferred tax assets on historic UK 
tax losses have been recognised. The combination 
of the trend towards increasing UK profits together 
with lower future rates of UK corporation tax, should 
enable the Group to lower the effective tax rate 
going forward.
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders 
of the Company increased by 37 .2% to £7 .5 million 
from £5.4 million in 2009. The comparative for 
2009 is, however, flattered by the inclusion of 
an exceptional profit of £2.1 million.
With an increase in ordinary shares in issue (arising 
from the acquisition of BTI) the earnings per share 
(excluding exceptional profit in 2009) has increased 
to 23.8 pence from 10.6 pence in 2009.
Balance sheet
Group net assets have increased to £46.2 million 
from £40.1 million in 2009. The main reason for 
this increase was the acquisition of BTI which has 
increased assets by £3.0 million including goodwill of 
£0.8 million and the value of customer relationships 
capitalised of £1.8 million. Other increases have 
been investment in plant and equipment to support 
growth and achieve cost savings through in-sourcing 
of £1.0 million. 
Excluding the acquisition of BTI, overall working capital 
has reduced from £16.4 million to £16.1 million. Given 
the increase in sales, this is a good performance. 
Overall receivables days have reduced by almost 
15 days.
We have been able to reduce the value of the 
inventory from £9.2 million to £8.7 million 
(excluding newly acquired BTI) while sales have 
increased significantly. We have a good mix and 
ageing of inventory moving forward to achieve 
our ambitious growth targets.
The split and movement in working capital 
including BTI is outlined below:
    2010 2009 
    £m £m
Inventories   9.2 9.2
Trade and other receivables  18.9 18.2
Trade and other payables  (11.3) (11.0)
Total    16.8 16.4
The Group’s cash position at 31 December 2010 was 
£10.4 million compared with £9.1 million at the end 
of 2009. This is after paying tax of £4.7 million, 
the acquisition of BTI for £2.1 million, dividends 
of £2.2 million and funding cash contributions to 
the pension scheme of £1.3 million.
The Group has no debt other than its 
pension schemes.
The pension position improved significantly in 2009 
to a deficit of £0.9 million from the level of £4.5 million 
in 2008. In 2010 the deficit has increased slightly 
to £1.5 million. This Group deficit is a combination 
of a small surplus in the UK schemes of £0.4 million 
and a £1.8 million deficit in the US schemes. We have 
made accelerated cash contributions into the US 
schemes of £1.3 million in 2010. The deficit calculation 
for the US scheme has been calculated in accordance 
with International Accounting Standard (“IAS”) 19. 
22
Business review
Financial review continued Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc 23
Given the high level of cash contributions to the 
US schemes and high cost of administration and 
management time spent on these schemes we plan 
to attempt a full buy-out of this scheme in the first 
half of 2011. We have been advised that the cost 
of this buy-out premium will be allowable for US 
corporate tax purposes although the cost of the 
premium above the IAS deficit would be chargeable 
to income as a one-off charge.
Cash flow
The significant improvement in operating profit 
and prudent management of working capital has 
generated strong net cash from operations of 
£14.0 million (2009: £11.0 million). From this we 
have funded capital expenditure of £2.8 million 
(2009: £1.6 million) to support new product 
development, achieve cost savings in product 
costing and other cost improvements. There 
has also been tax of £4.7 million paid in 2010, 
the acquisition of BTI has been completed for 
£2.1 million and dividends of £2.2 million have 
been paid. Cash contributions have also been 
made to the pension schemes totalling £1.6 million 
(income charge of £0.3 million and £1.3 million 
through other comprehensive income).
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2010 
were £10.4 million (2009: £9.1 million).
Dividend
In line with the Group’s progressive dividend policy, 
the Board proposes a final dividend of 5.2 pence 
giving a total dividend for the year of 8.0 pence, 
an increase of 21.2% over 2009 when an interim 
dividend of 2.3 pence and a second interim of 
4.3 pence was paid (total 6.6 pence). A total dividend 
of 8.0 pence would be covered 3.0 times. The final 
dividend, if approved by shareholders at the AGM, 
would be paid on 6 May 2011 to members on the 
register at the close of business on 8 April 2011.
Banking
The Group has moved its banking relationship to 
Barclays Bank PLC. The Group has a £3.0 million 
overdraft facility as well as a revolving credit facility 
of £7.0 million that can be called should a suitable 
acquisition opportunity arise. The Group has also had 
discussions with Barclays with regard to term facilities 
of a further £13.0 million should these be required.
During 2010 the Group also commenced new 
relationships with Capital One Bank in the US 
and SME Eurofinance Group plc to offer finance 
facilities to its customers. These facilities are not 
underwritten by the Group.
Mark Fryer
Group Finance Director
Group net assets (£m)
07 08 09 10
Net cash (£m)
07 08 09 10
30.8
37.5
40.1
46.2
6.6
4.1
9.1
10.4
£46.2m
+15.2%
£10.4m
+14.2% Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010 24
Business review
Principal risks and uncertainties
The following section sets out the principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group. There may be other risks and uncertainties which 
are not yet known or which are currently considered to be immaterial 
but later turn out to have a material impact.
Some of the areas set out will be outside of any influence that the 
Group may exert. Should any of the risks actually materialise then 
Dialight’s business, financial condition, prospects and share price 
could be materially and adversely affected.
Macro-economic 
conditions
The Group’s sales and 
profits may be impacted 
by spending slowdowns 
and/or increasing 
inflationary pressures.
Area of risk
Changes in government 
legislation or policy
National and local policies 
with regard to energy 
savings in a number of 
areas such as transport 
and communication are 
constantly evolving.
Competitive environment
Dialight operates in 
competitive markets 
with threats of existing 
competitors or potential 
new entrants.
Laws and regulations
The Group’s operations 
are subject to a wide range 
of laws and regulations.
Description and mitigating activity
A significant slowdown in economic conditions globally and in certain territories such as North America 
could have a material effect on sales and operating profit in particular for the LED Indication Components 
business. The current adverse conditions for public organisations to reduce and/or defer their capital 
spending budgets may impact on sales of some of our products. 
Mitigating activities include:
.  Management of the LED Indication Components business monitors the general electronics demand 
index as well as industry forecasts so as to become aware of market trends.
.  The monthly point of sales data which is provided by US distributors is reviewed as this is also 
considered to provide valuable information on market demand. 
This should favour Dialight’s efforts in growing sales in some key niche current and potential opportunities 
identified by the Signals/Illumination business. Additionally, legislation may introduce new higher and 
more exacting specifications for existing products which will require product redesign and regulatory 
re-certification. Therefore changes in product specifications should favour Dialight in giving it an 
advantage over competition.
Mitigating activities include:
.  It is Dialight’s policy to operate in highly regulated markets which require suppliers to achieve 
compliance with demanding product standards.
.  Dialight’s design and engineering departments have a proven track record in technical ability 
evidenced by strong working relationships with customers and regulatory boards, the design 
and introduction of new products and a portfolio of registered IPR.
The threat may, for example, come from an extremely aggressive pricing policy for larger traffic 
contract bids in US and Europe.
Mitigating activities include:
.  Dialight’s focus on identifying, developing and maintaining sales routes to market, servicing 
strong customer relationships; competitive and leading-edge product portfolios and cost-efficient 
manufacturing plants support Dialight as a major player in its chosen markets and helps to reduce 
the risk of losing market share to competition.
Mitigating activities include:
.  Group policies and procedures are documented and communicated through a policies and 
procedures manual.
.  All Group companies have an employee handbook detailing employment practices and staff receive 
the appropriate training and support to operate in their roles.
.  Each site has a health and safety manager responsible for compliance and performance in this area. Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
25
Strategy for revenue 
growth – LED technology
The strategy of the Board 
includes the following 
financial goals:
—  to grow sales by 
compound double-digit 
percentage; and
—  compound EPS growth 
in the mid-teens
Achievement of the goals is dependent on growing sales in the chosen markets within the Signals/
Illumination business such as industrial solid state lighting. The adoption by the market of LEDs for 
new applications is principally dependent on the increased efficiency and reduced cost of LEDs versus 
existing technologies such as fluorescent or high-intensity discharge. The achievability of the Group’s 
longer-term sales growth would be seriously at risk if the parties who are developing the LEDs did not 
achieve the expected progress such that new applications did not become feasible.
Additionally with the fast-changing technology world that exists there is a possibility of a technology 
being developed that supersedes LEDs.
Mitigating activities include:
.  Dialight’s engineers are actively contributing by their presence on industry related boards 
and their attendance and presentations at industry seminars, so as to be proactively involved 
and to keep abreast of developments on a regular basis.
Intellectual property
The development and 
ownership of intellectual 
property is critical in 
underpinning the growth 
potential for the business.
The Group operates a stringent policy on the sharing of know-how with third parties as well as having 
a well defined policy on the in-house identification and registration of patents. If the Group fails to or is unable 
to protect, maintain and enforce its existing intellectual property, it may result in the loss for the Group, to the 
exclusive right to use technologies and processes which are included or used in its businesses.
Mitigating activities include:
.  Plans to improve the quality of the new product introduction systems across the businesses have 
been implemented with good progress being made as evidenced by the expanding patent portfolio.
Product liability risks
Products should conform 
to agreed specifications.
If a product of the Group does not conform to agreed specifications or is otherwise defective, the Group 
may be the subject of claims by its customers arising from end-product defects or other such claims.
 The Group is currently aware of a potential claim from a Signalling/Illumination customer which 
cannot be quantified.
Mitigating activities include:
.  The Group carries appropriate product liability insurance.
Financial markets
Turmoil in global financial 
markets could pose risks to 
Dialight’s financial position.
Any turmoil poses risks to both Dialight’s customers and suppliers, as well as the ability of the Group 
to negotiate bank facilities.
Mitigating activities include:
.  There are ongoing reviews of supplier bases to ensure wherever possible that there is not 
over-reliance on one specific supplier.
.  The Group has a new banking relationship with Barclays. Currently the Group has not drawn down 
any borrowings against the existing facility. Regular contact will be kept with the bank to ensure 
that they understand the business and its requirements.
.  Customers are subject to credit checks and there is very close review of trade debtor days 
outstanding and overdue amounts. Purchase limits are set for all customers.
Currency exchange
The Group is exposed 
to translation exchange 
rate risk.
As a significant proportion of the Group’s results, assets and liabilities are reported in US Dollars and 
Euros, they are subject to exchange rate risk when translated to UK Sterling for incorporation into the 
Group’s results.
Mitigating activities include:
.  Where possible the Group nets such exposures and will maintain a hedging programme utilising 
foreign exchange forward contracts and currency overdrafts to cover specific contracts and such 
proportion of other anticipated exposures as can be estimated with reasonable certainty.
Acquisitions
Inability to identify suitable 
acquisition targets and 
to integrate successfully 
acquired businesses into 
the Group.
The successful implementation of Dialight’s acquisition strategy depends on its ability to identify targets, 
successful completion of the transaction, achievement of an acceptable rate of return and a successful 
and timely integration post-acquisition.
Mitigating activities include:
.  The Board plans to make acquisitions of businesses where the targets fit appropriately into the 
Group strategy by strengthening Dialight’s product range and existing technologies, offering new and 
attractive sales routes to markets, having high performance and motivated management, and having 
a proven profit record.
Area of risk Description and mitigating activity 26 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Business review
Corporate social responsibility
26
2010 has seen Dialight start to adopt a more formal 
approach to CSR and 2011 will see this continuing.
Polices and procedures
The Group Polices and Procedures Manual 
(the “Manual”) sets out all polices and procedures 
that the Group must follow. The Manual includes 
sections on environmental policy, whistleblowing, 
recruitment and health and safety.
Health and safety
Dialight is committed to achieving and maintaining 
the highest reasonable standards of health and safety 
across all its businesses so as to provide a safe 
environment for employees, customers and visitors. 
The management of each business is responsible 
for ensuring compliance with the Group’s policy 
and relevant local health and safety regulations. 
At Board level the Group Chief Executive has 
overall responsibility for health and safety.
Each business has staff who have received the 
appropriate level of training to manage the local 
policy. The business procedures and systems are 
designed to:
.  run training programmes for employees on 
health and safety matters whilst reinforcing the 
importance of a culture which is focused on safe 
working procedures;
.  monitor and assess work procedures and 
to implement changes where required; and
.  communicate with all employees to develop 
a work culture which recognises the importance 
of health and safety procedures.
The businesses conduct continual self assessment 
of their operating systems and controls. A report on 
health and safety matters is included in the monthly 
reports submitted to the Group Chief Executive by 
the businesses. In addition health and safety 
performance is now included as a formal Board 
agenda item.
An independent firm of health and safety consultants 
has been engaged to perform random visits to 
each of the business sites and to submit a report 
of their findings to both local management and 
Dialight’s Board. The independent reviews have 
not produced any significant findings.
The Board considers its approach to corporate 
social responsibility to be integral to the successful 
operation of the business. 
Corporate social responsibilty (“CSR”) covers the Group’s 
many and varied responsibilities to its employees, 
customers, suppliers and shareholders as well as the 
impact of the Group’s operations on the environment 
and the wider community.  27 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Environment
Dialight’s products do not require capital-intensive 
processes. The Group policy in respect of 
manufacturing sites is to operate within systems 
which monitor , control and, where practical, minimise 
any environmental effect. Emissions of gases, 
chemicals and water are well below government 
thresholds and, in most cases, undetectable. Principal 
areas of focus are the reduction of waste and the 
minimisation of water and energy consumption. 
All sites operate to increase reuse and the recycling 
of materials including packaging. 
The other key area of focus is the quantity and 
type of material used in the products manufactured. 
The engineering department performs an important 
role in progressing the programme to reduce the 
amount of material used in the products and, where 
practical, to substitute out hazardous material. 
This action covers own purchases and material 
used by suppliers. Dialight works to meet and 
exceed internationally recognised regulations 
such as RoHS–2002/95/EC, WEEE–2002/96/EC, 
ELV–200/53/EC dated 27 June 2002 and JGPSSI 
dated 22 July 2003.
Products are WEEE compliant and compliance 
with the regulation has not had a material impact 
on the Group. Many of the Group’s products have 
a positive impact on the global environment, 
particularly its Signals/Illumination products, 
as they are proven to significantly reduce energy 
consumption compared with similar products using 
other technologies. Further details on this aspect 
of Dialight’s products are set out in the Overview 
on pages 2 to 7.
The workplace
Dialight’s culture is one of openness, honesty 
and accountability and one that recognises 
that all employees play a part in delivering the 
Group’s business performance in a safe 
and efficient environment.
27
Overview  .
Business review  
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
View this page online  
ar10.dialight.com/corporateresponsibility Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Board of Directors
28
1 2
3 4
5 6 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
29
1. Harry Tee CBE (age 65 years)
Chairman
Harry Tee CBE founded The Roxboro Group (now Dialight plc) 
in 1990 and has a lifetime’s experience in management within the 
electronics industry. He is now Group Chairman, having retired 
as Chief Executive of the Group on 29 September 2005, and 
Chairman of the Nominations Committee. Prior to forming 
The Roxboro Group he was a main board director at Graseby plc 
and held a number of senior management posts in Schlumberger 
and ITT. Harry is Chairman of Scientific Digital Imaging plc, 
Piezotag Ltd and has recently retired as Chairman of 
The Electronics Leadership Council. He is currently Immediate 
Past Master of the Worshipful Company of Scientific Instrument 
Makers and is a Past President of GAMBICA and EECA and a past 
Vice-President of FEI and Intellect. He is a Fellow of the Institute 
of Engineering and Technology, a Fellow of the Royal Institution 
and a Fellow of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, 
Manufacture and Commerce. Harry was honoured with a CBE 
in the Queen’s Birthday Honours List in 2008 for services to the 
electronics industry .
2. Roy Burton (age 63 years)
Group Chief Executive
Appointed President and CEO of Dialight Corporation in July 
2002, Roy Burton became Group Chief Executive of Dialight 
plc in September 2005. Roy has many years’ experience in 
the electronics industry having started his career in the UK 
working with Philips Electronics, ITT and Amphenol Corporation 
with whom he relocated to the US. In 1994 he became Group 
President Electronics for Thomas and Betts Corporation 
headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee and prior to his 
appointment at Dialight was CEO of Coraza Systems Inc. 
Roy is based at Dialight Corporation’s headquarters in 
Farmingdale, New Jersey.
3. Mark Fryer (age 43 years)
Group Finance Director
Mark Fryer was appointed as Group Finance Director with 
effect from 31 August 2010. From 1995 to August 2010 he 
was Group Finance and Business Development Director 
of Manganese Bronze Holdings plc. Prior to this he worked 
at GKN plc as Finance Director of the Industrial Services 
Division and was latterly Chief Financial Officer of a GKN 
subsidiary in the United States. He was also Financial Controller 
of Mercury Communications, a subsidiary of Cable & Wireless 
plc. Mark is a Chartered Accountant, having qualified with 
Ernst & Young in 1988. 
4. Bill Ronald (age 55 years)
Senior Independent Director
Bill Ronald joined Dialight as a Non-Executive Director in 
May 2009. He was appointed Senior Independent Director 
on 25 August 2010, is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations 
Committees. He is currently also a Non-Executive Director 
of Bezier Group, Halfords Group plc and Alfesca HF. He was 
Chief Executive of Uniq plc, a pan-European convenience 
food business, from 2002 until 2005. Prior to this Bill’s 
career was with the Mars Corporation where, in 1998 he 
was appointed Managing Director of the UK confectionery 
operation and a Vice-President of Masterfoods Europe having 
held a variety of roles in the Sales and Marketing functions. 
6. Richard Stuckes (age 43 years)
Non-Executive Director
Richard Stuckes joined Dialight as a Non-Executive Director 
in May 2009 and is a member of the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nominations Committees. Following the acquisition of 
Imperial Chemical Industries plc (“ICI”) by AkzoNobel in 
January 2008, Richard was appointed to his current role of 
Chief Executive Officer, UK, Ireland, China, South Africa and 
Building Adhesives Europe. Richard originally joined ICI Paints 
on 1 January 2005 and in July 2005, had been appointed to 
the role of Chief Executive Officer, ICI Paints UK and Ireland. 
Prior to this, Richard gained extensive experience in the 
lighting industry through his 13 years with Philips Lighting, 
including his role as Managing Director for the UK activity 
and for both the Spanish and Portuguese businesses.
5. Robert Lambourne (age 58 years)
Non-Executive Director
Robert Lambourne joined Dialight as a Non-Executive Director 
in May 2010. He is both Chairman of the Audit Committee 
and a member of the Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees. He is a Chartered Accountant and has held 
a number of public company executive directorships, most 
recently as Finance Director of RMC Group Plc and, prior 
to that, as Finance Director of Hepworth plc. He is an 
experienced Non-Executive Director of both public and 
private companies in the UK and overseas. In the UK, he has 
been a Non-Executive Director of Pace Micro Technology plc, 
Abacus Group Plc and Analyst Investment Management plc 
as well as a number of private companies. Outside the UK, 
he is currently Chairman of Penox SA based in France and 
of Sokao Holdings SA based in Belgium and was also a 
Non-Executive Director of Huttig Inc in the US.  30 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Directors’ report
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the year 
ended 31 December 2010.
Principal activities
The Company is the holding company of the Dialight Group of Companies (“Dialight” or the “Group”), the world leader in applied 
LED technology. The Group’s operations comprise three segments: Signals/Illumination; LED Indication Components; and 
Electromagnetic Components. A brief summary of each segment’s operations can be found on the inside front cover and the 
Overview section of the Annual Report on pages 1 to 7. In addition the Business review on pages 8 to 27 contains information 
on business developments during the year.
Business review
The Board is required to present a fair view of the business performance of the Group during the financial year ended 
31 December 2010, a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the future developments of 
the business. The information that satisfies the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 can be found in the Chairman’s 
statement, the Chief Executive’s review, the Financial review, the principal risks and uncertainties section, the KPIs and the 
Corporate social responsibility report. These can be found on pages 8 to 27 . Each is incorporated by reference into, and forms 
part of, this Directors’ report.
Results and dividends
Results for the year are set out in the consolidated income statement on page 47. The Board recommends a final dividend of 
5.2 pence per ordinary share, making a total dividend for the year of 8.0 pence (2009: 6.6 pence). Subject to the approval of 
shareholders at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 6 May 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business 
on 8 April 2011. No final dividend was paid in respect of 2009 although a second interim dividend of 4.3 pence per ordinary 
share was declared and paid to shareholders on 1 April 2010. 
Acquisitions and investments
On 28 April 2010 the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of BTI, a Danish company offering signalling and safety 
equipment for the wind, marine and airport industries, for an initial consideration of £3.0 million. In settlement of the consideration, 
£2.1 million was paid in cash and 360,730 ordinary shares in the Company were issued. The acquisition enhanced the Company’s 
growing signalling business and provides a strong channel to the growing European offshore wind market. This complements 
the Group’s already significant North American penetration of the wind turbine market and strengthens the Group’s presence 
in Europe. 
At the beginning of 2011 the Group also acquired 75% of ILS, the Group’s Australian distributor . This company now trades as 
Dialight ILS and serves the large industrial, hazardous and mining sectors in Australia. This further supports the Group’s 
move into the industrial and hazardous lighting market with its ultra efficient lighting products.
Corporate governance
A review of the Group’s application of the principles and provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued 
by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 (the “Code”) is set out on pages 34 to 38.
Directors and interests
The names of the Directors currently serving on the Board are shown on pages 28 and 29, together with brief biographical 
details for each. 
George Ralph, Interim Finance Director , and Robert Jeens resigned as Directors of the Company on 28 September 2010 and 
25 August 2010 respectively. The Group appointed Mark Fryer as Group Finance Director on 31 August 2010. As a result of 
Robert Jeens’ resignation, Robert Lambourne was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee on 26 May 2010. 
The AGM in April 2011 will see the start of annual re-election for all Directors. A provision in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
published in June 2010, which although not directly applicable to the Company at this time, has been adopted with immediate 
effect by the Board. 
The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company as well as details of the Directors’ 
remuneration and service contracts can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 39 to 43. None of the Directors had 
or has an interest in any material contract relating to the business of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings. 
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
During the year the Company maintained liability insurance and third party qualifying indemnity provisions pursuant to the 
Companies Act 2006 for its Directors and officers.  31 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Financial instruments
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company including interest rate, currency and credit risk are 
outlined in note 22 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
AGM
The Company’s AGM will take place at 11.30am on 20 April 2011 at the Glaziers Hall, 9 Montague Close, London Bridge, London SE1 9DD. 
The Notice of the AGM (the “Notice”) can be found on pages 85 to 92. The Notice sets out details of the resolutions that will be 
proposed at the AGM as well as explanatory notes that provide the background and reasons for the resolutions. 
At the 2010 AGM shareholders granted the Directors the authority to purchase up to 3,123,950 ordinary shares in the Company, 
which will expire on 12 May 2011. A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 20 April 2011. 
Political and charitable contributions
During the year the Group made contributions of £1,000 (2009: £1,000) to various charities. It is Group policy that no donations 
are made for political purposes and as a result there were no such political donations made during the year (2009: £nil).
Employees
Regular communication with employees is key to ensuring that there is clarity which allows all to understand their role 
in improving the Group’s business performance. Regular meetings are held by regional management teams to discuss 
performance and strategy. All are encouraged to contribute to discussions. 
Employment policies are designed to attract, retain and motivate the best people. These cover performance management, 
employee development, succession planning and recruitment, as well as including guidelines on staff appraisals and consultations 
between individuals and local management. Training and development is undertaken locally but all employees are given equal 
opportunities to develop their experience and their careers. 
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements 
of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person. Employees who become disabled are provided, 
where practicable, with continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and are provided with training and 
career development wherever appropriate. 
2010 saw the appointment of a Group HR Director. This appointment will be key in shaping the approach of the Group to its 
employees as it moves forward in order to meet the demands of a growing business. As well as reviewing the Group’s existing policies 
and procedures in this area, the development of the Group’s senior management will become a key area of focus.
Research and development
The Group continues to invest resources engaged in technology and product development in the UK, Denmark, Germany and 
the US and to update and expand its product range. Investment in this area is essential for the Group to retain and increase 
its market share in its competitive markets. 
Creditor payment policy and practice
Terms of payment are agreed with individual suppliers prior to supply. It is the Group’s policy to settle with its suppliers as 
payments fall due, provided the supplier has delivered the goods and services in accordance with agreed terms and conditions. 
As the Company is a non-trading holding Company it has no trade creditors. At 31 December 2010, the Group had an average 
of 43 days’ (2009: 47 days’) purchases outstanding in trade creditors. 
Share capital structure
Share capital
As at 31 December 2010 the Company had 31,600,231 fully paid ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each in issue which are listed 
on the London Stock Exchange. The Company has a single class of shares. No shares have been issued that carry any special 
rights with regard to the control of the Company. Full details of the Company’s share capital are given in note 37 to the accounts. 
Substantial shareholdings
As at 9 March 2011 the Company had received the following notifications pursuant to DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules of the FSA (the “DTR”). 
  % of issued share 
Shareholder Number of voting rights capital/voting rights
 BlackRock Inc.        4,142,239   13.11
Standard Life Investments Ltd       3,989,042   12.62
Generation Investment Management LLP     1,712,000   5.42
Impax Asset Management Ltd       1,538,820   4.87
Aberforth Partners LLP       1,514,403   4.79
The Tee Family        1,453,357   4.65
BlackRock UK Smaller Companies Fund
1
      1,270,650   4.02
Legal and General Group plc       1,207,443   3.82
1 Note that this holding also forms part of the larger holding of BlackRock Inc. but was notified in its own right. 32 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Directors’ report continued
Share capital structure continued
Rights and obligations
The rights and obligations attached to the Company’s shares are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association (the 
“Articles”), a copy of which can be obtained from the Company Secretary at Dialight plc, Exning Road, Newmarket, Suffolk CB8 
0AX (the “Registered Office”). The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the Company at a general meeting. 
No one person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share capital and all shares are fully paid. Each ordinary 
share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Dividends
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Articles, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend declared 
or paid out of profits available for such purposes. The Directors may withhold a dividend (or any part of a dividend) or other 
amount payable in respect of shares if a shareholder has not supplied information to the Company in default of a request duly 
served under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Default Shares”) and such shares represent at least 0.25% of the 
class of shares concerned. 
Transfer restrictions
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares, although the Articles contain provisions whereby 
Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid. The Directors may also refuse to 
register the transfer of a certificated share unless: (1) it is in respect of a share over which the Company has no lien; (2) it is in 
respect of only one class of shares; (3) it is in favour of a single transferee or not more than four joint transferees; (4) it is duly 
stamped; and (5) it is delivered to the Registered Office or such other place as the Board may decide, accompanied by the 
certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title 
of the transferor and the due execution by him of the transfer or, if the transfer is executed by some other person on his 
behalf, the authority of that person to do so. 
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of shares if a shareholder has not supplied information to the Company 
in default of a request duly served under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and such shares represent at least 0.25% 
of the class of shares concerned. The Company is unaware of any arrangements between its shareholders that may result 
in restriction on the transfer of shares and/or voting rights. 
Voting restrictions
Subject to special terms as to voting on which shares have been issued, at a general meeting, every member present in 
person or proxy has one vote per ordinary share. In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders 
a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and seniority 
is determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the register. 
Unless the Board otherwise decides, no member is entitled in respect of a share held by him to be present or to vote, either 
in person or by proxy, at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of class of shares or on a poll, or to exercise 
other rights conferred by membership in relation to the meeting or poll, if a call or other amount due and payable in respect of 
the share is unpaid. This restriction ceases on payment of the amount outstanding and all costs, charges and expenses incurred 
by the Company by reason of the non-payment. The member is not entitled in respect of the Default Shares to be present or 
to vote (either in person or by proxy) at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of a class of shares or on 
a poll, or to exercise other rights conferred by membership in relation to the meeting or poll. 
Subject to existing statutory provisions and the Articles, a poll may be demanded on any question by the Chairman of the meeting; 
or not less than five members present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote; or a member or members present in person 
or by proxy representing in aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all the members having the right to 
vote at the meeting; or a member or members present in person or by proxy holding shares conferring a right to vote at the 
meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up 
on all the shares conferring that right. A demand by a proxy is deemed to be a demand by the member appointing the proxy. 
Variation of rights
Subject to statutory provisions, the rights attached to a class of shares may be varied whether or not the Company is being 
wound up (i) in such manner (if any) as may be provided by those rights; or (ii) in the absence of provision, either with the 
consent in writing of the holders of at least three-fourths of the nominal amount of the issued shares of that class (excluding 
any shares of that class held as treasury shares) or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of 
the holders of the issued shares of that class validly held in accordance with the Articles, but not otherwise. 
The rights attached to a class of shares are not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, 
deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with or subsequent to them or by the purchase 
or redemption by the Company of its own shares in accordance with existing statutory provisions. 
Re-appointment of Directors
The appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company is governed by its Articles and the Companies Act 2006. 
Further information concerning the appointment and re-appointment of Directors at the 2011 AGM can be found in the 
Corporate governance statement on pages 34 to 38.  33 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Share capital structure continued
Rights and obligations continued
Re-appointment of Directors continued
The Company must have a minimum of two Directors holding office at all times. There is no maximum number of Directors. 
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, appoint any person to be a Director. The Board may appoint a person who is willing 
to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the Board. A Director appointed in this way may hold office only 
until the dissolution of the next AGM unless he or she is re-appointed during the meeting. 
Under the Articles, at each AGM of the Company, any Director who (i) was appointed or re-appointed three years or more prior 
to the meeting; (ii) was appointed or re-appointed at the third immediately preceding AGM; or (iii) at the time of the AGM has 
served more than eight years as a Non-Executive Director of the Company (excluding the Chairman) shall retire by rotation 
and such further Directors must retire by rotation so that in total not less than one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each 
year. However, the Board has decided to adopt provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 so that all Directors 
stand for re-election on an annual basis with immediate effect.
Power of Directors
The Directors are responsible for the management of the business of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company 
subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the Articles and any special resolution of the Company passed at a general 
meeting. The Directors have the power to issue and buy back shares in the Company, as well as to grant options over or otherwise 
dispose of unissued shares in the Company, to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they think proper . 
Change of control
Significant agreements
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that contain any material change of control provisions.
Dialight Performance Share Plan
The rules of the Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) provide that, in the event of a change of control through a general offer 
or scheme of arrangement, shares subject to awards under the PSP could be released within one month of the date of 
notification of the likely change of control. 
Dialight Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust
The Company has established the Dialight Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOT”) in which all employees of the 
Group, including Executive Directors, are potential beneficiaries. The ESOT currently holds 159,621 (2009: 256,000) ordinary 
shares in the capital of the Company. The Trustees of the ESOT retain the voting rights over the shares held in the ESOT and 
exercise these rights independent of the interests of the Company. 
Going concern
The Directors have reasonable expectations, after making appropriate enquiries, that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue in operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the accounts. 
Disclosure of information to the auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he 
ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company and to authorise the Board to determine the auditors’ 
remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board 
Nick Giles  Registered office:
Company Secretary  Dialight plc
9 March 2011  Exning Road
  Newmarket
 Suffolk CB8 0AX
 
 Company Number: 2486024 34 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Corporate governance statement
1. Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the “Code”)
This report, and the Remuneration report contained on pages 39 to 43, describes how the Group has applied and complied 
with the principles, supporting principles and provisions contained in the Code of the Financial Reporting Council (“FRC”) as 
published in June 2008 for reporting years commencing on or after 29 June 2008. 
The Board considers that the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in the Code throughout the year 
ended 31 December 2010. The Directors’ statement regarding compliance with requirements relating to internal control can be 
found below in section 3. 
The Board has considered the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “New Code”) following its publication in June 2010 and is 
reviewing its policies and procedures in line with the updated provisions. Compliance with the provisions of the New Code will 
be reported on in the Company’s next Annual Report.
Further information on the Code and New Code can be found on the FRC’s website, www.frc.org.uk.
2. Directors
(a) The Board
The Board is accountable to the Group’s stakeholders, including its shareholders, for the standards of governance operated 
throughout the Group. It is committed to high standards throughout all of the Group’s operating locations.
Policies and procedures that are adopted by the Board are included in the Group Policies and Procedures Manual (the “Manual”). 
This includes the role and authorities that are applicable to the Board, the Executive and the operating businesses and how 
these are delegated where appropriate. Updates to this Manual are approved by the Board and communicated across the 
Group as required. 
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters that are specifically reserved for its decision including the approval of 
annual and interim results; the recommendation of dividends; approval of annual budgets; review of Group strategic plans; 
the approval of larger capital expenditure and investment proposals; review of the overall system of internal control and risk 
management; and the review of corporate governance arrangements. 
Specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees and these are documented 
through the relevant committee terms of reference. The matters reserved for Board decision and the committee terms of 
reference are reviewed on an annual basis. These are available on the Company’s website at www.dialight.com or from the 
Company Secretary at the Company’s Registered Office.
The Board held eight scheduled meetings during 2010 including a two-day annual strategy and planning meeting hosted at the 
Group’s US headquarters in Farmingdale, New Jersey, US as well as meeting on a number of other occasions as the situation 
and circumstances required. Further details of Directors’ attendance at all scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees 
can be found in the table below. There are seven Board meetings scheduled to take place in 2011. 
Board agendas are prepared by the Chairman in conjunction with the Group Chief Executive and the Company Secretary. 
At each meeting the Board is provided with regular and timely information on the financial performance of businesses within 
the Group, and of the Group as a whole, together with reports on trading, health and safety, performance, markets and other 
relevant issues.
Board and Committee papers are distributed to Directors in advance of Board and committee meetings to facilitate informed 
debate at the meeting. No individuals apart from the committee chairman and committee members are allowed to be present 
at committee meetings although other individuals including the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, 
Group HR Director and external auditors may attend meetings at the prior invitation of the Committee Chairman. 
          Audit Remuneration Nominations 
Number of meetings attended       Board Committee Committee Committee
Harry Tee CBE        8/8 N/A N/A 6/6
Roy Burton
1
        8/8 N/A N/A 1/6
Mark Fryer
2
        3/8 N/A N/A N/A
George Ralph
3
         5/8 N/A N/A N/A
Robert Jeens
4
        5/8 2/3 3/5 5/6
Robert Lambourne 
5
       5/8 2/3 3/5 3/6
Bill Ronald        8/8 3/3 5/5 6/6
Richard Stuckes        8/8 3/3 5/5 6/6
1 Roy Burton was appointed to the Nominations Committee on 13 December 2010.
2 Mark Fryer was appointed as Finance Director on 31 August 2010.
3 George Ralph was appointed as Interim Finance Director on 17 December 2009 and resigned on 28 September 2010.
4 Robert Jeens resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 25 August 2010.
5 Robert Lambourne was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 26 May 2010. 35 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
2. Directors continued
(b) Chairman and Group Chief Executive
There are clearly established roles for the Chairman and Group Chief Executive. Revised role statements were formally documented 
and adopted by the Board on 13 December 2010. These are available on the Company’s website at www.dialight.com or from the 
Company Secretary at the Company’s Registered Office.
In addition to other matters, the Chairman has responsibility for the leadership of the Board, ensuring the effectiveness of the 
Board, organising and planning Board meetings and the effective and timely communication of information to shareholders. 
The Chairman provides advice, counsel and support to the Group Chief Executive as and when required and maintains open 
and continual contact with the Non-Executive Directors to allow any issues to be addressed outside of the formal scope of the 
regular Board meetings. 
The Group Chief Executive has delegated responsibility for the management of the Group’s day-to-day operations. In addition 
he is responsible for the preparation and presentation of strategic options for the Group’s growth in shareholder value and 
sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy. The Group Chief Executive is also responsible for 
ensuring that the Group maintains appropriate risk management and control mechanisms. 
(c) Board Committees
(i) Nominations Committee
Committee composition
The Committee comprises Harry Tee CBE (Committee Chairman), Robert Lambourne, Bill Ronald, Richard Stuckes and Roy Burton.
With the exception of Robert Lambourne, who was appointed on 26 May 2010, Robert Jeens, who resigned on 25 August 2010 
and Roy Burton, who was appointed on 13 December 2010, all members served throughout the year. All members of the 
Committee, with the exception of Harry Tee and Roy Burton, are considered independent pursuant to the Code. 
Committee role and activities during the year
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board making recommendations 
where necessary, giving consideration to the provision of adequate succession planning for senior executives and Directors 
and making recommendations regarding re-election and re-appointment of Directors. In appropriate cases, recruitment 
consultants are engaged to assist with any recruitment process. 
During the year the Committee managed the selection process in respect of the new Group Finance Director, Mark Fryer, and 
a new Non-Executive Director , Robert Lambourne, in response to the resignation of Robert Jeens. Both appointments involved the 
preparation of suitable job descriptions and the design of the selection processes in conjunction with external recruitment consultants. 
Following this experience the decision was taken by the Committee in December 2010 to appoint the Group Chief Executive as 
an additional member, as it was felt that his contribution was of real value and importance to its work and decision making.
(ii) Remuneration Committee
Details of the composition, role and activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year can be found in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 39 to 43. 
(iii) Audit Committee
Committee composition
The Committee comprises Robert Lambourne (Committee Chairman), Bill Ronald and Richard Stuckes. Robert Jeens served as 
Committee Chairman until his resignation on 25 August 2010 when he was replaced by Robert Lambourne.
With the exception of Robert Lambourne, who was appointed on 26 May 2010, and Robert Jeens, who resigned on 25 August 2010, 
all members on the Committee served throughout the year. All members are considered independent pursuant to the Code. 
The Board considers that the Committee Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience and an understanding of 
accounting and financial issues relevant to the industries in which the Group operates. 
Committee role and activities during the year
The Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the half year and annual accounts before their 
submission to the Board for approval and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information 
reported to the shareholders. The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and responsibilities 
of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results 
of the audit with external auditors. 
The Committee monitors risk management and internal control processes as part of its responsibilities and reviews reports on 
the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management. The Committee 
also monitors the integrity of internal financial controls and it will assess the scope and the effectiveness of the established systems 
to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks. The Committee has oversight of the internal audit process.  36 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Corporate governance statement continued
2. Directors continued
(c) Board Committees continued
(iii) Audit Committee continued
Committee role and activities during the year continued
The Committee considers the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of KPMG Audit Plc (the “Auditors” or “KPMG”), 
the external auditors, on a regular basis. It also agrees the level of remuneration of the Auditors and reviews the extent of 
non-audit services provided by KPMG during the year. The scope of the external audit for each business, together with the 
audit fees were presented by KPMG at the Committee meeting in November 2010. Both the audit scope and related fees were 
approved at that meeting. The Auditors annually confirm their policies to ensure independence and provide the Committee 
with a report on their own internal quality control procedures. 
Committee meetings are attended by the Auditors at the invitation of the Committee Chairman to ensure full communication of 
matters relating to the audit. The Committee also meets with the Auditors without the Executive Directors present to discuss 
the adequacy of controls and any material judgemental areas. 
In accordance with the Manual, prior approval of the provision of any non-audit services must be provided by the Group 
Finance Director, although assignments with proposed fees over £20,000 require the approval of the Committee as a whole. 
This serves to ensure that other potential providers of the service under discussion have also been adequately considered. 
(d) Board balance and independence
The Board currently comprises six Directors including the Chairman, two Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive 
Directors. Robert Jeens was the Senior Independent Director until his resignation on 25 August 2010 when Bill Ronald was appointed 
in his place. Robert Lambourne was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 26 May 2010.
An Interim Finance Director, George Ralph, served on the Board from 17 December 2009 and resigned on 28 September 2010. 
A permanent Group Finance Director , Mark Fryer , was appointed on 31 August 2010. All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered 
to be independent in accordance with the Code. It is thought that the current balance on the Board ensures that no individual 
or group dominates the Board’s decision making process. The Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and are 
free from any relationship which could affect the exercise of their independent judgement and therefore meet the criteria set 
out in the Code. Their biographies appear on pages 28 and 29. These demonstrate a range of experience that brings independent 
judgement to issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which are vital to the future success of the 
Group. The Board has considered and confirmed that each Non-Executive Director continues to demonstrate that he has sufficient 
time to devote to the Company’s business.
The Non-Executive Directors’ knowledge and understanding of the Group is enhanced by visits to Group facilities and through 
presentations from members of senior management. Directors may take independent professional advice on any matter at 
the Company’s expense if they deem it necessary in order to carry out their responsibilities effectively. No such advice was 
taken during the year. 
The Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and assist in developing the strategy of the Group and they scrutinise 
the performance of management against the Group’s objectives and strategy.
(e) Information and professional development
The Company Secretary, in accordance with guidance from the Chairman, takes the lead on ensuring that the Board and its 
Committees receive the necessary information that they require to operate efficiently. All Directors have access to the advice 
and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and 
that applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board, 
through the Chairman, on all matters of governance and best practice. In addition, the Company Secretary ensures that the 
Directors receive appropriate training as necessary. 
(f) Performance evaluation
Evaluation of the Board and its Committees is by way of responses to a questionnaire issued to all members of the Board. 
Feedback from these questionnaires is then gathered and collated by the Company Secretary for presentation to the Board 
in order to facilitate discussion. The Chairman is responsible for conducting the performance evaluation of the Group Chief 
Executive. The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director , are responsible for evaluating the performance 
of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive conducts evaluations of the other Executive Directors and senior management. 
The questionnaire issued to Board members covers a range of topics including the Board’s remit, its objectives, and its 
procedures and administration. The findings from the results of this exercise were submitted to the Board in February 2011. 
A number of issues were identified and appropriate actions agreed for the future.  37 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
2. Directors continued
(g) Re-election
The Articles state that at each AGM of the Company, any Director who has been appointed or re-appointed three years or 
more prior to the meeting, any Director who has been appointed or re-appointed at the third immediately preceding AGM, 
or at the time has served more than eight years as a Non-Executive Director of the Company (excluding the Chairman) shall 
retire by rotation and such further Directors must retire by rotation so that in total not less than one-third of the Directors 
retire by rotation each year . In respect of the 2011 AGM and as previously stated the Board has decided to adopt provision B.7 .1 
of the New Code so that all Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis. Therefore, at the 2011 AGM all members of 
the Board will retire and submit themselves for re-election. 
The service contracts of the Executive Directors and the terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors 
are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday (except 
Bank Holidays) and at the AGM. 
3. Internal control and risk management
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its 
effectiveness on an annual basis. Such systems can only be designed to manage, and not eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives. They can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
During 2010 a review of all internal control processes and procedures was begun, in order to ensure that the existing framework 
continued to provide the necessary level of effectiveness and control for the Group as well as considering any changes to the 
system where it was felt that additional levels of control were required. The appointment of a new Group Finance Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in August and May 2010 respectively has meant that as at 31 December 2010 this review 
had not been fully completed and therefore a number of areas are still under consideration. The expectation remains that the 
review will be completed in the second quarter of 2011. Recommendations in respect of changes to the internal audit 
approach and process were considered and approved by the Audit Committee in November 2010. 
The following controls are in place which enable the Board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control: 
.  Managemen t s truct ur e 
  The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for 
decision by the Board. Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Group’s affairs. 
The Executive Directors also meet regularly with the senior management of the operating businesses on a range of issues. 
.  Risk as s e s smen t 
  Each business maintains a Risk Register . The Risk Register identifies the key risks facing the business, the probability of those 
risks occurring, the impact should the risk occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to the approved level. 
Each business must submit the register to the Board on an annual basis. Businesses perform their respective risk assessments 
on a continual basis, submitting updates to the Board on a periodic basis when required.
.  T he Manual 
  Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of the Manual which sets out, inter alia, the general 
ethos of the Group, delegation of authority and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures 
together with accounting policies and procedures. The Manual is updated as and when required.
.  Quality and integrity of personnel 
  The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and ongoing development and 
training. High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment. Ethical standards expected are also 
communicated through the Manual. 
.  Financial in f ormation 
  There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system. Each year the Board approves the annual 
budget and updated business strategic plan. Key risk areas are identified and reported to the Board. Performance is monitored 
on a monthly basis against budget and the prior year and relevant actions identified. 
  The business produces detailed five-year business plans. Plans will include consideration of the financial projections and 
the evaluation of business alternatives and are presented by the relevant management team to the Board as part of the 
Strategic/Planning meeting.
  The Board receives and reviews monthly management accounts together with full-year forecasts which are updated 
monthly. Performance against forecast and budget is closely monitored. 
  The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director submit papers to the Board on a monthly basis that focus on 
key developments, performance and issues in the businesses.  38 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Corporate governance statement continued
3. Internal control and risk management continued
.  In v e s tmen t appr ais al 
  Capital expenditure and research and development projects are regulated by budgetary process and authorisation levels 
set out in the Manual. For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Board 
for approval. Reviews are carried out after the acquisition is complete and, for some projects during the acquisition period, 
to monitor expenditure; major overruns are investigated. Due diligence work is carried out if a business is to be acquired. 
.  A udit C ommit t ee 
  The Audit Committee monitors, through reports to it by the Group Finance Director , the controls which are in force and any 
perceived gaps in the control environment. The Audit Committee also considers and determines relevant action in respect 
of any control issues raised by these reports or the external auditors, as well as considering issues raised in accordance 
with the Group’s whistleblowing policy.
.  In t ernal audit
  The size of the Company and complexity of the business have meant that the Group does not have an in-house internal 
audit function, and in prior years has engaged a firm of independent auditors to perform internal audit reviews at each 
of the main operating businesses. The review of the Group’s internal audit arrangements concluded that, whilst Dialight 
remained too small to justify its own internal audit department, it was recommended that a series of peer group financial 
control reviews be implemented with effect from 2011. These would include quarterly assessments conducted by the Group 
Accountant and Finance Director or controller of the opposite operating business under review. The Audit Committee will agree 
the annual scope of these reviews in advance and the reported quarterly work output will be reviewed by the external auditors. 
This would be supplemented with additional procedures to be performed as the Audit Committee deemed necessary.
.  Insur anc e 
  The Group maintains insurance cover to insure all major risk areas based on the scale of the risk and availability of cover 
in the external market.
. Legal and compliance
 Reports are presented to the Board on any material legal or compliance issues that may impact the Group.
. Compliance with controls
  A process of control risk self-assessment is used in the Group where senior managers are required to detail and certify 
controls in operation to ensure the control environment in their business area is appropriate. They also confirm monthly, 
in writing, that risk management processes and appropriate controls are in place and are operating effectively. 
The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the system of internal controls in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 
covering all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems. 
4. Relations with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. The Chairman of the Board has overall responsibility for ensuring 
that there is effective communication with investors including being aware of the views of major shareholders on matters such 
as corporate governance.
On a day-to-day basis the Board’s primary contact with major shareholders is via the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director, who have regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and deliver presentations to analysts after the full 
and half year results. Copies of the shareholder presentations are made accessible on the Company’s website.
The Senior Independent Director and other members of the Board are also available to meet major investors on request.
The AGM presents an additional opportunity to communicate with private and institutional investors. The Chairman aims to 
ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at these meetings to answer 
questions. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 20 April 2011 can be found in the Notice on pages 85 to 92.  39 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
The Directors present the Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2010. The report contains all of the information 
that is required by the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large & Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008, and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority (“UKLA”) and describes how the Company has 
applied the principles of the Code with regard to remuneration (together the “Regulations”).
These Regulations require the Auditors to report on the audited information within the report and to state if this section of the 
report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations. This report has been divided into separate sections for 
unaudited and audited information.
This report is put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM for an advisory vote. This is in respect of remuneration policy and 
overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration. 
Part 1: Unaudited information
1. Remuneration Committee
The Board is responsible for the Group’s remuneration policy, but has delegated the determination and review of remuneration 
packages for the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives to the Remuneration Committee. The Committee is 
also responsible for recommending and monitoring the structure of the remuneration of the Group’s senior management, 
as defined by the Board. 
The Remuneration Committee is currently chaired by Bill Ronald with Robert Lambourne and Richard Stuckes serving as 
Committee members. Robert Jeens served on the Committee until his resignation on 25 August 2010. With the exception 
of Robert Lambourne, who was appointed on 26 May 2010, and Robert Jeens, all members served throughout the year and 
are considered independent in accordance with the Code. Details of the number of meetings held during the year as well 
as details of attendance at these meetings can be found in the Corporate governance statement on page 34. 
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Company’s 
framework of executive remuneration. The Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for 
each of the Executive Directors, including performance related bonus schemes, long-term incentives, pension rights and 
compensation payments. 
The Board, through the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, determines the remuneration of the 
Non-Executive Directors. 
A copy of the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee can be found on the Company’s website at www.dialight.com 
or on request from the Company Secretary at the Registered Office. The Committee has access to the advice of the Group Chief 
Executive, the Chairman, the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary (none of whom participate in any discussion concerning 
their own remuneration) and external advisers as required. During the year ended 31 December 2010 the Committee consulted 
Kepler Associates who provided advice regarding executive remuneration benchmarking, annual bonus plans and long-term 
incentive design and Clifford Chance LLP , who advised on the operation of the Group’s PSP . Pett Franklin & Co LLP (“Pett Franklin”) 
provided advice and assistance in regard to the drafting of the rules of the proposed new bonus arrangements discussed below. 
Kepler Associates and Pett Franklin provided no other services to the Company. Clifford Chance LLP also provided general 
corporate legal advice to the Company. 
2. Remuneration policy
The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide packages that are designed to attract, retain and motivate people 
of high quality and experience. 
Remuneration packages currently consist of a basic annual salary, short and long-term incentive schemes, pension 
arrangements, car allowances or cash alternatives and health care benefits. 
The Committee believes that the base salary and benefits for the Executive Directors should represent a fair return for 
employment but that the maximum total potential remuneration may only be achieved in circumstances where challenging 
objectives have been met that contribute to Dialight’s overall profitability and performance. Performance related elements, 
including bonuses and the PSP form a significant proportion of the total remuneration of the Executive Directors aligning their 
interests with those of the shareholders and providing incentives for performance. A significant part of the Executive Directors’ 
total package is therefore considered to be at risk.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the structure of remuneration for the Executive Directors and certain senior 
executives in the Group and confirms the Committee’s policy, as outlined above, has been applied in a consistent way.
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report 40 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Part 1: Unaudited information continued
3. Executive Directors’ remuneration
(i) Basic salary
The basic salary of the Group Chief Executive was reviewed at a meeting of the Committee in December 2010. Salaries are reviewed on 
an annual basis and any changes take effect from 1 January each year . As Roy Burton is based in the US his salary is paid in US Dollars. 
An Interim Finance Director , George Ralph, was appointed on 17 December 2009. Mr Ralph was paid fees pursuant to a consultancy 
agreement, details of which can be found on page 42. A permanent Group Finance Director , Mark Fryer , was appointed on 31 August 2010. 
The basic salary of the Group Finance Director was reviewed at a meeting of the Committee in December 2010. Base salary is determined 
by reference to relevant market data and the individual’s experience, responsibilities and performance. Salaries (as well as total 
remuneration) were benchmarked against a mixture of US and UK companies of a similar size and operating in similar sectors. 
Given the significant growth of the company over the last two years, adjustments were felt to be appropriate in order to maintain the 
competitiveness of total remuneration. In determining any appropriate salary increases for directors, the Committee also takes into 
account the current pay and employment conditions throughout the Group. Details of current salaries can be found on page 42.
(ii) Management bonus 2010
The maximum bonus payable to the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director for the year ended 31 December 2010 
was 100% and 75% of salary respectively. As Mark Fryer joined the Company during the 2010 bonus year he was only eligible 
to receive 50% of the total available bonus payable, had he been employed for the full year. The bonus for 2010 was calculated 
by reference to measures that were determined at the start of the financial year by the Committee. These assessed the Group’s 
performance against specified targets relating to the operational performance of the Group and which aligned Executives’ 
interests with those of shareholders as follows: 
.  75% of available bonus would be paid based on the achievement of a predetermined Group operating profit for the year;
.  25% of available bonus would be paid based on the delivery of an agreed level of stock turns; and
.  no bonus would be paid under the second element if a predetermined operating profit target had not been achieved. 
Following a review of the bonus measures during the year ended 31 December 2010, the Committee determined that 100% 
of the operating profit target and 100% of the stock turns target had been achieved. This resulted in a total bonus payable 
equivalent to 100% of the Executive Directors’ maximum potential bonus. Details of these payments can be found in the 
emoluments table on page 42.
The Committee is proposing the introduction of a new bonus scheme for the financial year beginning 1 January 2011. This will 
see bonus payments linked to growth in Group operating profit. Opportunities will be increased (to 150% of salary for the Group 
Chief Executive and 100% for the Group Finance Director) to reward performance above and beyond that currently rewarded, 
but any bonus earned above the current maximum opportunities will be deferred into shares, 50% of which will vest after two 
years and 50% after three years, subject to continued employment. These changes are intended to reward sustainable profit 
growth, provide a better link to the long-term business strategy and help to support retention, encourage share ownership, and 
strengthen alignment with shareholders through the bonus deferral. Given the limited liquidity in Dialight shares, the Committee 
would like the flexibility to settle the deferred bonus using new issue shares, and hence is seeking approval at the AGM for the 
Dialight plc Annual Performance Bonus Plan. Further details of this scheme can be found in the Notice on page 85. 
(iii) PSP
The PSP was approved by the shareholders of the Company at an EGM held on 29 September 2005. Executive Directors and other 
members of senior management, as approved by the Committee, are eligible to receive awards, historically in the form of 
conditional share awards, which are released after three years subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions 
determined by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant. 
Awards are normally made in the six-week period following the announcement by the Company of its results for any period. 
The number of shares which are the subject of the award will be calculated by dividing the value of the award by the average 
price of the Company’s ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange over the 30 trading days prior to the date of the award. 
The initial value of an award granted in any one financial year will be determined by the Committee. Awards will not normally 
exceed 100% of an individual’s basic salary. 
Vesting of awards is currently based on relative total shareholder return (“TSR”), as the Committee believes TSR to be an appropriate 
measure of long-term Group success, which provides strong alignment between the interests of shareholders and executives. TSR 
performance is measured relative to two indices (the FTSE All Share Electronic/Electrical Equipment Index and the FTSE SmallCap Index), 
each index having equal weighting. TSR is measured over a three-year period with the measurement period beginning on the first day of 
the financial year in which the award is made. If the percentage increase in the Company’s TSR is equal to the percentage increase in the 
TSR of the comparator index, 25% of the ordinary shares subject to an award will vest, rising, on a straight-line basis, to 100% vesting 
if the percentage increase in the Company’s TSR is equal to the increase in the TSR of the index plus 15% per annum. No ordinary shares 
will vest if the percentage increase in the Company’s TSR is below the percentage increase in the TSR of the comparator index. 
In the event of a change of control of the Group, the Remuneration Committee may, at its discretion, release the value of the 
ordinary shares early. In determining the value of the benefit, the Remuneration Committee may take into account the length 
of time between the start of the measurement period and the triggering event as well as the level of performance up to the 
date of this event. 41 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Part 1: Unaudited information continued
3. Executive Directors’ remuneration continued
(iv) Additional benefits
The Group Chief Executive received life assurance during the year. Following his appointment Mark Fryer received taxable 
benefits including a car allowance and medical insurance for both himself and his immediate family as well as life assurance. 
(v) Service contracts
Details of the service contracts of those individuals that served as Directors during the year can be found below: 
          Contractual 
          early termination 
Name      Contract date  Notice period  payment
Roy Burton    1 October 2005  12 months (Company) No provisions exceeding
        12 months (Executive) 12 months’ emoluments
Mark Fryer
1
    5 August 2010  12 months (Company) No provisions exceeding
        6 months (Executive)  12 months’ emoluments
George Ralph
2
    6 January 2010  1 month on either side  No provisions
1 Mark Fryer was appointed on 31 August 2010.
2 George Ralph was appointed on 17 December 2009 and resigned on 28 September 2010.
(vi) Performance review
The graph below shows the five-year TSR of the Company, compared with the TSR over the same period for the FTSE SmallCap Index 
and the FTSE All Share Electronic/Electrical Equipment Index. These were selected as they were considered to be a broad 
representation of Dialight’s peer group in terms of its size and industry sector. 
4. Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
Fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director. The Non-Executive Directors do not take part in these discussions. The Non-Executive Directors’ fees are subject 
to review on an annual basis and were considered on 13 December 2010. As a result of this meeting it was agreed that there 
would be an increase with effect from 1 January 2011, the details of which can be found in the emoluments table on page 42.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the management bonus or the PSP and they are not eligible for pension 
scheme membership. 
The Non-Executive Directors have standard letters of appointment. Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are 
available for inspection at the Company’s Registered Office and will be made available at the AGM. 
600.0
200.0
150.0
100.0
0.0
50.0
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Share price
Dialight plc vs FTSE SmallCap Index and FTSE Electronics/Electrical Equipment Index
At 31 December
550.0
250.0
300.0
350.0
400.0
450.0
500.0
Dialight plc
FTSE  SmallCap Index
FTSE  All Share Electronic/
Electrical Equipment 42 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Part 1: Unaudited information continued
5. External appointments
No Executive Directors currently hold any external directorships of listed companies.
Part 2: Audited information
Table 1 – Directors’ emoluments
The remuneration of the Directors is set out below:
           
       Salary/fees Bonus Pensions
1
 Benefits 2010 2009 
       ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000 ‘000
Executive Directors       
Roy Burton
2
      US$469 US$469 US$42 US$8 US$988 £526
Mark Fryer
3
      £64 £71 £7 £4 £146 —
Non-Executive Directors
4
       
Harry Tee CBE
5
      £75 — — — £75 £75
Bill Ronald
6
      £30 — — — £30 £19
Robert Lambourne
6
     £18 — — — £18 —
Richard Stuckes      £25 — — — £25 £14 
Past Directors       
George Ralph
7
      £123 £15 £10 — £148 £8
Robert Jeens
8
      £20 — — — £20 £30
1 Figures represent Company contributions to defined contribution arrangements.
2  Roy Burton received a salary increase with effect from 1 January. His current salary is $520,000. 
3 Mark Fryer was appointed on 31 August 2010. He received a salary increase with effect from 1 January 2011. His salary is now £219,000.
4  The Non-Executive Directors’ basic fees were increased to £30,000 with effect from 1 January 2011. There was no change to the additional fee payable to the Chairmen 
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
5 Harry Tee CBE received an increase in his fees as Chairman to £100,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 2011.
6  Robert Lambourne (appointed on 26 May 2010) and Bill Ronald receive an additional £5,000 per annum as Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees respectively.
7  George Ralph was appointed on 17 December 2009 and resigned on 28 September 2010. He received a consultancy fee of £12,500 per month. Mr Ralph received 
a retention bonus of £25,000, £10,000 of which was paid directly into his personal pension arrangement.
8  Robert Jeens resigned on 25 August 2010. Mr Jeens received additional payment for chairing the Audit Committee prior to the appointment of Mr Lambourne. 
This was £5,000 per annum.
Table 2 – Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
Awards under the PSP:
     PSP shares    PSP shares   Value at 
     held at PSP shares PSP shares PSP shares held at   31 December
     1 January awarded in vested in lapsed 31 December Earliest 2010
3
    Date of award 2010 year year in year 2010 vesting date £
Roy Burton  5 April 2007 
1
 100,977 — 58,566 42,411 — 5 April 2010 —
    9 April 2008 
2
 143,360 — — — 143,360 9 April 2011 736,870
    30 April 2009 160,926
*
 — — — 160,926
*
 30 April 2012 827,160
    26 May 2010 
4
 — 127,582 — — 127,582 26 May 2013 655,771
Total   — 405,263
*
 127,582 58,566 42,411 431,868 — 2,219,801
Mark Fryer  2 September 2010 
5
 — 37,822 — — 37,822 2 September 2013 194,405
Total   — — 37,822 — — 37,822 — 194,405
* Restated.
1  On 26 May 2010 Roy Burton received 58,566 shares awarded under the PSP on 5 April 2007. Assessment of the performance conditions produced a vesting of 58% of the 
original award. Roy Burton sold 23,221 of these shares to meet the tax liabilities and retained 35,345 shares. The market price on the date of vesting was 278.75 pence per share.
2  Performance conditions in respect of awards granted on 9 April 2008 indicate that 100% of the total award will vest. Vesting and release of these awards is subject to 
decision of the Remuneration Committee. 
3  The value of the awards under the PSP shows the number of awards held multiplied by the market price of the Company’s shares at 31 December 2010. It has been assumed 
that the maximum number of awards vested in accordance with the performance conditions set out on page 40. On 31 December 2010 the share price was 514 pence per share.
4  The number of shares awarded on 26 May 2010 were the share equivalents of 100% of the base salary of the Group Chief Executive, based on the average of the 
mid-market closing values of the Company’s shares for the 30 dealing days ending on 25 May 2010 of 256 pence.
5  The number of shares awarded on 2 September 2010 were the share equivalent of 75% of the base salary of the Group Finance Director, based on the average of the 
mid-market closing values of the Company’s shares for the 30 dealing days ending on 1 September 2010 of 376 pence. 43 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information  .
Part 2: Audited information continued
Table 3 – Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2010 are set 
out below:
           31 December 31 December 
           2010 2009
Executive Directors
Roy Burton
1
          89,037 43,692
Mark Fryer          — —
Non-Executive Directors  
Harry Tee CBE
2
          1,453,357 1,453,357
Bill Ronald
3
          10,000 —
Robert Lambourne
4
         1,000 —
Richard Stuckes
5
          20,678 10,440
Total           1,57 4,072 1,507,489
6
1  Some of these shares are held through nominees. Roy Burton received 35,345 ordinary shares on 26 May 2010 following the vesting of the awards granted under the PSP 
in April 2007. He also purchased 10,000 ordinary shares on 17 May 2010 at a price of 253 pence per share.
2 Some of these shares are held through nominees.
3 Bill Ronald purchased 10,000 ordinary shares on 14 May 2010 at a price of 264 pence per share.
4 Robert Lambourne was appointed on 26 May 2010. He purchased 1,000 ordinary shares on 27 July 2010 at a price of 347.4 pence per share.
5 Richard Stuckes purchased 10,238 ordinary shares on 27 July 2010 at a price of 340 pence per share.
6 The total for 2009 differs from that previously reported following the removal of Robert Jeens from the table. Robert Jeens resigned on 25 August 2010.
There has been no change in Directors’ holdings since 31 December 2010.
By order of the Board
Bill Ronald
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
9 March 2011 44 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Governance
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect 
of the Annual Report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each 
of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
.  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
.  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
.  for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
.  for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
.  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and 
enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ 
remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that complies with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
.  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and 
.  the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the 
issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face. 
For and on behalf of the Board of Dialight plc
Roy Burton Mark Fryer 
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
9 March 2011 45 Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial statements
Shareholder information  . 
We have audited the financial statements of Dialight plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 set out on pages 47 to 84. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are 
required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, 
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 44, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, 
and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (“ APB’s”) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
.  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2010 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
.  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
.  the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice;
.  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
.  the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; 
.  the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements; and
.  the information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on pages 34 to 38 with respect to internal control 
and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent 
with the financial statements. 
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Dialight plc 46 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report continued
to the members of Dialight plc
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
.  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
.  the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
.  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
.  we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
.  a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
.  the Directors’ statement, set out on page 33, in relation to going concern;
.  the part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 34 to 38 relating to the Company’s compliance with the 
nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
.  certain elements of the report to Shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
G.A. Watts
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B4 6GH
9 March 2011 47
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
           2010 2009 
          Note £’000 £’000
Continuing operations
Revenue          4 99,183 77,304
Cost of sales          (71,897) (58,621)
Gross profit           27,286 18,683
Distribution costs           (7,212) (6,078)
Administrative expenses         (8,891) (7,150)
Results from operating activities       4,8 11,183 5,455
Financial income          6 1,937 1,711
Financial expense         6 (1,821) (1,884)
Net financing income/(expense)       6 116 (173)
Profit before income tax          11,299 5,282
Income tax expense        7 (3,846) (1,990)
Profit from continuing operations        7,453 3,292
Prior periods discontinued operations
Adjustment to profit from businesses sold in prior years     9 — 2,140
Profit for the year         7,453 5,432
Earnings per share
Basic           18 23.8p 17.5p
Diluted          18 23.2p 17.1p
Earnings per share – continuing operations
Basic           18 23.8p 10.6p
Diluted          18 23.2p 10.4p
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2010 48 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2010
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Other comprehensive income
Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations      118 (2,398)
Income tax on exchange difference on translation of foreign operations     201 —
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes      (1,810) 1,844
Income tax on actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes    631 (663)
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax      (860) (1,217)
Profit for the year          7,453 5,432
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to equity holders  
of the Company          6,593 4,215  49
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
          Capital   
       Share  Merger  Translation redemption  Retained 
       capital reserve reserve reserve earnings Total 
       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2009       591 546 5,486  2,232 28,649 37,504
Profit        — — — — 5,432 5,432
Other comprehensive income:
Foreign exchange translation differences     — — (2,398) — — (2,398)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension plans, net of taxes  — — — — 1,181 1,181
Total other comprehensive income    — — (2,398) — 1,181 (1,217)
Total comprehensive income for the year   — — (2,398) — 6,613 4,215
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity:
Dividends        — — — — (1,937) (1,937)
Share-based payments, net of tax    — — — —  322 322
Total contributions by and distributions to owners  — — — — (1,615) (1,615)
Balance at 31 December 2009    591 546 3,088  2,232 33,647 40,104
Balance at 1 January 2010      591 546 3,088 2,232 33,647 40,104
Profit        — — — — 7,453 7,453
Other comprehensive income:   
Foreign exchange translation differences, net of taxes  — — 319 — — 319
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plans, net of taxes  — — — — (1,179) (1,179)
Total other comprehensive income    — — 319 — (1,179) (860)
Total comprehensive income for the year   — — 319 — 6,274 6,593
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity:
Issue of shares on acquisition      6 903 — — — 909
Share-based payments, net of tax     — — — — 785 785
Dividends        — — — — (2,228) (2,228)
Unpaid dividends returned from shareholders   — — — — 6 6
Total contributions by and distributions to owners  6 903 — — (1,437) (528)
Balance at 31 December 2010    597 1,449 3,407 2,232 38,484 46,169
At 31 December 2010 the number of shares held by the Group through the Dialight Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOT”) 
trust was 159,621 (2009: 256,000). The market value of these shares at 31 December 2010 is £820,452 (2009: £560,000).
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2010 50 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of total financial position
as at 31 December 2010
           2010 2009 
          Note £’000 £’000
Assets   
Property, plant and equipment        10 8,218 7,248
Intangible assets           11 10,488 8,589
Deferred tax assets         13 3,162 1,914
Total non-current assets          21,868 17,751
Inventories           14 9,187 9,194
Trade and other receivables         15 18,856 18,186
Cash and cash equivalents        16 10,359 9,092
Total current assets         38,402 36,472
Total assets           60,270 54,223
Liabilities   
Trade and other payables         21 (11,265) (11,015)
Provisions          20 (694) —
Tax liabilities          (239) (1,083)
Total current liabilities         (12,198) (12,098)
Employee benefits          19 (1,441) (948)
Provisions         20 (462) (1,073)
Total non-current liabilities         (1,903) (2,021)
Total liabilities           (14,101) (14,119)
Net assets           46,169 40,104
Equity    
Issued share capital          17 597 591
Merger reserve          17 1,449 546
Other reserves           5,639 5,320
Retained earnings          38,484 33,647
Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company    46,169 40,104
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roy Burton Mark Fryer
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 51
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
           2010 2009 
          Note £’000 £’000
Operating activities
Profit for the year            7,453 5,432
Adjustments for:
Financial income           (1,937) (1,711)
Financial expense           1,821 1,884 
Income tax expense           3,846 1,990 
Share-based payments          312 197 
Adjustment to profit on sale of businesses in prior years       — (2,140) 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment        2,012 1,525 
Amortisation of intangible assets         1,588 1,143 
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital       15,095 8,320 
Decrease in inventories           847 2,882 
Increase in trade and other receivables          (233) (240) 
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables        (424) 1,342 
Pension contributions in excess of the income statement       (1,269) (1,305) 
Cash generated from operations         14,016 10,999 
Income taxes paid            (4,657) (1,581) 
Interest paid           (25) — 
Net cash generated from operating activities        9,334 9,418 
Investing activities   
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired       (2,074) —
Interest received            23 12 
Capital expenditure           (2,767) (1,576) 
Capitalised expenditure on development          (1,208) (966) 
Sale of tangible fixed assets          12 22 
Net cash used in investing activities          (6,014) (2,508) 
Financing activities   
Dividends returned           6 —
Dividends paid           (2,228) (1,937) 
Net cash used in financing activities         (2,222) (1,937) 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents        1,098 4,973 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year        9,092 4,145 
Effect of exchange rates on cash held         169 (26) 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year       16 10,359 9,092
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2010 52 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1. Reporting entity
Dialight plc is a company domiciled in England. The address of the Company’s registered office is Exning Road, Newmarket, 
Suffolk CB8 0AX. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2010 comprise the 
Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”).
2. Basis of preparation
(a) Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRSs”). The Company has elected to present its parent 
company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
(b) Consolidated basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments which are 
carried at fair value. The Group’s business activities, together with the factors that are likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are set out in the Business review on pages 8 to 27 . The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 20 to 23. The financial statements include the 
statements covering the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; management of its financial risk 
objectives; details of its financial instruments; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and, as a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed 
to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in existence 
for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual 
financial statements.
(c) Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual amounts 
may differ from these estimates. See also note 28.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised 
in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting 
policies that have the most significant effect on the amount recognised in the financial statements are described in the 
following notes:
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets (see note 11)
The impairment analysis of goodwill and intangible assets is based upon the estimate of future discounted cash flows. 
Factors like lower than anticipated sales and resulting decreases of net cash flows and changes in discount rates could 
lead to impairments.
Defined benefit pension plans (see note 19)
The valuation of the defined benefit plans is based upon actuarial assumptions related to the measurement of pension 
liabilities and assets. If the relevant factors developed materially differently from the assumptions used this could have 
a significant impact on our defined benefit obligation.
Warranty (see note 20)
The warranty provision is estimated requiring management to make estimates and assumptions with respect to values and 
conditions which cannot be known with certainty at the time the financial statements are prepared. Estimates are evaluated 
based on historical results and experience together with any known factors at the time of estimate. If the relevant rate of 
product returns differed materially from the estimates this may have a material impact on the level of provision required.
(d) Changes in accounting policies
Accounting for business combinations
From 1 January 2010 the Group has applied IFRS 3 “Business Combinations (2008)” in accounting for business combinations. 
The change in accounting policy has been applied prospectively and has no material impact on earnings per share.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable. 53
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
2. Basis of preparation continued
(d) Changes in accounting policies continued
Accounting for business combinations continued
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
. the fair value of the consideration transferred; less
. the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs 
in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value 
of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010
For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over 
the Group’s interest in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
of the acquiree.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection 
with business combinations were capitalised as part of the acquisition.
Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 (date of transition to IFRSs)
As part of its transition to IFRSs, the Group elected to restate only those business combinations that occurred on or after 
1 January 2003. In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2003, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the 
Group’s previous accounting framework, UK GAAP.
3. Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial 
statements and have been applied consistently by Group entities, except as explained in note 2(d) which addresses changes 
in accounting polices.
(a) Basis of consolidation
The Group has changed its accounting policy with respect to accounting for business combinations. See note 2(d) for further details.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
(b) Foreign currency translation
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations 
including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation are translated using exchange rates prevailing on the 
balance sheet date.
Income and expense items of overseas operations are translated at average exchange rates for the period. 
Since the transition date, resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity within the Group’s 
translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised in the profit or loss in the period in which the foreign operation 
is disposed of. Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement. 
(c) Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value and are re-measured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss. The fair value of derivatives 
at 31 December 2010 is £nil (2009: £nil).
(d) Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
(e) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives are measured at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. 54 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(f) Depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item 
of property, plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Buildings   16–50 years
Plant and equipment 3–10 years
Tooling   2–4 years
Fixtures and fittings 5–10 years
Amortisation
Amortisation is recognised in profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, 
other than goodwill, from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Patents and trademarks 1–4 years
Development costs 3–5 years
(g) Goodwill
Goodwill that arises upon acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. For the measurement of goodwill at initial 
recognition, see note 2(d).
Subsequent measurement
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses until disposal or termination of the 
previously acquired business when the profit or loss on disposal or termination will be calculated after charging the gross amount 
at current exchange rates of any such goodwill through the income statement. Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units 
and is tested at least annually for impairment. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
(h) Research and development costs
Expenditure on research activities undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and 
understanding is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new 
or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially 
feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete the development. The expenditure capitalised includes direct 
cost of material, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Other development expenditure is recognised 
in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and impairment losses.
(i) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at 
each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists then the asset’s 
recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite lives or that are not yet available for 
use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date. 
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable asset group that generates cash flows that largely are independent from 
other assets and groups. Impairment losses are recognised in profit and loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of 
cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then 
to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro rata basis. 
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.  55
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(i) Impairment continued
Any impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior 
periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment 
loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is 
reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
A financial asset, in particular the carrying value of trade receivables, is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates 
that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset. Any impairment losses 
are recognised through the income statement. 
(j) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories comprises all costs of purchase, 
costs of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the balance sheet 
date. Items are valued using the first in, first out method. When inventories are used, the carrying amount of those inventories 
is recognised as an expense in the period in which the related revenue is recognised. Provision for write-down to net realisable 
value and losses of inventories are recognised as an expense in the period in which the write-down or loss occurs. 
(k) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form 
an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose 
of the cash flow statement. 
(l) Share capital
(i) Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared.
(ii)  When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased by the ESOT, the amount of the consideration paid is recognised as 
a deduction from equity.
(m) Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution plans
  Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement when 
they are due.
(ii) Defined benefit plans
  The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the 
amount of future benefit that employees have earned for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is 
discounted to determine its present value and any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets 
are deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates 
approximating to the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by an independent qualified actuary using the 
projected unit method. When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net 
total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions 
in future contributions to the plan. 
  When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is 
recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period until benefits become vested. 
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expenses are recognised immediately in the income statement. 
   All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period they occur directly into equity through the statement 
of comprehensive income. 
(iii) Share-based payment transactions
  The PSP allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of the award granted is recognised as an 
employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the 
performance period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. 
  The fair value of the grants is measured using the Monte Carlo model taking into account the terms and conditions upon 
which the grants were made. The amount recognised as an expense is only adjusted to reflect forfeitures resulting from 
failures to meet non-market conditions. 56 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(n) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 
Warranties
 A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying products are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty 
data and a weighting of possible outcomes against their associated probabilities.
(o) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost less any impairment losses. The carrying amounts of the 
Group’s assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any 
such indication exists the assets’ recoverable amounts are estimated being the greater of their net selling price and value in 
use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of the money and risks specific to the asset. Receivables with 
a short duration are not discounted. 
An impairment loss in respect of trade and other receivables is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used 
to determine the recoverable amount.
(p) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at amortised cost.
(q) Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership 
have been transferred to the buyers. Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration 
received or receivable, net of returns and allowances, trade discounts, volume rebates and product returns. 
(r) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
  Payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
(ii) Net financing costs
   Net financing costs comprise interest receivable, interest payable, borrowings, interest on pension assets and liabilities, 
foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
(s) Income tax expense
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax expense is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised directly in equity. 
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. 
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements 
and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which temporary differences can 
be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered. 
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax 
is charged or credited to profit and loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case 
the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends 
to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay 
the related dividend is recognised.  57
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(t) Segment reporting
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur 
expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. All operating 
segments’ operating results are reviewed regularly by the Group’s Chief Executive to make decisions about resources to be 
allocated to the segment and assess its performance and for which discrete financial information is available.
Segment results that are reported to the Group’s Chief Executive include items directly attributable to a segment as well 
as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets (primarily the 
Company’s headquarters), head office expenses and income tax assets and liabilities.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the year to acquire property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets including goodwill.
(u) New endorsed standards and interpretations not adopted
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 
1 January 2010 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected 
to have significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
(v) Determination of fair values
A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of fair value, for both financial and 
non-financial assets and liabilities. Fair values have been determined for measurement and/or disclosure purposes based 
on the following methods. Where applicable, further information about the assumptions made in determining fair values 
is disclosed in the notes specific to that asset or liability.
Plant and equipment
 The fair value of plant and equipment recognised as a result of a business combination is based on market values. The market 
value of items of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings is based on the quoted market prices for similar items.
Intangible assets
The fair value of patents and trademarks acquired in business combinations is based on the discounted cash flows expected 
to be derived from the use or eventual sale of the assets.
Inventory
The fair value of inventory acquired in a business combination is based on its estimated selling price in the ordinary course 
of business less the estimated costs of completion and sale and a reasonable profit margin based on the effort required to 
complete and sell the inventory.
Trade and other receivables and payables
The fair value of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market 
rate of interest at the reporting date. For receivables and payables with a life of less than one year, the notional amount is 
deemed to reflect the fair value.
Share-based payments transactions
The fair value of employee stock options is measured using the Monte Carlo model. The fair value is measured at the grant 
date and spread over the performance period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. 
The Monte Carlo model takes into account the terms and conditions upon which the grants were made.
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward 
price and deducting the current spot rate. Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are 
based on management’s best estimates and the discount rate is a market related rate for a similar instrument at the balance 
sheet date. Where other pricing models are used, inputs are based on market related data at the balance sheet date.
Cash and cash equivalents
The carrying amount reported in the balance sheet approximates to fair value.
Contingent consideration
The fair value of contingent consideration is calculated using the income approach based on the expected amounts and their 
associated probabilities (i.e. probability – weighted). 58 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
4. Operating segments
The Group has three reportable segments, as described below, which are the Group’s strategic business units. The strategic units 
offer different products. They require different technology and marketing strategies. For each of the units the Group Chief Executive 
reviews internal reports monthly . The following summary describes the operations in each of the Group’s reportable segments.
The Group comprises the following business segments:
.  Signals/Illumination which addresses the increasing demands for energy-efficient lighting solutions through the use of high 
brightness LEDs and utilisation of a number of associated technologies. Areas of business include traffic and rail signals, 
obstruction lights and solid state lighting products;
. LED Indication Components whose sales are primarily to electronics OEMs for status indication; and
.  Electromagnetic Components which supplies SMART meter disconnect switches which are used by utility companies 
to manage remotely electrical supply to residential and business premises.
There is no inter-segment revenue.
All revenue relates to the sale of goods. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment 
as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated expenses comprise corporate costs including 
share-based payments and unallocated assets and liabilities comprise cash, borrowings, taxation and pension fund liabilities.
The Group does not rely on any single major customer.
Reportable segments
         LED   
        Electromagnetic Indication Signals/  
        Components Components Illumination Total 
2010        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue        14,645 23,450 61,088 99,183
Contribution        2,516 12,406 25,753 40,675
Overhead costs        (2,443) (6,809) (17,079) (26,331)
Segment results        73 5,597 8,674 14,344
Unallocated expenses          (3,161)
Operating profit           11,183
Net financing income          116
Profit before tax           11,299
Income tax expense          (3,846)
Profit from continuing operations         7,453
         LED   
        Electromagnetic Indication Signals/  
        Components Components Illumination Total 
2009        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue        13,333 17,576 46,395 77,304
Contribution        3,167 9,257 17,979 30,403
Overhead costs        (2,445) (6,102) (14,707) (23,254)
Segment results        722 3,155 3,272 7,149
Unallocated expenses          (1,694)
Operating profit           5,455
Net financing expense          (173)
Profit before tax           5,282
Income tax expense          (1,990)
Profit from continuing operations          3,292 59
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
4. Operating segments continued
Reportable segments continued
         LED   
        Electromagnetic Indication Signals/ 2010 
        Components Components Illumination Total 
Other information       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Capital Additions*        550 459 2,851 3,860
Depreciation and amortisation      (395) (627) (2,374) (3,396)
         LED   
        Electromagnetic Indication Signals/ 2009 
        Components Components Illumination Total 
Other information       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Capital Additions*        402 208 1,822 2,432
Depreciation and amortisation      (380) (527) (1,746) (2,653)
* Capital Additions include property, plant and equipment and development costs.
Not included above are central asset additions of £115,000 (2009: £1,000) and depreciation and amortisation of £15,000 
(2009: £15,000) not allocated to a segment.
         LED   
        Electromagnetic Indication Signals/ 2010 
        Components Components Illumination Total 
Balance sheet – assets       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment assets        10,795 8,379 30,011 49,185
Unallocated assets           11,085
Consolidated total assets          60,270
         LED   
        Electromagnetic Indication Signals/ 2010 
        Components Components Illumination Total 
Balance sheet – liabilities      £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment liabilities        (3,716) (1,832) (6,276) (11,824)
Unallocated liabilities          (2,277)
Consolidated liabilities          (14,101)
         LED   
        Electromagnetic Indication Signals/ 2009 
        Components Components Illumination Total 
Balance sheet – assets       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment assets        9,089 9,135 27,235 45,459
Unallocated assets           8,764
Consolidated total assets          54,223
         LED   
        Electromagnetic Indication Signals/ 2009 
        Components Components Illumination Total 
Balance sheet – liabilities       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Segment liabilities        (3,943) (1,782) (7,357) (13,082)
Unallocated liabilities          (1,037)
Consolidated liabilities          (14,119) 60 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
4. Operating segments continued
Geographical segments
The Electromagnetic Components, LED Components and Signals/Illumination segments are managed on a worldwide basis, 
but operate in three principal geographic areas: UK, Europe and North America. The following tables provide 1) an analysis of 
the Group’s sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods. 2) An analysis of total assets and non-current 
assets by location.
All revenue relates to the sale of goods.
           2010 2009 
Sales revenue by geographical market         £’000 £’000
North America          68,156 52,717
UK           10,138 7,790
Rest of Europe          11,161 8,436
Rest of World          9,728 8,361
           99,183 77,304
         Total assets  Non-current assets
         2010 2009 2010 2009 
Continuing operations        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
North America        31,588 30,472 6,457 6,178
UK         17,830 15,307 7,516 5,141
Rest of Europe        10,852 8,444 7,895 6,432
         60,270 54,223 21,868 17,751
5. Personnel expenses
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries          14,123 12,290
Social security contributions         1,657 1,357
Equity settled share-based payment transactions       312 198
Contributions to defined contribution plans       741 350
Total charge for defined benefit plans        75 131
           16,908 14,326
The average number of employees by geographical location was:
           2010 2009 
           Number Number
UK           135 138
US and Mexico          822 779
Rest of World          30 19
           987 936
In 2010 the Group employed an average of 852 direct staff (2009: 647) and 135 indirect staff (2009: 289).
6. Net financing income/(expense)
Recognised in profit and loss
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Interest income on bank deposits        — 12
Expected return on assets in the defined benefit pension schemes     1,937 1,699
           1,937 1,711
Interest expense on financial liabilities        (2) —
Interest charge on pension scheme liabilities       (1,819) (1,884)
           (1,821) (1,884)
Net financing income/(expense)        116 (173) 61
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
7. Income tax expense
Recognised in the income statement
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Current tax expense  
Current year          3,677 1,945
Adjustment for prior years         (2) —
           3,675 1,945
Deferred tax expense  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences       326 288
Adjustment for prior years         (155) (243)
Income tax expense         3,846 1,990
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
         2010 2010 2009 2009 
         % £’000 % £’000
Profit from continuing operations       7,453  3,292
Total income tax expense        3,846  1,990
Profit excluding income tax        11,299  5,282
Income tax using the UK corporation tax rate     28.0 3,164 28.0 1,479
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions      8.3 943 9.2 487
Change in tax rate        0.6 65 — —
Non-deductible expenses       0.5 60 0.8 41
Unrecognised losses carried forward      — — 4.3 226
Losses now recognised       (2.0) (229) — —
Over provision in prior years       (1.4) (157) (4.6) (243)
         34.0 3,846 37.7 1,990
The emergency budget on 22 June 2010 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 24% over a period 
of four years from 2011. The first reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% was substantively enacted on 21 July 2010 
and will be effective from 1 April 2011. This will reduce the Group’s future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred tax balances 
outstanding at the balance sheet date are stated at 27%. It has not yet been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of 
the announced further 3% rate reduction, although this will further reduce the Group’s future current tax charge and reduce 
the Group’s deferred tax liabilities/assets accordingly. 
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Share-based payments         473 124
8. Profit for the year
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging:
           2010 2009 
Research and development costs         £’000 £’000
Expensed as incurred         3,730 3,671
Amortisation charge         1,399 977
           5,129 4,648
Depreciation of fixed assets         2,012 1,525
Operating leases – Property         815 781
Operating leases – Other         162 153 62 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
8. Profit for the year continued
Auditors’ remuneration:
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Audit of these financial statements        39 42
Amounts receivable by auditors in respect of:  
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation     102 86
Other amounts pursuant to legislation        9 8
Other services relating to taxation        40 66
Advisory work in respect of suspended disposal       — 15
Advisory work in respect of acquisition        3 —
Pension and actuarial services:  
Pension advisory services in respect of Group pension      64 74
Actuarial advisory on IAS 19 valuations        — 5
           218 254
9. Adjustment to profit from businesses sold in prior years
There is no adjustment to profit in 2010; the adjustment to profit in 2009 from businesses sold in prior years comprises two 
non-cash items being a release of a provision of £0.4 million for a business sold in 2003 and a release of a tax provision of 
£1.7 million in connection with the disposal of businesses in 2005, which are no longer required.
10. Property, plant and equipment
           Plant  
          Land and equipment  
          buildings and vehicles Total 
          £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 January 2009         5,700 30,023 35,723
Exchange adjustments         (344) (2,250) (2,594)
Additions         70 1,397 1,467
Disposals         —  (890) (890)
At 31 December 2009        5,426 28,280 33,706
At 1 January 2010         5,426 28,280 33,706
Exchange adjustments        28 743 771
Businesses acquired        11 106 117
Additions         2 2,765 2,767
Disposals         — (890) (890)
At 31 December 2010        5,467 31,004 36,471
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2009          (2,857) (25,073) (27,930)
Exchange adjustments        199 1,933 2,132
Charge for year          (146) (1,379) (1,525)
Disposals         — 865 865
At 31 December 2009        (2,804) (23,654) (26,458)
At 1 January 2010         (2,804) (23,654) (26,458)
Exchange adjustments        (53) (608) (661)
Charge for year         (154) (1,858) (2,012)
Disposals         — 878 878
At 31 December 2010        (3,011) (25,242) (28,253)
Carrying amount at 31 December 2010      2,456 5,762 8,218
At 31 December 2009        2,622 4,626 7,248
At 1 January 2009         2,843 4,950 7,793 63
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
11. Intangible assets
        Concessions,  Order   
        patents,  book and   
         licences and  customer Development  
        trademarks Goodwill relationships costs Total 
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Costs     
Balance at 1 January 2009      1,237 6,899 — 4,840 12,976
Other acquisitions – internally developed     —  —  —  966 966
Effects of foreign exchange movement     — (114) — (349) (463)
Balance at 31 December 2009      1,237 6,785 — 5,457 13,479
Balance at 1 January 2010      1,237 6,785 — 5,457 13,479
Other acquisitions – internally developed     — — — 1,208 1,208
Other acquisitions       — 804 1,821 — 2,625
Effects of foreign exchange movement     — (343) — 20 (323)
Balance at 31 December 2010     1,237 7,246 1,821 6,685 16,989
Amortisation and impairment losses     
Balance at 1 January 2009       (1,071) — — (2,973)  (4,044)
Amortisation for the period       (166) — — (977) (1,143)
Effects of foreign exchange movement     — — — 297 297
Balance at 31 December 2009       (1,237) — — (3,653) (4,890)
Balance at 1 January 2010       (1,237) — — (3,653) (4,890)
Amortisation for the period      — — (189) (1,399) (1,588)
Effects of foreign exchange movement     — — — (23) (23)
Balance at 31 December 2010     (1,237) — (189) (5,075) (6,501)
Carrying amounts at 31 December 2010    — 7,246 1,632 1,610 10,488
At 31 December 2009      — 6,785 — 1,804 8,589
At 1 January 2009       166 6,899 — 1,867 8,932
The amortisation charge for the development costs is reflected in research and development costs shown within cost of sales 
on the face of the income statement. The amortisation charge for concessions, patents, licences and trademarks is shown 
within administrative expenses on the face of the income statement. The amortisation charge for order book and customer 
relationships is shown within administrative expenses on the face of the income statement.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash-generating units (“CGUs”) that are expected 
to benefit from the business combination. The carrying amount of the goodwill had been allocated as follows:
           2010 2009 
Signals/Illumination Segment         £’000 £’000
UK Signals          2,328 2,328
European Traffic          4,114 4,457
European Obstruction         804 —
           7,246 6,785
The change in value in the European Traffic goodwill figure is due to foreign currency. 
The Group tests goodwill (at the CGU level) annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill 
might be impaired. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions 
for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates and growth rates. 
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of a number of factors that 
impact on the time value of money and any risk specific to the CGU. The rate includes management’s assessment of a normal 
level of debt to equity ratio within similar companies in its sector.  64 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
11. Intangible assets continued
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management covering 
a five-year period. Management have arrived at the five-year plan based upon certain assumptions derived from research 
carried out by external consultants who specialise in areas of the Group’s business and their knowledge of the business. 
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 1%. Management believe that 
this forecast period was justified due to the long-term nature of the LED lighting business. 
Any adverse change in this assumption could reduce the recoverable amount below carrying amount. The Directors do not 
believe that a significant change to the assumptions is probable. The pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash flow for 
the CGUs range from 12.2% to 13.5%. 
In European Traffic, where the headroom is the lowest of the three CGUs, the recoverable amount calculated based on value in 
use exceeded carrying value by £1.5 million. A reduction in contribution margin of 1.6% or a rise in discount rate to 18.1% would 
remove the remaining headroom.
12. Acquisition of subsidiary
On 28 April 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of BTI Light Systems A/S (“BTI”), a Danish company 
offering signalling and safety equipment for the wind, marine and airport industries. BTI was acquired from its management for an 
initial consideration of £3.0 million, £2.1 million of which was payable in cash with the remainder satisfied by the issue of 360,730 
ordinary shares of 1.89 pence at a share price of 252.4 pence. In addition contingent consideration of £193,000 has been recognised. 
This is payable by March 2012 to the vendors and is contingent upon any claims made against the company in relation to 
events prior to the date of acquisition.
The acquisition enhances the Group’s rapidly growing signalling business, providing a strong channel to the growing European 
offshore wind market. This complements the Group’s already significant North American penetration of the wind turbine market 
and strengthens its presence in Europe.
BTI contributed £1,886,000 to revenue and a loss of £115,000 to profit before tax for the period between the date of acquisition 
and the balance sheet date. The costs incurred, of £87,000, in making the acquisition have been expensed as required under 
IFRS 3 (revised).
If the acquisition of BTI had been completed on the first day of the financial year , Group revenues for the period would have been 
£100.3 million and the Group profit before tax would have been £11.6 million.
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value
           Note £’000
Property, plant and equipment        10 117
Intangible assets – customer relationships       11 1,804
Intangible assets – order book         11 17
Deferred tax           13 66
Inventories           614
Trade and other receivables          877
Cash and cash equivalents          72
Trade and other payables          (918)
Tax liabilities           (205)
Net assets acquired          2,444
Goodwill           11 804
Total consideration          3,248
Satisfied by:  
Fair value of shares issued          909
Cash and cash equivalents          2,146
Deferred consideration          193
            3,248
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition  
Cash consideration           2,146
Cash and cash equivalents acquired         (72)
            2,074
The goodwill of £804,000 arising from the acquisition represents the workforce and future access into the European Market 
for Dialight products. The maximum contingent consideration payable is £193,000. 65
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
13. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
       Assets  Liabilities  Net
       2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment    — — (379) (234) (379) (234)
Intangible assets      — — (548) (565) (548) (565)
Employee benefits      1,364 447 — — 1,364 447
Provisions      1,638 1,433 — — 1,638 1,433
Other items      1,087 833 — — 1,087 833
Tax assets/(liabilities)     4,089 2,713 (927) (799) 3,162 1,914
Set off of tax      (927) (799) 927 799 — —
Net tax assets      3,162 1,914 — — 3,162 1,914
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses anticipated to be available. In 2009 £1,829,000 of tax losses 
was unrecognised.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred taxation 
liabilities have not been recognised is £nil (2009: £nil). 
Movement in temporary differences during the year
       Property,    Other  
       plant    short-term  
       and Intangible Employee  timing  
       equipment assets benefits Provisions differences Total 
       £’000 £’000 £’000 £,000 £’000 £’000
Balance at 1 January 2009     (196) (634) 1,718 1,303 704 2,895
Recognised in income     (26) 42 (468) 278 129 (45)
Exchange      (12) 27 (140) (73) — (198)
Recognised in equity     — — (663) 124 — (539)
Transfer to corporation tax     — — — (199) — (199)
Balance at 31 December 2009     (234) (565) 447 1,433 833 1,914
Balance at 1 January 2010     (234) (565) 447 1,433 833 1,914
Recognised in income     (141) 8 (226) 134 54 (171)
Exchange      (2) 13 39 (1) (1) 48
On acquisition      (2) (4) — 72 — 66
Recognised in equity     — — 1,104 — 201 1,305
Balance at 31 December 2010    (379) (548) 1,364 1,638 1,087 3,162
14. Inventories
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Raw materials and consumables        6,372 6,020
Work in progress          1,702 1,126
Finished goods          1,113 2,048
           9,187 9,194
Inventories to the value of £50,484,000 (2009: £40,579,000) were recognised as expenses in the year. Included within this 
figure was the write-down of inventories to net realisable value of £413,000 (2009: £759,000).
15. Trade and other receivables
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Trade receivables          17,855 17,235
Other non-trade receivables         251 351
Prepayments and accrued income        750 600
           18,856 18,186
The Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in 
note 22. 66 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
16. Cash and cash equivalents
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Total bank balances         10,359 9,092
Cash and cash equivalents         10,359 9,092
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 22.
17. Capital and reserves
Share capital
         2010 2010 2009 2009 
         Number £’000 Number £’000
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each       3 1,600 ,2 3 1 5 9 7 31,239,501 591
Under the Companies Act 2006, companies are no longer required to have an authorised share capital and a resolution was 
passed by shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting to take advantage of the relevant provisions. Therefore, the 
Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
During the year, 360,730 shares were issued (1.15% of the total ordinary share capital issued) to the shareholders of BTI as part 
of the purchase consideration for 100% of its ordinary share capital. The ordinary shares issued have the same rights as the 
other shares in issue. The fair value of the shares issued amounted to £909,000 (252.4 pence per share).
         Ordinary shares
          2010 2009 
Issued share capital         Number Number
In issue at 1 January       31,239,501  31,239,501
Shares issued         360,730  —
Issued and fully paid at 31 December      31,600,231  31,239,501
Merger reserve
On acquiring Lumidrives Limited in 2006 the Company issued ordinary shares as part of the consideration. Merger relief was 
taken in accordance with Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 and hence £546,000 was credited to the merger reserve.
On acquiring BTI in the year the Company issued ordinary shares as part of the consideration. Merger relief was taken 
in accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 and hence £903,000 was credited to the merger reserve.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences from 1 January 2004 arising from the translation of the 
financial statements of foreign operations for the Company.
Capital redemption reserve
The Capital Redemption reserve comprises the nominal value of “B” preference shares redeemed since the Capital reorganisation 
in 2005.
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided for 
and there are no income tax consequences for the Company.
           2010 2009 
Final proposed dividend          £’000 £’000
5.2 pence per ordinary share (2009: 4.3 pence)       1,643 1,343
During the year the following dividends were paid:
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Interim – 2.8 pence per ordinary share (2009: 2.3 pence)      885 719
Second interim – 4.3 pence per ordinary share (2008 final 3.9 pence)     1,343 1,218
           2,228 1,937 67
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
18. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share at 31 December 2010 was based on the profit for the year of £7,453,000 
(2009: £5,432,000) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 31 December 2010 
of 31,286,691 (2009: 30,983,501).
Diluted earnings per share
The calculation of diluted earnings per share at 31 December 2010 was based on profit for the year of £7 ,453,000 (2009: £5,432,000) 
and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 31 December 2010 of 32,081,365 
(2009: 31,788,206) calculated as follows:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted)
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares       31,287 30,984
Effect of share options on issue        794 804
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted)      32,081 31,788
Underlying earnings per share are highlighted below as the Directors consider that this measurement of earnings gives 
valuable information on the performance of the Group.
       2010 2010  2009 2009  
       £’000 £’000 2010 £’000 £’000 2009 
       Continuing  Discontinued £’000 Continuing Discontinued £’000 
       operations operations Total operations operations Total
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (basic and diluted)  7,453 — 7,453 3,292 2,140 5,432
Earnings per share           
Basic       23.8p — 23.8p 10.6p 6.9p 17.5p
Diluted       23.3p — 23.3p 10.4p 6.7p 17.1p
19. Employee benefits
Defined benefit pension obligations
The Group makes contributions to three defined benefit plans to provide benefits for employees upon retirement. One of the 
plans is overseas. All three plans are closed to new members.
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations
       2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 
       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
       UK US  UK US 
       schemes scheme Total schemes scheme Total
Present value of liabilities      19,997 14,525 34,522 18,434 13,229 31,663 
Fair value of plan assets      (20,417) (12,664) (33,081) (19,302) (11,413) (30,715) 
Recognised (assets)/liability for defined benefit obligations   (420) 1,861 1,441 (868) 1,816 948 
Plan assets consist of the following:
       2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 
       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
       UK US  UK US 
       schemes scheme Total schemes scheme Total
Equities       8,030 — 8,030 7,110 7,936 15,046
Bonds       8,236 — 8,236 7,871 3,471 11,342
Cash       4,151 12,664 16,815 4,321 6 4,327
       20,417 12,664 33,081 19,302 11,413 30,715 68 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
19. Employee benefits continued
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations
       2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 
       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
       UK US  UK US 
       schemes scheme Total schemes scheme Total
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January     18,434 13,229 31,663 17,911 14,562 32,473
Current service cost      75 — 75 77 — 77
Employee element of service cost     18 — 18 24 — 24
Interest cost       1,044 775 1,819 1,100 784 1,884
Benefits paid       (856) (1,022) (1,878) (867) (979) (1,846)
Liabilities extinguished      — — — (332) — (332)
Actuarial losses       1,282 1,066 2,348 521 261 782
Currency losses/(gains)      — 477 477 — (1,399) (1,399)
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December    19,997 14,525 34,522 18,434 13,229 31,663
Movements in fair value of plan assets
       2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 
       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
       UK US  UK US  
       schemes scheme Total schemes scheme Total
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January     19,302 11,413 30,715 18,107 9,897 28,004
Expected return on scheme assets    970 967 1,937 960 739 1,699
Employer contributions      266 1,077 1,343 561 1,061 1,622
Member contributions      18 — 18 24 — 24
Benefits paid      (856) (1,022) (1,878) (867) (979) (1,846)
Assets distributed      — — — (386) — (386)
Actuarial gains/(losses)      717 (179) 538 903 1,723 2,626
Currency gains/(losses)     — 408 408 — (1,028) (1,028)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December    20,417 12,664 33,081 19,302 11,413 30,715
(Surplus)/Deficit      (420) 1,861 1,441 (868) 1,816 948
Expense recognised in the income statement
       2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 
       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
       UK US  UK US  
       schemes scheme Total schemes scheme Total
Current service costs     75 — 75 77 — 77
Settlement cost       — — — 54 — 54
Interest on obligation      1,044 775 1,819 1,100 784 1,884
Expected return on plan assets     (970) (967) (1,937) (960) (739) (1,699)
       149 (192) (43) 271 45 316
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
       2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 
       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
       UK US  UK US  
       schemes scheme Total schemes scheme Total
Cost of sales       41 — 41 72 — 72
Distribution costs       8 — 8 13 — 13
Administrative expenses      26 — 26 46 — 46
Net financing income     74 (192) (118) 140 45 185
       149 (192) (43) 271 45 316 69
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
19. Employee benefits continued
Expense recognised in other comprehensive income
       2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 
       £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
       UK US  UK US  
       schemes scheme Total schemes scheme Total
Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan assets     717 (179) 538 903 1,723 2,626
Change in assumptions in respect of liabilities   (447) (1,090) (1,537) (2,063) (337) (2,400)
Experience (losses)/gains on liabilities    (835) 24 (811) 1,542 76 1,618
Net actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income     (565) (1,245) (1,810) 382 1,462 1,844
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income     — — (5,951) — — (4,141)
Historical information
        2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Defined benefit obligation       (34,522) (31,663)  (32,473) (32,417)  (31,734) 
Scheme assets       33,081 30,715  28,004  31,190 30,063
Deficit        (1,441) (948) (4,469)  (1,227)  (1,671) 
Actuarial (losses)/gains on liabilities     (2,348) (782) 3,788 (405) (509)
Experience gain/(loss) on assets     538 2,626 (7,195) 67 812
Experience (loss)/gain on currency     (69) 371 (1,066) 23 282
Liability for defined benefit obligations
The principal assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are:
       UK schemes (% per annum)  US scheme (% per annum)
       2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
Discount rate at 31 December     5.50 5.70 6.25 5.00 5.75 6.00
Future salary increases     3.00 4.25 3.70 n/a n/a n/a
Future pension increases     3.65 3.65 3.20 n/a n/a n/a
Inflation – RPI      3.70 3.75 3.20 n/a n/a n/a
Inflation – CPI      3.00 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Deferred revaluation     3.00 3.75 3.20 n/a n/a n/a
On 8 July 2010 the government announced it would change the inflation index used for statutory pension increases that would apply to 
private sector pension schemes going forward. As a result, deferred revaluation of pensions in excess of guaranteed minimum pension 
for the UK schemes is now based on the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”), which previously was based on the Retail Price Index (“RPI”). 
This change has been recognised at 31 December 2010 in other comprehensive income.
The expected long-term rates of return were:
       UK schemes (% per annum)  US scheme (% per annum)
       2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
Equities       6.50 6.50 6.50 n/a 8.65 8.65
Bonds       4.20 4.50 4.50 n/a 4.80 5.00
Cash       4.20 3.75 3.75 1.00 2.15 4.00
The US scheme is closed to accrual for future service and salary and pension increases are not applicable.
F or its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 31 December 2010, used PA92 medium 
cohort tables based on year of birth (as is published by the Institute of Actuaries). For its US pension arrangements the mortality tables 
are taken from the RP2000 Generational Mortality Table. Both UK and US mortality tables are based on the latest mortality 
investigations and reflect an industry-wide recognition that life expectations have improved. The average life expectancy of an individual 
currently aged 45 years and retiring at age 65 years is 21.8 years for males and 25.1 years for females. For individuals currently 
aged 65 years the average life expectancy is 20.6 years for males and 21.7 years for females.
The expected long-term rate of return for investments is based on the portfolio as a whole and not on individual asset categories. 
The return is based exclusively on historical returns, without adjustments which are crossed checked against market expectations 
from external sources. 
The Group expects that contributions to the UK defined benefit plans in 2011 will be at a similar level to contributions paid 
in 2010. A full buy-out of the US scheme is planned to take place in March 2011. 70 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
19. Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments
PSP
In September 2005 the shareholders approved the PSP.
During the year an award under the PSP was made to the Executive Directors and senior managers, details of which are set out below:
     Number Number Number Number     
     of awards of awards of awards of awards Number    
     at the granted released forfeited of awards Fair value   
     beginning during during during at the pence per Vesting Maturity 
 Date of award    of year the year the year the year year end share Period date
April 2007    220,825 — (123,949) (96,876)  —  84 3 years  April 2010
April 2008    303,064 —  — (10,229) 292,835 97 3 years April 2011
April 2009*    358,150 — —  (10,195)  347,955  56 3 years  April 2012
May 2010    — 235,681 — — 235,681 186 3 years May 2013
September 2010    — 37,822 — — 37,822 322 3 years Sept 2013
     882,039 273,503 (123,949) (117,300) 914,293
* Restated.
Further details of the PSP are included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 39 to 43.
The fair value of the awards made is measured using the Monte Carlo model with the following inputs:
         September May April April 
         2010 2010 2009 2008 
         award award award award
Share price         £4.01 £2.79  £1.17*  £1.55 
Exercise price         £nil £nil £nil  £nil 
Expected volatility         42% 41% 40%  38% 
Award life         3 years  3 years  3 years  3 years 
Correlation    
Dialight and the FTSE Smallcap Index       30% 33% 18%  19% 
FTSE Smallcap Index and the FTSE All Share  
Electronic/Electrical Equipment Index      87% 86%  77%  76% 
* Restated.
The employee expense in 2010 is £312,000 (2009: £198,000) (see note 5).
20. Provisions
            Warranty 
            £’000
Balance at 1 January 2010          1,073
Effects of foreign exchange movement          21
Business acquired           37
Provisions made during the year          568
Provisions used during the year          (543)
Balance at 31 December 2010          1,156
           Warranty Warranty 
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Due within one year         694 —
Due between one and five years        462 1,073
           1,156 1,073
The provision is based on estimates made from historical warranty data associated with similar products.
21. Trade and other payables
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Trade payables           6,640 7,192 
Other taxes and social security         245 179 
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses        4,380 3,644 
           11,265 11,015 
The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 22. 71
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
22. Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk from its use of financial instruments.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and 
processes for measuring and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated 
financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. 
The Group’s risk policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and 
controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
The Group’s Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies 
and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
Credit risk
Trade and other receivables
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations by not paying the receivables due.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
Operationally the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Each new customer 
is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. 
The Group’s review includes external ratings when available and in some cases bank references. Purchase limits are set for customers. 
Customers that do not meet the benchmark creditworthiness may transact with the Group only on a prepayment basis.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and 
other receivables.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates will affect the Group’s income. 
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while 
optimising the return.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to manage exposure to interest rate risk setting a proportion of any borrowings to a fixed rate basis. 
Historically interest rate swaps have been considered and entered into. Currently the Group has no borrowings.
Foreign currency risk
Exposure to currency risk arises in the normal course of the Group’s business. 
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than 
UK Sterling. The currencies giving rise to risk are primarily Euro and US Dollars.
The Group uses natural hedging within the Group to hedge the majority of its foreign currency risk.
Natural hedging is the mechanism whereby the cash inflows in a particular currency are matched to the cash outflows in that 
currency at the same business or different group company. 
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than UK Sterling, the Group ensures that the net 
exposure is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address 
short-term imbalances.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities 
that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as 
possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions 
without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
Capital management 
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain 
future development of the business.
The Board monitors TSR compared to certain peer companies and the FTSE All Share index and Electronic/Electrical 
Equipment Index.
From time to time the Board will consider whether to purchase its own shares in the market; the timing of these purchases 
depends on market prices. Primarily it is intended that any share purchase would be used for issuing shares under the Group’s 
PSP. The Group does not have a defined share buy back plan. 72 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
22. Financial risk management continued
Exposure to credit risk
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
         Gross Impairment Gross Impairment 
         2010 2010 2009 2009 
         £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Not past due         11,431 — 11,306  73 
Past due 0–30 days       4,922 204  3,838  7
Past due 31–120 days       1,674 48  2,121  8
Past due 121–365 days       101 24  312  254
More than one year       96 93  113  113
Total         18,224 369  17,690  455
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
            £’000
Balance at 1 January 2010           455
Exchange adjustment           2
On acquisition           8
Utilisation of provision           (17)
Provision released            (79)
Balance at 31 December 2010          369
The allowance accounts in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied 
that no recovery of the amount owing is possible; at that point the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against 
the financial asset directly.
Other non-trade receivables of £251,000 (2009: £351,000) are not past due and have no impairment.
Exposure to currency risk
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:
         2010 2010 2009 2009 
         $’000 €’000 $’000 €’000
Trade receivables         4,758 559 3,847  362
Currency cash        1,044 596  1,017  938
Trade payables        (3,874) (44)  (3,586)  (582)
Gross balance sheet exposure       1,928 1,111  1,278  718
Estimated forecast sales       25,569 7,546  16,500  8,000
Estimated forecast purchases       (24,403) (820)  (15,000)  (6,000)
Gross exposure        3,094 7,837  2,778  2,718
Forward exchange contracts       — — — —
Net exposure        3,094 7,837  2,778  2,718
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
         2010 2010 2009 2009 
         Average At reporting Average At reporting 
         rate date rate date
US Dollar         1.53 1.56 1.57  1.62 
Euro          1.17 1.16 1.12  1.13 
Exposure to liquidity risk
For non-derivative financial liabilities the Group’s exposure relates principally to trade and other payables.
Trade and other payables arise in the normal course of business and there are no unusual or onerous terms and conditions. 
These are all due to be paid within six months from the balance sheet date. 73
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
22. Financial risk management continued
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group’s 
earnings. Over the longer term, however, permanent changes, in particular in foreign exchange rates, would have an impact 
on equity value and consolidation earnings.
At 31 December 2010 it is estimated that a general increase of 1% in the value of the Euro and US Dollar against UK Sterling 
would have reduced the Group’s profit before tax by approximately £112,000 for the year ended 31 December 2010 (2009: £62,000).
At 31 December 2010 it is estimated that a general increase of 1% in the value of the Euro and US Dollar against UK Sterling 
would have reduced the Group’s equity by approximately £46,000 for the year ended 31 December 2010 (2009: £231,000).
Fair values versus carrying amounts
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
         Carrying  Carrying  
         amount Fair value amount Fair value 
         2010 2010 2009 2009 
         £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Trade and other receivables        18,106 18,106 17,586  17,586
Cash and cash equivalents       10,359 10,359  9,092  9,092
Trade and other payables       (6,885) (6,885)  (7,371)  (7,371)
         21,580 21,580 19,307  19,307
Details of the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table 
are set out in note 3(v).
23. Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Less than one year          835 853
Between one and five years         1,985  1,306
More than five years          1,848 7 
           4,668 2,166 
Of the £4,668,000 (2009: £2,166,000), £4,506,000 (2009: £1,992,000) relates to property and the balance to plant 
and equipment.
The Group has no off balance sheet arrangements that need to be disclosed as within the context of Section 410A of the 
Companies Act 2006.
24. Capital commitments
Capital commitments at 31 December for which no provision has been made in the accounts were:
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Contracted           499 301
25. Contingencies
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Performance guarantees and indemnities       —  100
The Group was notified of the potential for an as yet unquantified future claim to arise from one of its Signalling/Illumination 
customers. Legal advice has been sought and discussions with the customer have commenced to mitigate the risk of any 
liability arising. No provision has been made in respect of this matter because the Directors are unable to estimate the 
outcome of this potential claim. 74 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
26. Related parties
The ultimate controlling party of the Group is Dialight plc. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been 
eliminated on consolidation. Intra-group transactions are priced on arm’s length basis.
Transactions with key management personnel
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 4.98% of the Company.
Details of the remuneration for the Company Directors are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 39 to 43. 
Details of the IFRS 2 charge is set out in note 5. The main Board Directors are considered to be the Group’s key management personnel.
27. Significant subsidiaries
    Country of incorporation       Principal activity
Dialight Corporation*   USA  Manufacture and sale of indicators and Signals/Illumination products
Dialight Garufo GmbH*    Germany Manufacture and sale of Signals/Illumination products
Dialight Europe Limited   England and Wales  Manufacture and sale of electromagnetic components 
(formerly Dialight BLP Limited)  and manufacture of Signals products
Dialight Lumidrives Limited   England and Wales  Manufacture and sale of Illumination products
Dialight BLP Limited   England and Wales Sale of Signals/Illumination products
(formerly Dialight Europe Limited)
BTI Light Systems A/S   Denmark  Manufacture and sale of Signals/Illumination products
All of these are included within the consolidation. Those marked with an * are indirectly held.
28. Accounting estimates and judgements
Management discussed with the Audit Committee the disclosure of critical accounting policies and estimates.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Note 11 contains information about the assumptions and their risk factors relating to goodwill impairment; in note 22 detailed 
analysis is given of the foreign exchange exposure and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements.
Note 19 contains information on the Group’s defined benefit pension plans. The main assumptions made in accounting for the 
Group’s pension plans relate to the expected rate of return on investments within the plans, the rate of increase in pensionable 
salaries, the rate of increase in the retail price index, the mortality rate of plan members and the discount rate applied in 
discounting liabilities. For each of these assumptions there is a range of possible values. Small changes in these assumptions 
can have a significant impact on the size of the deficit calculated under IAS 19.
Warranty (see note 20)
The warranty provision is estimated requiring management to make estimates and assumptions with respect to values and 
conditions which cannot be known with certainty at the time the financial statements are prepared. 
Estimates are evaluated based on historical results and experience together with any known factors at the time of estimate. 
If the relevant rate of product returns differed materially from the estimates this may have a material impact on the level 
of provision required.
Disposal of businesses
During the last seven years the Group has sold businesses in three separate transactions to major US corporations. In each 
transaction Dialight was required to provide certain warranties and indemnities to the purchaser. The terms and nature of the 
warranties and indemnities were not unusual for these types of transactions. A number of the indemnities principally in relation 
to taxation are still in place and will expire over time with the last expiring in December 2011. The Board is aware of situations 
where claims arising from the indemnities are possible, but having taken legal advice, the Board considers that the risk of 
a material claim by any of the purchasers is remote. No provision is required to be made.
29. Post balance sheet events
On 4 January 2011, the Group acquired 75% of the issued share capital of Lightday Investments Pty Ltd trading as 
Industrial Lighting Solutions (“ILS”), its Australian distributor of ultra-efficient lighting products. The cash consideration paid 
at the date of acquisition was AUD $300,000. Due to the timing of the acquisition the fair values have yet to be determined 
and will be announced in the half yearly financial report. 75
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
           2010 2009 
          Note £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets           32 106 6 
Investments          33  16,200 13,590 
           16,306 13,596 
Current assets   
Debtors            34 33,964  9,415 
Cash at bank and in hand          2,377 3,070
            36,341 12,485 
Creditors
Amounts falling due within one year
Other creditors          35 (4,961)  (3,908) 
Net current assets          31,380 8,577 
Total assets less current liabilities         47,686 22,173 
Net assets excluding pension fund liability        47,686 22,173 
Pension fund liability         39 (6) (95) 
Net assets including pension fund liability        47,680 22,078 
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital          37, 38 597 591 
Capital redemption reserve          38 2,232  2,232
Other reserve           38 741  476
Profit and loss account         38 44,110 18,779
Equity shareholder funds          47,680 22,078
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roy Burton Mark Fryer
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Financial statements
Company balance sheet (prepared under UK GAAP)
at 31 December 2010 76 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements
30. Dialight plc Company balance sheet
Accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared under historic cost accounting rules and in accordance with UK GAAP.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation 
to the financial statements.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and 
loss account.
No STRGL is required under UK GAAP as it is treated as related to the profit and loss account. Actuarial movements and related 
deferred tax will therefore only appear in the reserves note.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company
Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity (i.e. forming part of shareholders’ funds) only to the extent 
that they meet the following two conditions:
a)  they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial 
assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company; and
b)  where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company’s own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes 
no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company’s own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by 
the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument 
so classified takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called 
up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of interest payable and similar charges.
Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are classified as part of shareholders’ funds (see dividends policy), 
are dealt with as appropriations in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds.
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost, less estimated net realisable value, of tangible fixed assets on a straight-line 
basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The principal annual rates used for this purpose are:
Office equipment    between 10% and 20%
Computer equipment    between 20% and 33.3%
Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings  between 10% and 20%
Motor vehicles    between 25% and 33.3%
Leased assets
The costs of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the 
transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or if appropriate at the forward contract rate. All differences 
are taken to the profit and loss account with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that 
they are used to finance or provide a hedge against foreign equity investments, which are taken directly to reserves together 
with the exchange difference on the carrying amount of the related investments.
Taxation
Deferred taxation is recognised without discounting in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items 
for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date. 77
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
30. Dialight plc Company balance sheet continued
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost, less provisions for impairment in value. Where the consideration 
for the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking includes shares in the company to which the provisions of Section 612 of the 
Companies Act 2006 apply, the cost represents the nominal value of shares issued together with the fair value of any additional 
consideration given and costs.
Pension contributions
The Company operates both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. The assets of all the arrangements are held separately 
from the assets of the Company in independently administered funds. The amount charges against profits in respect of defined 
contribution arrangements are the contributions payable to those arrangements in the accounting period.
For the defined benefit arrangements the assets are measured at market values. The liabilities are measured on the projected 
unit method, discounting at the current rate of return of a high quality corporate bond of the appropriate term and currency 
to the liability, as required under FRS 17.
The defined benefit scheme surplus or deficit is recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
The movement in the deficit is split between operating charges, financing items and actuarial gains and losses in the statement 
of recognised gains and losses.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately 
authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed 
in the notes to the financial statements.
Share-based payments
The PSP allows employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of awards granted is recognised as an employee 
expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during 
which the employees become unconditionally entitled to receive the awards. The fair value of the awards granted is measured 
using a pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount recognised 
as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share awards that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices 
not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Where the Company grants awards over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises an increase in the 
cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s 
financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
31. Staff costs
Staff costs during the year were:
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries          612 553 
Social security costs          65 43
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions        47 67
Pension costs           76 44
           800 707
The average number of employees (including Executive Directors) employed during the year was:
           2010 2009 
           Number Number
UK            4 3
Details for each Director of remuneration, pension entitlements and interests in share options are set out in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 39 to 43. 78 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
32. Fixed assets
            Plant 
            equipment 
             and vehicles 
            £’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2010            270
Additions            115
Disposals            (255)
At 31 December 2010           130
Depreciation 
At 1 January 2010            (264)
Charge for the year           (15)
Disposals            255
At 31 December 2010          (24)
Net book value at 31 December 2010          106
Net book value at 31 December 2009          6
33. Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings:
            £’000
Cost 
At 1 January 2010            18,378
Additions           2,345
Share-based payment           265
At 31 December 2010           20,988
Provisions 
At 1 January 2010           (4,788)
Profit and loss account          —
At 31 December 2010           (4,788)
Net book value at 31 December 2010         16,200
Net book value at 31 December 2009          13,590
In accordance with UITF 41 “Scope of FRS 20 (IFRS 2)” the cost of investment is increased to reflect the cost of share options 
awarded to employees of the Company’s subsidiaries.
Details of the principal subsidiary companies are as follows:
Name         Country of incorporation and operation
Dialight Corporation*        United States of America
Dialight Europe Limited (formerly Dialight BLP Limited)     England and Wales
Dialight Garufo GmbH*         Germany
Dialight Lumidrives Limited         England and Wales
Dialight BLP Limited (formerly Dialight Europe Limited)     England and Wales
BTI Light Systems A/S          Denmark
The Group owns all of the equity of the above companies. The investment is held directly by the Company except for those 
companies where indicated by *.
On 28 April 2010 the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of BTI for a total consideration of £3,248,000. The consideration 
included shares in Dialight plc with a value of £909,000. Under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 the consideration for 
BTI is stated at cash and deferred consideration being £2,339,000 and the nominal value of the shares being £6,000.
34. Debtors
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings        33,052 9,282 
Other debtors           131 58
Deferred tax asset (note 36)         781 75 
           33,964 9,415 79
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
35. Creditors
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Amounts falling due within one year:  
Other taxes and social security costs         14 17
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings        3,445 3,289
Accruals and deferred income         1,502 602
           4,961 3,908 
36. Deferred tax asset
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
At 1 January           112 319 
Profit and loss account          649 (27)
Recognised in equity         22  19 
Businesses sold in prior years recognised in income       —  (199)
At 31 December           783 112 
An analysis of deferred tax is as follows:  
Capital allowances          30  31 
Short-term timing differences         751 44 
Debtors (see note 34)          781 75
Pension liability (see note 39)          2 37 
           783 112
37. Called up share capital
         2010 2010 2009 2009 
         Number £’000 Number £’000
Allotted and fully paid    
Ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each       31,600,231 597 31,239,501 591
Shares classified as liabilities         —  —
Shares classified in shareholder funds       597   591
          597  591
Under the Companies Act 2006, companies are no longer required to have an authorised share capital and a resolution was 
passed by shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting to take advantage of the relevant provisions. Therefore, the 
Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
During the year , 360,730 shares were issued (1.15% of the total ordinary share capital issued) to the shareholders of BTI as part 
of the purchase consideration for 100% of its ordinary share capital. The ordinary shares issued have the same rights as the 
other shares in issue. The fair value of the shares issued amounted to £909,000 (252.4 pence per share).
Share-based payments
PSP
In September 2005 the shareholders approved the PSP.
During the year an award under the Plan was made to the Executive Directors and senior managers, details of which are set 
out below:
     Number Number Number Number     
     of awards of awards of awards of awards Number    
     at the granted released forfeited of awards Fair value   
     beginning during during during at the pence per Vesting Maturity 
Date of award    of year the year the year the year year end share period date
April 2007    220,825 — (123,949) (96,876)  —  84 3 years  April 2010
April 2008    303,064 —  — (10,229) 292,835 97 3 years April 2011
April 2009*    358,150 — —  (10,195)  347,955  56 3 years  April 2012
May 2010    — 235,681 — — 235,681 186 3 years May 2013
September 2010    — 37,822 — — 37,822 322 3 years Sept 2013
     882,039 273,503 (123,949) (117,300) 914,293   
* Restated.
Further details of the PSP are included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 39 to 43. 80 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
37. Called up share capital continued
Share-based payments continued
Performance Share Plan continued
The fair value of the awards made is measured using the Monte Carlo model with the following inputs:
         September May April April 
          2010 2010 2009 2008 
         award award award award
Share price         £4.01 £2.79  £1.17*  £1.55 
Exercise price         £nil £nil £nil  £nil 
Expected volatility         42% 41% 40%  38% 
Award life         3 years  3 years  3 years  3 years 
Correlation    
Dialight and the FTSE Smallcap Index       30% 33% 18%  19% 
FTSE Smallcap Index and the FTSE All Share  
Electronic/Electrical Equipment Index      87% 86%  77%  76% 
* Restated
38. Capital and reserves
          Other   
         Capital reserve  Profit  
        Share redemption  capital and loss  
        capital reserve contribution account Total 
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At 1 January 2010         591 2,232  476  18,779  22,078
Shares issued on acquisition      6 — — — 6
Net expense recognised in equity     — — — 26 26
Profit for the year       — — — 27,441 27,441
Dividends to shareholders      — — — (2,228) (2,228)
Dividends returned from shareholders     — — — 6 6
Share-based payments      — — 265 86 351
At 31 December 2010      597 2,232 741 44,110 47,680
At 31 December 2010 the number of shares held by the Group through the ESOT was 159,621 (2009: 256,000). The market 
value of these shares at 31 December 2010 was £820,452 (2009: £560,000).
The capital contribution reserve is non-distributable and arises from the accounting for share-based payments (see note 37).
The profit for the year was £27,441,000 (2009: £5,104,000). Net expenses recognised directly in equity relate to the net 
actuarial gain (net of deferred tax) arising in respect of the pension scheme.
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Profit and loss reserve excluding pension liability       44,116  18,87 4 
Pension reserve          (6)  (95)
Profit and loss reserve          44,110 18,779 
Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Profit for the year           27,441 5,104 
Shares issued on acquisition         6 —
Other gains and losses          26 (64)
Dividends paid           (2,228) (1,937) 
Dividends returned          6 —
Share-based payments (net of tax)        351  198
Net addition to shareholder funds         25,602 3,301
Opening shareholder funds          22,078 18,777
Closing shareholder funds          47,680 22,078 81
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
38. Capital and reserves continued
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided for 
and there are no income tax consequences for the Company.
           2010 2009 
Final proposed dividend          £’000 £’000
5.2 pence per ordinary share (2009: 4.3 pence)       1,643  1,343 
During the year the following dividends were paid:
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Interim – 2.8 pence per ordinary share (2009: 2.3 pence)      885 719
Second interim – 4.3 pence per ordinary share (2008 final 3.9 pence)     1,343 1,218
           2,228 1,937
39. Pensions
The Company operates both a defined benefit executive scheme and defined contribution plan. The assets of the schemes are 
held separately from those of the Company. The defined benefit plan is closed to new members.
Recognised asset for defined benefit obligations
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Present value of liabilities         (1,483)  (1,471) 
Fair value of plan assets         1,475  1,339
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations       (8)  (132)
Deferred tax (see note 36)          2 37
Pension liability net of deferred tax         (6) (95)
           2010 2009 
Plan assets consist of the following:        : £’000 £’000
Bonds            1,411 1,316
Cash           64  23
           1,475 1,339
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Liabilities at 1 January         1,471  1,338 
Current service cost          — 14 
Employee element of service cost        —  2
Interest cost          83  83
Benefits paid           (47) (128) 
Actuarial (gain)/loss          (24) 162 
Liabilities at 31 December          1,483 1,471
Movements in fair value of plan assets
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Assets at 1 January          1,339 1,273
Expected return on scheme assets         61 57
Employer contributions          85 56
Member contributions          — 2
Benefit paid           (47) (128) 
Actuarial gain           37 79
Assets at 31 December          1,475 1,339  82 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
39. Pensions continued
Expense recognised in the profit and loss account
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Current service costs          — 14
Interest on obligation          83 83
Expected return on plan assets        (61)  (57)
           22 40
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the profit and loss account.
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Administrative expenses          — 14
Net financing income          22 26
           22 40
Expense recognised in statement of recognised gains and losses
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
Actuarial gain on plan assets          37 79
Experience gain/(losses) on liabilities        49 40
Change in assumptions in respect of liabilities       (25) (202)
Net actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in Statement of recognised gains and losses    61  (83)
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in Statement of recognised gains and losses    (420)  (481)
Historical information
        2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
        £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Defined benefit obligation      (1,483) (1,471) (1,338)  (2,003)  (1,791)
Scheme assets       1,475 1,339  1,273  1,943  1,883 
(Deficit)/surplus       (8)  (132)  (65)  (60)  92
Actuarial gain/(losses) on liabilities      24  (162)  228  (119)  (120)
Experience gain/(losses) on assets     37  79  (290)  (54)  (43)
Liability for defined benefit obligations
The principal assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are:
 UK Scheme (% per annum)
          2010  2009  2008
Discount rate at 31 December         5.50 5.70  6.25
Future salary increases        n/a  n/a  3.70
Future pension increases         3.65 3.65  3.20
Inflation – RPI          3.70 3.75  3.20
Inflation – CPI         3.00 n/a n/a
Deferred revaluation        3.00 3.75 3.20
On 8 July 2010, the government announced it would change the inflation index used for statutory pension increases that would 
apply to private sector pension schemes going forward. As a result, deferred revaluation of pensions in excess of guaranteed 
minimum pension for the UK scheme is now based on the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”), which previously was based on the 
Retail Price Index (“RPI”). The change has been recognised at 31 December in the statement of recognised gains and losses.
The expected long-term rates of return were:
 UK Scheme (% per annum)
          2010  2009  2008
Equities           n/a n/a  6.50
Bonds           5.50 5.70  4.50 
Cash           4.20 4.50  3.75 83
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial s t at emen t s  
Shareholder information  .
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
39. Pensions continued
Liability for defined benefit obligations continued
For its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 31 December 2010, used PA92 
medium cohort tables based on year of birth (as is published by the Institute of Actuaries). The UK mortality table is based on 
the latest mortality investigations and reflects an industry-wide recognition that life expectations have improved. The average 
life expectancy of an individual currently aged 45 years and retiring at age 65 years is 22.8 years for males and 25.6 years for 
females. For individuals currently aged 65 years the average life expectancy is 21.8 years for males and 24.6 years for females.
The expected long-term rate of return for investments is based on the portfolio as a whole and not on individual asset categories. 
The return is based exclusively on historical returns, without adjustments which are cross-checked against market expectations 
from external sources.
The Company expects that contributions to the defined benefit plan in 2011 will be at a similar level to contributions paid in 2010.
40. Operating lease commitments
The Company is committed to the following annual payments under operating leases:
Land and buildings which expire
           2010 2009 
           £’000 £’000
In less than one year         — 4
The Company has no off balance sheet arrangements that need to be disclosed as within the context of Section 410A of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Further details are set out in note 23.
41. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions conferred by FRS 8 and has not disclosed transactions with wholly 
owned subsidiaries that are part of the Group or the investees of the Group.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemptions available under FRS 29 whereby parent companies are not required 
to apply the disclosure requirements of the standard in their own single entity financial statements, on the basis that the disclosures 
are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group. 84 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements
Five year summary 
for the years ended 31 December
       Prepared under IFRSs
        2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
        £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover        99.2 77.3  77.9  63.4  62.3
Research and development expenditure     3.7 3.7  3.2  2.6  2.6
Operating profit        11.2 5.5  5.3  3.9  5.3
Finance income/(charges)       0.1 (0.2)  0.3  0.6  0.5
Profit before gain on disposal of discontinued  
operations and taxation       11.3 5.3  5.6  4.5  5.8
Operating cash flow       14.0 11.0  6.0  5.8  2.2
Net cash        10.4 9.1  4.1  4.4  2.2
Shareholders’ funds       46.2 40.1  37.5  30.8  29.7
Statistical information        Pence Pence  Pence  Pence  Pence
Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations    23.8 10.6  11.2  8.8  11.8
Dividends per share       8.0 6.6  6.0  5.7  5.25
Dividend cover (times)       3.0 2.7  1.9  1.5  2.2
Operating margin        11.3% 7.1%  6.8%  6.2%  8.5%
        £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover
Continuing operations       99.2 77.3  77.9  63.4  62.3
Operating profit from continuing operations     11.2 5.5  5.3  3.9  5.3 85
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information 
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Dialight plc (the “Company”) will be held at Glaziers Hall, 
9 Montague Close, London Bridge, London SE1 9DD at 11.30am on 20 April 2011. You will be asked to consider and, if thought fit, 
pass the resolutions below. Resolutions 14 to 16 (inclusive) will be proposed as special resolutions. All other resolutions will be 
proposed as ordinary resolutions. 
Ordinary resolutions
1.  That the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2010, together with the Directors’ report, 
the Directors’ remuneration report, the Auditors’ report on those accounts and on the auditable part of the Directors’ 
remuneration report be received.
2.  That the Directors’ remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 December 2010 be approved. 
3.  To declare a final dividend of 5.2 pence per ordinary share.
4.  That KPMG Audit Plc be re-appointed as auditors of the Company from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion 
of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
5.  That the Directors be authorised to determine the remuneration of the auditors. 
6.  That Harry Tee, CBE who retires by rotation, be re-elected as Director of the Company in accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association. 
7.  That Roy Burton, who retires by rotation, be re-elected as Director of the Company in accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association. 
8.  That Bill Ronald, who retires by rotation, be re-elected as Director of the Company in accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association. 
9.   That Richard Stuckes, who retires by rotation, be re-elected as Director of the Company in accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association. 
10.   That Mark Fryer, who was appointed a Director of the Company during the year, be elected as a Director of the Company 
in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
11.   That Robert Lambourne, who was appointed a Director of the Company during the year, be elected as a Director of the 
Company in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.
12. That:
 (a)  the Dialight plc Annual Performance Bonus Plan (the “Plan”), a copy of the rules of which has been produced to this 
Meeting and, for the purposes of identification only, initialed by the Chairman and a summary of the principal terms 
of which is set out in the Notice, be and is hereby approved and established; and
 (b)  the Directors be and they are hereby authorised to do all such acts and things as may be necessary or expedient to give 
effect to the Plan and to establish other employees’ share schemes for the benefit of employees outside the UK, based 
on the Plan but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided 
that any shares issued or which might be issued under such other schemes are treated as counting against the limits on 
individual and overall participation in the Plan.
Shareholder information
Notice of Annual General Meeting 86 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Shareholder information
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued
 
Ordinary resolutions continued
13.   That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with 
Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to: 
 (a)  allot shares (as defined in Section 540 of the Companies Act 2006) in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for 
or to convert any security into shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of £199,081; and 
 (b)  allot equity securities (as defined in Section 560 of the Companies Act 2006) up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£398,163 (such amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of shares allotted or rights to subscribe for or 
to convert any security into shares in the Company granted under paragraph (a) of this resolution 13) in connection with 
an offer by way of a rights issue: 
  (i) to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and 
  (ii)  to holders of other equity securities (as defined in Section 560(1) of the Companies Act 2006) as required by the 
rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise consider necessary; 
  and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary 
or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, 
or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authorities to apply until the end of the Company’s next AGM 
after this resolution is passed (or , if earlier , until the close of business on 30 June 2012) but, in each case, so that the Company 
may make offers and enter into agreements before the authority expires which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or 
rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares to be granted after the authority expires and the Directors may 
allot shares or grant such rights under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
Special resolutions
14.  That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the passing of resolution 13, the Directors be generally empowered 
pursuant to Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities (as defined in Section 560 of the Companies 
Act 2006) for cash pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 13 and/or where the allotment constitutes an allotment 
of equity securities by virtue of Section 560(3) of the Companies Act 2006, in each case free of the restriction in Section 
561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited:
 (a)  to the allotment of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares for cash in connection with an offer, or invitation 
to apply for, equity securities (but in the case of an allotment pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph (b) of 
resolution 13), such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer by way 
of a rights issue only):
  (i) to ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
  (ii) to holders of other equity securities (as defined in Section 560(1) of the Companies Act 2006), as required by the 
rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, and so that the 
Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate 
to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under 
the laws of, any territory or any other matter,
 (b)  to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph (a) of resolution 13 and/or, in the 
case of any sale of treasury shares for cash, an allotment which constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of 
Section 560(3) of the Companies Act 2006 or sale of treasury shares (in each case otherwise than in the circumstances 
set out in paragraph (a) of this resolution 14) up to a nominal amount of £29,862, such power to apply until the end of 
the Company’s next AGM after this resolution is passed (or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2012) but so 
that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the power expires which would, or might, require 
equity securities to be allotted after the power expires and the Directors may allot equity securities under any such offer 
or agreement as if the power had not expired. 87
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information 
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Special resolutions continued
15.  That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases (within the meaning 
of Section 693(4) of the Companies Act 2006) of ordinary shares of 1.89 pence in the capital of the Company (“ordinary 
shares”) provided that:
 (a)  the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 3,160,023 (representing 10% of the 
issued ordinary share capital);
 (b) the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 1.89 pence;
 (c) the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is the higher of:
  (i)  an amount equal to 5% above the average middle market value of an ordinary share as derived from the London 
Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary 
share is purchased; and
  (ii)  the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues 
where the purchase is carried out, in each case, exclusive of expenses,
 (d)  this authority expires at the conclusion of the next AGM after this resolution is passed (or, if earlier, until the close 
of business on 30 June 2012); and
 (e)  the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of the authority 
which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of the authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary 
shares in pursuance of any such contract.
16. That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
By order of the Board
Nick Giles  Registered Office:
Company Secretary  Exning Road
9 March 2011 Newmarket
 Suffolk CB8 0AX
 Registered in England and Wales Number 2486024 88 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Shareholder information
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 
Explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM
The notes on the following pages give an explanation of the proposed resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 13 are proposed as ordinary resolutions. This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more 
than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution. Resolutions 14 to 16 are proposed as special resolutions. 
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of 
the resolution.
Resolution 12 – Adoption of Annual Performance Bonus Plan 
It is proposed in resolution 12 to establish and approve a new Annual Performance Bonus Plan (the “Plan”). A summary 
of the key terms of the Plan can be found below. The rules of the Plan, initialled for identification by the Chairman are 
available for inspection as noted on page 92.
Resolution 13 – Authority to allot shares
This resolution is divided into two parts. Paragraph (a) of the resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot ordinary 
shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to £199,081 (representing a maximum of 10,533,410 ordinary shares of 
1.89 pence each). This amount represents approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company 
as at 9 March 2011, the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of AGM.
In line with recent guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, paragraph (b) of the resolution would give the 
Directors authority to allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an 
aggregate nominal amount equal to £398,163 (representing a maximum of 21,066,821 ordinary shares), as reduced by the 
nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph (a) of the resolution. This amount (before any reduction) represents 
approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 9 March 2011, the latest practicable date 
prior to publication of the Notice of AGM.
The authorities sought under paragraphs (a) and (b) of the resolution will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the AGM 
of the Company held in 2012 and 30 June 2012 (the last date by which the Company must hold an AGM in 2012).
The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the authorities sought under the resolution, except, if necessary 
under paragraph (a), to satisfy the exercise of options or awards granted under existing share schemes. However , the authority 
gives the Directors the flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.
As at the date of the Notice of AGM, no ordinary shares are held by the Company in treasury.
Resolution 14 – Relax restrictions normally applying to shares issued for cash
This resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot ordinary shares (or sell any ordinary shares which the Company 
elects to hold in treasury) for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Except as provided below, this authority would be limited to allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and 
offers to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those shares or as the Board otherwise considers 
necessary, or otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of £29,862 (representing a maximum of 1,580,012 ordinary 
shares). This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company 
as at 9 March 2011, the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice.
Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph (b) of resolution 13 would be limited to allotments by way of a rights 
issue only (subject to the right of the Board to impose necessary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, 
fractional entitlements and regulatory matters).
The authority sought under this resolution will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the AGM of the Company held in 2012 
and 30 June 2012 (the last date by which the Company must hold an AGM in 2012). 89
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information 
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
Explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM continued
Resolution 15 – Purchase of own shares
This resolution would give authority for the Company to purchase up to 3,160,023 of its ordinary shares, representing 
approximately 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital. Purchases will only be made at a minimum price per 
share of 1.89 pence and at maximum price per share of the higher of: (i) an amount equal to 5% above the average middle 
market value of an ordinary share of the Company as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 
five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased; and (ii) the higher of the price 
of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried 
out, in each case, exclusive of expenses. If granted, the authority will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the AGM of 
the Company held in 2012 and 30 June 2012 (the last date by which the Company must hold an AGM in 2012).
The Directors will determine whether any ordinary shares acquired to this authority are to be cancelled or held in treasury 
at the time that they resolve to exercise the authority. As at 9 March 2011, the latest practicable date prior to publication of 
the Notice, the total number of awards outstanding under Group share plans was 1,060,893 which represents 3.4% of the 
issued shares at that time and would represent 3.7% of the issued share capital if the Directors used the existing authority 
to purchase shares.
The Directors are of the opinion that this authority, if renewed, will continue to give them greater flexibility to manage the 
issued share capital of the Company for the benefit of the shareholders and would only use this authority if it is for the 
benefit of the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority conferred by this resolution.
Resolution 16 – Notice of general meetings
Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for 
general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which, cannot, however 
be less than 14 clear days (AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days’ notice).
Until the coming into force of the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general 
meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days’ notice without obtaining such shareholder approval. In order to preserve this 
ability, resolution 16 seeks such approval. The approval will be effective until the Company’s next AGM, when it is intended that 
a similar resolution will be proposed. Note that the changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean that, in order to be able to 
call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days’ notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available 
to all shareholders for that meeting.
Recommendation
Your Directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders as a whole.
Your Directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommend that you do as well. 90 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Summary of the Principal Terms of The Plan
Bonus awards
1.  Selected senior executives within the Dialight group of companies (“the Group”) may be awarded an annual bonus 
determined by reference to (a) the attainment of corporate performance targets for a given year, and (b) the executive’s 
personal performance. The amount of such annual bonuses are determined by the Group Chief Executive or, in relation to 
any director of the Company, the Remuneration Committee of the Company (“the Committee”). Such a bonus is normally 
paid in cash, but under the Plan, a proportion of the bonus, being that which is payable on achievement of the most stretching 
performance targets, may be paid in the form of an appropriation of shares in the Company (“a Deferred Share Bonus”).
2.  In relation to annual bonuses made for the current financial year (ending 31st December 2011), it is intended that, in the case 
of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, the total amount of such bonuses may not exceed 150% and 
100% of their respective rates of basic salary (as at the year end). If and insofar as, and by reason of the attainment of the 
most stretching performance targets, such bonuses exceed 100% and 75% of their respective rates of basic salary, such 
bonuses will be paid to them in the form of Deferred Share Bonuses. 
Terms of a Deferred Share Bonus
3.  Shares in respect of which a Deferred Share Bonus is awarded (“Award Shares”) will vest in tranches at the end of one or 
more periods (not in any event exceeding the 5th anniversary of the time when the bonus award is made) during which the 
participant is at risk of forfeiting some or all of the shares if he or she leaves the Group otherwise than for specified reasons. 
If a participant leaves the Group before such Award Shares have become vested then, unless this is by reason of disability, 
redundancy or death in service, or the sale or transfer outside the Group of the business or subsidiary in which the participant 
is engaged, or the Committee determines otherwise, the participant’s entitlement to such Award Shares (and any amount 
of bonus represented by the Deferred Share Bonus) will be forfeited. If the participant leaves the Group in such a specified 
circumstance, then the Committee may determine that unvested Award Shares be released within a specified period or 
periods following such cessation of employment.
Determination of the number of Award Shares
4.  The number of Award Shares in respect of which a Deferred Share Bonus is awarded will be determined by reference to the 
average of the middle market quotations of a share in the Company in the period of 5 consecutive dealing days next following 
the announcement of the Company’s financial results for the relevant bonus year. 
Issue of new shares
5.  The Company may issue new shares, or transfer shares out of treasury for the purpose of satisfying such Deferred Share 
Bonuses. Such new shares may be issued to participants or to the trustee of the Company’s employee share ownership 
trust, for the purposes of the Plan. If allotted and issued as new shares, the directors may determine that the nominal 
or par value of such shares be paid up by a capitalisation of reserves.
6.  The number of shares which may on any day be so issued (whether as new shares or transferred out of treasury) for the 
purposes of the Plan, when added to the number of shares in the Company which have been so issued or transferred or in 
respect of which rights to subscribe for new shares have been granted (and, if not exercised, have not lapsed) under or for 
the purposes of any other employees’ share scheme in the period of ten years ending on that day, may not exceed 10% 
of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue on that day. 
Corporate events
7 .  In the event of a change of control (takeover), demerger , statutory reconstruction or winding-up of the Company, the Committee 
may determine that Award Shares shall then be released.
Operation of the Plan
8. The operation of the Plan will be overseen by the Committee.
Amendment of the Plan
9.  The Committee may amend the Plan in any respect except that the provisions relating to eligibility, the basis for determining 
the number of Award Shares, the issue of new shares and the basis for determining and adjusting a participant’s entitlement 
to acquire shares, cash or other benefits and the adjustment of such entitlements in the event of a capitalisation issue, rights 
issue or open-offer, sub-division or consolidation of shares or reduction of capital or any other variation of capital, cannot 
be altered to the advantage of participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting, except for minor 
amendments to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain 
favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants in the Plan or for any member of the Group.
This summary does not form part of the Plan and should not be taken as affecting the interpretation of the detailed 
rules of the Plan. The Directors reserve the right up to the time of the AGM to make such amendments and additions 
to the rules of the Plan as may be necessary to take account of comments of the UK Listing Authority or otherwise, 
provided such amendments do not conflict in any material respect with this summary.
Shareholder information
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued
  91
Overview  .
Business review  . 
Governance  .
Financial statements  .
Shareholder information 
Annual report and accounts 2010 Dialight plc
The notes below provide information on the content of the Notice:
1.  Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the 
AGM. A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise 
the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company. 
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions is sent to all shareholders. If you do 
not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact Equiniti Limited 
at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA or on 0871 384 2495 (for callers calling from the UK. Calls to 
this number are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline; other provider costs may vary. Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, 
Monday to Friday) or +44 (0)121 415 7047 (for those calling from abroad).
2.  To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or (during normal business 
hours only) by hand at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZR in each case no later 
than 11.30am on 18 April 2011. Shareholders who would prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via 
the internet can do so through the Sharevote website, www.sharevote.co.uk, using their Personal Authentication Reference 
Number (this is the series of numbers printed under the headings Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number 
on the Proxy Form). Full details and instructions on these electronic proxy facilities are given on the website. Any electronic 
communication sent by a shareholder to the Company or to the Registrar which is found to contain a computer virus will 
not be accepted.
3.  The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction (as described in paragraph 9 
below) will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he/she wishes to do so.
4.  Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy 
information rights (a “Nominated Person”) may, under an agreement between him/her and the shareholder by whom he/
she was nominated, have a right to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the AGM. If a 
Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he/she may, under any such 
agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
5.  The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does 
not apply to Nominated Persons. The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of 
the Company.
6.  To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM (and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they 
may cast), shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6.00pm on 18 April 2011 (or, in 
the event of any adjournment, 6.00pm on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting). Changes 
to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to 
attend and vote at the AGM.
7.  As at 9 March 2011 (being the last business day prior to the publication of this Notice) the Company’s issued share capital 
consisted of 31,600,231 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each. Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 
9 March 2011 were 31,600,231.
8.  CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may 
do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual (available via www.euroclear.com/CREST). CREST Personal 
Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider(s), 
should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on 
their behalf.
9.  In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message 
(a “CREST Proxy Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s 
specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual (available 
via www.euroclear.com/CREST). The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an 
amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be 
received by the issuer’s agent (ID RA19) by 11.30am on 18 April 2011. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be 
the time (as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host) from which the issuer’s 
agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change 
of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
10.  CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & 
Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timings 
and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST 
member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member, or sponsored member, or has appointed 
a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be 
necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, 
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular , to those 
sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings. 92 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Shareholder information
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued
 
The notes below provide information on the content of the Notice continued:
11.  The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the 
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. 
12.  Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all 
of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
13.  Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have 
the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: (i) the audit of the 
Company’s accounts (including the Auditors’ report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the AGM; or (ii) any 
circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual 
accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006. The Company may not require 
the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of 
the Companies Act 2006. Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the 
Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the 
statement available on the website. The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the 
Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
14.  Any member attending the AGM has the right to ask questions. The Company must cause to be answered any such question 
relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM but no such answer need be given if: (a) to do so would interfere unduly 
with the preparation for the AGM or involve the disclosure of confidential information; (b) the answer has already been given 
on a website in the form of an answer to a question; or (c) it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order 
of the AGM that the question be answered.
15.  A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.dialight.com.
16.  Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal business 
hours (Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted) from the date of this notice until the date of the AGM and at the place 
of the AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting:
 (i) the register of Directors’ interests in shares of the Company;
 (ii) copies of all service agreements under which Directors of the Company are employed by the Company or any subsidiaries;
 (iii) a copy of the terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company; and
 (iv) a copy of the proposed Dialight plc Annual Performance Bonus Plan rules.
17.  You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents (including the 
Form of Proxy) to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated. Company Secretary and Registered Office
Nick Giles FCIS 
Exning Road 
Newmarket 
Suffolk CB8 0AX 
Telephone: +44 (0)1638 778640 
Registered in England & Wales – Company Number 2486024 
Email: info@dialightplc.com 
www.dialight.com
Financial advisers
DC Advisory Partners Ltd
60 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8HP
Stockbrokers
Canaccord Genuity Ltd
7th Floor, Cardinal Place,  
80 Victoria Street,  
London SW1 5JL
Registrars
Equiniti
34 South Gyle Business Park, Edinburgh EH12 9EB
Equiniti’s Shareholder Contact Centre can be contacted  
by telephone on 0871 384 2030* (International callers: 
+44 121 415 7047) between 8.30am and 5.30pm each 
business day, excluding Bank Holidays.
You can also access details of your shareholding and  
a range of other shareholder services by registering at 
www.shareview.co.uk
*Calls to this number are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline. 
Charges from other telephone providers may vary.
Share price
Information concerning the day-to-day movement of the 
share price of the Company can be found on our website 
www.dialight.com or the London Stock Exchange’s website 
www.londonstockexchange.com
Dealing service
Equiniti offers Shareview Dealing, a service which allows you 
to sell your Dialight plc shares or add to your holding if you 
are a UK resident. Y ou can deal in your shares on the internet 
or by telephone. F or more information about this service and 
for details of their rates, log on to www.shareview.co.uk/ dealing 
or telephone them on 0845 603 7037 between 8.30am 
and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday. If you wish to deal, you will 
need your account/shareholder reference number which 
appears on your share certificate.
Alternatively, if you hold a share certificate, you can also 
use any bank, building society or stockbroker offering share 
dealing facilities to buy or sell shares. If you are in any 
doubt about buying or selling shares, you should seek 
professional financial advice.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
One Snowhill, Snow Hill Queensway, Birmingham B4 6GH
Legal advisers
Clifford Chance LLP
10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ
Butzel Long
380 Madison Avenue, 22nd Floor, New York, NY 10017, USA
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
PO Box 885, Mortlock House, Station Road, Histon, 
Cambridge CB24 9DE
Financial calendar 2011/2012
Annual General Meeting 20 April 2011 
Payment of final dividend 6 May 2011 
Announcement of Half Year results 25 July 2011
Regional headquarters
Dialight Corporation
1501 Route 34 South 
Farmingdale, NJ 07727 
US 
Telephone: +1 732 919 3119 
Facsimile: +1 732 751 5778
Dialight Europe Limited
Exning Road 
Newmarket 
Suffolk CB8 0AX 
Telephone: +44 (0) 1638 665161 
Facsimile: +44 (0) 01638 660718
Directory and shareholder information
600.0
200.0
150.0
100.0
0.0
50.0
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Share price
Dialight plc vs FTSE SmallCap Index
At 31 December
550.0
250.0
300.0
350.0
400.0
450.0
500.0
Dialight plc FTSE  SmallCap Index
Shareholder information
  Dialight plc
Exning Road 
Newmarket 
Suffolk CB8 0AX
www.dialight.com
This report was printed by The Pureprint Group using their environmental 
print technology which minimises the impact of printing on the environment. 
Vegetable based inks have been used and 99% of dry waste is diverted 
from landfill. The Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral
®
 company.
