 Energy-efficient lighting using 
the latest LED technology
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011 We are uniquely positioned to deliver complete 
LED solutions for a growing, global client base...
Dialight is the recognised world leader in energy-efficient 
lighting. Since our beginnings producing instrument panel 
lighting for aircraft and motor vehicles, through to our primary 
role in the development of LED applications, Dialight is 
leading the lighting revolution for industrial users across 
the world.
Our results
Group revenue 2010: £99.2m 
£113.5m +14.4%
07 08 09 10 11
63.4
77.9 77.3
99.2
113.5
Dividend per share 2010: 8.0p 
10.0p +25%
07 08 09 10 11
5.7
6.0
6.6
8.0
10.0
Signals/Illumination revenue  
2010: £61.1m 
£78.8m +29.0%
07 08 09 10 11
33.4
43.4
46.4
61.1
78.8
Operating profit 2010: £11.2m 
£15.1m +34.6%
07 08 09 10 11
3.9
5.3 5.5
11.2
15.1
Cash balance 2010: £10.4m 
£13.7m +25%
07 08 09 10 11
6.6
4.1
9.1
10.4
13.7
Lighting 2010: £11.6m 
£26.3m +128%
09 10 11
5.5
11.6
26.3
Expertise
Highly skilled engineering 
teams in Europe and the 
US are constantly engaged 
in developing new and 
improved existing products 
for our customers.
Our key strengths
We are unique in our 
ability to consistently 
develop and deliver 
our products to a 
continually expanding 
customer base. Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
www.dialight.com
01
Overview
 01 Highlights
 02 Chairman’s statement
 03 Chief Executive’s review
 04 Our business model
 06 Market opportunities
 08 Our strategy and KPIs
 10 Delivering our priorities
Operating review
 12 Signals/Illumination
 18  LED Indication Components and 
Electromagnetic Components
  20  Financial review
 23 Corporate social responsibility
 24 Risk management
Governance
 26 Board of Directors
 28  Directors’ report
 32 Corporate governance statement
 37  Directors’ remuneration report
 42  Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
Financials
 43  Independent auditors’ report
 45 Consolidated income statement
 46  Consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income
 
 47  Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
 48  Consolidated statement 
of financial position
 49  Consolidated statement 
of cash flows
 50  Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
 75 Company balance sheet
 76  Notes to the Company 
financial statements
 84  Five year summary
Shareholder information
 IB C  Directory and shareholder 
information
...we now 
continue to 
grow and 
evolve
Find out 
how we 
have been 
delivering 
our priorities
Page 10–11
    Profit before tax of £15.1 million excluding 
pension disposal cost (2010: £11.3 million)
    Full year revenues grew 14.4% to 
£113.5 million (2010: £99.2 million)
  Signals/Illumination segment revenues 
increased 29.0% to £78.8 million 
(2010: £61.1 million)
  Lighting sales more than doubled once 
again with growth of 128% to £26.3 million 
(2010: £11.6 million)
    Strong operating cash flow leading to net 
cash of £13.7 million (2010: £10.4 million)
    Final dividend of 6.7 pence (2010: 5.2 pence) 
an increase of 25% giving a total dividend 
for the year of 10.0 pence (2010: 8.0 pence)
Visit us online
www.dialight.com
View this report online
ar11.dialight.com
Innovation
Products are specifically 
developed for our chosen 
markets. With product 
lifecycles currently 
less than two years we 
intend to remain ahead 
of our competition.
Value creation
The combination of typical 
energy savings of 60%, the 
reduction in CO
2
 emissions 
as well as zero maintenance 
costs through extended 
warranties and attractive 
payback periods all result 
in LED applications providing 
a lower cost of ownership. Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
02
Overview
Chairman’s statement
I am very pleased to present the results of Dialight for 2011 
which demonstrate the successful execution of our strategy 
in Solid State Lighting and the strength in depth of the Group. 
Dialight continues to go from strength to strength and our unique 
position and skill set gives the Company the potential of a strong 
growth trajectory in the coming years.
Financial results
Revenue in the year to 31 December 2011 grew by 14.4% to 
£113.5 million compared with £99.2 million in 2010. This is a 
pleasing performance and with particularly strong growth in Lighting 
of 128% to £26.3 million and Obstruction of 45% to £17.8 million. 
Group contribution margins have increased from 41.0% to 42.7% 
with the benefit of significant investment in product re-engineering 
and cost reduction. Underlying Group operating profit has increased 
more than 34.6% to £15.1 million (2010: £11.2 million) and, with tight 
working capital control, the Group generated operating cash flow 
of £12.4 million leading to a year-end cash balance of £13.7 million.
Included in the income statement are non-underlying expenses 
of £2.8 million relating to a provision to settle a longstanding 
dispute with a rail signalling customer, non-underlying other 
operating income of £2.7 million relating to the grant of a lifetime 
licence to use our patented technology and a non-underlying 
financial expense of £0.7 million relating to the cost of buying out 
the US defined benefit pension scheme. 
These results provide a solid base for future growth and continued 
commercial and technical investment will support that growth for the 
coming years.
Dividend
In line with the Group’s progressive dividend policy the Board 
has recommended a final dividend of 6.7 pence per share (2010: 
5.2 pence) giving a total dividend of 10.0 pence (2010: 8.0 pence), 
which is an increase of 25%. Dividend cover is 3.0 times. Subject to 
approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (“ AGM”), 
this dividend will be paid on 9 May 2012 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 10 April 2012.
Staff
2011 has been a year of great changes at Dialight, all of which 
have been approached with commitment by every member of staff 
and I would like to thank them all for their hard work and contribution. 
We look forward to 2012 and beyond with real confidence in our 
ability to continue to meet the challenges of a growing company.
Acquisitions
During the year Dialight established a joint venture with its 
Japanese distributor, I-Spec Limited, giving the Company a base in 
Japan. Dialight Japan KK (“Dialight Japan”) commenced trading on 
1 July 2011 and on behalf of the Board I welcome them into Dialight.
As reported last year, the beginning of 2011 also saw the addition 
of Dialight ILS Australia Pty Limited (“ILS”) following the Group’s 
acquisition of its Australian distributor.
Current trading and outlook
We expect to see continued strong growth in Signals/Illumination 
in 2012 driven by sales of Obstruction Lights and Solid State Lights 
for the industrial market. We will further enhance the value that our 
products bring to our customers as our technical team capitalise 
on the ongoing developments in LED technology.
The growth in revenues and the Group’s focus on the cost and 
performance of its products gives us confidence for a future of 
sustainable profit improvement in this year and the years to follow.
Harry Tee CBE
Chairman
“ Dialight’s strategy, focused on converting 
the industrial market to Solid State Lighting, 
has proved to be successful in 2011 with 
Lighting sales more than doubling.”
Harry Tee CBE
View this section online
ar11.dialight.com/chairmans_statement www.dialight.com
03
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Operations and engineering
Continued improvement of our products is key to our continued 
success. Our engineering and operations teams are tasked with 
an ongoing objective of improved performance and reduced cost 
as both the performance of LEDs increases and our techniques 
for extracting the most light for the least power evolve. Our product 
and technology road map continues to be aggressive and the 
good performance of 2011 is but a template for the coming years. 
Our Signals/Illuminations contribution margins improved by 1.7% 
and the efficiency of our white lights improved by 23% and at a 
better cost.
Our patent base grew considerably in 2011. We had eight new 
patents granted, filed 25 new applications and had 78 patent 
applications pending at the year end. Innovation and improvement 
are the watchwords for our technical staff as they take on the 
challenge to provide the best and most cost-effective products 
in the industry. 
Once more our operations performed well as we expanded 
capacity for Solid State Lighting in both North America and the 
United Kingdom. Our focus is on superior operational performance 
and the continual improvement of our cost base.
Summary
Once again our niche strategy has delivered top and bottom 
line growth with a road map to sustain this for the coming years. 
Our products have improved during 2011 and have brought better 
savings in energy, less maintenance and improved safety to our 
customers. The key Signals/Illumination segment is positioned to 
drive the Group forward to achieve continued growth which will be 
more strongly fuelled by our developments and innovations in 
Solid State Lighting as we enable the penetration of our solutions 
into the vast installed base of Industrial Lighting.
Roy Burton
Group Chief Executive
“ In 2011, all of the Group’s growth in both revenues 
and profits came from the Signals/Illumination segment. 
As the efficiencies and costs of LEDs improve, more 
applications for Solid State Lighting make financial 
and environmental sense for our customers in the 
industrial marketplace.”
Roy Burton
For more information on operations 
and engineering see our 
Operating review on page 12
Review of the year
The continuation of turbulent economic conditions set the 
background for the year, yet the Group was still able to post record 
revenues with growth of almost 15% overall and almost 30% in its 
key Signals/Illuminations segment. The principal drivers within the 
segment were Obstruction Lighting with growth of 45% and Industrial 
Lighting with growth of 128%. Our strategy of continued focus on 
large niche markets with significant barriers to entry is proving 
to be successful even against a tough economic backdrop.
Revenues in the LED Indication Components segment have always 
been cyclical and the global economy has undoubtedly affected 
the appetite of our distributors in this segment to hold inventory. 
Whilst their sales of our products to end users have been relatively 
flat for the last twenty four months, our sales to the distributors 
are down by almost 14% year-on-year. This business is expected to 
return to more normal levels when confidence in the economy returns.
Sales of Electromagnetic Components were flat for the year in a 
difficult pricing environment. The price of both silver and copper 
escalated significantly in 2011 and not all of our customers were 
prepared to pay for this increased cost. We therefore declined to 
supply them in 2011. The potential volumes from the SMART meter 
market are significant, but the Board has decided to investigate 
the potential for selling this business and this is planned to conclude 
by the end of the first half of 2012. View this section online
ar11.dialight.com/chief_executives_review
Chief Executive’s review Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
04
Overview
Our business model
Creating long-term value 
for our customers...
Our investment proposition:
it’s all about lighting
Dialight defines the current state of LED 
lighting technology with continuous innovations 
in light output, efficacy and reliability for our 
complete line of high-specification lighting 
fixtures specifically designed for industrial, 
commercial, hazardous location and 
transportation applications.
These results are directly related to 
our ongoing commitment to advancing 
Solid State Lighting products that vastly 
reduce maintenance, improve safety, ease 
disposal and are more environmentally 
friendly – thereby helping to reduce CO
2
 
emissions, the dominant Greenhouse Gas 
contributor to global warming.
With our high-specification range of products 
we are uniquely positioned for a number of 
long-term global growth trends, many of which 
are driven by government regulations and 
environmental initiatives.
The strengths of our business model
With the continuing improvements 
in LED technology and our ability to 
turn these into even stronger value 
propositions for our customers, we 
are seeing exciting opportunities 
for the Group in new markets 
and sectors across the world.
Markets
We focus on large niche markets, each with a barrier to entry, 
offering compelling operational, environmental and cost-efficiency 
benefits using advances enabled by LED technology to expand 
our presence in new markets.
Development
By investing 6.5% of the Signals/Illumination segment’s turnover 
in research and development, we use our technological expertise 
in thermal management, optics and electronic circuitry to 
innovate through the development and improvement of 
new and existing products, bringing further efficiencies 
through cost improvements and product design.
Technology
We continue to create intellectual property across all our 
research teams.
Acquisitions
Our expansion into key regions continues with acquisitions 
in Japan and Australia, a sales office in Dubai, and the 
establishment of regional channel partners to increase 
our growth opportunities and global reach.
Delivering 
long-term value 
propositions
Markets Development
Technology Acquisitions www.dialight.com
05
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
View this section online
ar11.dialight.com/ 
our_business_model
How do LEDs 
stack up 
against 
traditional 
lighting 
technologies?
Why Dialight 
LED fixtures?
Features 
and benefits
Mechanical design/thermal heatsinking
Our LED fixtures are optimally designed to dissipate heat 
generated by LEDs and electrical components in order 
to meet lifetime expectations set by our customers. 
Electrical design 
Highly efficient universal power supplies are custom built for 
each luminaire, tailored to meet specific certifications, extreme 
temperatures and rugged environments.
High-brightness LEDs and optics system
We apply the brightest LEDs from the world’s most 
recognised manufacturers, which have third-party test data 
and analysis to support our lifetime claims and full performance 
warranty. Paired with our proprietary optics, we concentrate light 
to the targeted area, rather than waste it on walls, tops of shelves 
or into the night sky.
Highly durable and efficient lenses
Dialight provides its customers with extremely durable 
lens options for a range of indoor and outdoor applications. 
Depending on our customers’ specific needs, we offer lenses 
made from glass, polycarbonate or acrylic.
High-brightness white LEDs 
continue to become brighter 
and more efficient each year, 
now surpassing all other 
lighting technologies. 
LEDs
High-pressure sodium (”HPS”)
Metal halide
Fluorescent
Mercury vapor
Years
LEDs
High-pressure sodium (”HPS”)
Metal halide
Fluorescent
Mercury vapor
Years Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
06
Overview
Market opportunities
LED applications will constitute 60% of 
the total global lighting market by 2020
*
As new LED applications evolve, we develop products 
that satisfy the particular needs of our ever-expanding 
global customer base. Addressing their needs on a 
worldwide basis, we deliver value through lighting 
across their organisations.
Major oil refinery, US 
Market: Oil and gas
Now in the process of replacing its existing traditional 
lighting fixtures, some 20,000 in all, with our LED fixtures, 
the entire LED-lit plant will reduce the company’s energy 
consumption by 19GWh (roughly enough electricity 
to power 2,000 households a year), saving millions 
on energy and maintenance costs combined.
Overview
With massive operations in 
all hazardous and industrial 
sectors, the LED lighting 
market in North America is 
driven primarily by payback 
affected by energy and 
maintenance savings and 
significant rebate incentives.
Growth potential
Starting with tens of LED 
fixtures installed in 2009, 
moving to orders in the 
hundreds in the last two 
years, we are seeing facilities 
considering 100% plant 
retrofits resulting in future 
orders in the thousands.
Kuehne + Nagel, UK 
Market: Warehousing
This global logistics provider is committed to 
offering robust, sustainable and innovative supply 
chain solutions that continually reduce impact 
on the environment. In replacing its 400w HPS 
warehouse lighting with 150w LED high bays 
it achieved sufficient energy savings to see 
payback in just over a year.
Europe
Overview
Strong in wind farms, coal 
mining, petrochemicals and 
heavy industry, Germany is 
leading Europe in driving 
demand for sustainable 
technologies to support its 
green agenda and offset its 
growing power shortage.
Growth potential
Rising electricity prices in 
the UK, France and Benelux 
will contribute to increase 
opportunities for our lighting 
in their regulated markets, 
while Eastern Europe has 
already begun to invest in 
LED infrastructure lighting.
North America
Middle East
Overview
Regional GDP growth 
rates have been revised 
up, despite political unrest, 
while electricity prices are 
increasing with the need 
for increased generating 
capacity. Increasing oil prices 
look set to assure another 
round of heavy investment.
Growth potential
The region contains dense 
concentrations of key target 
markets with large projects 
and budgets and strong 
emphasis on energy 
conservation. We have 
already achieved several 
local approvals needed 
for both products 
and companies.  www.dialight.com
07
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Seville Products, UAE 
Market: Food and beverage
LED lighting allows this food processing company to 
achieve the high lighting level regulated by the food 
health and safety authorities on its new product lines 
without generating extra heat, a vital consideration 
in such a hot climate.
Data centre, Singapore 
Market: Warehousing
Low heat output and high lighting efficacy are key 
attractions of LED lighting for this large data centre 
where the hot climate makes it a challenge to maintain 
a low temperature for the servers. The LED lighting also 
provides the high lighting level necessary for security 
purposes in such applications.
Asia
Overview
The region contains 
the world’s largest shipping 
and asset manufacturing 
centres as well as heavy 
industry, pharmaceuticals 
and mining. Their customers 
are usually based in 
the West and specify 
Western-manufactured 
products.
Growth potential
Our product range presents 
strong value propositions 
for these heavily regulated 
industries, especially those 
under strong carbon reduction 
pressure, as in Japan. As a 
result, large operating companies 
are now actively specifying 
LED lighting.
Gorgon Project, Australia 
Market: Oil and gas
Located in a Class A nature reserve, this 
liquid natural gas project had environmental 
protection high on its list of priorities. Our unique 
turtle-friendly amber-coloured LED lighting has been 
essential to the safe development and operation of 
this vast project for workers and for the protection 
of the wildlife indigenous to the area.
Australia
Overview
The region is strong in coal mining, oil and 
gas and has many major infrastructure projects 
underway. With growing electricity demand it is the 
third highest CO
2
 emitter in the Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development.
Growth potential
Sustainability, climate change and biodiversity 
are high on the region’s agenda for all industrial 
activities. With its strong economy it can support 
investment in proven eco-friendly technologies 
like LED lighting.
View this section online
ar11.dialight.com/market_opportunities
*  McKinsey & Company, Lighting the Way: 
Perspectives on the global lighting market 
study July 2011. Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
08
Overview
Our strategy and KPIs
Focus Identify
Our vision
is to bring the value 
of Solid State Lighting 
to customers in a broad 
range of industries 
and markets.
Our aim
is to achieve our 
vision through our 
continued belief in 
our existing strategy.
1 2
We focus on niche markets 
with compelling operational 
and cost-efficiency benefits 
for our customers and expand 
our presence in new markets 
enabled by advances 
in LED technology.
We use our technological 
expertise in thermal management, 
optics and electronic circuitry 
to develop innovative products 
in niche markets.
Expansion into the hazardous and 
industrial lighting markets including 
the following:
Our award winning High Bay is 
dominating the LED market. At the 
end of 2011 we have:
  Increased High Bay light output from 
8,000–17,000 lumens
  Increased the installed base of High Bays 
to around 60,000
  Reduced the amount of power required 
to run the High Bay
 Oil and gas refineries
 Power generation facilities
  Chemical and pharmaceutical plants
 Waste water treatment plants
 Mining operations
How we measure our performance
Signals/Illumination profit
£13.8m +59.4%
Total revenue
£113.5m +14.4%
Earnings per share (“EPS”)
30.3p +27.3%
08 09 10 11
Total profit for the Signals/Illumination 
segment including Traffic, Obstruction, 
Transportation and Lighting.
Total revenue from the Group’s 
continuing businesses.
Profit for the period attributable to equity 
holders, excluding the effect of exceptional 
items, divided by the weighted average 
number of shares in issue during the 
period and excluding the Company’s 
own shares held.
08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11
With double-digit growth again 
coming from the Signals/Illumination 
segment our vision is clear...
£77.9m
11.2p
£1.7m
£77.3m
£99.2m
£113.5m
10.6p
23.8p
30.3p
£3.3m
£8.7m
£13.8m www.dialight.com
09
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Develop Target 
3 4 5
We create intellectual 
property rights across all 
research teams and develop 
new products incorporating 
this defensible technology.
We consider acquisitions with 
valid channel to market, strong 
geographical coverage and 
proven technology.
We use our low-cost 
manufacturing base and 
continually review and monitor 
cost-saving opportunities to 
reduce our material cost.
During the year we have: Never complacent
  Be the first to market in LED applications 
for over 20 years
  File and register a large number 
of patents
    Re-invest 6.5% of annual Signals/Illumination 
revenues in research and development
  Demonstrate a commitment to highly 
educated and skilled engineering teams
  Established a presence in Australia 
and Asia following the purchase 
of our existing distributors
  Established a sales office in Dubai
  LED efficiency and cost improvement 
supports our customer value proposition
	 	 We vigorously defend any intellectual 
property infringement
	 	 We have a strong pipeline of new 
and improved products with continuous 
re-engineering and cost reduction
Through this process of developing 
and improving we have managed to:
Protect 
08 09 10 11
Group return on sales
13.3% +2.0%
08 09 10 11
Operating cash as % of operating profit
82%
Operating cash as a percentage of operating 
profit shows the amount of cash made by 
Dialight’s business.
Patents filed, pending and granted
In 2011 Dialight had 78 patents pending, 
25 having been filed and eight granted. 
This contrasted with figures of 61, 29 
and 16, respectively, in 2010.
Filed       Granted       Pending
8
25
78
View this section online
ar11.dialight.com/our_strategy_
and_KPIs
6.8%
113%
7.1%
11.2%
13.3% 165%
125%
82%
Group operating profit expressed as a 
percentage of revenue. Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
10
Overview
Delivering our priorities
Oil and gas opportunities 
in the US
The majority of Dialight’s sales in Hazardous 
Lighting are to oil and gas, petrochemical and 
pharmaceutical companies. As a large number 
of oil and gas companies as well as chemical 
manufacturing sites are concentrated in 
and around Houston, T exas, Dialight has 
established a dedicated sales group in this 
area to take full advantage of the abundant 
local opportunities.
2010 figures put global Hazardous Lighting 
sales at around $900 million of which the oil 
and gas segment constitutes more than 30%. 
During the year Dialight’s presence in the 
world hazardous lighting market has been 
expanded through an increased investment 
in sales personnel in Europe, the Middle East 
and the US.
Reaching 
out to new 
markets
At the beginning of the 
year we set out to deliver 
further efficiencies, continue 
to innovate and expand our 
global reach
We will continue to innovate 
by developing and improving 
new and existing products. 
One new product per month
Dialight is the first to market with LED-based 
lighting for hazardous and industrial applications 
and has the largest LED lighting portfolio for 
hazardous areas. 
During the first half of 2011 Dialight’s engineering 
teams managed to release one new product every 
month. Over the same period 20,000 industrial 
lights were delivered to customers – more than 
the total amount for the whole of 2010!
Winner of multiple awards, the Group’s High Bay 
has a large installed base of around 60,000 units 
globally and a customer base that has grown 
from 300 in 2010 to 460 by mid 2011. www.dialight.com
Shareholder information Financials Governance Overview
11
Continuing 
to innovate
Dialight expands into Asia with Dialight Japan
The formation of Dialight Japan in the middle of 2011 was a further step in the 
Company’s global thrust into the industrial and hazardous LED lighting market. 
This followed the acquisition of the assets and contracts of its Japanese distributor, 
I-Spec Limited, for an up front consideration of £0.2 million.
Dialight Japan is based in Hamamatsu in the industrial heartland of central Japan. 
The Industrial and Hazardous Lighting segment is highly regulated and there are 
in excess of 50,000 industrial facilities in Japan making this one of the world’s 
largest industrial and hazardous lighting markets.
Our outlook going forward
The growth in revenues and the Group’s 
focus on the cost and performance of its 
products give us confidence for a future 
of sustainable profit improvement in the 
coming years.
1. Grow Signals/Illumination 
2. Enhance product value to customers 
3.  Capitalise on ongoing developments 
in LED technology
Operating review
Expanding 
our global 
reach Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
12
Operating review
Signals/Illumination
Sales
Segment 
profit
Global markets served:
 Oil and gas
 Power generation
 Food and beverage
 Pharmaceutical
 Chemical
 Mining
  Heavy industrial 
and manufacturing
 Cold storage
 Water and sewage
 Warehousing
  P ublic infrastructure
 T elecommunications
 Wind
 Broadcast
 Utilities
 Marine
Transportation:
 US transit buses
Traffic:
 US/Europe
Signals/Illumination addresses the increasing 
demands for energy-efficient lighting solutions 
through the use of high-brightness LEDs and 
utilisation of a number of associated technologies.
Areas of business include Transportation, Traffic, 
Obstruction lights and Solid State Lighting products.
Key products:
	 Traffic lights
 High Bay
 Low Bay
 Linear fixture
 Area light
 High intensity strobe
  Medium 
intensity strobe
  Medium 
intensity beacon
Revenue and contribution
43.7%
£78.8m 
+29.0%
2010: £61.1m
Lighting: Obstruction:
SafeSite
®
 LED High Bay
Segment sales and profits
£78.8m
42,000
11
11
£61.1m
15,000
500
10
10
09
£13.8m
£8.7m 10
11
Installed High Bays
42,000 +180% www.dialight.com
13
Shareholder information Financials Governance Operating review Overview
Overall growth of almost 30% for the year with significant 
gains in Lighting and Obstruction products, our two key 
growth lines, was a pleasing result.
European Traffic Lights displayed very modest growth due 
to municipal budget constraints but nevertheless there is an 
inherent need for Europe to convert its incandescent-based 
traffic lights to LED technology, leading to growth in this market 
as budget pressures ease.
Contribution margin strengthened once again showing an 
almost two percentage point improvement over 2010. This was 
helped in part by the continued downward pressure on prices for 
the LED components we buy, but more particularly by the improved 
efficiencies available and Dialight’s ability to capitalise on those 
improvements and provide more efficient and cost-effective 
products for our customers.
Traffic
Overall, sales into this market were flat with Europe showing 
just a little growth. In the longer term we would expect to see 
European sales growth of up to 10% a year due to the low 
penetration of LED Traffic Lights in this geography. As one would 
expect, current economic conditions have adversely affected our 
European business, although there are still some cities where 
LED technology is being adopted into traffic signals. We are 
well-placed in our relationships with key traffic systems OEMs 
throughout Europe and in particular with Siemens AG. These OEMs 
supply a complete traffic system to towns and cities throughout 
Europe. With the current low level of adoption we expect to see 
growth to return as the economy improves or as capital for 
cost-saving projects becomes available.
Dialight has been supplying LED traffic lights to the North American 
market for over a decade and the market is now mature, the majority 
of the installed base of traffic lights having already been converted 
to LED technology. Much of the activity now is around replacing the 
LED signals which were supplied at the end of the 1990s and early 
2000s. The Group sells through an exclusive network of traffic-based 
distributors, which provide a strong and somewhat protected channel 
to this market.
Obstruction Lighting
All around the world tall structures are marked by red and sometimes 
white lights as a collision warning for aircraft. Regulations are similar 
from country to country but enforcement of these rules is most strict 
in North America. Due to the inaccessibility of many of these lights 
and their locations, maintenance has been a long-term problem 
for the owners and operators of these tall structures. In order to 
fulfil their function, these lights need to be lit and Dialight has been 
supplying highly reliable LED versions of these lights for some years.
Sales in Obstruction Lighting grew by 45% in 2011 to £17.8 million 
driven by two different markets. In the US, the Federal Aviation 
Administration prescribes the illumination of all structures in excess 
of 199 feet. During the daytime they have to be illuminated with a 
white strobe light, the light source being typically a xenon strobe 
tube. These tubes have unpredictable lifetimes, which in the best 
instance are significantly less than an LED light; therefore Dialight 
introduced an LED version of this strobe light. To date there is no 
other approved LED version of this light. It is estimated that there 
are more than 80,000 strobe lights installed today, most of them 
on communications towers. Dialight has been successful in achieving 
adoption of this technology by the top ten cell phone tower operators 
in the US. These lights are warranted for a minimum of five years 
but the expectation is that they will outlast the tower on which they 
are mounted. To date we have installed only 7,000 of the available 
80,000 thus leaving a market of almost a quarter of a billion Dollars 
still to be converted. Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
14
Operating review
Signals/Illumination continued
Obstruction Lighting continued
In early 2010, we acquired BTI Light Systems A/S (“BTI”) in 
Copenhagen. BTI had long been a supplier of lighting to the 
marine and latterly the offshore wind turbine market. Whilst 
Dialight has been traditionally strong in North America in its 
supply of Obstruction Lighting to the wind turbine market – 
almost exclusively onshore – access to the European offshore 
wind turbine market had proved difficult. The arrival of BTI into the 
Dialight family has opened up that market and 2011 proved to be 
a successful year for BTI. This was helped by some recovery in 
the European offshore wind market and BTI supplied significant 
projects in the UK, Denmark and Southern Europe. In 2012 we 
will continue our co-operation with the major turbine manufacturers 
as new potential opens up for German offshore projects as well 
as further onshore installations in Eastern Europe.
In 2010, Dialight and BTI developed a 100,000 candela strobe 
for very tall towers in Sweden. This is five times as bright as the 
US strobe light mentioned previously and we expect to see some 
projects that utilise this strobe in the coming year. This, however, 
is not our brightest light. The US market requires an ultra-bright 
strobe light for very tall broadcast towers (very tall is defined as 
greater than 500 feet). We have developed a 270,000 candela 
strobe with very complex system capabilities. First shipments 
were made in the fourth quarter of 2011 and sales are expected 
to grow in 2012 and once again Dialight is the only qualified 
supplier of an LED version of this light. 
Overall, Obstruction Lighting should provide significant growth 
for the Group in the next several years.
Solid State Lighting
Dialight’s strategy for Solid State Lighting continues to be a 
focus on large market niches with defensible barriers to entry 
and where today’s LED technology can deliver strong paybacks 
for customers. Much of the publicity regarding Solid State Lighting 
has been around domestic and commercial lighting and even 
government legislation has been around energy-efficient light 
bulbs with many countries banning or preparing to ban incandescent 
light bulbs. Dialight’s approach has been to look for applications 
where LED technology can bring immediate savings and short 
paybacks to its customers, with or without government help. 
In order to do this it is essential to look at applications where 
lighting is used 24 hours a day, maintenance is expensive and 
inconvenient, lights have to withstand onerous conditions and 
regulation leads to expensive and complex conventional light 
fixtures. Heavy and hazardous industrial conditions fit those 
requirements and therefore this is the key target market in 
Dialight’s lighting strategy. 
Having commenced on this strategy in 2009, we have once 
again grown our business in 2011 by more than 100% to over 
£25 million. In 2010 almost all of our Industrial Lighting sales came 
from North America but in 2011 we initiated a plan to grow our 
sales globally. Investment in sales resource in Western Europe, 
the Middle East and Asia, along with small acquisitions in Australia 
and Japan, have positioned Dialight to build on a successful 
2011 by expanding its geographical footprint. Even with more 
than doubling sales in 2011, penetration of the industrial lighting 
market is insignificant. The conventional hazardous lighting 
market alone is almost one billion Dollars annually and has 
an installed base of ten times that size. 
Obstruction Lighting: A key growth line
	 45% year on year growth
   More than 7,000 strobes 
supplied to US cell tower 
market since 2007
  Only Federal Aviation 
Administration approved 
supplier of these products
  Introduction of High 
Intensity Strobe www.dialight.com
15
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Our customer base has increased over the year and includes 
many of the world’s premier companies in the oil and gas, 
pharmaceutical, mining, power generation and food processing 
industries. Our sales forces have grown in size over the last 
year with increases in Western Europe, Dubai, Singapore and 
of course the acquisitions in Australia and Japan. In addition our 
North American sales presence has doubled since the beginning 
of 2011. This will be a continuing trend as we grow our sales and 
our sales force at the same time and expand our geographical 
presence to fully address the global markets we serve.
The supply side of LEDs has continued to expand with major 
capital spends taking place to produce even more chips. This 
trend has resulted in over-capacity and pressure on LED prices. 
As a major purchaser of these components, we have been able 
to take advantage of this better pricing as well as the improved 
performance that is now available. Not only have our margins 
improved once again but the performance of our products has 
also increased. Our latest offering is able to provide an efficiency 
of 100 lumens/watt and almost 18,000 total lumens versus the 
best at the end of 2010 of 81 lumens/Watt and 11,500 total lumens. 
This new fixture is similarly priced to the older product and 
significantly enhances the value proposition for our customers.
View this section online 
ar11.dialight.com/operating_review
With a global footprint spanning more than 150 countries,  
Kimberly-Clark’s products have become a trusted part of life 
for over one billion people around the world. At its family care 
production facility, at Kluang, in Johor, Malaysia, the company 
manufactures a wide range of paper products including Kleenex 
facial tissues and Scott paper towels, among others.
Aiming to reduce energy consumption and improve visibility within 
the plant, the company recently replaced 114 of its 400W metal halide 
lighting fixtures with Dialight’s DuroSite LED High Bays. Consuming 
just 123W, the Dialight High Bays have enabled the company to slash 
energy consumption and dramatically improve visibility, all while making 
the work environment more comfortable and safer for employees.
Case study: Kimberly-Clark in Malaysia
123W
consumed by Dialight 
LED High Bays
Kimberly-Clark cuts energy consumption by 60% at Malaysian facility by switching 
to Dialight DuroSite
®
 LED High Bay fixtures
60%
cut to energy 
consumption
View this section online 
ar11.dialight.com/ case_studies Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Operating review
Signals/Illumination continued
16
Our solutions
Throughout the 
year our products 
have targeted 
the needs of our 
customer base
Visit us online
www.dialight.com
View this section 
of the report online
ar11.dialight.com/
case_studies
The solid state lighting business has again grown by over 100%. 
Continued investment in sales resources and the expansion of our 
geographical presence will provide the basis for further penetration 
of the available market.
It’s all about lighting!
Case study: Offshore platform operator, North Sea
£240
cost of LED inspection 
over its lifetime
£1,200
cost of traditional light 
source inspection over 
its lifetime
Regulations dictate that periodic inspections of offshore equipment 
need to be carried out at least once every three years in order to 
minimise the risk of explosion. Inspecting or changing light sources 
and control gear on an offshore facility takes two to three man teams 
and up to three hours per unit at a typical cost of £240.
The typical lifetime of a metal halide fitting is 1.4 years, while for LED 
fittings it is 6.8 years. This means that with LEDs the offshore operator 
can reduce the number of inspections from three to one every three 
years. This is a significant saving in maintenance, burden and cost 
when an offshore asset can carry several thousand light fittings.
Offshore platform, North Sea
LEDs’ instant on/off capability improves 
safety and production efficiencies by 
avoiding hot restrike blackouts. www.dialight.com
Shareholder information Financials Governance Operating review Overview
17
Case study: North American natural gas refinery 
Gas facility achieves superior lighting for improved safety with Dialight SafeSite
®
 Series 
High Bay LED fixtures for hazardous locations
The company’s compressor station features massive compressors 
that require ongoing maintenance to keep them running at peak 
performance 24/7 under some of the harshest conditions.
This customer recently upgraded its compressor station from 
HPS lighting fixtures to Dialight’s Class I Div 2 certified SafeSite
®
 
High Bay LED fixtures. The result is vastly improved lighting 
conditions with the safety assurance and energy efficiency 
to meet the company’s needs on multiple fronts.
This bulk loading terminal handles up to 25,000 barrels of petroleum 
and gasoline products per day. To improve operational efficiency, 
achieve sustainability goals and safety at this strategic location, 
the company recently upgraded four facilities at the terminal from 
traditional HPS lighting to Dialight’s new SafeSite
®
 Class I, Div 2 
LED High Bay luminaires for hazards locations. In addition to 
improved energy efficiency, the new LED High Bays provide better 
visibility and lower-temperature operation to enhance worker safety 
and port security, with dramatically reduced maintenance costs.
To test the potential of the Dialight LED SafeSite
®
 High Bays, the 
company first installed a dozen units inside a newly constructed 
storage warehouse, mounted at 20 feet height. Installation took 
just 30 minutes per unit. The SafeSite fixtures’ high lumen output 
provided the ideal combination of light clarity and energy efficiency 
inside the new warehouse.
Case study: North American bulk loading terminal
Dialight Class I Div 2 LED High Bay fixtures provide better visibility and dramatic energy savings
35
tons of CO2 saved
less than
2
years’ payback
67%
energy saved
2.75
years’ payback Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
18
Operating review
LED Indication Components and Electromagnetic Components
Sales
Segment 
profit
Key products:
Key applications:
 Servers and server appliances
 Storage and networking devices
 Power supplies
 Fan tray assemblies
 Modems and routers
 Electrical and control panels
 Test and measurement equipment
 Prism right angle SMT
 Throughhole circuit board indicators
 Panel mount indicators 
 Replacement bulbs 
Revenue and contribution
55.6%
£20.8m  
-11.3%
2010: £23.5m
LED Prism
®
 right angle surface 
mount product family
Segment sales and profits
£20.8m 11
£23.5m 10
£4.6m
£5.6m 10
11
LED Indication Components
Sales
Segment 
loss
Segment sales and profits
£13.9m 11
£14.6m 10
£(0.1)m
£(0.1)m 10
11
Key products:
Key application:
 Residential SMART meters
  200 amp SMART meter disconnect switch
  100 amp SMART meter disconnect switch
PowerPulse
®
 SMART disconnect/
reconnect relay for SMART meters
Revenue and contribution
17.1%
£13.9m  
-5.1%
2010: £14.6m
Electromagnetic Components www.dialight.com
19
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
LED Indication Components
The foundation of the Dialight business, LED Indication consists 
of the supply of small LED assemblies for status indication for 
use by major OEMs offering equipment for enterprise customers. 
This niche business is not expected to grow but will cycle with the 
electronics market. This is a strong generator of profits, carrying 
healthy margins. These margins have remained stable over many 
years and are expected to do so for many more. The business is 
split between sales through distributors, which constitute more than 
half of the revenues and address over 15,000 Dialight customers. 
The balance of the business goes through contract manufacturers 
who assemble for our major OEM customers who supply high-end 
servers, internet access equipment, cellular infrastructure and storage. 
During the first half of 2011 sales continued at the same level as 
the second half of 2010, but the second half of 2011 saw a reduction 
in orders and sales which resulted in an 11% reduction in sales 
year-on-year. Sales to end users, however, did not reduce 
significantly and it appears that we have seen a reluctance 
for the channel to hold appropriate inventories. We believe the 
fundamentals of the business remain sound and should provide 
several years of continued profit input albeit with fluctuations 
in line with the general electronics market.
Electromagnetic Components
Revenue in this segment was marginally down. Potential growth 
in sales into the US SMART meter market was not possible due 
to commodity price increases, which were not accepted by some 
of our US customer base. Although this segment offers strong 
growth potential, the Board has decided to investigate the potential 
for selling this business and this is planned to conclude by the 
end of the first half of 2012.
So much energy was being pumped by this metal processing plant 
that the HPS lights were constantly dimming and flickering which 
resulted in irregular colour rendition. With robust LED lighting the 
plant enjoys good, steady colour rendition as well as 69% reduction 
in lighting energy use and reduced CO
2
 emissions.
Case study: Martisa manufacturing, Barcelona 
Replacement of 400W HPS lights with Dialight’s highly robust 150W Duosite
®
 High Bays
69%
reduction in 
energy use
View this section online
ar11.dialight.com/case_studies Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
20
Operating review
Financial review
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position, are 
described within this Financial review. The financial position of the 
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are 
described below.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with 
a broad spread of customers across different geographic areas 
and industries. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully. 
The Directors have also considered the Group’s forecasts and 
projections. After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
“ The Group has delivered a strong performance 
in 2011 against a backdrop of mixed 
economic conditions.”
Mark Fryer
Income statement
Revenue in 2011 grew by 14.4% to £113.5 million compared with 
£99.2 million in 2010. This is a strong performance in mixed market 
conditions. Overall, sales pricing has remained broadly constant with 
growth achieved purely in volume alone. The strongest growth lines 
are within the Signals/Illumination segment and are strategically the 
two most important: Obstruction with almost 50% growth and Lighting 
once again more than doubling. Electromagnetic Components 
revenue was marginally down in 2011 and we are investigating 
the potential for selling this business, an action that is planned 
to conclude by the end of the first half of 2012.
Revenue in 2011 is split geographically:
The above chart demonstrates the Group’s sensitivity to our 
North American business and the potential impact of US Dollar 
exchange rates. The major currencies the Group is exposed to 
are the US Dollar and the Euro. The following exchange rates 
were used in translating the income statement and balance 
sheet of the Group and Company:
The overall impact of the weaker US Dollar has been to reduce 
turnover by £3.7 million and operating profit by £0.8 million. 
This has been very marginally offset by the stronger Euro which 
has increased turnover by £0.1 million and had no impact on 
operating profit.
The LED Indication business has had a marginally worse year, as 
expected, with market conditions weaker following inventory build in 
the first half of 2010 which was not replicated in 2011. Overall sales 
reduced by 11.3% to £20.8 million although at constant currency 
the reduction was only 6.7%.
2011
% of total
2010
% of total
North America 68.2 68.7
UK 10.3 10.2
Rest of Europe 11.6 11.3
Rest of World 9.9 9.8
2011
average
rate
2011
at
reporting
date
2010
average
rate
2010
at
reporting
date
US Dollar 1.60 1.55 1,53 1,56
Euro 1.15 1.20 1.17 1.16 www.dialight.com
21
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Our key business segment is Signals/Illumination. The table below 
demonstrates the major advances that have been made in this 
business segment which in 2011 generated a return on sales of 
18.3% (2010: 14.2%) and contributed in excess of 90% of Group 
operating profit:
A significant contributor to these increasing returns is the 
impact of the Group’s re-engineering and cost reduction 
initiatives. In 2011, the Group invested over £5.1 million on 
research and development which largely relates to the Signals/
Illumination segment and represents 6.5% of this segment’s 
revenue. Going forward the key focus will be to drive down the 
material cost of sales which for the Group as a whole represents 
48.9% of revenue (2010: 50.9%) compared to direct labour costs 
of 5.3% of revenue (2010: 5.2%). The largest single material cost 
item the Group is exposed to is the cost of LEDs. Forecast market 
price reductions in LEDs as well as increases in light output give 
the Group confidence to make significant investment in re-engineering 
to reduce the number of LEDs purchased per product. Apart from 
the 2.0% improvement in the Group’s return on sales from reductions 
in the level of material costs we have also leveraged administration 
costs excluding non-underlying administrative expenses, which 
increased from £8.9 million to £9.2 million, and which added 0.9% 
to Group return on sales. Sales and marketing costs for Signals/
Illumination grew as planned by 42% to £6.4 million (2010: £4.5 million) 
through the addition of further sales resources, the key to our ability 
to continue to grow lighting sales by 100%.
T otal Group administrative expenses only grew 3.4% to £9.2 million 
(2010: £8.9 million) mainly through the inclusion of BTI administrative 
expenses for twelve months in 2011 and only eight months in 2010 
(BTI was acquired in April 2010). Our plan is to continue to grow 
Signals/Illuminations revenues strongly while keeping the level of 
increases in administrative costs as low as possible. The impact 
of this was to add 0.9% to Group return on sales.
The operating profit of £15.1 million is up 3.4% from £11.2 million 
in 2010 and has been achieved through strong sales volume 
increase of 14.4% (to £113.5 million from £99.2 million in 2010), 
improved contribution levels as a result of product introduction 
and re-engineering of 1.8% (to 42.8% in 2011 from 41.0% in 2010) 
and from the leverage of fixed costs with administration costs in 
particular adding 0.9% to margins (to 8.1% of sales in 2011 from 
9.0% in 2010). Group return on sales, one of our key performance 
indicators, has increased to 13.3% in 2011 from 11.2% in 2010.
In 2011, the Group managed to successfully buy out the US 
defined benefit pension scheme for a total cost of £2.3 million. 
This has resulted in a one-off non-underlying financial expense 
of £0.7 million (being the cost of securing the liabilities over 
the deficit in our accounts at the time of the buy-out).
In the first half of 2011, the Group granted a lifetime licence to a 
third party for the use of a number of our patents. The income from 
this licence was £2.7 million and is included within non-underlying 
other operating income.
In the second half of 2011, the Group reached agreement to settle 
a longstanding dispute with a rail signalling customer concerning 
a development project started in 2007. This dispute was provided 
in full for £2.8 million in the first half 2011 and this amount was 
paid in full in January 2012. The provision is included within 
non-underlying administrative expenses and non-trade 
payables at 31 December 2011.
The tax charge for 2011 is £4.7 million (2010: £3.8 million) which 
represents an effective tax rate of 33.0%. This is lower than the 
effective rate of 34.0% in 2010 as the mix of profit generated in the 
UK has increased together with the lower effective rates in the UK. 
As the trend of increasing UK profits continues together with lower 
future rates of UK corporation tax the Group should be able 
to lower the effective rate going forward.
Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 
increased by 29.7% to £9.7 million from £7.5 million in 2010.
The underlying earnings per share (excluding the non-underlying loss 
on the pension) has increased 33.2% to 31.7 pence from 23.8 pence 
in 2010.
Balance sheet
Group net assets have increased to £54.8 million from £46.2 million 
in 2010. The main reason for this increase has been the increase in 
working capital to support the growth of the Group. Overall working 
capital has increased to £19.5 million from £16.8 million in 2010. 
However, the working capital to sales percentage has only 
marginally increased to 17.2% from 17.0%. Other increases have 
been investment in plant and equipment to support growth and 
achieve cost saving through in-sourcing and increases in intangibles 
from the acquisitions in Australia and Japan as well as in new product 
development capitalised of £1.6 million (31.3% of gross spend).
We have a good mix and ageing of inventory moving forward 
to achieve our ambitious growth targets.
The split and movement in working capital is outlined below:
Signals/Illumination 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
T urnover £m 78.8 61.1 46.4 43.4 33.4
Operating  
profit £m 13.8 8.7 3.3 1.7 0.1
Return on  
sales % 17.5 14.2 7.1 3.9 0.3
Proportion  
of Group  
operating  
profit % 91.8 77.7 60.0 32.2 2.9
2011
£m
2010
£m
Inventories 15.8 9.2
Trade and other receivables 22.8 18.9
Trade and other payables (19.1) (11.3)
19.5 16.8 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
22
Operating review
Financial review continued
Balance sheet continued
The Group’s cash position at 31 December 2011 was £13.7 million 
compared with £10.4 million at the end of 2010. This is after paying tax 
of £1.7 million, the acquisitions in Australia and Japan for £0.4 million, 
dividends of £2.7 million and funding both the buy-out of the US 
pension scheme and further cash contributions to the UK scheme 
of £2.8 million.
The Group has no debt other than that potentially owed to its UK 
pension schemes which currently have a surplus of £0.8 million 
(2010: £1.4 million deficit which included the US scheme deficit 
of £1.8 million which has now been disposed of).
Cash flow
The significant improvement in operating profit and prudent 
management of working capital has generated strong net 
cash from operations of £12.4 million (2010: £14.0 million). 
From this we have funded capital expenditure of £2.5 million 
(2010: £2.8 million), supported new product development to 
achieve cost savings in product costing and other cost 
improvement of £1.6 million (2010: £1.2 million). There has also 
been tax of £1.7 million paid in 2011, a significant reduction on 
£4.7 million paid in 2010 as the premium paid to buy out the US 
pension scheme of £2.3 million has been fully allowed for tax, 
the acquisitions in Australia and Japan have been completed 
for £0.4 million and dividends of £2.7 million paid.
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as 
to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to 
sustain future development of the business. The Board considers 
consolidated total equity as capital. As at 31 December 2011 this 
totalled £54.8 million (2010: £46.2 million).
The Board’s target is to generate a return on capital in excess 
of 25% excluding cash holdings. In 2011 the return was 36.5% 
(2010: 31.0%). In addition, the target in respect of EPS is 15% 
growth per annum. In 2011 the underlying EPS growth was 
33.2% (2010: 36.0%).
In respect of dividend, the Board has a progressive dividend 
policy and aims for three times cover. The result for 2011 
was 3.0 times (2010: 3.0 times).
The Board monitors Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) compared 
to FTSE SmallCap Index and FTSE Electronics/Electrical Index to 
ensure that Dialight’s performance is in line with peer companies. 
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital 
management during the year.
Dividend
In line with the Group’s progressive dividend policy it is proposed 
to pay a final dividend of 6.7 pence giving a total dividend for the 
year of 10.0 pence, an increase of 25% over 2010 when an interim 
of 2.8 pence and a final of 5.2 pence was paid (total: 8.0 pence). 
A total dividend of 10.0 pence would be covered 3.0 times (before 
the non-underlying costs of the US pension scheme). The final 
dividend, if approved, would be paid to members on the register 
at the close of business on 10 April on 9 May 2012.
Banking
The Group has its banking relationships with Barclays Bank PLC 
and our US subsidiary has its banking relationships with Wells 
Fargo. The Group has a £3 million overdraft facility as well as a 
revolving credit facility of £7 million that can be called should a 
suitable acquisition opportunity arise. The Group has also had 
discussions with Barclays with regard to term facilities of a further 
£13 million should the need arise. The US facility with Wells Fargo 
is for $10 million (£6.3 million) and is unsecured.
The Group has relationships with Capital One in the US and SME 
EuroFinance in Europe to offer finance facilities to its customers. 
These facilities are not underwritten by the Group.
Mark Fryer
Group Finance Director www.dialight.com
23
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Corporate social responsibility
The Board considers its approach to Corporate Social 
Responsibility (“CSR”) to be integral to the successful 
operation of the business.
CSR covers the Group’s many and varied responsibilities to 
its employees, customers, suppliers and shareholders as well 
as the impact of the Group’s operations on the environment 
and the wider community.
Dialight is committed to conducting business in accordance with 
robust and high levels of professional, ethical, legal and regulatory 
conduct throughout the world. The Board sets the standard for what 
Dialight believes is acceptable behaviour for its employees as well 
as dealings with shareholders, customers, suppliers, agents and 
its impact on the environment and the community.
The Code of Business Conduct
A new Code of Business Conduct (“Conduct Code”) was launched 
at Dialight during 2011 to formalise expected standards of behaviour 
and conduct that were applicable to employees and third parties 
engaged on the Group’s business. This contains guidance on 
general standards of conduct, corporate hospitality and gifts, 
bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, confidentiality, fraud, 
political and charitable donations, employment, health and safety, 
relationships with third parties, the community and the environment. 
Key parts are underpinned by supporting policies.
Anti-bribery and corruption
Dialight is committed to conducting all its business in an honest 
and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery 
and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly 
and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships 
wherever we operate as well as implementing and enforcing 
effective systems to counter bribery. A new Anti-Corruption 
and Bribery policy was issued in July 2011.
Health and safety
Dialight provides a safe working environment for employees, 
customers and visitors through the achievement and maintenance 
of high standards of health and safety. Although ultimate responsibility 
for health and safety and the operation of the Group’s Health and 
Safety policy lies with the Group Chief Executive and the Dialight 
Board, this responsibility is delegated to Plant Managers at each 
of the Group’s manufacturing facilities or nominated Senior 
Management at all other locations.
During the year, Dialight established a Group Health and Safety 
Committee to oversee the operation of Group health and safety 
arrangements as well as consider and agree objectives and 
standards for implementation and action worldwide. 
Health and safety procedures and systems are designed to:
  run training programmes for employees on health and safety 
matters whilst reinforcing the importance of a culture that 
is focused on safe working procedures;
  monitor and assess work procedures and to implement 
changes where required; and
  communicate with all employees to develop a work culture which 
recognises the importance of health and safety procedures.
A report on health and safety matters is included in the monthly 
reports submitted to the Group Chief Executive by the regional 
management. Health and safety performance is also a standing 
agenda item at Board meetings of Dialight.
Environment
We do not consider that our manufacturing sites have a significant 
environmental impact as our products do not require capital-intensive 
manufacturing processes. The Group policy in respect of the 
manufacturing sites is to operate within systems which monitor , control 
and where practical minimise any environmental effect. Emissions 
of gases, chemicals and water are well below government thresholds 
and, in most cases, undetectable. Principal areas of focus are the 
reduction of waste and the minimisation of water and energy 
consumption. All sites operate to increase reuse and recycle 
materials including packaging.
The other key area of focus is the quantity and type of material 
used in the products manufactured. The engineering department 
performs an important role in progressing the programme to 
reduce the amount of material used in the products and, where 
practical, to substitute out hazardous material. This action covers 
own purchases and material used by suppliers. Dialight works to 
meet and exceed internationally recognised regulations such as 
RoHS-2002/95/EC, WEEE-2002/96/EC, ELV-200/53/EC dated 
27 June 2002 and JGPSSI dated 22 July 2003.
The Group’s products are WEEE compliant and compliance 
with the regulation has not had a material impact on the Group. 
Many of the Group’s products have a positive impact on the 
global environment, particularly our Signals/Illumination products, 
as they are proven to reduce significantly energy consumed 
compared with a similar product using other technology such 
as fluorescence.
The workplace
Dialight’s culture is one of openness, honesty and accountability 
and recognition that all employees play a part in delivering the 
Group’s business performance in a safe and efficient environment. Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
24
Operating review
Risk management
The following section sets out the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group. There may be other 
risks and uncertainties that are not yet known or which 
are currently considered to be immaterial but later 
turn out to have a material impact.
Some of the areas set out will be outside of any influence that the 
Group may exert. Should any of the risks actually materialise then 
Dialight’s business, financial condition, prospects and share price 
could be materially and adversely affected.
Macro-economic 
conditions
The Group’s sales and 
profits may be impacted 
by spending slowdowns 
and/or increasing 
inflationary pressures.
Area of risk
Changes in government 
legislation or policy
National and local 
policies with regard 
to energy savings in 
a number of areas 
such as transport and 
communication are 
constantly evolving.
Competitive environment
Dialight operates in 
competitive markets 
with threats of existing 
competitors or potential 
new entrants.
Laws and regulations
The Group’s operations 
are subject to a wide 
range of laws and 
regulations.
Description and mitigating activity
A significant slowdown in economic conditions globally and in certain territories such as North America 
could have a material effect on sales and operating profit in particular for the LED Indication Components 
segment. The current adverse conditions for public organisations to reduce and/or defer their capital 
spending budgets may impact on sales of some of our products. 
Mitigating activities include:
  Management of the LED Indication Components segment monitors the general electronics demand 
index as well as industry forecasts so as to become aware of market trends.
  The monthly point of sales data which is provided by US distributors is reviewed as this is also 
considered to provide valuable information on market demand. 
This should favour Dialight’s efforts in growing sales in some key niche current and potential 
opportunities identified by the Signals/Illumination segment. Additionally, legislation may introduce 
new higher and more exacting specifications for existing products which will require product redesign 
and regulatory re-certification. Therefore changes in product specifications should favour Dialight in 
giving it an advantage over competition.
Mitigating activities include:
  It is Dialight’s policy to operate in highly regulated markets which require suppliers to achieve 
compliance with demanding product standards.
  Dialight’s design and engineering departments have a proven track record in technical ability 
evidenced by strong working relationships with customers and regulatory boards, the design 
and introduction of new products and a portfolio of registered intellectual property.
The threat may, for example, come from an extremely aggressive pricing policy for larger traffic contract 
bids in US and Europe.
Mitigating activities include:
  Dialight’s focus on identifying, developing and maintaining sales routes to market, servicing 
strong customer relationships; competitive and leading-edge product portfolios and cost-efficient 
manufacturing plants support Dialight as a major player in its chosen markets and helps to reduce 
the risk of losing market share to competition.
Mitigating activities include:
  Group policies and procedures are documented and communicated throughout the Group.
  All Group companies have an employee handbook detailing employment practices and staff receive 
the appropriate training and support to operate in their roles.
  A new Governance and Risk Committee has been established to monitor compliance with existing 
policies and procedures and consider improvements and changes to these on an ongoing basis. www.dialight.com
25
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Strategy for revenue 
growth – LED technology
The strategy of the Board 
includes the following 
financial goals:
  to grow annual sales by 
compound double-digit 
percentage; and
  compound EPS growth 
in the mid teens.
Achievement of the goals is dependent on growing sales in the chosen markets within the Signals/
Illumination segment such as industrial Solid State Lighting. The adoption by the market of LEDs for 
new applications is principally dependent on the increased efficiency and reduced cost of LEDs versus 
existing technologies such as fluorescent or high-intensity discharge. The achievability of the Group’s 
longer-term sales growth would be seriously at risk if the parties who are developing the LEDs did not 
achieve the expected progress such that new applications did not become feasible.
Additionally with the fast-changing technology world that exists there is a possibility of a technology 
being developed that supersedes LEDs.
Mitigating activities include:
  Dialight’s engineers are actively contributing by their presence on industry related boards 
and their attendance and presentations at industry seminars, so as to be proactively involved 
and to keep abreast of developments on a regular basis.
Intellectual property
The development and 
ownership of intellectual 
property is critical in 
underpinning the growth 
potential for the business.
The Group operates a stringent policy on the sharing of know-how with third parties as well as having a 
well defined policy on the in-house identification and registration of patents. If the Group fails to or is unable 
to protect, maintain and enforce its existing intellectual property, it may result in the loss for the Group to the 
exclusive right to use technologies and processes which are included or used in its businesses.
Mitigating activities include:
  Plans to improve the quality of the new product introduction systems across the businesses have been 
implemented with good progress being made as evidenced by the expanding patent portfolio.
If a product of the Group does not conform to agreed specifications or is otherwise defective, the Group 
may be the subject of claims by its customers arising from end-product defects or other such claims.
Mitigating activities include:
  The Group carries appropriate product liability insurance.
Financial markets
Turmoil in global 
financial markets could 
pose risks to Dialight’s 
financial position.
Any turmoil poses risks to both Dialight’s customers and suppliers, as well as the ability of the Group 
to negotiate bank facilities.
Mitigating activities include:
  There are ongoing reviews of supplier bases to ensure wherever possible that there is not over-reliance 
on one specific supplier.
  The Group has a banking relationship with a number of banks. Currently the Group has not drawn 
down any borrowings against the existing facility with Barclays Bank plc. Regular contact will be kept 
with the banks to ensure that they understand the business and its requirements.
  Customers are subject to credit checks and there is very close review of trade debtor days outstanding 
and overdue amounts. Purchase limits are set for all customers.
Currency exchange
The Group is exposed 
to translation exchange 
rate risk.
As a significant proportion of the Group’s results, assets and liabilities are reported in US Dollars and 
Euros, they are subject to exchange rate risk when translated to UK Sterling for incorporation into the 
Group’s results.
Mitigating activities include:
  Where possible the Group nets such exposures and will maintain a hedging programme utilising 
foreign exchange forward contracts and currency overdrafts to cover specific contracts and such 
proportion of other anticipated exposures as can be estimated with reasonable certainty.
Acquisitions
Inability to identify 
suitable acquisition 
targets and to integrate 
successfully acquired 
businesses into the Group.
The successful implementation of Dialight’s acquisition strategy depends on its ability to identify 
targets, successful completion of the transaction, achievement of an acceptable rate of return and 
a successful and timely integration post-acquisition.
Mitigating activities include:
  The Board plans to make acquisitions of businesses where the targets fit appropriately into the Group 
strategy by strengthening Dialight’s product range and existing technologies, offering new and 
attractive sales routes to markets, having high performance and motivated management and having 
a proven profit record.
Area of risk Description and mitigating activity
Product liability risks
Products should conform 
to agreed specifications. Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
26
Governance
Board of Directors
Harry Tee CBE (age 66 years)
Chairman
Harry Tee CBE founded The Roxboro Group (now Dialight plc) 
in 1990 and has a lifetime’s experience in management within 
the electronics industry. He is now Group Chairman, having 
retired as Chief Executive of the Group on 29 September 2005 
and Chairman of the Nominations Committee. Prior to forming 
The Roxboro Group he was a main board director at Graseby plc 
and held a number of senior management posts in Schlumberger 
and ITT . Harry is currently Chairman of Scientific Digital Imaging plc 
and was Chairman of The Electronics Leadership Council. 
He is also Past Master of the Worshipful Company of Scientific 
Instrument Makers, is a past President of GAMBICA and EECA 
and a past Vice-President of FEI and Intellect. He is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Engineering and Technology, a Fellow of the Royal 
Institution, a Fellow of the Royal Society for the Encouragement 
of Arts, Manufacture and Commerce and a companion of the 
Chartered Management Institute. Harry was honoured with a CBE 
in the Queen’s Birthday Honours List in 2008 for services to the 
electronics industry.
Roy Burton (age 64 years)
Group Chief Executive
Appointed President and CEO of Dialight Corporation in July 2002, 
Roy Burton became Group Chief Executive of Dialight plc in 
September 2005. Roy has many years’ experience in the electronics 
industry having started his career in the UK working with Philips 
Electronics, ITT and Amphenol Corporation with whom he relocated 
to the US. In 1994 he became Group President Electronics for 
Thomas and Betts Corporation headquartered in Memphis, 
Tennessee and prior to his appointment at Dialight was CEO 
of Coraza Systems Inc. Roy is based at Dialight Corporation’s 
headquarters in Farmingdale, New Jersey.
The Board is committed to the 
maintenance of high standards 
throughout the Group and is 
accountable to the Company’s 
shareholders for good 
corporate governance.
The Board operates within defined 
parameters and in accordance 
with those Matters Reserved for Board 
approval and specific Terms of 
Reference of the Board Committees.
Harry Tee Roy Burton Mark Fryer www.dialight.com
27
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Mark Fryer (age 44 years)
Group Finance Director
Mark Fryer was appointed as Group Finance Director on 
31 August 2010. From 2002 to August 2010 he was Group 
Finance and Business Development Director of Manganese 
Bronze Holdings plc. Prior to this he worked at GKN plc as 
Finance Director of the Industrial Services Division and was 
latterly Chief Financial Officer of a GKN subsidiary in the US. 
He was also Financial Controller of Mercury Communications, 
a subsidiary of Cable & Wireless plc. Mark is a Chartered 
Accountant, having qualified with Ernst & Young in 1988.
Bill Ronald (age 56 years)
Senior Independent Director
Bill Ronald joined Dialight as a Non-Executive Director in 
May 2009. He was appointed Senior Independent Director on 
25 August 2010, is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees. 
He is currently also chairman of the Compleat Food Group 
and Senior Non-Executive Director for Halfords Group. He was 
Chief Executive of Uniq plc, a pan-European convenience food 
business, from 2002 until 2005. Prior to this Bill’s career was 
with the Mars Corporation where, in 1998, he was appointed 
Managing Director of the UK confectionery operation and a 
Vice-President of Masterfoods Europe having held a variety 
of roles in the sales and marketing functions. 
Robert Lambourne (age 59 years)
Non-Executive Director
Robert Lambourne joined Dialight as a Non-Executive Director 
in May 2010. He is both Chairman of the Audit Committee and 
a member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees. 
He is a Chartered Accountant and has held a number of public 
company executive directorships, most recently as Finance Director 
of RMC Group Plc and, prior to that, as Finance Director of 
Hepworth plc. He is an experienced Non-Executive Director 
of both public and private companies in the UK and overseas. 
In the UK, he has been a Non-Executive Director of Pace Micro 
Technology plc, Abacus Group Plc and Analyst Investment 
Management plc as well as a number of private companies. 
Outside the UK, he is currently Chairman of Penox SA based 
in France and of Sokao Holdings SA based in Belgium and 
was also a Non-Executive Director of Huttig Inc in the US.
Richard Stuckes (age 44 years)
Non-Executive Director
Richard Stuckes joined Dialight as a Non-Executive Director 
in May 2009 and is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees. He is currently the managing director 
of the paints business in EMEA for AkzoNobel who acquired 
the business from Imperial Chemical Industries (“ICI)” in 2008. 
Richard originally joined ICI Paints on 1 January 2005 as 
Chief Executive Officer, ICI Paints UK and Ireland. Prior to this, 
Richard gained extensive experience in the lighting industry 
through his 13 years with Philips Lighting, including his role as 
Managing Director for the UK activity and for both the Spanish 
and Portuguese businesses.
Bill Ronald Robert Lambourne Richard Stuckes 28
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Governance
Directors’ report
Dialight recognises the value that good governance adds to 
all the Group’s activities. On behalf of the Board I am pleased 
to introduce this section of the Annual Report and Accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 2011. On the following pages you will find 
information that is required by existing legislation, the UK Listing Rules 
and current corporate governance requirements. The section starts 
with the report of the Directors, is followed by the corporate governance 
statement and concludes with the remuneration report that is introduced 
by Bill Ronald, the Chairman of our Remuneration Committee.
As the Group grows, its governance framework (existing policies, procedures and processes) under which 
it operates, is placed under an increasing amount of pressure from a variety of sources to remain ‘fit for 
purpose’. As well as addressing two major new governance developments during the year (the new UK 
Bribery Act and the new Corporate Governance Code), the Board is continually reviewing and improving 
this framework. A new Code of Business Conduct (“Conduct Code”) and supporting policies were launched 
in the summer and work has been ongoing to ensure the full implementation and training on these. 
Responsibility for the monitoring and review of the Group’s compliance with all policies, procedures, 
processes and internal control systems has been delegated to a newly established Governance and 
Risk Committee. This comprises the two Executive Directors and Company Secretary and, whilst not a 
formal Board committee, reports into the Group’s Audit Committee, meeting as and when required.
Our governance reporting for 2011 has taken place against the new Corporate Governance Code 
that was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 (“FRC Code”). Although this new FRC Code 
contained relatively few material changes to the existing regime it has meant that the 
Board has looked again at the way it operates and made changes where 
required to ensure its continued compliance.
More work is still required to ensure that all new policies and procedures 
are embedded thoroughly into the organisation. I would like to confirm 
to shareholders that ensuring the framework provides the correct level 
of protection, challenge and authority remains a key priority 
for the coming year.
Harry Tee CBE 29
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Financial instruments
The financial risk management objectives and policies of 
the Company including interest rate, currency and credit risk 
are outlined in note 22 to the Company’s consolidated 
financial statements.
AGM
The Company’s AGM will take place at 11.30am on 18 April 2012 
at One Moorgate Place, London EC2R 6EA. An explanation of the 
business to be transacted at the AGM can be found in the separate 
circular to shareholders. 
At the 2011 AGM shareholders granted the Directors the authority 
to purchase up to 3,160,023 ordinary shares in the Company, which 
will expire on 20 April 2012. A resolution to renew this authority will 
be put to shareholders at the AGM on 18 April 2012.
Political and charitable contributions
During the year the Group made contributions of £1,270 (2010: 
£1,000) to various charities. It is Group policy that no donations 
are made for political purposes and as a result there were no 
such political donations made during the year (2010: £nil).
Employees
Regular communication with employees is key to ensuring 
that there is clarity which allows all to understand their role in 
improving the Group’s business performance. Regular meetings 
are held by regional management teams to discuss performance 
and strategy. All are encouraged to contribute to discussions. 
Employment policies are designed to attract, retain and motivate 
the best people. These cover performance management, employee 
development, succession planning and recruitment, as well as 
including guidelines on staff appraisals and consultations between 
individuals and local management. Training and development is 
undertaken locally but all employees are given equal opportunities 
to develop their experience and their careers.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications 
for employment from disabled persons where the requirements 
of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled 
person. Employees who become disabled are provided, where 
practicable, with continuing employment under normal terms and 
conditions and are provided with training and career development 
wherever appropriate.
Research and development
The Group continues to invest resources engaged in technology 
and product development in the UK, Denmark, Germany and the 
US and to update and expand its product range. Investment in 
this area is essential for the Group to retain and increase its 
market share in its competitive markets.
Payments to suppliers
Terms of payment are agreed with individual suppliers prior 
to supply. It is the Group’s policy to settle with its suppliers 
as payments fall due, provided the supplier has delivered the 
goods and services in accordance with agreed terms and 
conditions. As the Company is a non-trading holding company 
it has no trade creditors. At 31 December 2011, the Group had 
an average of 47 days’ (2010: 43 days’) purchases outstanding 
in trade creditors.
Principal activities
The Company is the holding company of the Dialight Group of 
Companies (“Dialight” or “Group”), the world leader in applied 
LED technology. The Group’s operations comprise three segments: 
Signals/Illumination; LED Indication Components; and Electromagnetic 
Components. Details of each segment’s operations can be found 
in the Operating review on pages 12 to 25. 
Business review
The Board is required to present a fair view of the business 
performance of the Group during the financial year ended 
31 December 2011, a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group and the future developments 
of the business. The information that satisfies the requirements 
of the Companies Act 2006 can be found in the Overview 
and Operating Review Sections on pages 1 to 25. Each is 
incorporated by reference into, and forms part of, this 
Directors’ report.
Results and dividends
Results for the year are set out in the consolidated income 
statement on page 45. The Board recommends a final dividend 
of 6.7 pence per ordinary share, making a total dividend for the 
year of 10.0 pence (2010: 8.0 pence). Subject to the approval 
of shareholders at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid 
on 9 May 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close 
of business on 10 April 2012. 
Acquisitions and investments
On 14 June 2011 the Company announced the formation 
of Dialight Japan and the subsequent acquisition of the assets 
and contracts of its Japanese distributor I-Spec Limited. This was 
for an up front consideration of £0.2 million and providing I-Spec 
Limited with a 25% stake in the new company. This transaction 
was completed on 1 July 2011.
Corporate governance
A review of the Group’s application of the principles and 
provisions of the FRC Code is set out on pages 32 to 36.
Directors and interests
The names of the Directors currently serving on the Board are 
shown on pages 26 and 27, together with brief biographical 
details for each. 
The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital 
of the Company as well as details of the Directors’ remuneration 
and service contracts can be found in the Remuneration report 
on pages 37 to 41. None of the Directors had or has an interest 
in any material contract relating to the business of the Company 
or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
During the year the Company maintained liability insurance 
and third party qualifying indemnity provisions pursuant to 
the Companies Act 2006 for its Directors and officers.  30
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Governance
Directors’ report continued
execution by him of the transfer or, if the transfer is executed by 
some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person 
to do so.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of shares 
if a shareholder has not supplied information to the Company 
in default of a request duly served under Section 793 of the 
Companies Act 2006 and such shares represent at least 0.25% 
of the class of shares concerned. The Company is unaware of 
any arrangements between its shareholders that may result in 
restriction on the transfer of shares and/or voting rights.
Voting restrictions
Subject to special terms as to voting on which shares have been 
issued, at a general meeting, every member present in person or 
proxy has one vote per ordinary share. In the case of joint holders 
of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in 
person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes 
of the other joint holders and seniority is determined by the order 
in which the names of the holders stand in the register.
Unless the Board otherwise decides, no member is entitled in 
respect of a share held by him to be present or to vote, either 
in person or by proxy, at a general meeting or at a separate 
meeting of the holders of class of shares or on a poll, or to 
exercise other rights conferred by membership in relation to 
the meeting or poll, if a call or other amount due and payable 
in respect of the share is unpaid. This restriction ceases on 
payment of the amount outstanding and all costs, charges 
and expenses incurred by the Company by reason of the 
non-payment. The member is not entitled in respect of the 
Default Shares to be present or to vote (either in person or 
by proxy) at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the 
holders of a class of shares or on a poll, or to exercise other 
rights conferred by membership in relation to the meeting or poll.
Subject to existing statutory provisions and the Articles, a poll 
may be demanded on any question by the Chairman of the 
meeting; or not less than five members present in person or 
by proxy and entitled to vote; or a member or members present 
in person or by proxy representing in aggregate not less than 
one-tenth of the total voting rights of all the members having the 
right to vote at the meeting; or a member or members present in 
person or by proxy holding shares conferring a right to vote at the 
meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid 
up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all 
the shares conferring that right. A demand by a proxy is deemed 
to be a demand by the member appointing the proxy.
Share capital structure
Share capital
As at 31 December 2011 the Company had 31,800,231 fully paid 
ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each in issue which are listed on the 
London Stock Exchange. The Company has a single class of shares. 
No shares have been issued that carry any special rights with regard 
to the control of the Company. Full details of the Company’s share 
capital are given in note 36 to the accounts. During the year the 
Company issued 200,000 ordinary shares to satisfy existing awards 
pursuant to the Company’s Performance Share Plan (“PSP”).
Rights and obligations
The rights and obligations attached to the Company’s 
shares are contained in the Company’s Articles of Association 
(“Articles”), a copy of which can be obtained from the Company 
Secretary at Dialight plc, Exning Road, Newmarket, Suffolk CB8 0AX 
(“Registered Office”). The Articles may only be amended by a 
special resolution of the Company at a general meeting. No one 
person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share 
capital and all shares are fully paid. Each ordinary share carries 
the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Dividends
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Articles, 
holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend declared 
or paid out of profits available for such purposes. The Directors 
may withhold a dividend (or any part of a dividend) or other 
amount payable in respect of shares if a shareholder has not 
supplied information to the Company in default of a request 
duly served under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 
(“Default Shares”) and such shares represent at least 0.25% 
of the class of shares concerned.
Transfer restrictions
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s 
shares, although the Articles contain provisions whereby Directors 
may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is 
not fully paid. The Directors may also refuse to register the transfer 
of a certificated share unless: (1) it is in respect of a share over 
which the Company has no lien; (2) it is in respect of only one 
class of shares; (3) it is in favour of a single transferee or not 
more than four joint transferees; (4) it is duly stamped; and (5) 
it is delivered to the Registered Office or such other place as the 
Board may decide, accompanied by the certificate for the shares 
to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may 
reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor and the due 
Substantial shareholdings
As at 8 March 2012 the Company had received the following notifications pursuant to DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority.
Shareholder Number of voting rights
% of issued share 
capital/voting rights
BlackRock Inc. 5,114,576 16.08
Standard Life Investments Ltd 3,779,172 11.88
Generation Investment Management LLP 3,209,284 10.09
Impax Asset Management Ltd 1,538,820 4.87
The Tee family 1,453,357 4.57
BlackRock UK Special Situations Fund
1
1,072,064 3.37
Legal and General Group plc 1,207,443 3.82
1 Note that this holding also forms part of the larger holding of BlackRock Inc, but was notified in its own right. 31
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Dialight PSP
The rules of the PSP provide that, in the event of a change 
of control through a general offer or scheme of arrangement, 
shares subject to awards under the PSP could be released 
within one month of the date of notification of the likely change 
of control.
Dialight Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust
The Company has established the Dialight Employees’ 
Share Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOT”) in which all employees 
of the Group, including Executive Directors, are potential beneficiaries. 
The ESOT currently holds 39,216 (2010: 159,621) ordinary shares 
in the capital of the Company. The Trustees of the ESOT retain the 
voting rights over the shares held in the ESOT and exercise these 
rights independent of the interests of the Company.
Going concern
The Directors have reasonable expectations, after making 
appropriate enquiries, that the Group has adequate resources 
to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. For this reason 
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
Annual Report and Accounts.
Disclosure of information to the auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps 
that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the 
Company and to authorise the Board to determine the auditors’ 
remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board
Nick Giles Registered office:
Company Secretary Dialight plc
8 March 2012 Exning Road
 Newmarket 
 Suffolk CB8 0AX
 Company Number: 2486024
Variation of rights
Subject to statutory provisions, the rights attached to a class 
of shares may be varied whether or not the Company is being 
wound up: (i) in such manner (if any) as may be provided by 
those rights; or (ii) in the absence of provision, either with the 
consent in writing of the holders of at least three-fourths of the 
nominal amount of the issued shares of that class (excluding any 
shares of that class held as treasury shares) or with the sanction 
of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the 
holders of the issued shares of that class validly held in 
accordance with the Articles, but not otherwise.
The rights attached to a class of shares are not, unless otherwise 
expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, deemed to 
be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu 
with or subsequent to them or by the purchase or redemption by 
the Company of its own shares in accordance with existing 
statutory provisions.
Re-appointment of Directors
The appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company 
is governed by its Articles and the Companies Act 2006. Further 
information concerning the appointment and re-appointment 
of Directors at the AGM can be found in the Corporate governance 
statement on pages 32 to 36.
The Company must have a minimum of two Directors holding office 
at all times. There is no maximum number of Directors. The Company 
may, by ordinary resolution, appoint any person to be a Director. 
The Board may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, 
either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the Board. A Director 
appointed in this way may hold office only until the dissolution 
of the next AGM unless he or she is re-appointed during 
the meeting.
Under the Articles, at each AGM of the Company, any Director who: 
(i) was appointed or re-appointed three years or more prior to the 
meeting; (ii) was appointed or re-appointed at the third immediately 
preceding AGM; or (iii) at the time of the AGM has served more 
than eight years as a Non-Executive Director of the Company 
(excluding the Chairman) shall retire by rotation and such further 
Directors must retire by rotation so that in total not less than one-third 
of the Directors retire by rotation each year. However, the Board 
has decided to adopt provision B.7.1 of the FRC Code so that 
all Directors stand for re-election on an annual basis.
Power of Directors
The Directors are responsible for the management of the business 
of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company 
subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the Articles 
and any special resolution of the Company passed at a general 
meeting. The Directors have the power to issue and buy back 
shares in the Company, as well as to grant options over or 
otherwise dispose of unissued shares in the Company, to such 
persons, at such times and on such terms as they think proper.
Change of control
Significant agreements
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that 
contain any material change of control provisions. 32
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Governance
Corporate governance statement
Leadership
The role of the Board
The Board is accountable to the Group’s stakeholders, including 
its shareholders, for the standards of governance operated 
throughout the Group. It is committed to high standards 
throughout all of the Group’s operating locations.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters that are 
specifically reserved for its decision including the approval of 
annual and interim results; the recommendation of dividends; 
approval of annual budgets; review of Group strategic plans; the 
approval of larger capital expenditure and investment proposals; 
review of the overall system of internal control and risk management; 
and the review of corporate governance arrangements. Specific 
responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees and these are documented through the 
relevant committee terms of reference. The matters reserved for 
Board decision and the committee terms of reference are reviewed 
on an annual basis. These are available on the Company’s website 
at www.dialight.com or from the Company Secretary at the 
Company’s Registered Office.
Prior to July 2011, Group policies and procedures that had 
been adopted by the Board were included in the Group Policies 
and Procedures Manual (“Manual”). Updates to this Manual are 
approved by the Board and communicated across the Group 
as required. In response to the challenges presented by the 
new Bribery Act, the Board approved a new Conduct Code 
that set out the standards for what Dialight believes is acceptable 
behaviour for all employees as well as the Group’s dealings with 
shareholders, customers, suppliers and agents and its impact 
on the environment and the community. This Conduct Code 
is underpinned by a number of supporting policies that replace 
earlier versions of policies that had been contained in the Manual. 
The Manual also contains Group delegated authorities which are 
currently being reviewed. It is envisaged that a revised delegated 
authorities document will be issued in the first half of 2012 to 
replace the authorities contained in the Manual.
The Board held seven scheduled meetings during 2011 including 
a two-day annual strategy and planning meeting hosted offsite in 
the UK as well as meeting on a number of other occasions as the 
situation and circumstances required. Further details of Directors’ 
attendance at all scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees 
can be found in the table below. There are seven Board meetings 
scheduled to take place in 2012.
Division of responsibilities
There are clearly established roles for the Chairman and Group 
Chief Executive. Individual, documented role statements are 
available on the Company’s website or from the Company 
Secretary at the Company’s Registered Office.
This report, and the Remuneration 
report contained on pages 37 to 41, 
describes how the Group has 
applied and complied with the 
principles, supporting principles 
and provisions contained in 
the FRC Code.
The Board considers that the 
Company has been in full 
compliance with the provisions 
set out in the FRC Code 
throughout the year ended 
31 December 2011. 
Further information on the FRC 
Code can be found on the 
FRC’s website, www.frc.org.uk.
Number of meetings attended
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Harry Tee CBE 7/7 n/a n/a
Roy Burton 7/7 n/a n/a
Mark Fryer 7/7 n/a n/a
Robert Lambourne 7/7 4/4 3/3
Bill Ronald 7/7 4/4 3/3
Richard Stuckes 7/7 4/4 3/3
There were no meetings of the Nominations Committee held during 2011. All Directors automatically stand for re-election on an annual basis and so no meeting was 
required to propose those candidates for re-election. 33
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
The Group Chief Executive has delegated responsibility for the 
management of the Group’s day-to-day operations. In addition he 
is responsible for the preparation and presentation of strategic options 
for the Group’s growth in shareholder value and sets the operating 
plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy. The Group 
Chief Executive is also responsible for ensuring that the Group 
maintains appropriate risk management and control mechanisms.
The Chairman
In addition to other matters, the Chairman has responsibility 
for the leadership of the Board, ensuring the effectiveness of the 
Board, organising and planning Board meetings and the effective and 
timely communication of information to shareholders. The Chairman 
provides advice, counsel and support to the Group Chief Executive 
as and when required and maintains open and continual contact with 
the Non-Executive Directors to allow any issues to be addressed 
outside of the formal scope of the regular Board meetings.
Board agendas are prepared by the Chairman in conjunction with 
the Group Chief Executive and the Company Secretary. At each 
meeting the Board is provided with regular and timely information 
on the financial performance of businesses within the Group, and 
of the Group as a whole, together with reports on trading, health 
and safety, performance, markets and other relevant issues. Board 
and Committee papers are distributed to Directors in advance of 
Board and Committee meetings to facilitate informed debate at 
the meeting.
The Non-Executive Directors
The Board currently comprises three independent Non-Executive 
Directors. Bill Ronald has been the Senior Independent Director 
since 25 August 2010. All Non-Executive Directors constructively 
challenge and assist in developing the strategy of the Group and 
scrutinise the performance of management against the Group’s 
objectives and strategy.
The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors 
without the Executive Directors present on a range of matters 
whilst the Senior Independent Director does the same with 
other Non-Executive Directors as part of the Chairman’s annual 
performance appraisal as well as on such other occasions 
as required.
Group structure
The Board
Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee
Members Members Members
Harry Tee CBE (Chairman) 
Robert Lambourne 
Bill Ronald 
Richard Stuckes 
Roy Burton
Bill Ronald (Chairman) 
Richard Stuckes 
Robert Lambourne
Robert Lambourne (Chairman) 
Bill Ronald 
Richard Stuckes
Effectiveness
Composition of the Board
In addition to the Non-Executive Directors, the Board also 
includes three further directors; the Chairman, the Group 
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent 
in accordance with the FRC Code and it is thought that the current 
balance on the Board ensures that no individual or group dominates 
the Board’s decision making process. The Non-Executive Directors 
are independent of management and are free from any relationship 
which could affect the exercise of their independent judgement 
and therefore meet the criteria set out in the FRC Code. Their 
biographies appear on pages 26 and 27. These demonstrate 
a range of experience that brings independent judgement to issues 
of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct 
which are vital to the future success of the Group. The Board 
has considered and confirmed that each Non-Executive Director 
continues to demonstrate that he has sufficient time to devote 
to the Company’s business.
Each Non-Executive Directors’ knowledge and understanding 
of the Group is enhanced by visits to Group facilities and through 
presentations from members of senior management.
No individuals apart from the Committee chairmen and Committee 
members are allowed to be present at Committee meetings 
although other individuals, including the Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group HR Director and 
external auditors, may attend meetings at the prior invitation of 
the relevant Committee Chairman.
Appointments to the Board
The Board has established a Nominations Committee to lead the 
process for all Board appointments, making recommendations 
where required. Membership details of the Committee can be 
found in the table above.
All members served throughout the year and, with the exception 
of Harry Tee CBE and Roy Burton, are considered independent 
pursuant to the FRC Code. 34
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Governance
Corporate governance statement continued
Effectiveness continued
Appointments to the Board continued
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the size, structure 
and composition of the Board, making recommendations where 
necessary, giving consideration to the provision of adequate 
succession planning for Senior Executives and Directors and 
making recommendations regarding re-election and re-appointment 
of Directors should this be required. In appropriate cases, recruitment 
consultants are engaged to assist with any recruitment process. 
The Committee held no meetings during the year. The Board 
agreed to annual re-election in 2011 and therefore no decision 
as to which Directors would have to stand for re-election 
was required.
Commitment
Service contracts of the Executive Directors and the terms 
and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors 
are available for inspection at the Company’s Registered Office 
during normal business hours on any weekday (except Bank 
Holidays) and at the AGM. Further details of these can be 
found in the Remuneration report on pages 37 to 41.
Development
All new Directors receive a full and formal induction programme 
on joining the Board. This includes the provision of information 
on the Group, its products and markets, financial information and 
general advice on Directors’ duties under the Companies Act 2006 
and the UK Listing Rules. Visits to Group locations also form part 
of the process as do meetings with key senior management.
Further training needs are provided as required following discussion 
between individual Directors and the Chairman. Any resources 
required in this respect are provided by the Company.
Information and support
The Company Secretary, in accordance with guidance from 
the Chairman, takes the lead on ensuring that the Board and its 
Committees receive the necessary information that they require 
to operate efficiently. All Directors have access to the advice 
and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to 
the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that 
applicable rules and regulations are complied with. The Company 
Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board, through the 
Chairman, on all matters of governance and best practice. In addition, 
the Company Secretary ensures that the Directors receive appropriate 
training as necessary. Directors may take independent professional 
advice on any matter at the Company’s expense if they deem it 
necessary in order to carry out their responsibilities effectively. 
No such advice was taken during the year.
Evaluation
Evaluation of the Board and its Committees is by way of 
responses to a questionnaire issued to all members of the 
Board. Feedback from these questionnaires is then gathered 
and collated by the Company Secretary for presentation to 
the Board in order to facilitate discussion. The Chairman is 
responsible for conducting the performance evaluation of the 
Group Chief Executive. The Non-Executive Directors, led by 
the Senior Independent Director, are responsible for evaluating 
the performance of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive 
conducts evaluations of the other Executive Directors and senior 
management. Further consideration will be given to the possible 
undertaking of an external evaluation for the coming year.
The questionnaire issued to Board members covers a range of topics 
including the Board’s remit, its objectives and its procedures and 
administration. The findings from the results of this exercise were 
submitted to the Board in February 2012. A number of issues 
were identified and appropriate actions agreed for the future.
Re-election
The Articles state that at each AGM of the Company, any Director 
who has been appointed or re-appointed three years or more prior 
to the meeting, any Director who has been appointed or re-appointed 
at the third immediately preceding AGM, or at the time has served 
more than eight years as a Non-Executive Director of the Company 
(excluding the Chairman) shall retire by rotation and such further 
Directors must retire by rotation so that in total not less than one-third 
of the Directors retire by rotation each year. In respect of the 2012 
AGM and as previously stated the Board has decided to adopt 
provision B.7.1 of the FRC Code so that all Directors will stand 
for re-election on an annual basis. Therefore, at the 2012 AGM 
all members of the Board will retire and submit themselves 
for re-election.
Audit Committee, accountability and auditors
Financial and business reporting 
The basis on which the Company generates and preserves value 
over the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives 
of the Company can be found in the Business model section on 
pages 4 to 7.
Risk management and internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system 
of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its 
effectiveness on an annual basis. Such systems can only be 
designed to manage, and not eliminate, the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives. They can provide reasonable, but 
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The following controls are in place which enable the Board to review 
the effectiveness of the system of internal control:
•  Management structure
  The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is 
a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by 
the Board. Each Executive Director has been given responsibility 
for specific aspects of the Group’s affairs. The Executive Directors 
also meet regularly with the senior management of the operating 
businesses on a range of issues. New, scheduled Group Executive 
meetings have also allowed senior management from both Europe 
and the US to meet and consider aspects of Group strategy 
alongside the Group Chief Executive and the Group 
Finance Director.
• Risk assessment
  In response to the review of the Group’s internal controls that 
took place in 2010 and 2011, the Board agreed that it would 
conduct its review of risks and risk management systems twice 
yearly, in June and December. Risk registers are now produced 
by each region: the Americas; Europe; and centrally by Dialight plc, 
on a quarterly basis. Completed registers are then considered 
and reviewed by the Governance and Risk Committee (comprising 
the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and 
representatives from the business, where required). This results 
in the production of what are considered to be the Group’s 
principal risks for presentation to the Board for consideration 
and approval. 35
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
  The registers classify risks as strategic, macro-economic, 
operational, financial and organisational or health and safety/
compliance risks and include information on the risk, its likely 
consequences, an assessment of the risks impact, an assessment 
of the risks likelihood, details of the controls to mitigate risks, a 
rating of the existing controls and details of the owner of each risk.
•  The Conduct Code and supporting policies
  The Board approved a new Conduct Code that set out the 
standards for what Dialight believes is acceptable behaviour 
for all employees as well as the Group’s dealings with 
shareholders, customers, suppliers and agents and its impact 
on the environment and the community. This Conduct Code 
is underpinned by a number of supporting policies. Both the 
Dialight Conduct Code and the supporting policies contain 
provisions that cover implementation, compliance and monitoring 
to ensure consistency of application throughout the Group. 
The Governance and Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring 
and reporting on the Group’s compliance with the Conduct 
Code and supporting policies to the Audit Committee.
• The Manual
  Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group 
as part of the Manual which sets out delegation of authority 
and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control 
procedures together with accounting policies and procedures. 
The Manual is updated as and when required and as set out on 
page 32 is subject to a review at present. It is envisaged that the 
Manual will be replaced in the first half of 2012.
• Quality and integrity of personnel
  The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured 
through high recruitment standards and ongoing development 
and training. High quality personnel are seen as an essential 
part of the control environment. Ethical standards expected are 
also communicated through the Conduct Code and relevant 
supporting policies.
• Financial information
  There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting 
and forecasting system. Each year the Board approves the 
annual budget and updated business strategic plan. Key risk 
areas are identified and reported to the Board. Performance is 
monitored on a monthly basis against budget and the prior year 
and relevant actions identified.
  The business produces detailed five-year business plans. 
Plans will include consideration of the financial projections 
and the evaluation of business alternatives and are presented 
by the relevant management team to the Board as part of the 
strategic/planning meeting.
  The Board receives and reviews monthly management accounts 
together with full year forecasts which are updated monthly. 
Performance against forecast and budget is closely monitored.
  The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director 
submit papers to the Board on a monthly basis that focus on 
key developments, performance and issues in the businesses.
• Investment appraisal
  Capital expenditure and research and development projects are 
regulated by budgetary process and authorisation levels set out 
in the Manual. For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed 
written proposals have to be submitted to the Board for approval. 
Reviews are carried out after the acquisition is complete and, for 
some projects during the acquisition period, to monitor expenditure; 
major overruns are investigated. Due diligence work is carried 
out if a business is to be acquired.
• Audit Committee
  The Audit Committee monitors, through reports to it by the 
Group Finance Director, the controls which are in force and any 
perceived gaps in the control environment. The Audit Committee 
also considers and determines relevant action in respect of any 
control issues raised by these reports or the external auditors, 
as well as considering issues raised in accordance with the 
Group’s Confidential Disclosure policy.
• Internal audit
  The review of the Group’s internal audit arrangements concluded 
that, whilst Dialight remained too small to justify its own internal 
audit department, it would continue with a series of peer group 
financial control reviews during 2012 following the successful 
use of these in 2011. The Audit Committee agrees the annual 
scope of these reviews in advance. This process will be 
supplemented with additional procedures to be performed 
as the Audit Committee deemed necessary.
• Insurance
  The Group maintains insurance cover to insure all major risk 
areas based on the scale of the risk and availability of cover 
in the external market.
• Legal and compliance
  Reports are presented to the Board on any material legal 
or compliance issues that may impact the Group.
• Compliance with controls
  A process of control risk self-assessment is used in the Group 
where senior managers are required to detail and certify controls 
in operation to ensure the control environment in their business 
area is appropriate. They also confirm monthly, in writing, that 
risk management processes and appropriate controls are in 
place and are operating effectively.
The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the system 
of internal controls in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 
covering all material controls, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management systems.
Audit Committee and auditors
Membership details of the Audit Committee can be found 
on page 33. All members on the Committee served throughout 
the year and are considered independent pursuant to the FRC 
Code. The Board considers that the Committee Chairman has 
recent and relevant financial experience and an understanding 
of accounting and financial issues relevant to the industries 
in which the Group operates. 36
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Governance
Corporate governance statement continued
Audit Committee and auditors continued
The Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters 
including the half year and annual accounts before their submission 
to the Board for approval and monitoring the controls which are 
in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to 
the shareholders. The Committee makes recommendations 
to the Board on the appointment and responsibilities of external 
auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit 
work and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit 
with external auditors.
The Committee monitors risk management and internal control 
processes as part of its responsibilities and reviews reports on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal financial control, 
financial reporting and risk management. The Committee also 
monitors the integrity of internal financial controls and it will assess 
the scope and the effectiveness of the established systems to 
identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial 
risks. The Committee has oversight of the internal audit process.
The Committee considers the cost-effectiveness, independence and 
objectivity of KPMG Audit Plc (“Auditors” or “KPMG”), the external 
auditors, on a regular basis. It also agrees the level of remuneration 
of the Auditors and reviews the extent of non-audit services 
provided by KPMG during the year. The Auditors annually confirm 
their policies to ensure independence and provide the Committee 
with a report on their own internal quality control procedures.
Committee meetings are attended by the Auditors at the invitation 
of the Committee Chairman to ensure full communication of matters 
relating to the audit. The Committee also meets with the Auditors 
without the Executive Directors present to discuss the adequacy 
of controls and any material judgemental areas.
In accordance with the Manual, prior approval of the provision 
of any non-audit services must be provided by the Group Finance 
Director, although assignments with proposed fees over £20,000 
require the approval of the Committee as a whole. This serves to 
ensure that other potential providers of the service under 
discussion have also been adequately considered.
Remuneration Committee
Details of the role and activities of the Remuneration Committee 
during the year can be found in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 37 to 41. Membership information can be found on 
page 33.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. 
The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that there 
is effective communication with investors including being 
aware of the views of major shareholders on matters such 
as corporate governance.
On a day-to-day basis the Board’s primary contact with major 
shareholders is via the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance 
Director, who have regular dialogue with individual institutional 
shareholders and deliver presentations to analysts after the full 
and half year results. Copies of the shareholder presentations 
are made available on the Company’s website.
The Non-Executive Directors are kept appraised of shareholder 
views through the provision of a report at each Board meeting 
on shareholder activity. In addition to updates on share price 
and trading activity, this could include the consideration of recent 
analyst briefings and feedback from results road shows. 
In addition all members of the Board are offered invitations 
to attend all presentations and meetings with shareholders.
Constructive use of the AGM
The AGM presents an additional opportunity to communicate with 
private and institutional investors. The Chairman aims to ensure 
that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees are available at these meetings to answer questions. 
Each substantially separate issue is proposed as a separate 
resolution. Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM 
on 18 April 2012 can be found in the separate circular to 
shareholders. The Notice of the AGM and related documents 
are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the 
date of the meeting.
Nick Giles
Company Secretary
8 March 2012 37
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
2011 has seen the publication of a large amount of information, 
official or otherwise, as well as increasing focus on the debate 
around remuneration issues. This trend looks set to continue into 
2012. The following pages contain the Remuneration report for the 
year ended 31 December 2011 and include all of the information 
that is required by the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large 
and Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and 
describes how the Company has applied the principles of the 
FRC Code with regard to remuneration (“Regulations”).
These Regulations require the Group’s Auditors to report on the audited information within the report 
and to state if this section of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations. 
To assist with this process this report has been divided into separate sections for that information that 
is unaudited and audited.
Although the Board remains responsible for the Group’s remuneration policy, the determination and review 
of remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and certain other Senior Executives (including contract 
terms, remuneration and other benefits such as performance related bonus schemes, long-term incentives, 
pension rights and compensation payments) has been delegated to the Committee as well as a responsibility 
to recommend and monitor the structure of the remuneration of the Group’s senior management, as 
defined by the Board.
Membership details of the Committee can be found on page 33. All members served throughout 
the year and are considered independent in accordance with the FRC Code. Details of the number 
of meetings held during the year as well as details of attendance at these meetings can be found 
in the Corporate governance statement on page 32.
A copy of the terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Company’s website or on request 
from the Company Secretary at the Registered Office. The Committee has access to the advice of the 
Group Chief Executive, the Chairman, the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary (none of 
whom participate in any discussion concerning their own remuneration) and external advisers as 
required. During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Committee consulted Kepler Associates, who 
provided advice regarding executive remuneration benchmarking, annual bonus plans and 
long-term incentive design, and Clifford Chance LLP , who advised on the operation 
of the Group’s PSP . Pett Franklin & Co LLP (“Pett Franklin”) provided advice and 
assistance in regard to the Annual Performance Bonus Plan and Deloitte LLP 
(“Deloitte”) provided advice in regard to Executive pension arrangements. 
Kepler Associates, Pett Franklin and Deloitte provided no other services to the 
Company. Clifford Chance LLP also provided general corporate legal advice to 
the Company. Within the report you will find details of the Group’s remuneration 
policy as well as specific details of the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages.
As in prior years, this report will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming 
AGM for an advisory vote. This is in respect of remuneration policy and 
overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual 
levels of remuneration.
Bill Ronald, Chairman
Remuneration Committee
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report 38
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
opportunities for the Group Chief Executive and the Group 
Finance Director of 150% and 100% of base salary respectively. 
Bonuses are paid though a mixture of cash and deferred shares 
with half of the deferred share element vesting after two years and 
the balance after three years, subject to continued employment 
with the Group. For the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group 
achieved operating profit of £15.1 million, that represented growth 
of 34.6%, therefore, following consideration at the Committee 
meeting in February 2012, maximum bonuses were awarded to 
both the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, 
details of which can be found on page 40.
2012 awards
The Committee considered and approved revised operating profit 
growth objectives for the 2012 Plan at a meeting in December 2011. 
As a result of the introduction of new ‘clawback’ provisions in the 
rules of the Plan, the deferred share portion of any bonus remains 
at risk until its actual release to the individual participant.
(iii) PSP
The PSP was approved by the shareholders of the Company at an 
EGM held on 29 September 2005. Executive Directors and other 
members of senior management, as approved by the Committee, 
are eligible to receive awards, which are released after three years 
subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions determined 
by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant.
Awards are normally made in the six-week period following 
the announcement by the Company of its results for any period. 
The number of shares which are the subject of the award will be 
calculated by dividing the value of the award by the average price 
of the Company’s ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange 
over the 30 trading days prior to the date of the award. The initial 
value of an award granted in any one financial year will be 
determined by the Committee. Awards will not normally exceed 
100% of an individual’s basic salary.
Vesting of existing awards is based on relative TSR, as the Committee 
believes TSR to be the appropriate measure of long-term Group 
success, which provides strong alignment between the interests 
of shareholders and executives. TSR performance is measured 
relative to two indices (the FTSE All Share Electronics/Electrical 
Equipment Index and the FTSE SmallCap Index), each index 
having equal weighting. TSR is measured over a three-year period 
with the measurement period beginning on the first day of the 
financial year in which the award is made. If the percentage increase 
in the Company’s TSR is equal to the percentage increase in the 
TSR of the comparator index, 25% of the ordinary shares subject 
to an award will vest, rising, on a straight-line basis, to 100% 
vesting if the percentage increase in the Company’s TSR is equal 
to the increase in the TSR of the index plus 15% per annum. 
Part 1: Unaudited information
1. Remuneration policy
The objective of Dialight’s remuneration policy is to provide packages 
that are designed to attract, retain and motivate people of high 
quality and experience.
Remuneration packages currently consist of a basic annual salary, 
short and long-term incentive schemes, pension arrangements, 
car allowances or cash alternatives and health care benefits. 
The Committee believes that the base salary and benefits 
for the Executive Directors should represent a fair return for 
employment but that the maximum total potential remuneration 
may only be achieved in circumstances where challenging 
objectives have been met that contribute to Dialight’s overall 
profitability and performance. Performance related elements, 
including bonuses and the PSP , form a significant proportion 
of the total remuneration of the Executive Directors aligning 
their interests with those of the shareholders and providing 
incentives for performance. A significant part of the Executive 
Directors’ total package is therefore considered to be at risk.
The Committee has reviewed the structure of remuneration 
for the Executive Directors and certain senior executives in the 
Group and confirms the policy, as outlined above, has been 
applied in a consistent way.
2. Executive Directors’ remuneration
(i) Basic salary
Salaries are reviewed on an annual basis and any changes take 
effect from 1 January each year. Base salary is determined by 
reference to relevant market data and the individual’s experience, 
responsibilities and performance. As the Group Chief Executive 
is based in the US his salary is paid in US Dollars. Salaries (as well 
as total remuneration) are benchmarked against a mixture of US 
and UK companies of a similar size and operating in similar sectors.
The base salaries of the Group Chief Executive and the Group 
Finance Director were reviewed at a meeting of the Committee 
on 14 December 2011 and an increase of 2% was awarded. 
This increase reflected the market positioning of the Company 
and were made in light of the current pay and employment 
conditions throughout the Group. Details of current salaries 
can be found on page 40.
(ii) Annual Performance Bonus Plan
2011 awards
The new Annual Performance Bonus Plan (“Plan”) was introduced 
during the year and approved by shareholders at the AGM on 
20 April 2011. The Plan links bonus payments to the growth 
in Group operating profit and provides maximum bonus 
Name Contract date Notice period
Contractual
early termination
payment
Roy Burton 1 October 2005 12 months (Company) No provisions exceeding
12 months (Executive) 12 months’ emoluments
Mark Fryer 5 August 2010 12 months (Company) No provisions exceeding
6 months (Executive) 12 months’ emoluments
Service contracts of Directors 39
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
No ordinary shares will vest if the percentage increase in the 
Company’s TSR is below the percentage increase in the TSR 
of the comparator index.
In the event of a change of control of the Group, the Committee 
may, at its discretion, release the value of the ordinary shares early. 
In determining the value of the benefit, the Committee may take into 
account the length of time between the start of the measurement 
period and the triggering event as well as the level of performance 
up to the date of this event.
(iv) Pensions
The Group Finance Director receives Company contributions 
of 15% of base salary into a Group defined contribution pension 
scheme. The Group Chief Executive currently receives employer 
contributions under both a 401(k) plan plus an employer contribution 
under the Supplemental Executive Pension Plan (“SEP”). In 2010 
aggregate employer contributions into both plans equated to 
around 9% of his base salary.
In looking at executive pension arrangements during the year the 
Committee noted that the median pension benefit value at UK 
companies of a similar size to Dialight was around 20% of salary, 
with most companies delivering such benefit through defined 
contribution arrangements or salary supplements. In addition, 
at US companies, defined benefit plans were much more 
prevalent, with most designed to provide an annual pension 
of around 45% of salary, after 25 years’ service. As a result, 
the Committee agreed that the Group Chief Executive’s pension 
arrangements were well behind both the UK and US markets.
In light of this, the decision was taken to enhance the Group 
Chief Executive’s current pension arrangements with an additional 
contribution under the SEP of $100,000 to be made on 30 June 
of each year. This represented an increase in pension benefit 
of around 19% of salary, and results in a broadly median level 
of pension across a blend of the UK and US markets. This pension 
benefit would be subject to clawback such that any or all of it may 
be forfeited in the event of embezzlement, theft, gross negligence 
or other misconduct, until the benefit is transferred to him. 
Investment options under this scheme will be the same as those 
available under the 401(k) plan, with the same transfer of any 
associated investment charges to the executive. No contributions 
had been made to this scheme as at the 31 December 2011.
(v) Additional benefits
The Group Chief Executive received life assurance and medical 
benefits during the year. The Group Finance Director received 
taxable benefits including a car allowance and medical insurance 
for both him and his immediate family as well as life assurance.
(vi) Service contracts
Details of the service contracts of those individuals that served 
as Executive Directors during the year can be found on page 38.
(vii) Performance review
The graph above shows the five-year TSR of the Company, compared 
with the TSR over the same period for the FTSE Small Cap and the 
FTSE All Share Electronics/Electrical Equipment. These were selected 
as they were considered to be a broad representation of Dialight’s 
peer group in terms of its size and industry sector.
3. Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
Fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the 
Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director. 
The Non-Executive Directors do not take part in these discussions. 
The Non-Executive Directors’ fees are subject to review on an annual 
basis and were considered on 14 December 2011. As a result of 
this meeting it was agreed that there would be no increase with 
effect from January 2012 and that Non-Executive fees would only 
be subject to review every two years with immediate effect. The details 
of Non-Executive Directors’ fees can be found in the emoluments 
table on page 40.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Plan or the 
PSP and they are not eligible for pension scheme membership.
The Non-Executive Directors have standard letters of appointment. 
Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are available for 
inspection at the Company’s Registered Office and will be made 
available at the AGM. 
4. External appointments
No Executive Directors currently hold any external directorships 
of listed companies.
Dialight plc vs FTSE Small Cap Index and FTSE Electronics/Electrical Equipment
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Years as at 31 December
Share price rebased to Dialight share price
800
0
700
100
200
300
400
500
600
Dialight plc
FTSE  SmallCap Index
FTSE  All Share Electronics/
Electricial Equipment 40
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Part 2: Audited information
Table 1 – Directors’ emoluments
The remuneration of the Directors is set out below:
Salary/fees
‘000
Bonus paid
in cash
‘000
Bonus paid
in shares
‘000
Pensions
1
‘000
Benefits
‘000
2011
‘000
2010
‘000
Executive Directors
Roy Burton US$520 US$520 US$260 US$65 US$25 US$1,390 US$988
Mark Fryer £219 £164 £55 £33 £13 £484 £146
Non-Executive Directors
Harry Tee CBE £100 — — — — £100 £75
Bill Ronald
2
£35 — — — — £35 £30
Robert Lambourne
2
£35 — — — — £35 £18
Richard Stuckes £30 — — — — £30 £25
1 Figures represent Company contributions to defined contribution arrangements.
2 Robert Lambourne and Bill Ronald receive an additional £5,000 per annum as Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees respectively.
Table 2 – PSP
Awards under the PSP:
Date of award
PSP shares
held at
1 January
2011
PSP shares
awarded in
year
PSP shares
vested in
year
PSP shares
lapsed
in year
PSP shares
held at
31 December
2011 Earliest vesting date
Value at
31 December
2011
1
£000
Roy Burton 09.04.08 143,360 — 143,360
2
— — — —
30.04.09
3
160,926 — — — 160,926 30.04.12 1,125
26.05.10 127,582 — — — 127,582 26.05.13 892
17.02.11
4
— 58,137 — — 58,137 17.02.14 406
Total 431,868 58,137 143,360 — 346,645 2,423
Mark Fryer 02.09.10 37,822 — — — 37,822 02.09.13 264
17.02.11
4
— 29,549 — — 29,549 17.02.14 207
Total 37,822 29,549 — — 67,371 471
1  The value of the awards under the PSP shows the number of awards held multiplied by the market price of the Company’s shares at 30 December 2011. It has been 
assumed that the maximum number of awards vested in accordance with the performance conditions set out on page 38. On 30 December 2011 the share price 
was 699 pence per share.
2  On 11 April 2011 this award vested in full following satisfaction of the performance conditions. 50,251 shares were sold to meet tax and social security liabilities 
at a price of 775 pence. The remaining 93,109 shares were retained by the Group Chief Executive.
3  Performance conditions in respect of awards granted on 30 April 2009 indicate that 100% of the total award will vest. Vesting and release of these awards 
is subject to decision of the Committee.
4  The number of shares awarded on 17 February 2011 were the share equivalents of 100% of the base salary of the Group Chief Executive and 75% of the 
base salary of the Group Finance Director, based on the average of the mid market closing values of the Company’s shares for the 30 dealing days ending 
on 16 February 2011 of 559 pence.
5  The price of an ordinary share on 17 February 2011 was 624 pence. During the year, the range of share prices was 847 pence to 514 pence, with the price 
on 30 December 2011 being 699 pence.
Governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued 41
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Part 2: Audited information continued
Table 3 – Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2011 are set out below:
31 December
2011
31 December
2010
Executive Directors
Roy Burton
1
182,146 89,037
Mark Fryer — —
Non-Executive Directors
Harry Tee CBE
2
1,453,357 1,453,357
Bill Ronald
3
13,500 10,000
Robert Lambourne
4
1,000 1,000
Richard Stuckes
5
24,178 20,678
Total 1,674,181 1,574,072
1  Some of these shares are held through nominees. Roy Burton received 93,109 ordinary shares on 11 April 2011 following the vesting of the awards granted 
under the PSP in April 2008.
2 Some of these shares are held through nominees.
3 Bill Ronald purchased 3,500 ordinary shares on 26 August 2011 at a price of 720 pence per share. Some of these shares are held through a nominee.
4 Some of these shares are held through nominees.
5 Richard Stuckes purchased 3,500 ordinary shares on 30 August 2011 at a price of 716 pence per share. Some of these shares are held through nominees. 
There has been no change in Directors’ holdings since 31 December 2011.
By order of the Board
Bill Ronald
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
8 March 2012 42
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Governance
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and parent 
company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
•  for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•  for the parent company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the parent company financial statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration 
report and Corporate governance statement that complies with 
that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors 
in respect of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
•  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of 
the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
•  the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the issuer 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
For and on behalf of the Board of Dialight plc
Roy Burton  Mark Fryer
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
8 March 2012
The Directors are responsible 
for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and parent 
company financial statements 
in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations. 
Company law requires the 
Directors to prepare Group 
and parent company financial 
statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required 
to prepare the Group financial 
statements in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU and 
applicable law and have elected 
to prepare the parent company 
financial statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards 
and applicable law (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).  43
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
We have audited the financial statements of Dialight plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 set out on pages 45 to 84. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the 
parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of Director’s and auditor’s
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 42, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion 
on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (“APB’s”) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2011 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•  the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
•  the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and
•  the information given in the Corporate governance statement set out on pages 32 to 36 with respect to internal control 
and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent 
with the financial statements.
Financials
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Dialight plc 44
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
•  the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
• a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 32, in relation to going concern;
•  the part of the Corporate governance statement on pages 32 to 36 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to Shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
G.A. Watts
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham B4 6GH
8 March 2012
Financials
Independent auditor’s report continued to the members of Dialight plc 45
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Note
2011
Underlying
£’000
2011
Non-
underlying
£’000
(see note 5)
2011
T otal
£’000
2010
Total
£’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 113,524 — 113,524 99,183
Cost of sales (80,094) — (80,094) (71,897)
Gross profit 33,430 — 33,430 27,286
Distribution costs (9,183) — (9,183) (7,212)
Administrative expenses (9,192) (2,808) (12,000) (8,891)
Other operating income — 2,741 2,741 —
Results from operating activities 4,9 15,055 (67) 14,988 11,183
Financial income 7 1,265 — 1,265 1,937
Financial expense 7 (1,234) (704) (1,938) (1,821)
Net financing income/(expense) 7 31 (704) (673) 116
Profit before income tax 15,086 (771) 14,315 11,299
Income tax expense 8 (5,056) 332 (4,724) (3,846)
Profit for the year 10,030 (439) 9,591 7,453
Attributable to:
    Owners of the parent 10,109 (439) 9,670 7,453
    Non-controlling interest (79) — (79) —
Profit for the year 10,030 (439) 9,591 7,453
Earnings per share
Basic 18 30.3p 23.8p
Diluted 18 29.5p 23.2p
The accompanying notes form part of the financial statements.
There were no non-underlying items in 2010.
Financials
Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 46
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Other comprehensive income
Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations 74 118
Income tax on exchange difference on translation of foreign operations (26) 201
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes (188) (1,810)
Income tax on actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 60 631
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (80) (860)
Profit for the year 9,591 7,453
Total comprehensive income for the year 9,511 6,593
Attributable to:
    Owners of the parent 9,586 6,593
    Non-controlling interest (75) —
Total comprehensive income for the year 9,511 6,593
Financials
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2011 47
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Note
Share
capital
£’000
Merger
reserve
£’000
Translation
Reserve
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
T otal
£’000
Non-
controlling 
interests
£’000
T otal
equity
£’000
At 1 January 2010 591 546 3,088 2,232 33,647 40,104 — 40,104
Profit — — — — 7,453 7,453 — 7,453
Other comprehensive income:
Foreign exchange translation 
differences, net of taxes — — 319 — — 319 — 319
Actuarial losses on defined 
benefit pension plans,  
net of taxes 19 — — — — (1,179) (1,179) — (1,179)
Total other 
comprehensive income — — 319 — (1,179) (860) — (860)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year — — 319 — 6,274 6,593 — 6,593
Transactions with owners, 
recorded directly in equity:
Issue of shares on acquisition 6 903 — — — 909 — 909
Share-based payments, 
net of tax — — — — 785 785 — 785
Dividends 17 — — — — (2,228) (2,228) — (2,228)
Unpaid dividends returned 
from shareholders — — — — 6 6 — 6
Total contributions by and 
distributions to owners 6 903 — — (1,437) (528) — (528)
Balance at 31 December 2010 597 1,449 3,407 2,232 38,484 46,169 — 46,169
Balance at 1 January 2011 597 1,449 3,407 2,232 38,484 46,169 — 46,169
Profit — — — — 9,670 9,670 (79) 9,591
Other comprehensive income:
Foreign exchange translation 
differences, net of taxes — — 44 — — 44 4 48
Actuarial losses on defined 
benefit pension plans,  
net of taxes 19 — — — — (128) (128) — (128)
Total other 
comprehensive income — — 44 — (128) (84) 4 (80)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year — — 44 — 9,542 9,586 (75) 9,511
Transactions with owners, 
recorded directly in equity:
Own shares issued 4 — — — (4) — — —
Share-based payments,  
net of tax — — — — 1,511 1,511 — 1,511
Deferred bonus share scheme 6 — — — — 230 230 — 230
Dividends 17 — — — — (2,683) (2,683) — (2,683)
Dividends on shares awarded 
under the PSP 17 — — — — (115) (115) — (115)
Unpaid dividends returned 
from shareholders — — — — 2 2 — 2
Total contributions by and 
distributions to owners 4 — — — (1,059) (1,055) — (1,055)
Change in ownership 
interests in subsidiaries:
Acquisition of subsidiaries with 
non-controlling interest 12 — — — — — — 139 139
Balance at 31 December 2011 601 1,449 3,451 2,232 46,967 54,700 64 54,764
At 31 December 2011 the number of shares held by the Group through the Dialight Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOT”) 
trust was 39,216 (2010: 159,621). The market value of these shares at 31 December 2011 is £274,120 (2010: £820,452).
Financials
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2011 48
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Notes
2011
£’000
2010*
£’000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 8,929 8,218
Intangible assets 11 12,158 10,488
Deferred tax assets 13 1,950 3,162
Employee benefits 19 803 420
Total non-current assets 23,840 22,288
Inventories 14 15,842 9,187
Trade and other receivables 15 22,846 18,856
Cash and cash equivalents 16 13,700 10,359
Total current assets 52,388 38,402
Total assets 76,228 60,690
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (19,136) (11,265)
Provisions 20 (434) (694)
Tax liabilities (1,409) (239)
Total current liabilities (20,979) (12,198)
Employee benefits 19 — (1,861)
Provisions 20 (485) (462)
Total non-current liabilities (485) (2,323)
Total liabilities (21,464) (14,521)
Net assets 54,764 46,169
Equity
Issued share capital 17 601 597
Merger reserve 17 1,449 1,449
Other reserves 5,683 5,639
Retained earnings 46,967 38,484
54,700 46,169
Non-controlling interests 64 —
Total equity 54,764 46,169
* Restated – see note 2a
The accompanying notes form part of the financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roy Burton   Mark Fryer
Group Chief Executive  Group Finance Director
Financials
Consolidated statement of financial position for the year ended 31 December 2011 49
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Note
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Operating activities
Profit for the year 9,591 7,453
Adjustments for:
Financial income 7 (1,265) (1,937)
Financial expense 7 1,234 1,821
Income tax expense 8 4,724 3,846
Share-based payments 391 312
Deferred bonus share scheme 230 —
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 1,833 2,012
Amortisation of intangible assets 11 936 1,588
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital 17,674 15,095
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (6,396) 847
Increase in trade and other receivables (3,662) (233)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 7,807 (452)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions 20 (235) 28
Pension contributions in excess of the income statement 19 (489) (1,269)
Buy out of US pension scheme 19 (2,331) —
Cash generated from operations 12,368 14,016
Income taxes paid (1,744) (4,657)
Interest paid 7 (30) (25)
Net cash generated from operating activities 10,594 9,334
Investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 12 (427) (2,074)
Interest received 7 25 23
Capital expenditure 10 (2,512) (2,767)
Capitalised expenditure on development 11 (1,637) (1,208)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 10 32 12
Net cash used in investing activities (4,519) (6,014)
Financing activities
Dividends returned 2 6
Dividends paid 17 (2,698) (2,228)
Net cash used in financing activities (2,696) (2,222)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3,379 1,098
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 16 10,359 9,092
Effect of exchange rates on cash held (38) 169
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 16 13,700 10,359
Financials
Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2011 50
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
1. Reporting entity
Dialight plc is a company domiciled in England. The address of the Company’s registered office is Exning Road, Newmarket, Suffolk CB8 0AX. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together referred to as the “Group”).
2. Basis of preparation
(a) Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“IFRSs”). The Company has elected to present its parent company financial statements 
in accordance with UK GAAP .
During the year the Board deemed it was more appropriate to represent the 2010 consolidated statement of financial position for the two 
UK pension schemes which were in surplus within non-current assets rather than netted off the US pension scheme which was in deficit.
(b) Consolidated basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments which are carried at fair 
value. The Group’s business activities, together with the factors that are likely to affect its future development, performance and position 
are set out in the Overview and Operating review on pages 8 to 25. The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 20 to 22. The financial statements include the statements covering 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital; management of its financial risk objectives; details of its financial 
instruments; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and, as a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage 
its business risks successfully.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in existence for the 
foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
(c) Use of estimates, judgements and assumptions
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made a number of judgements. The process of preparing 
the Group’s financial statements inevitably requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions concerning the future and the 
resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and judgements that have the 
most significant effect on the amounts included in these consolidated financial statements are as follows:
Goodwill (see note 11)
Each year the Group reviews the carrying values of its goodwill balances by carrying out impairment tests. These tests require estimates 
and judgements to be made of the value in use of its cash generating units (“CGU’s”) which are dependent on key assumptions such 
as future cash flows and future growth rates of the CGU’s, and discount rates.
Uncertainties associated with the current economic environment could impact key assumptions made as part of this review, although 
sensitivity analysis has been performed on the carrying of goodwill.
Fair value of intangible assets acquired in a business combination (see note 14)
On the acquisition of a business it is necessary to attribute fair values to any intangible asset acquired (provided they meet the criteria 
to be recognised). The fair values of these intangible assets are dependent on estimates and judgements of attributable future revenues, 
profitability and cash flows.
Development costs and deferred costs (see note 11)
The Group capitalises development costs and deferred costs provided they meet certain criteria as set out in the respective accounting policy. 
Costs are only capitalised where management are satisfied as to the ultimate commercial viability of the projects concerned based on 
available information.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets (see note 11)
The impairment analysis of goodwill and intangible assets is based upon the estimate of future discounted cash flows. Factors like lower 
than anticipated sales and resulting decreases of net cash flows and changes in discount rates could lead to impairments.
Defined benefit pension plans (see note 19)
The valuation of the defined benefit pension plans are based upon actuarial assumptions related to the measurement of pension 
liabilities and assets. If the relevant factors developed materially differ from the assumptions used this could have a significant impact 
on our defined benefit obligation. The main assumptions made in accounting for the Group’s pension plans relate to the expected rate 
of return on investments within the plans, the rate of increase in pensionable salaries, the rate of increase in the retail price index, the 
mortality rate of plan members and the discount rate applied in discounting liabilities. For each of these assumptions there is a range 
of possible values. Small changes in these assumptions can have a significant impact on the size of the deficit calculated under IAS 19.
Warranty (see note 20)
The warranty provision is estimated requiring management to make estimates and assumptions with respect to values and conditions 
which cannot be known with certainty at the time the financial statements are prepared. Estimates are evaluated based on historical 
results and experience together with any known factors at the time of estimate. If the relevant rate of product returns differed materially 
from the estimates this may have a material impact on the level of provision required.
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 51
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
2. Basis of preparation continued
(c) Use of estimates, judgements and assumptions continued
T ax (see note 8)
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
3. Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements 
and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
(a) Basis of consolidation
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control 
is transferred to the Group. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from 
its activities. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquire; less
• the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection 
with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010
For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Group’s 
interest in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with 
business combinations were capitalised as part of the acquisition.
Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 (date of transition to IFRSs)
As part of its transition to IFRSs, the Group elected to restate only those business combinations that occurred on or after 1 January 2003. 
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2003, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the Group’s previous accounting 
framework, UK GAAP .
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the 
consolidated financial statements.
(b) Foreign currency translation
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations including 
goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation are translated using exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items of overseas operations are translated at average exchange rates for the period. 
Since the transition date, resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity within the Group’s translation 
reserve. Such translation differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of. 
Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement. 
(c) Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost and are re-measured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement. The fair value of derivatives 
at 31 December 2011 is £nil (2010: £nil).
(d) Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. 52
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(e) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses.
(f) Depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, 
plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Buildings   16–50 years
Plant and equipment 3–10 years
Tooling   2–4 years
Fixtures and fittings  5–10 years
Amortisation
Amortisation is recognised in profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, 
from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Patents and trademarks 1–4 years
Development costs  3–5 years
Order book  1–2 years
Customer relationships 1–7 years
(g) Goodwill
Goodwill that arises upon acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. For the measurement of goodwill at initial 
recognition, see note 3(a).
Subsequent measurement
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses until disposal or termination of the previously 
acquired business when the profit or loss on disposal or termination will be calculated after charging the gross amount at current exchange 
rates of any such goodwill through the income statement. Goodwill is allocated to the CGUs and is tested at least annually for impairment. 
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
(h) Research and development costs
Expenditure on research activities undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding 
is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially 
improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has 
sufficient resources to complete the development. The expenditure capitalised includes direct cost of material, direct labour and an 
appropriate proportion of overheads. Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. 
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
(i) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting 
date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. 
For goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each 
reporting date. 
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. A CGU is the smallest 
identifiable asset group that generates cash flows that largely are independent from other assets and groups. Impairment losses are 
recognised in profit and loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) 
on a pro rata basis. 
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. 
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 53
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(i) Impairment continued
Any impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are 
assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there 
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the 
asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no 
impairment loss had been recognised. 
A financial asset, in particular the carrying value of trade receivables, is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one 
or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset. Any impairment losses are recognised through 
the income statement.
(j) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories comprises all costs of purchase, costs of 
conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the balance sheet date. Items are valued 
using the first in, first out method. When inventories are used, the carrying amount of those inventories is recognised as an expense in the 
period in which the related revenue is recognised. Provision for write-down to net realisable value and losses of inventories are recognised 
as an expense in the period in which the write-down or loss occurs. 
(k) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an 
integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash 
flow statement. 
(l) Share capital
(i) Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by members.
(ii)  When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased by the ESOT , the amount of the consideration paid is recognised 
as a deduction from equity.
(iii)  Under the terms of the PSP , dividends accrue on shares not yet vested, however if in the event that the shares lapse or are forfeited 
then the dividends will not be paid and the accrual is reversed.
(m) Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution pension plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement when they are due.
(ii) Defined benefit pension plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount 
of future benefit that employees have earned for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its 
present value and any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The discount rate is the yield 
at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the Group’s obligations. The calculation 
is performed by an independent qualified actuary using the projected unit method. When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, 
the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from 
the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. 
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an 
expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period until benefits become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest 
immediately, the expenses are recognised immediately in the income statement. 
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period they occur directly into equity through the statement of comprehensive income.
(iii) Share-based payment transactions
The PSP allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of the award granted is recognised as an employee 
expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the performance period 
during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. 
The fair value of the grants is measured using the Monte Carlo model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the grants 
were made. The amount recognised as an expense is only adjusted to reflect forfeitures resulting from failures to meet non-market conditions. 
The share based payments are equity settled.
Key Group employees are awarded shares in the Company under the Annual Performance Bonus Plan. The fair value of the award 
granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at the grant date 
and spread over the performance period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. 
(n) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event 
and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.  54
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(n) Provisions continued
Warranties
A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying products are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty data 
and a weighting of possible outcomes against their associated probabilities.
(o) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently stated at their amortised cost less any impairment losses. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. 
If any such indication exists the assets’ recoverable amounts are estimated being the greater of their net selling price and value in use. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects 
current market assessment of the time value of the money and risks specific to the asset. Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
An impairment loss in respect of trade and other receivables is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine 
the recoverable amount.
(p) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recorded at fair value and the subsequently stated at amortised cost. 
(q) Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns and allowances, 
trade discounts, volume rebates and product returns. Revenue represents the invoiced value of goods supplied and is recognised in the 
income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the external customers in line with contractual 
arrangements and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefit associated with the 
transaction will flow to the Group. 
(r) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
(ii) Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest receivable, interest payable, borrowings, interest on pension assets and liabilities, foreign exchange 
gains and losses and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
(s) Income tax expense
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax expense is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that 
it relates to items recognised directly in equity. 
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never 
taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged 
or credited to profit and loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also 
dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related 
dividend is recognised.
(t) Segment reporting
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, 
including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. All operating segments’ operating 
results are reviewed regularly by the Group’s Chief Executive to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess 
its performance and for which discrete financial information is available.
Segment results that are reported to the Group’s Chief Executive include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can 
be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets (primarily the Company’s headquarters), head 
office expenses and income tax assets and liabilities.
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 55
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(t) Segment reporting continued
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the year to acquire property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
excluding goodwill, order book and customer relationships.
(u) New endorsed standards and interpretations not adopted
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2012 
and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected to have significant effect 
on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
(v) Determination of fair values
A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of fair value, for both financial and non-financial 
assets and liabilities. Fair values have been determined for measurement and/or disclosure purposes based on the following methods. 
Where applicable, further information about the assumptions made in determining fair values is disclosed in the notes specific to that 
asset or liability.
Plant and equipment
The fair value of plant and equipment recognised as a result of a business combination is based on market values. The market value 
of items of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings is based on the quoted market prices for similar items.
Intangible assets
The fair value of patents, customer relationships and trademarks acquired in business combinations is based on the discounted cash 
flows expected to be derived from the use or eventual sale of the assets.
Inventory
The fair value of inventory acquired in a business combination is based on its estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less 
the estimated costs of completion and sale and a reasonable profit margin based on the effort required to complete and sell the inventory.
Trade and other receivables and payables
The fair value of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest 
at the reporting date. For receivables and payables with a life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
Share-based payments transactions
The fair value of employee stock options is measured using the Monte Carlo model. The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread 
over the performance period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. The Monte Carlo model takes into 
account the terms and conditions upon which the grants were made.
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price 
and deducting the current spot rate. Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based on 
management’s best estimates and the discount rate is a market related rate for a similar instrument at the balance sheet date. 
Where other pricing models are used, inputs are based on market related data at the balance sheet date.
Cash and cash equivalents
The carrying amount reported in the balance sheet approximates to fair value.
4. Operating segments
The Group has three reportable segments, as described below, which are the Group’s strategic business units. The strategic units offer 
different products. They require different technology and marketing strategies. The Group’s chief operating decision makers review internal 
reports monthly for each business unit at these aggregated levels. The following summary describes the operations in each of the Group’s 
reportable segments.
The Group comprises the following business segments:
•  Signals/Illumination which addresses the increasing demands for energy-efficient lighting solutions through the use of high brightness 
LEDs and utilisation of a number of associated technologies. Areas of business include Transportation, Traffic, Obstruction Lights and 
Solid State Lighting products;
• LED Indication Components whose sales are primarily to electronics OEMs for status indication; and
•  Electromagnetic Components which supplies SMART meter disconnect switches which are used by utility companies to manage 
remotely electrical supply to residential and business premises.
There is no inter-segment revenue.
All revenue relates to the sale of goods. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well 
as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated expenses comprise corporate costs including share-based payments. 
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise an element of cash, borrowings, taxation and pension fund liabilities where it has not been 
possible to allocate to a specific segment.
There are no individual customers representing more than 10% of revenue. 56
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
4. Operating segments continued
Reportable segments
2011
Electromagnetic
Components
£’000
LED
Indication
Components
£’000
Signals/
Illumination
£’000
T otal
£’000
Revenue 13,897 20,796 78,831 113,524
Contribution 2,383 11,570 34,543 48,496
Overhead costs (2,516) (7,013) (20,718) (30,247)
Segment results (133) 4,557 13,825 18,249
Unallocated expenses (3,194)
Non-underlying expense (67)
Operating profit 14,988
Net financing expense (673)
Profit before tax 14,315
Income tax expense (4,724)
Profit from continuing operations 9,591
2010
Electromagnetic
Components
£’000
LED
Indication
Components
£’000
Signals/
Illumination
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue 14,645 23,450 61,088 99,183
Contribution 2,516 12,406 25,753 40,675
Overhead costs (2,443) (6,809) (17,079) (26,331)
Segment results 73 5,597 8,674 14,344
Unallocated expenses (3,161)
Operating profit 11,183
Net financing income 116
Profit before tax 11,299
Income tax expense (3,846)
Profit from continuing operations 7,453
Other information
Electromagnetic
Components
£’000
LED
Indication
Components
£’000
Signals/
Illumination
£’000
2011
T otal
£’000
Capital additions* 217 653 3,220 4,090
Depreciation and amortisation (494) (349) (1,621) (2,464)
Other information
Electromagnetic
Components
£’000
LED
Indication
Components
£’000
Signals/
Illumination
£’000
2010
Total
£’000
Capital additions* 550 459 2,851 3,860
Depreciation and amortisation (395) (627) (2,374) (3,396)
*  Capital additions include property, plant and equipment, development costs, concessions, patents, licences and trademarks.
Not included above are central asset additions of £59,000 (2010: £115,000) and depreciation and amortisation of £33,000 (2010: £15,000) 
not allocated to a segment.
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 57
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
4. Operating segments continued
Reportable segments continued
Balance sheet – assets
Electromagnetic
Components
£’000
LED
Indication
Components
£’000
Signals/
Illumination
£’000
2011
T otal
£’000
Segment assets 6,713 7,509 46,932 61,154
Unallocated assets* 15,074
Consolidated total assets 76,228
Balance sheet – liabilities
Electromagnetic
Components
£’000
LED
Indication
Components
£’000
Signals/
Illumination
£’000
2011
T otal
£’000
Segment liabilities (5,164) (2,656) (10,596) (18,416)
Unallocated liabilities* (3,048)
Consolidated liabilities (21,464)
Balance sheet – assets
Electromagnetic
Components
£’000
LED
Indication
Components
£’000
Signals/
Illumination
£’000
2010
Total
£’000
Segment assets 10,795 8,379 30,011 49,185
Unallocated assets* 11,085
Consolidated total assets 60,270
Balance sheet – liabilities
Electromagnetic
Components
£’000
LED
Indication
Components
£’000
Signals/
Illumination
£’000
2010
Total
£’000
Segment liabilities (3,716) (1,832) (6,276) (11,824)
Unallocated liabilities* (2,277)
Consolidated liabilities (14,101)
*  Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise an element of cash, borrowings, taxation and pension fund liabilities where it has not been possible to allocate 
to a specific segment.
Geographical segments
The Electromagnetic Components, LED Components and Signals/Illumination segments are managed on a worldwide basis, but operate 
in three principal geographic areas: UK, Europe and North America. The following tables provide 1) an analysis of the Group’s sales by 
geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods, and 2) an analysis of total assets and non-current assets by location.
All revenue relates to the sale of goods.
Sales revenue by geographical market
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
North America 77,454 68,156
UK 11,702 10,138
Rest of Europe 13,160 11,161
Rest of World 11,208 9,728
113,524 99,183
Continuing operations
Total assets Non-current assets
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2011
£’000
2010*
£’000
North America 38,692 31,588 6,462 5,125
UK 22,930 18,250 6,035 5,746
Rest of Europe 13,090 10,852 7,911 7,835
Rest of World 1,516 — 679 —
76,228 60,690 21,087 18,706
*  2010 has been restated to exclude deferred tax as per the requirement of IFRS 8. 58
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
5. Non-underlying income/expense
In the first half of 2011, the Group granted a lifetime licence to a third party for the use of a number of our patents. The income from this 
licence of £2,741,000 is included within non-underlying other operating income.
In the second half of 2011, the Group reached agreement to settle a longstanding dispute with a rail signalling customer for which an 
LED signal had been in development since 2007. This dispute was provided in full for £2,808,000 in the first half of 2011 and this amount 
was paid in full in January 2012. The provision is included within non-underlying administrative expenses and non-trade payables at 
31 December 2011.
In the first half of 2011 the Group successfully bought out the US defined benefit pension scheme. The cost of securing these liabilities 
was £2,331,000 and as a result there is a one-off non-underlying financial expense of £704,000 which consists of £459,000 net settlement 
loss (per note 19) and £245,000 of fees and other incidental expenditure.
6. Personnel expenses
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Wages and salaries 17,598 14,123
Social security contributions 1,992 1,657
Equity settled share-based payment transactions 391 312
Deferred bonus share scheme 230 —
Contributions to defined contribution plans 530 741
Total charge for defined benefit plans 32 75
20,773 16,908
The average number of employees by geographical location was:
2011
Number
2010
Number
UK 146 135
US and Mexico 958 822
Rest of World 35 30
1,139 987
In 2011 the Group employed an average of 823 direct staff (2010: 852) and 316 indirect staff (2010: 135).
7. Net financing income/(expense)
Recognised in profit and loss
2011
Underlying
£’000
2011
Non-
underlying
£’000
2011
T otal
£’000
2010
Total
£’000
Interest income on bank deposits 25 — 25 —
Expected return on assets in the defined benefit pension schemes 1,240 — 1,240 1,937
1,265 — 1,265 1,937
Interest expense on financial liabilities (30) — (30) (2)
Settlement costs — (704) (704) —
Interest charge on pension scheme liabilities (1,204) — (1,204) (1,819)
(1,234) (704) (1,938) (1,821)
Net financing income 31 (704) (673) 116
8. Income tax expense
Recognised in the income statement
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Current tax expense
Current year 3,540 3,677
Adjustment for prior years (100) (2)
3,440 3,675
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,492 326
Adjustment for prior years (208) (155)
Income tax expense 4,724 3,846
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 59
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
8. Income tax expense continued
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2011
%
2011
£’000
2010
%
2010
£’000
Profit from continuing operations 9,591 7,453
Total income tax expense 4,724 3,846
Profit excluding income tax 14,315 11,299
Income tax using the UK corporation tax rate 26.5 3,793 28.0 3,164
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 8.2 1,178 8.3 943
Change in tax rate 0.6 90 0.6 65
Non-deductible expenses 0.1 19 0.5 60
Unrecognised losses carried forward 0.5 68 — —
Losses now recognised — — (2.0) (229)
Over provision in prior years (2.1) (308) (1.4) (157)
Research and development credits (0.5) (75) — —
Other (0.3) (41) — —
33.0 4,724 34.0 3,846
The 2011 Budget on 23 March 2011 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 23% over a period of 4 years from 2011. 
The first reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% (effective from 1 April 2011) was substantively enacted on 20 July 2010, 
and further reductions to 26% (effective from 1 April 2011) and 25% (effective from 1 April 2012) were substantively enacted on 29 March 2011 
and 5 July 2011 respectively.
This will reduce the Company’s future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred tax asset at 31 December 2011 has been calculated 
based on the rate of 25% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
It has not been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the announced further 2% rate reduction, although this will further reduce 
the Company’s future current tax charge and reduce the Company’s deferred tax asset accordingly.
During the year the group recognised an additional deferred tax liability of £451,000 in respect of the acquisition of BTI in 2010. 
As a result a deferred tax credit of £107,000 was recognised in the income statement. £43,000 related to 2010 and £64,000 related 
to 2011 (see note 12).
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Share-based payments 1,120 473
9. Profit for the year
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging:
Research and development costs
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Expensed as incurred 3,703 2,522
Amortisation charge 663 1,399
4,366 3,921
Depreciation of fixed assets 1,833 2,012
Amortisation of order book — 17
Amortisation of customer relationships 272 172
Operating leases – property 760 815
Operating leases – other 138 162 60
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
9. Profit for the year continued
Auditor’s remuneration:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Audit of these financial statements 41 39
Amounts receivable by auditors in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 109 102
Other amounts pursuant to legislation 9 9
Other services relating to taxation 108 40
Advisory work in respect of acquisition — 3
Pension and actuarial services:
Pension advisory services in respect of Group pension 30 64
256 218
10. Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings
£’000
Plant
equipment
and vehicles
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2010 5,426 28,280 33,706
Exchange adjustments 28 743 771
Businesses acquired 11 106 117
Additions 2 2,765 2,767
Disposals — (890) (890)
At 31 December 2010 5,467 31,004 36,471
At 1 January 2011 5,467 31,004 36,471
Exchange adjustments (37) 24 (13)
Businesses acquired — 64 64
Additions 52 2,460 2,512
Disposals (110) (1,650) (1,760)
At 31 December 2011 5,372 31,902 37,274
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2010 (2,804) (23,654) (26,458)
Exchange adjustments (53) (608) (661)
Charge for year (154) (1,858) (2,012)
Disposals — 878 878
At 31 December 2010 (3,011) (25,242) (28,253)
At 1 January 2011 (3,011) (25,242) (28,253)
Exchange adjustments 6 6 12
Charge for year (144) (1,689) (1,833)
Disposals 111 1,618 1,729
At 31 December 2011 (3,038) (25,307) (28,345)
Carrying amount at 31 December 2011 2,334 6,595 8,929
At 31 December 2010 2,456 5,762 8,218
At 1 January 2010 2,622 4,626 7,248
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 61
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
11. Intangible assets
Concessions,
patents,
licences and
trademarks
£’000
Goodwill
£’000
Order
book and
customer
relationships
£’000
Development
costs
£’000
Total
£’000
Costs
Balance at 1 January 2010 1,237 6,785 — 5,457 13,479
Additions arising from internal developments — — — 1,208 1,208
Additions acquired through business combinations — 804 1,821 — 2,625
Effects of foreign exchange movement — (343) — 20 (323)
Balance at 31 December 2010 1,237 7,246 1,821 6,685 16,989
Balance at 1 January 2011 1,237 7,246 1,821 6,685 16,989
Additions arising from internal developments 210 — — 1,427 1,637
Additions acquired through business combinations — 769 285 — 1,054
Effects of foreign exchange movement 7 (115) — 75 (33)
Balance at 31 December 2011 1,454 7,900 2,106 8,187 19,647
Amortisation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 January 2010 (1,237) — — (3,653) (4,890)
Amortisation for the period — — (189) (1,399) (1,588)
Effects of foreign exchange movement — — — (23) (23)
Balance at 31 December 2010 (1,237) — (189) (5,075) (6,501)
Balance at 1 January 2011 (1,237) — (189) (5,075) (6,501)
Amortisation for the period — — (272) (664) (936)
Effects of foreign exchange movement — — — (52) (52)
Balance at 31 December 2011 (1,237) — (461) (5,791) (7,489)
Carrying amounts at 31 December 2011 217 7,900 1,645 2,396 12,158
At 31 December 2010 — 7,246 1,632 1,610 10,488
At 1 January 2010 — 6,785 — 1,804 8,589
The amortisation charge for the development costs is reflected in research and development costs shown within cost of sales on the face 
of the income statement. The amortisation charge for concessions, patents, licences and trademarks is shown within administrative expenses 
on the face of the income statement. The amortisation charge for order book and customer relationships is shown within administrative 
expenses on the face of the income statement.
Included within intangibles is customer relationships recognised in connection with the acquisition of BTI in 2010. The carrying amount 
at 31 December 2011 is £1,374,000 (2010: £1,632,000). The remaining amortisation period is 64 months.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business 
combination. The carrying amount of the goodwill had been allocated as follows:
Signals/Illumination segment
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
UK Signals 2,328 2,328
European Traffic 3,999 4,114
European Obstruction 1,255 804
Australian Lighting 113 —
Japanese Lighting 205 —
7,900 7,246
The change in value in the European Traffic goodwill figure is due to foreign currency. The change in value in the European Obstruction 
goodwill figure is explained in Note 12. 62
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
11. Intangible assets continued
The Group tests goodwill (at the CGU level) annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be 
impaired. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in 
use calculations are those regarding the discount rates and growth rates.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of a number of factors that impact 
on the time value of money and any risk specific to the CGU. The rate includes management’s assessment of a normal level of debt 
to equity ratio within similar companies in its sector. 
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period. 
Management have arrived at the five-year plan based upon certain assumptions derived from research carried out by external consultants 
who specialise in areas of the Group’s business and their knowledge of the business. Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated 
using an estimated growth rate of 1%.
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions
Impairment testing is dependent on management’s estimates and judgements, particularly as they relate to the forecasting of future 
cash flows, the discount rates selected, and expected long-term growth rates.
Any adverse change in these assumption could reduce the recoverable amount below carrying amount.
The pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash flow for the CGU’s range from 8.0% to 10.4% (2010: 12.2% to 13.5%). The Group has 
conducted a sensitivity analysis increasing the discount rate by 5%. Even at this level no impairment would be required to be recorded.
The growth rates management has applied in the value in use calculations for each of the CGUs over the five year period vary due to the 
nature of the products, industries and countries in which the CGU operates. The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis significantly 
reducing the growth rates. Even at this level no impairment would be required to be recorded.
Changes in selling price and direct costs are based upon past results and expectations of future changes in the market. Although cost 
reduction is key to the Signals/Illuminations business, management has assumed in the forecasts used to calculate the carrying value 
of the CGUs that the contribution remains flat.
The Directors do not believe that a significant change to the assumptions is probable. Each of the Group’s CGU’s had significant 
headroom under the annual impairment review.
12. Acquisition of subsidiary
On 4 January 2011, the Group acquired 75% of the issued share capital of Lightday Investment Pty Ltd trading as Industrial Lighting Solutions 
(“Lightday”), an Australian company and distributor of ultra efficient lighting products. Lightday was acquired from its management for 
a consideration of AUD$300,000 (£192,000) which was payable in cash.
The acquisition will serve the large industrial/hazardous/mining sector in Australia and further supports the Group’s thrust into the 
industrial and hazardous lighting market with its ultra efficient lighting products.
Lightday contributed £1,509,000 to revenue and a loss of £179,000 to profit before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and 
the balance sheet date. The costs incurred of £8,000, in making the acquisition have been expensed as required under the revised standard.
On July 2011, the Group’s newly established wholly owned subsidiary Dialight Japan, acquired the assets and contracts of I-Spec Limited, 
its Japanese distributor. The cash consideration paid at the date of acquisition was USD $350,000 (£222,000) which was $280,000 (£178,000) 
payable in cash and $70,000 (£44,000) payable as deferred consideration. Dialight Japan was set up in June 2011. Part of the consideration 
paid for the assets and contacts of I-Spec Limited was 25% of the share capital in Dialight Japan, that was transferred to the sellers of 
I-Spec Limited on 1 July 2011. The 25% was valued at cost and deemed part of the acquisition of I-Spec and it has been treated as Goodwill.
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 63
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
12. Acquisition of subsidiary continued
Dialight Japan contributed £256,000 to revenue and a loss of £274,000 to profit before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and the 
balance sheet date. The costs incurred of £38,000, in making the acquisition have been expensed as required under the revised standard.
The acquisition will serve the large industrial and hazardous lighting sector in Japan and further supports the Group’s thrust into 
the industrial and hazardous lighting market with its ultra efficient lighting products.
If the acquisition of I-Spec Limited through Dialight Japan KK had occurred on 1 January 2011, management estimates that consolidated 
revenue would have been £13.9 million and the Group profit before tax for the year would have been £14.1 million.
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value
Note
31 December
2011
£000
Property, plant and equipment 10 64
Intangible assets – customer relationships 11 285
Current assets 229
Current liabilities (257)
Deferred tax 13 (86)
Net assets acquired 235
Goodwill 11 318
Non-controlling interest, based on their proportionate interest in the recognised  
amounts of the assets and liabilities of the acquired companies (139)
Total consideration 414
Satisfied by:
Cash and cash equivalents 370
Deferred consideration 44
414
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 370
Cash and cash equivalents acquired 57
427
The goodwill of £318,000 arising from the acquisitions represents the workforce and sales teams in the Australian and Japanese markets 
respectively for Dialight products. 
The current assets includes trade receivables of £153,000. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
There were pre-existing relationships between both acquired companies and the Group. These were routine supply relationships and 
as the terms of the trading agreement remain unchanged, no consideration has been allocated to these relationships. The terms of the 
relationships were normal market terms at the date of the acquisition and this was an on-market relationship that was settled for nil gain 
or loss. 
Prior year acquisitions
On 28 April 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of BTI Light Systems A/S (“BTI”), a Danish company offering 
signalling and safety equipment for the wind, marine and airport industries. 64
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
12. Acquisition of subsidiary continued
Prior year acquisitions continued
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value
Note
31 December
2010
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 10 117
Intangible assets – customer relationships 11 1,804
Intangible assets – order book 11 17
Deferred tax 13 66
Inventories 614
Trade and other receivables 877
Cash and cash equivalents 72
Trade and other payables (918)
Tax liabilities (205)
Net assets acquired 2,444
Goodwill 11 804
Total consideration 3,248
Satisfied by:
Fair value of shares issued 909
Cash and cash equivalents 2,146
Deferred consideration 193
3,248
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 2,146
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (72)
2,074
The above fair values were amended during the year as shown in the table below.
During the year the fair value relating to BTI was amended.
The Directors do not consider the amendments to be material to the Group, consequently the priors year comparatives have not been 
restated as would otherwise be required by IAS 8 “Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors”.
At date of
acquisition
(28 April 2010)
£’000
As at 1
January
2011
£’000
As at 31
December
 2011
£’000
Balance sheet
Intangible assets
    Increase in goodwill 451 451 451
    Increase in deferred tax liability (451) (408) (344)
— 43 107
Income statement
    Taxation — (43) (64)
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 65
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
13. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Property, plant and equipment — — (818) (379) (818) (379)
Intangible assets — — (1,314) (548) (1,314) (548)
Employee benefits 1,095 1,364 — — 1,095 1,364
Provisions 1,714 1,638 — — 1,714 1,638
Other items 1,273 1,087 — — 1,273 1,087
Tax assets/(liabilities) 4,082 4,089 (2,132) (927) 1,950 3,162
Set off of tax (2,132) (927) 2,132 927 — —
Net tax assets 1,950 3,162 — — 1,950 3,162
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses anticipated to be available.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred taxation liabilities have 
not been recognised is £nil (2010: £nil). 
Movement in temporary differences during the year
Property,
plant
and
equipment
£’000
Intangible
assets
£’000
Employee
benefits
£’000
Provisions
£’000
Other
short-term
timing
differences
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2010 (234) (565) 447 1,433 833 1,914
Recognised in income (141) 8 (226) 134 54 (171)
Exchange (2) 13 39 (1) (1) 48
On acquisition (2) (4) — 72 — 66
Recognised in equity — — 1,104 — 201 1,305
Balance at 31 December 2010 (379) (548) 1,364 1,638 1,087 3,162
Balance at 1 January 2011 (379) (548) 1,364 1,638 1,087 3,162
Recognised in income (437) (219) (883) 42 213 (1,284)
Exchange (2) (10) (55) 34 — (33)
In respect of prior year acquisitions* — (451) — — — (451)
On acquisition — (86) — — — (86)
Recognised in equity — — 669 — (27) 642
Balance at 31 December 2011 (818) (1,314) 1,095 1,714 1,273 1,950
*  During the year the fair value relating to ‘BTI’ was amended, see note 12.
14. Inventories
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Raw materials and consumables 9,712 6,372
Work in progress 580 1,702
Finished goods 5,550 1,113
15,842 9,187
Inventories to the value of £55,525,000 (2010: £50,484,000) were recognised as expenses in the year. Included within this figure was the 
reversal of inventory provisions to net realisable value of £499,000 (2010: write-down of inventory to net realisable value of £413,000). 66
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
15. Trade and other receivables
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Trade receivables 21,507 17,855
Other non-trade receivables 265 251
Prepayments and accrued income 1,074 750
22,846 18,856
The Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 22.
16. Cash and cash equivalents
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 13,700 10,359
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 22.
17. Capital and reserves
Share capital
2011
Number
2011
£’000
2010
Number
2010
£’000
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each 31,800,231 601 31,600,231 597
During the year, 200,000 shares were issued (0.63% of the total ordinary share capital issued) at par. The ordinary shares issued have the 
same rights as the other shares in issue.
Issued share capital
Ordinary shares
2011
Number
2010
Number
In issue at 1 January 31,600,231 31,239,501
Shares issued 200,000 360,730
Issued and fully paid at 31 December 31,800,231 31,600,231
Merger reserve
On acquiring Lumidrives Limited in 2006 the Company issued ordinary shares as part of the consideration. Merger relief was taken 
in accordance with Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 and hence £546,000 was credited to the merger reserve.
On acquiring BTI in 2010 the Company issued ordinary shares as part of the consideration. Merger relief was taken in accordance 
with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 and hence £903,000 was credited to the merger reserve.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences from 1 January 2004 arising from the translation of the financial 
statements of foreign operations for the Company.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve comprises the nominal value of “B” preference shares redeemed since the capital reorganisation in 2005.
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there 
are no income tax consequences for the Company.
Final proposed dividend
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
6.7 pence per ordinary share (2010: 5.2 pence) 2,131 1,643
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 67
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
17. Capital and reserves continued
Dividends continued
During the year the following dividends were paid:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Final – 5.2 pence (2010 second interim: 4.3 pence) per ordinary share 1,643 1,343
Interim – 3.3 pence (2010: 2.8 pence) per ordinary share 1,050 885
Less: dividends on shares held in trust (10) —
2,683 2,228
Final dividend – 5.2 pence on shares awarded under the PSP not yet vested 38 —
Interim dividend – 3.3 pence on shares awarded under the PSP not yet vested 24 —
Dividends accrued on shares awarded under the PSP but not yet vested 38 —
Dividends paid on shares awarded under the PSP vested during the period 15 —
Total (amount shown in the statement of changes in equity) 2,798 2,228
18. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share at 31 December 2011 was based on the profit for the year of £9,591,000 (2010: £7,453,000) and 
a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 31 December 2011 of 31,672,355 (2010: 31,286,691).
Diluted earnings per share
The calculation of diluted earnings per share at 31 December 2011 was based on profit for the year of £9,591,000 (2010: £7,453,000) and 
a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 31 December 2011 of 32,484,865 (2010: 32,081,365) 
calculated as follows:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted)
2011
’000
2010
’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 31,672 31,287
Effect of share options on issue 813 794
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 32,485 32,081
Underlying earnings per share are highlighted below as the Directors consider that this measurement of earnings gives valuable 
information on the performance of the Group.
2011
£’000
T otal
2010
£’000
Total
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (basic and diluted) 9,591 7,453
Earnings per share
Basic earnings 30.3p 23.8p
Non-underlying items (1.4)p —
Underlying earnings 31.7p 23.8p
Diluted earnings 29.5p 23.2p
Non-underlying earnings (1.4)p —
Underlying diluted earnings 30.9p 23.2p
19. Employee benefits
Defined benefit pension obligations
The Group makes contributions to two defined benefit plans to provide benefits for employees upon retirement. All plans are closed 
to new members. 68
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
19. Employee benefits continued
Defined benefit pension obligations continued
In the first half of 2011 the Group successfully bought out the US defined benefit pension scheme. The cost of securing these liabilities was 
£2,331,000 and as a result there is a one-off non-underlying financial expense of £704,000 which consists of £459,000 net settlement loss 
(per note 19) and £245,000 of fees and other incidental expenditure.
During the year the Board deemed it was more appropriate to represent the 2010 consolidated statement of financial position for the two 
UK pension schemes which were in surplus within non-current assets rather than netted off the US pension scheme which was in deficit.
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
UK
schemes
US
scheme T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Present value of liabilities 20,273 — 20,273 19,997 14,525 34,522
Fair value of plan assets (21,076) — (21,076) (20,417) (12,664) (33,081)
Recognised (assets)/liability for defined benefit obligations (803) — (803) (420) 1,861 1,441
Plan assets consist of the following:
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
UK
schemes
US
scheme T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Equities 7,638 — 7,638 8,030 — 8,030
Bonds 9,057 — 9,057 8,236 — 8,236
Cash 4,381 — 4,381 4,151 12,664 16,815
21,076 — 21,076 20,417 12,664 33,081
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
UK
schemes
US
scheme T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Defined benefit obligations at 1 January 19,997 14,525 34,522 18,434 13,229 31,663
Current service cost 32 — 32 75 — 75
Employee element of service cost 10 — 10 18 — 18
Interest cost 1,075 129 1,204 1,044 775 1,819
Benefits paid (972) — (972) (856) (1,022) —
Liabilities extinguished — (14,697) (14,697) — — —
Actuarial losses 131 1 132 1,282 1,066 2,348
Settlement cost — 459 459 — — —
Currency (gains)/losses — (417) (417) — 477 477
Defined benefit obligations at 31 December 20,273 — 20,273 19,997 14,525 34,522
Movements in fair value of plan assets
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
UK
schemes
US
scheme T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 20,417 12,664 33,081 19,302 11,413 30,715
Expected return on scheme assets 1,054 186 1,240 970 967 1,937
Employer contributions 489 2,331 2,820 266 1,077 1,343
Member contributions 10 — 10 18 — 18
Benefits paid (972) — (972) (856) (1,022) (1,878)
Assets distributed — (14,697) (14,697) — — —
Actuarial gains/(losses) 78 (134) (56) 717 (179) 538
Currency (losses)/gains — (350) (350) — 408 408
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 21,076 — 21,076 20,417 12,664 33,081
(Surplus)/deficit (803) — (803) (420) 1,861 1,441
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 69
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
19. Employee benefits continued
Expense recognised in the income statement
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
UK
schemes
US
scheme T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Current service costs 32 — 32 75 — 75
Settlement cost — 459 459 — — —
Interest on obligation 1,075 129 1,204 1,044 775 1,819
Expected return on plan assets (1,054) (186) (1,240) (970) (967) (1,937)
53 402 455 149 (192) (43)
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
UK
schemes
US
scheme T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Cost of sales — — — 41 — 41
Distribution costs — — — 8 — 8
Administrative expenses 32 — 32 26 — 26
Net financing (income)/expense 21 402 423 74 (192) (118)
53 402 455 149 (192) (43)
Expense recognised in other comprehensive income
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
2010
£’000
UK
schemes
US
scheme T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan assets 78 (134) (56) 717 (179) 538
Change in assumptions in respect of liabilities (739) — (739) (447) (1,090) (1,537)
Experience gains/(losses) on liabilities 608 (1) 607 (835) 24 (811)
Net actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income (53) (135) (188) (565) (1,245) (1,810)
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income — — (6,139) — — (5,951)
Historical information
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
2008
£’000
2007
£’000
Defined benefit obligation (20,273) (34,522) (31,663) (32,473) (32,417) 
Scheme assets 21,076 33,081 30,715 28,004 31,190
Surplus/(deficit) 803 (1,441) (948) (4,469) (1,227) 
Actuarial (losses)/gains on liabilities (132) (2,348) (782) 3,788 (405)
Experience (loss)/gain on assets (56) 538 2,626 (7,195) 67
Experience gain/(loss) on currency 54 (69) 371 (1,066) 23
Liability for defined benefit obligations
The principal assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are:
UK schemes (% per annum) US scheme (% per annum)
2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009
Discount rate at 31 December 4.70 5.50 5.70 n/a 5.00 5.75
Future salary increases n/a 3.00 4.25 n/a n/a n/a
Future pension increases 3.00 3.65 3.65 n/a n/a n/a
Inflation – RPI 3.00 3.70 3.75 n/a n/a n/a
Inflation – CPI 2.20 3.00 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Deferred revaluation 2.20 3.00 3.75 n/a n/a n/a 70
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
19. Employee benefits continued
Liability for defined benefit obligations continued
The expected long-term rates of return were:
UK schemes (% per annum) US scheme (% per annum)
2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009
Equities 6.50 6.50 6.50 n/a n/a 8.65
Bonds 3.00 4.20 4.50 n/a n/a 4.80
Cash 3.00 4.20 3.75 n/a 1.00 2.15
Expense recognised in the income statement
For its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 31 December 2011, used SAPS 
mortality tables based on year of birth (as is published by the Institute of Actuaries). The UK mortality tables are based on the latest 
mortality investigations and reflect an industry-wide recognition that life expectations have improved. The average life expectancy of 
an individual currently aged 45 years and retiring at age 65 years is 24.10 years for males and 26.5 years for females. For individuals 
currently aged 65 years the average life expectancy is 22.2 years for males and 24.6 years for females.
The expected long-term rate of return for investments is based on the portfolio as a whole and not on individual asset categories. 
The return is based exclusively on historical returns, without adjustments which are crossed checked against market expectations 
from external sources. 
The Group expects that contributions to the UK defined benefit plans in 2011 will be at a similar level to contributions paid in 2010.
Share-based payments
PSP
In September 2005 the shareholders approved the PSP .
During the year an award under the PSP was made to the Executive Directors and senior managers, details of which are set out below:
Date of award
Number
of awards
at the
beginning
of year
Number
of awards
granted
during
the year
Number
of awards
vested
during
the year
Number
of awards
forfeited
during
the year
Number
of awards
at the
year end
Fair value
pence per
share
Vesting
period
Maturity
date
April 2008 292,835 — (292,835) — — 97 3 years April 2011
April 2009 347,955 — — (5,464) 342,491 56 3 years April 2012
April 2010 235,681 — — (26,688) 208,993 186 3 years May 2013
September 2010 37,822 — — — 37,822 322 3 years Sept 2013
February 2011 — 146,600 — (6,522) 140,078 411 3 years Feb 2014
914,293 146,600 (292,835) (38,674) 729,384
Further details of the PSP are included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 38 to 41.
The fair value of the awards made is measured using the Monte Carlo model with the following inputs:
February
2011
award
September
2010
award
May
2010
award
April
2009
award
Share price £6.24 £4.01 £2.79 £1.17
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil £nil
Expected volatility 40% 42% 41% 40%
Award life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Correlation
Dialight and the FTSE SmallCap Index 29% 30% 33% 18%
FTSE SmallCap Index and the FTSE All Share 
Electronic/Electrical Equipment Index 86% 87% 86% 77%
The employee expense in 2011 is £391,000 (2010: £312,000) (see note 6).
20. Provisions
Warranty
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2011 1,156
Effects of foreign exchange movement (2)
Provisions made during the year 359
Provisions used during the year (594)
Balance at 31 December 2011 919
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 71
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
20. Provisions continued
Warranty
2011
£’000
Warranty
2010
£’000
Due within one year 434 694
Due between one and five years 485 462
919 1,156
The provision is based on estimates made from historical warranty data associated with similar products.
21. Trade and other payables
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Trade payables 11,424 6,640
Other taxes and social security 339 245
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 7,373 4,380
19,136 11,265
The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 22.
22. Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk from its use of financial instruments.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for measuring and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. 
The Group’s risk policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, 
and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and 
reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
Credit risk
Trade and other receivables
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations by not paying the receivables due.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
Operationally the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Each new customer 
is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. 
The Group’s review includes external ratings when available and in some cases bank references. Purchase limits are set for customers. 
Customers that do not meet the benchmark creditworthiness may transact with the Group only on a pre-payment basis.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade 
and other receivables.
Exposure to credit risk
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
Gross
2011
£’000
Impairment
2011
£’000
Gross
2010
£’000
Impairment
2010
£’000
Not past due 17,365 — 11,431 —
Past due 0–30 days 3,145 145 4,922 204
Past due 31–120 days 942 39 1,674 48
Past due 121–365 days 185 12 101 24
More than one year 105 39 96 93
Total 21,742 235 18,224 369 72
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
22. Financial risk management continued
Credit risk continued
Exposure to credit risk continued
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2011 369
Utilisation of provision (11)
Provision released (123)
Balance at 31 December 2011 235
The allowance accounts in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery 
of the amount owing is possible; at that point the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the financial asset directly.
Other non-trade receivables of £265,000 (2010: £251,000) are not past due and have no impairment.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates which affect the Group’s income. 
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising 
the return.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to manage exposure to interest rate risk setting a proportion of any borrowings to a fixed rate basis. Historically 
interest rate swaps have been considered and entered into. Currently the Group has no borrowings.
Foreign currency risk
Exposure to currency risk arises in the normal course of the Group’s business.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than each subsidiaries 
functional currency. The currencies giving rise to risk are primarily Euro and US Dollars.
The Group uses natural hedging within the Group to hedge the majority of its foreign currency risk. Natural hedging is the mechanism 
whereby the cash inflows in a particular currency are matched to the cash outflows in that currency at the same business or different 
group company. 
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than UK Sterling, the Group ensures that the net exposure 
is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address short-term imbalances.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:
2011
$’000
2011
€’000
2010
$’000
2010
€’000
Trade receivables 4,945 425 4,758 559
Currency cash 2,337 1,205 1,044 596
Trade payables (5,688) (604) (3,874) (44)
Gross balance sheet exposure 1,594 1,026 1,928 1,111
Estimated forecast sales 16,554 4,620 25,569 7,546
Estimated forecast purchases (21,957) (4,094) (24,403) (820)
Gross exposure (3,809) 1,552 3,094 7,837
Forward exchange contracts — — — —
Net exposure (3,809) 1,552 3,094 7,837
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
2011
Average
rate
2011
At reporting
date
2010
Average
rate
2010
At reporting
date
US Dollar 1.61 1.55 1.53 1.56
Euro 1.15 1.20 1.17 1.16
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled 
by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always 
have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions without incurring unacceptable losses 
or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 73
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
22. Financial risk management continued
Liquidity risk continued
Exposure to liquidity risk
For non-derivative financial liabilities the Group’s exposure relates principally to trade and other payables.
Trade and other payables arise in the normal course of business and there are no unusual or onerous terms and conditions.
The following are contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding the impact 
of netting agreements:
31 December 2011
£’000
Carrying
amount
Contractual
cash flow
2 months or
less
2–12
months 1–2 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 19,136 (19,136) (17,876) (1,260) —
19,136 (19,136) (17,876) (1,260) —
31 December 2010
£’000
Carrying
amount
Contractual
cash flows
2 months or
less
2–12
months 1–2 years
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 11,265 (11,265) (10,503) (762) —
11,265 (11,265) (10,503) (762) —
Capital management 
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Board considers consolidated total equity as capital. As at 31 December 2011 this totaled £54,764,000 
(2010: £46,169,000).
Our target is to generate a return on capital in excess of 25% excluding cash holdings. In 2011 the return was 36.5% (2010: 31.0%). 
In addition, the target in respect of EPS is 15% growth per annum. In 2011 underlying EPS growth was 33.2% (2010: 36.0%).
In respect of dividend, the Board was progressive dividend policy and aims for three times cover. The result for 2011 was 3.03x 
(2010: 2.98x).
The Board monitors TSR compared to FTSE SmallCap Index and FTSE Electronics/Electrical Index to ensure that Dialight’s performance 
is in line with peer companies.
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year.
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. 
Over the longer term, however, permanent changes, in particular in foreign exchange rates, would have an impact on equity value 
and consolidation earnings.
At 31 December 2011 it is estimated that a general increase of 1% in the value of the Euro and US Dollar against UK Sterling would have 
reduced the Group’s profit before tax by approximately £169,000 for the year ended 31 December 2011 (2010: £112,000), and would 
have reduced the Group’s equity by approximately £76,000 for the year ended 31 December 2011 (2010: £46,000).
Fair values versus carrying amounts
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
Carrying
amount
2011
£’000
Fair value
2011
£’000
Carrying
amount
2010
£’000
Fair value
2010
£’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 13,700 13,700 10,359 10,359
Loans and receivables
Trade and other receivables 22,846 22,846 18,856 18,856
Total financial assets 36,546 36,546 29,215 29,215
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Trade and other payables (19,136) (19,136) (11,265) (11,265)
Provisions (919) (919) (1,156) (1,156)
Total financial liabilities (20,055) (20,055) (12,421) (12,421)
Net financial assets 16,491 16,491 16,794 16,794
Details of the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table are set out 
in note 3(v). 74
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
23. Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Less than one year 819 835
Between one and five years 1,644 1,985
More than five years 1,537 1,848
4,000 4,668
Of the £4,000,000 (2010: £4,668,000), £3,841,000 (2010: £4,506,000) relates to property and the balance to plant and equipment.
The Group has no off balance sheet arrangements that need to be disclosed as within the context of Section 410A of the Companies Act 2006.
24. Capital commitments
Capital commitments at 31 December for which no provision has been made in the accounts were:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Contracted 379 499
25. Contingencies
During the year the Roxboro UK Pension Fund (“Scheme”) was closed to future accrual. As part of the negotiations regarding closure, 
the Company agreed to grant a parent company guarantee in respect of all present and future obligations and liabilities (whether actual 
or contingent and whether owed jointly or severally and in any capacity whatsoever) of Dialight Europe Limited, the principal employer, 
to make payments in the Scheme up to a maximum amount equal to the entire aggregate liability, on the date on which any liability under 
the Guarantee arises, of every employer (within the meaning set out in Section 318 of the Pensions Act 2004 and regulations made thereunder) 
in relation to the Scheme, were a debt under Section 75(2) of the Pensions Act 1995 to have become due on that date.
26. Related parties
The ultimate controlling party of the Group is Dialight plc. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated 
on consolidation. Intra-group transactions are priced on arm’s length basis.
Transactions with key management personnel
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 5.26% of the Company.
Details of the remuneration for the Company Directors are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 38 to 41.
The main Board Directors are considered to be the Group’s key management personnel. The IFRS 2 charge in respect of Key employees 
was £241,000 (2010: £179,000).
27. Significant subsidiaries
Country of incorporation
Percentage
owned Principal activity
Dialight Corporation* USA 
100%
Manufacture and sale of indicators and Signals/
Illumination products
Dialight Garufo GmbH* Germany 100% Manufacture and sale of Signals/Illumination products
Dialight Europe Limited England and Wales 100% Manufacture and sale of electromagnetic components
and manufacture of Signals products
Dialight Lumidrives Limited England and Wales 100% Dormant company
Belling Lee Limited England and Wales 100% Dormant company
(formerly Dialight BLP Limited)
Dialight BTI A/S Denmark 100% Manufacture and sale of Signals/Illumination products
Dialight ILS Australia Pty Limited* Australia 75% Sale of Signals/Illumination products
Dialight Japan KK* Japan 75% Sale of Signals/Illumination products
All of these are included within the consolidation. Those marked with an * are indirectly held.
28. Post balance sheet events
On 9 January 2012, following a strategic review the Group announced that the Board decided to investigate the potential for selling 
the Electromagnetic Components business. 
For information in 2011, the business contributed £10.7 million of sales, contribution of £1.6 million and net profit of £0.4 million. 
Net assets are £1.0 million.
The Board has considered the requirements of IFRS 5 but as they were not committed to a programme to sell the business at 
31 December 2011, it was deemed not to meet the criteria and hence has not been classified as held for sale or presented as 
a discontinued operation.
Financials
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 75
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
Note
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 32 134 106
Investments 33 16,508 16,200
Debtors 34 24,625 22,437
41,267 16,306
Current assets
Debtors 34 14,947 11,527
Cash at bank and in hand — 2,377
14,947 13,904
Creditors
Amounts falling due within one year
Other creditors 35 (4,694) (4,961)
Cash at bank and in hand (193) —
Current liabilities (4,887) (4,961)
Net current assets 10,060 8,943
Total assets less current liabilities 51,327 47,686
Net assets excluding pension fund liability 51,327 47,686
Pension fund asset/(liability) 39 13 (6)
Net assets including pension fund liability 51,340 47,680
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 37, 38 601 597
Capital redemption reserve 38 2,232 2,232
Other reserve 38 1,049 741
Profit and loss account 38 47,458 44,110
Equity shareholder funds 51,340 47,680
The accompanying notes form part of the financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roy Burton   Mark Fryer
Group Chief Executive  Group Finance Director
Financials
Company balance sheet (prepared under UK GAAP) at 31 December 2011 76
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
29. Accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared under historic cost accounting rules and in accordance with UK GAAP .
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the 
financial statements.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
No STRGL is required under UK GAAP as it is treated as related to the profit and loss account. Actuarial movements and related deferred 
tax will therefore only appear in the reserves note.
The Company is exempt from the requirement of FRS1 “Cash Flow Statements” to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the 
Company is consolidated in the Group consolidated financial statements.
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost, less estimated net realisable value, of tangible fixed assets on a straight-line basis 
over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The principal annual rates used for this purpose are:
Office equipment    between 10% and 20%
Computer equipment    between 20% and 33.3%
Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings   between 10% and 20%
Motor vehicles    between 25% and 33.3%
Leased assets
The costs of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction 
is covered by a forward exchange contract. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate 
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or if appropriate at the forward contract rate.
Taxation
Deferred taxation is recognised without discounting in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation 
and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost, less provisions for impairment in value. Where the consideration for the 
acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking includes shares in the Company to which the provisions of Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 
apply, the cost represents the nominal value of shares issued together with the fair value of any additional consideration given and costs.
Pension contributions
The Company operates both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. The assets of all the arrangements are held separately from 
the assets of the Company in independently administered funds. The amount charged against profits in respect of defined contribution 
arrangements are the contributions payable to those arrangements in the accounting period.
For the defined benefit arrangements the assets are measured at market values. The liabilities are measured using the projected unit 
method, discounting at the current rate of return of a high quality corporate bond of the appropriate term and currency to the liability, 
as required under FRS 17.
The defined benefit scheme surplus or deficit is recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
The movement in the deficit is split between operating charges, financing items and actuarial gains and losses in the statement 
of recognised gains and losses.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately 
recognised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed 
in the notes to the financial statements.
Share-based payments
The PSP allows employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of awards granted is recognised as an employee expense 
with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees 
become unconditionally entitled to receive the awards. The fair value of the awards granted is measured using a pricing model, taking into 
account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the 
actual number of share awards that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Where the Company grants awards over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognised an increase in the cost 
of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s financial 
statements with the corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
Financials
Notes to the Company financial statements 77
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
30. Staff costs
Staff costs during the year were:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Wages and salaries 926 612
Social security costs 124 65
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 83 47
Deferred bonus share scheme 230 —
Pension costs 55 76
1,418 800
The average number of employees (including Executive Directors) employed during the year was:
2011
Number
2010
Number
UK 4 4
Details for each Director of remuneration, pension entitlements and interests in share options are set out in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 38 to 41.
31. Fixed assets
Plant
equipment
and vehicles
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2011 130
Additions 59
At 31 December 2011 189
Depreciation
At 1 January 2011 (24)
Charge for the year (31)
At 31 December 2011 (55)
Net book value at 31 December 2011 134
Net book value at 31 December 2010 106
32. Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings:
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2011 20,988
Share-based payment 308
At 31 December 2011 21,296
Provisions
At 1 January 2011 (4,788)
Profit and loss account —
At 31 December 2011 (4,788)
Net book value at 31 December 2011 16,508
Net book value at 31 December 2010 16,200
In accordance with UITF 41 “Scope of FRS 20 (IFRS 2)” the cost of investment is increased to reflect the cost of share options awarded 
to employees of the Company’s subsidiaries. 78
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
32. Investments continued
Name
Percentage
owned Country of incorporation and operation
Dialight Corporation* 100% United States of America
Dialight Europe Limited 100% England and Wales
Dialight Garufo GmbH* 100% Germany
Dialight Lumidrives Limited 100% England and Wales
Belling Lee Limited (formerly Dialight BLP Limited) 100% England and Wales
Dialight BTI A/S 100% Denmark
Dialight ILS Australia Pty Limited* 75% Australia
Dialight Japan KK* 75% Japan
The investment is held directly by the Company except for those companies where indicated by *.
33. Debtors
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 39,140 33,052
Other debtors 216 131
Deferred tax asset (note 35) 216 781
39,572 33,964
Less non-current portion: amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings (24,625) (22,437)
Current portion 14,947 11,527
34. Creditors
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year:
Other taxes and social security costs 35 14
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3,757 3,445
Corporation tax payable 158 —
Accruals and deferred income 744 1,502
4,694 4,961
35. Deferred tax asset
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
At 1 January 783 112
Prior year adjustment (91) —
Profit and loss account (624) 649
Recognised in equity 144 22
At 31 December 212 783
An analysis of deferred tax is as follows:
Capital allowances 31 30
Short-term timing differences 185 751
Debtors (see note 33) 216 781
Pension liability (see note 38) (4) 2
212 783
Financials
Notes to the Company financial statements continued 79
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
36. Called up share capital
2011
Number
2011
£’000
2010
Number
2010
£’000
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each 31,800,231 601 31,600,231 597
Shares classified as liabilities — —
Shares classified in shareholder funds 601 597
601 597
During the year, 200,000 shares were issued (0.63% of the total ordinary share capital issued) at par. The ordinary shares issued have the 
same rights as the other shares in issue.
Share-based payments
PSP
In September 2005 the shareholders approved the PSP .
During the year an award under the PSP was made to the Executive Directors and senior managers, details of which are set out below:
Date of award
Number
of awards
at the
beginning
of year
Number
of awards
granted
during
the year
Number
of awards
released
during
the year
Number
of awards
forfeited
during
the year
Number
of awards
at the
year end
Fair value
pence per
share
Vesting
period
Maturity
date
April 2008 292,835 — (292,835) — — 97 3 years April 2011
April 2009 347,955 — — (5,464) 342,491 56 3 years April 2012
April 2010 235,681 — — (26,688) 208,993 186 3 years May 2013
September 2010 37,822 — — — 37,822 322 3 years Sept 2013
February 2011 — 146,600 — (6,522) 140,078 411 3 years Feb 2014
914,293 146,600 (292,835) (38,674) 729,384
Further details of the PSP are included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 37 to 41.
The fair value of the awards made is measured using the Monte Carlo model with the following inputs:
February
2011
award
September
2010
award
May
2010
award
April
2009
award
Share price £6.24 £4.01 £2.79 £1.17
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil £nil
Expected volatility 40% 42% 41% 40%
Award life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Correlation
Dialight and the FTSE Smallcap Index 29% 30% 33% 18%
FTSE Smallcap Index and the FTSE All Share 
Electronic/Electrical Equipment Index 86% 87% 86% 77%
37. Capital and reserves
Share
capital
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Other
reserve 
capital
contribution
£’000
Profit
and loss
account
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2011 597 2,232 741 44,110 47,680
Own shares issued 4 — — (4) —
Net expense recognised in equity — — — (66) (66)
Profit for the year — — — 5,768 5,768
Dividends to shareholders — — — (2,683) (2,683)
Dividends on shares awarded under the PSP — — — (115) (115)
Dividends returned from shareholders — — — 2 2
Share-based payments — — 308 216 524
Deferred bonus share scheme — — — 230 230
At 31 December 2011 601 2,232 1,049 47,458 51,340
At 31 December 2011 the number of shares held by the Group through the ESOT was 39,216 (2010: 159,621). The market value of these 
shares at 31 December 2011 was £274,120 (2010: £820,452). 80
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
37. Capital and reserves continued
The capital contribution reserve is non-distributable and arises from the accounting for share-based payments (see note 37).
The profit for the year was £5,768,000 (2010: £27,441,000). Net expenses recognised directly in equity relate to the net actuarial 
gain (net of deferred tax) arising in respect of the pension scheme.
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Profit and loss reserve excluding pension liability 47,445 44,116
Pension reserve 13 (6)
Profit and loss reserve 47,458 44,110
Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Profit for the year 5,768 27,441
Own shares issued — —
Shares issued on acquisition — 6
Other gains and losses (66) 26
Dividends paid (2,683) (2,228)
Dividends on shares awarded under the PSP (115) —
Dividends returned 2 6
Share-based payments (net of tax) 524 351
Deferred bonus share scheme 230 —
Net addition to shareholder funds 3,660 25,602
Opening shareholder funds 47,680 22,078
Closing shareholder funds 51,340 47,680
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there 
are no income tax consequences for the Company.
Final proposed dividend
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
6.7 pence per ordinary share (2010: 5.2 pence) 2,131 1,643
During the year the following dividends were paid:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Final – 5.2 pence (2010 Second Interim: 4.3 pence) per ordinary share 1,643 1,343
Interim – 3.3 pence (2010: 2.8 pence) per ordinary share 1,050 885
Less: dividends on shares held in trust (10) —
2,683 2,228
Final Dividend – 5.2 pence on shares award under the PSP not yet vested 38 —
Interim Dividend – 3.3 pence on shares award under the PSP not yet vested 24 —
Dividends accrued on shares awarded under the PSP but not yet vested 38 —
Dividends paid on shares awarded under the PSP vested during the period 15 —
Total (amount shown in the statement of changes in equity) 2,798 2,228
Financials
Notes to the Company financial statements continued 81
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
38. Pensions
The Company operates both a defined benefit executive scheme and defined contribution plan. The assets of the schemes are held 
separately from those of the Company. The defined benefit plan is closed to new members.
Recognised asset for defined benefit obligations
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Present value of liabilities (1,578) (1,483)
Fair value of plan assets 1,595 1,475
Recognised asset/(liability) for defined benefit obligations 17 (8)
Deferred tax (see note 35) (4) 2
Pension asset/(liability) net of deferred tax 13 (6)
Plan assets consist of the following:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Bonds 1,503 1,411
Cash 92 64
1,595 1,475
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Liabilities at 1 January 1,483 1,471
Interest cost 82 83
Benefits paid (49) (47)
Actuarial loss/(gain) 62 (24)
Liabilities at 31 December 1,578 1,483
Movements in fair value of plan assets
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Assets at 1 January 1,475 1,339
Expected return on scheme assets 82 61
Employer contributions 85 85
Benefit paid (49) (47)
Actuarial gain 2 37
Assets at 31 December 1,595 1,475
Expense recognised in the profit and loss account
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Interest on obligation 82 83
Expected return on plan assets (82) (61)
— 22
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the profit and loss account:
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Administrative expenses — —
Net financing income — 22
— 22 82
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
38. Pensions continued
Expense recognised in statement of recognised gains and losses
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
Actuarial gain on plan assets 2 37
Experience (losses)/gain on liabilities (1) 49
Change in assumptions in respect of liabilities (61) (25)
Net actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in Statement of recognised gains and losses (60) 61
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in Statement of recognised gains and losses (480) (420)
Historical information
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
2008
£’000
2007
£’000
Defined benefit obligation (1,578) (1,483) (1,471) (1,338) (2,003) 
Scheme assets 1,595 1,475 1,339 1,273 1,943 
Surplus/(deficit) 17 (8) (132) (65) (60)
Actuarial (losses)/gain on liabilities (62) 24 (162) 228 (119)
Experience gain/(losses) on assets 2 37 79 (290) (54)
Liability for defined benefit obligations
The principal assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are:
UK Scheme (% per annum)
2011 2010 2009
Discount rate at 31 December 4.70 5.50 5.70
Future salary increases n/a n/a n/a
Future pension increases 3.00 3.65 3.65
Inflation – RPI 3.00 3.70 3.75
Inflation – CPI 2.20 3.00 n/a
Deferred revaluation 2.20 3.00 3.75
The expected long-term rates of return were:
UK Scheme (% per annum)
2011 2010 2009
Equities n/a n/a n/a
Bonds 3.00 5.50 5.70 
Cash 3.00 4.20 4.50
For its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 31 December 2011, used SAPS 
mortality tables based on year of birth (as is published by the Institute of Actuaries). The UK mortality tables are based on the latest 
mortality investigations and reflect an industry-wide recognition that life expectations have improved. The average life expectancy of 
an individual currently aged 45 years and retiring at age 65 years is 24.10 years for males and 26.5 years for females. For individuals 
currently aged 65 years the average life expectancy is 22.2 years for males and 24.6 years for females.
The expected long-term rate of return for investments is based on the portfolio as a whole and not on individual asset categories. 
The return is based exclusively on historical returns, without adjustments which are crossed checked against market expectations 
from external sources. 
The Company expects that contributions to the defined benefit plan in 2012 will be at a similar level to contributions paid in 2011.
Financials
Notes to the Company financial statements continued 83
www.dialight.com
Overview Operating review Governance Financials Shareholder information
39. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions conferred by FRS 8 and has not disclosed transactions with wholly owned 
subsidiaries that are part of the Group or the investees of the Group.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemptions available under FRS 29 whereby parent companies are not required to apply 
the disclosure requirements of the standard in their own single entity financial statements, on the basis that the disclosures are included 
in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
During the year, loans were made to Dialight Japan and ILS, indirectly held subsidiaries of the Company to the amount of £258,000 
and £329,000 respectively, which at the year-end, remained outstanding and are included within debtors due in less than one year. 84
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Prepared under IFRSs
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
Turnover 113.5 99.2 77.3 77.9 63.4
Research and development expenditure 5.1 3.7 3.7 3.2 2.6
Underlying operating profit 15.0 11.2 5.5 5.3 3.9
Non-underlying operating loss (0.1) — — — —
Finance (charges)/income (0.7) 0.1 (0.2) 0.3 0.6
Profit before gain on disposal of discontinued operations and taxation 14.3 11.3 5.3 5.6 4.5
Operating cash flow 12.4 14.0 11.0 6.0 5.8
Net cash 13.7 10.4 9.1 4.1 4.4
Shareholders’ funds 54.8 46.2 40.1 37.5 30.8
Statistical information Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations 30.3 23.8 10.6 11.2 8.8
Dividends per share 10.0 8.0 6.6 6.0 5.7
Dividend cover (times) 3.0 3.0 2.7 1.9 1.5
Operating margin 13.2% 11.3% 7.1% 6.8% 6.2%
£m £m £m £m £m
Turnover
Continuing operations 113.5 99.2 77.3 77.9 63.4
Operating profit from continuing operations 15.0 11.2 5.5 5.3 3.9
Financials
Five year summary Shareholder information
Directory and shareholder information
Company Secretary and Registered Office
Nick Giles FCIS 
Exning Road 
Newmarket 
Suffolk CB8 0AX 
Telephone: +44 (0)1638 778640 
Registered in England and Wales 
Company Number 2486024 
Email: info@dialight.com  
www.dialight.com 
Financial advisers and stockbrokers
Canaccord Genuity Ltd
Cardinal Place 
80 Victoria Street 
7th Floor 
London SW1 5JL
Registrars
Equiniti
34 South Gyle Crescent 
South Gyle Business Park 
Edinburgh EH12 9EB
Equiniti’s Shareholder Contact Centre can be contacted 
by telephone on 0871 384 2030* (international callers: 
+44 121 415 7047) between 8.30am and 5.30pm each 
business day, excluding Bank Holidays.
You can also access details of your shareholding and 
a range of other shareholder services by registering at 
www.shareview.co.uk.
*  Calls to this number are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT 
landline. Charges from other telephone providers may vary and 
from mobiles will be considerably more.
Share price
Information concerning the day-to-day movement of the 
share price of the Company can be found on our website 
www.dialight.com or the London Stock Exchange’s website 
www.londonstockexchange.com. 
 
Forward looking statements
Certain sections of this Annual Report contain forward-looking 
statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, 
amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances 
occurring from time to time in the countries and sectors in which 
the Company and its subsidiaries and associates operate. It is 
believed that the expectations reﬂected in the Annual Report 
are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of 
variables which could cause actual results to differ materially 
from those currently anticipated.
Dealing service
Equiniti offers Shareview Dealing, a service which allows you 
to sell your Dialight plc shares or add to your holding if you are 
a UK resident. You can deal in your shares on the internet or by 
telephone. For more information about this service and for details 
of their rates, log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or telephone 
on 0845 603 7037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to 
Friday. If you wish to deal, you will need your account/shareholder 
reference number which appears on your share certificate.
Alternatively, if you hold a share certificate, you can also use 
any bank, building society or stockbroker offering share dealing 
facilities to buy or sell shares. If you are in any doubt about buying 
or selling shares, you should seek professional financial advice.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
One Snowhill 
Snow Hill Queensway  
Birmingham B4 6GH
Legal advisers
Clifford Chance LLP
10 Upper Bank Street 
London E14 5JJ
Butzel Long
Suite 100 
150 West Jefferson Ave 
Detroit, MI 48226 
USA
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
PO Box 885 
Mortlock House 
Station Road 
Histon 
Cambridge CB24 9DE
Financial calendar 2012/2013
Annual General Meeting  18 April 2012 
Half Yearly Financial Report  23 July 2012 
Interim Management Statement November 2012
Regional headquarters
Dialight Corporation
1501 Route 34 South 
Farmingdale, NJ 07727 
USA 
Telephone: +1 732 919 3119 
Facsimile: +1 732 751 5778
Dialight Europe Limited
Exning Road 
Newmarket 
Suffolk CB8 0AX 
Telephone: +44 (0) 1638 665161 
Facsimile: +44 (0) 1638 660718
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
At 31 December
Share price rebased to Dialight share price
800
0
700
100
200
300
400
500
600
Dialight plc FTSE  SmallCap Index FTSE  All Share Electronics/Electrical Equipment
Shareholder information Financials Governance Operating review Overview Dialight plc 
Exning Road 
Newmarket 
Suffolk CB8 0AX
www.dialight.com
