 Expanding our 
global reach
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Innovation
Expertise
Sustainability
These are the values at the heart of our success.  
 urn to page  to nd out ore
Dialight is a global leader in the supply of high 
performance LED lighting applications.
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Santa Cruz Water Treatment Plant, California, USA 1
Overview
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
www.dialight.com
Underlying Proﬁt before tax from continued operations increased 26.7% to £19.7m 
(2011: £15.5m)
2012 Lighting Revenues increased 72.7% to £45.5m (2011: £26.4m)
Lighting Contribution Margin increased by 8.6 points to 44.3%
Disposal of Utility Switch business completed 
Year-end net cash of £15.0m (201 1: £13.7m) with signiﬁcant investment in Lighting
Earnings per share (“EPS”) of 41.4 pence on continuing operations excluding the £0.7m 
proﬁt on the disposal of the Utility Switch business (201 1: 31.3 pence)
Final dividend of 9.5 pence per share, giving a total dividend for the year of 13.5 pence per share 
(201 1: 10.0 pence per share)
Highlights
10 11 12
99.2
102.5
115.1
£1 15.1m +1 2.3%
Group revenue
10 11 12
11.2
15.5
19.7
£19.7m +26.7%
 nderlying ro t be ore tax
10 11 12
23.8
30.3
42.0
42.0p +38.6%
Group EPS*
10 11 12
8.0
10.0
13.5
13.5p +35.0%
Dividend per share
10 11 12
11.6
26.4
45.5
£45.5m +72.7%
Lighting revenue
10 11 12
10.4
13.7
15.0
£15.0m +9 .2%
Year End Net cash
Visit us online
www.dialight.com
View this  
report online
ar12.dialight.com
Contents
Overview 1
Highlights ......................................................................................... 1
Dialight at a glance ............................................................... 2
Our marketplace ...................................................................... 4
Chairman’s statement .......................................................... 6 
Per ormance review 7
Chief Executive’s review ..................................................... 7
Our business model ...............................................................10
Our strategy and KPIs ...........................................................12
Regional review ........................................................................14
Financial review ...................................................................... 20
Principal risks and uncertainties ................................ 24
Governance 26
Chairman’s overview and  
Board of Directors.................................................................. 26
Directors’ and Corporate Governance report  28
Sustainability report............................................................. 39
Directors’ remuneration report .................................. 42
Financials 50
Independent auditors’ report..................................... 50
Consolidated income statement ............................. 51
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income .................................................. 52
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  53
Consolidated statement of  
total nancial position ....................................................... 54
Consolidated statement  
of cash ows .............................................................................. 55
Notes to the consolidated  
 nancial statements............................................................ 56
Company balance sheet ............................................... 87
Notes to the Company  
 nancial statements............................................................ 88
Five-year summary ............................................................... 96
Shareholder inormation 97
Directory and shareholder information ................97
* Includes the £0.7m proﬁt before tax on the disposal of the Utility Switch business. www.dialight.com
2 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Overview
Revolutionary 
technology
Dialight at  
a glance
Dialight comprises the following business segments:
Signals 
which addresses the increasing demands for energy 
efﬁcient Signalling solutions through the use of 
high-brightness LEDs and utilisation of a number of 
associated technologies. Areas of business include 
Trafﬁc, Vehicle and Obstruction Signals.
Revenue
£48.1m
Dialight is leading the lighting revolution for industrial users across the 
world. Applying leading edge LED technology it produces retro- ttable 
lighting xtures designed speci cally for ha ardous locations obstruction 
signals and traf c signalling to vastly reduce maintenance save energy 
improve safety and ease disposal.
Lighting
which addresses the increasing demands for energy 
efﬁcient Lighting solutions through the use of 
high-brightness LEDs and utilisation of a number of 
associated technologies. Areas of business include 
Solid State Lighting products for Hazardous 
and Non-Hazardous Industrial applications.
Revenue
£45.5m
Components
whose sales are primarily to Electronics OEMs 
for status indication and residual disconnect 
components for automotive and niche 
industrial application. 
Revenue
£21.5m
Key markets
We operate within various markets: Oil, gas and petrochemical
Customers involved in exploration and production 
through to the reﬁning and processing of natural 
resources are beneﬁting from improved safety, 
quality of light and reliability.
Mining
Speciﬁed due to our products extreme ability to 
withstand shock and vibration, Dialight has seen 
tremendous growth in mining applications.
Chemical and pharmaceutical
Process heavy chemical and pharmaceutical 
operations take advantage of Dialight’s 
maintenance free ﬁxtures eliminating the need to 
change bulbs in these dangerous environments.
Heavy industrial
Steel processing, pulp, paper and automotive 
manufacturers and other heavy industrial 
applications are realising the switch to 
Dialight’s technology not only improves 
production but also makes ﬁnancial sense. www.dialight.com
3
Overview
Overview
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Natural Gas Compressor 
Station, Colorado, USA
Key products
DuroSite
®
 25,000 Lumen LED High Bay 
Introduced in 2012, this 100+ lm/W ﬁxture is 
used in very high ceiling applications and can 
often eliminate the number of light ﬁxtures 
required to illuminate an area. 
Sa eSite
®
 LED Area Light
Available with a simple retroﬁt kit, this versatile 
LED area light replaces up to 250w traditional 
ﬁxtures while consuming only 70w of power. 
Vigilant
®
 L 856 LED High Intensity Strobe
The world’s ﬁrst and only available LED High 
Intensity Strobe is used in obstruction signals 
applications above 500 feet, eliminating costly 
tower climbs to replace existing ﬁxtures.
We are constantly developing new 
products for markets and applications 
which were unable to bene t from 
LED technology until now.
Innovation
Major new product introductions, including 
our 25kw High Bay and other 100 lumen 
per watt (“lm/W”) products, continue 
to be the ﬁrst to market in the industry.
Expertise
Our 40+ years of LED proﬁciency is illustrated 
by our ability to continually push the boundaries 
with our industry leading LED lighting ﬁxtures.
Sustainability
Our LED products not only reduce energy 
consumption, but signiﬁcantly lower greenhouse 
gas emissions and eliminate the need for the use 
of mercury in lighting technology.
Our values: www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 4
Overview
Our  
marketplace
With very low energy costs, the market is 
driven by maintenance cost reduction and 
safety improvements.
Even in difﬁcult economic conditions, we have 
increased sales throughout Europe and provide 
our customers attractive payback periods and 
return on investment.
Europe
Middle East
Spotlight on 
global expansion
Our success across North America spans all 
of our vertical markets, from oil and gas in 
the Gulf Coast to mining in the north-west.
North America
Expanding 
regions
Throughout 2012, we were 
committed to expanding 
our presence in many key 
geographical locations 
and markets. From adding 
direct employees, growing 
sales channels and adding 
global certi cations to our 
product line, our reach has 
grown and is paying o . 
Dialight is becoming known 
worldwide as the leader in 
technology advancements, 
reliability and longevity 
in lighting.
Overview
With momentum building in all target markets in the US, 
2012 was the year that we also broke ground with some 
larger installations in Canada and Mexico, while creating a 
pipeline of projects in various South American countries as well.
Growth potential
As the number of individual facilities installing Dialight’s ﬁxtures 
grows, we are starting to see installation successes shared 
internally at larger companies. 
Revenue
£93.0m
The  
Americas
See page 14
G.S. Dunn Limited, 
Ontario, Canada  www.dialight.com
5
Overview
Overview
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
With the formation of Dialight Asia Pte Ltd 
(“Dialight Asia”) in 2012, Dialight recognised 
signiﬁcant growth throughout the region 
especially within the oil and gas markets. 
Asia Paci c
Quickly becoming recognised as the leading brand  
for LED lighting in Australia, we’ve made great strides  
with key customers.
Australia
Overview
Major programs are in place to cut energy usage and CO
2 
emissions in many countries such as Germany and the UK, 
along with a growing energy deﬁcit in Saudi Arabia forcing 
lighting users to consider efﬁcient alternatives.
Growth potential
With signiﬁcant heavy industry across the region including 
approximately 200 reﬁneries and 500 platforms in the North Sea, 
there is a massive opportunity for our customers to improve safety 
and reduce maintenance with our certiﬁed LED lighting ﬁxtures.
Revenue
£25.9m
Europe/ 
Middle East
See page 18
MMD Shipping Logistics, 
Portsmouth, UK
Overview
With some of the richest and most stable economies in the world, 
Dialight continues to invest and expand in this region. 
Growth potential
With massive mining operations in Australia and Indonesia and 
growing oil and gas capacity throughout the entire region, the 
adoption of LED lighting will continue to grow and provide safer 
and more efﬁcient illumination for these environments.
Revenue
£10.8m
Asia Paci c/
Australia
See page 16
Ribbon cutting ceremony, 
Dialight Penang, Malaysia www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 6
Overview
Financial results 
Another year of solid ﬁnancial performance. 
Revenue from continuing operations grew 
by 12.3% to £115.1m (2011: £102.5m) with 
Lighting segment revenue growth of 72.7% 
to £45.5m (2011: £26.4m). Group contribution 
margin has increased from 45.8% to 46.1% 
with contribution margins in the Lighting 
segment growing from 35.7% in 2011 to 44.3% 
in 2012. Operating leverage has resulted in 
additional operating proﬁt in Lighting of £6.6m 
from £2.0m in 2011 to £8.6m in 2012. Proﬁt 
before tax from continued operations has 
increased 26.7% to £19.7m (2011: £15.5m). 
Despite an increase in seasonal working capital 
requirements to support growth, strong operating 
cash ﬂow generation of £13.8m has resulted in 
year-end net cash of £15.0m (2011: £13.7m).
Group Earnings per share (“EPS”) has risen 
38.6% to 42.0 pence including a £0.7m proﬁt 
before tax on disposal of the Utility Switch 
business (2011: 30.3 pence).
Included in the income statement is a non-underlying 
proﬁt of £0.5m after tax on the sale of the Utility 
Switch business (proceeds from the sale of 
intellectual property of £3.1m) and losses from 
operations of the business of £0.4m net of tax 
(2011: £0.3m loss).
Dividend
In line with the Group’s progressive dividend 
policy the Board is recommending, subject 
to approval by the shareholders, a ﬁnal dividend 
of 9.5 pence per share giving a total dividend 
for the year of 13.5 pence per share (2011: 
10.0 pence per share). This will be paid on 
8 May 2013 to shareholders on the register 
on the 12 April 2013.
Developments
During 2012 the Group completed a number 
of acquisitions in different regions. In June 2012 
Dialight successfully acquired the trade and 
assets of Airinet Inc (“Airinet”), a company 
in Colorado, US and established a new 
manufacturing facility in Malaysia (Dialight 
Penang Sdn Bhd) in July 2012. Dialight Asia 
was established in August 2012 in Singapore 
with Lumina Holdings Systems Limited.
Board changes
During the year Harry T ee CBE announced 
his decision to step down from his position as 
Chairman of the Board and in September 2012, 
following an external recruitment process, I was 
appointed Group Chairman having previously been 
Dialight’ s Senior Independent Director. The Board 
has also recently announced the appointment 
of two new Non-Executive Directors, Stephen Bird 
who joins the Board as Senior Independent Director 
and Tracey Graham who joins as Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee. 
Staff
Many signiﬁcant changes were made at Dialight 
during 2012. Throughout the year our employees 
continued to work hard and their efforts are 
evident in the Group’s results. I would like to 
thank everyone for their continued commitment, 
support and hard work.
Current trading and outlook 
2013 should see continued strong growth in 
Lighting driven by expanded sales channels and 
new products. We see further enhancements to 
the value that our products bring to our customers 
as Dialight’s technical teams capitalise on the 
ongoing developments in LED technology. 
The growth in revenues and the Group’s focus 
on the cost and performance of its products 
gives us conﬁdence for a future of sustainable 
proﬁt improvement in this year and the years 
to follow. 
Bill Ronald
Chairman
Chairman’s 
statement
2013 should see 
continued strong growth 
in Lighting driven by 
expanded sales channels 
and new products. Once again Lighting has demonstrated 
signiﬁcant growth based on our strategy 
of targeting the hazardous and industrial 
lighting market. Improved performance 
in both Lighting efﬁcacy and expected 
lifetime resulting from our extensive 
investment in the introduction of new 
products has made it easier for our 
customers to adopt our Lighting products.
Dialight’s Lighting sales force has more than 
doubled in 2012 and the deployment of these 
extra sales staff is a precursor to continued 
signiﬁcant growth in the coming years.
2012 is just the fourth year of our participation 
in this business which is now signiﬁcant enough 
to become a separate reportable segment and 
within that segment it is clear that not only have 
revenues increased but also proﬁtability has 
now reached a par with our other reportable 
segments, with more improvement to come.
Chie 
Executive’s 
review
www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 7
Performance review
Per ormance review
Our strategy 
is delivering
Since early 2009 when Dialight’s ﬁrst industrial 
light was introduced, the strategy has been to 
focus on sizeable niche markets with defensible 
barriers to entry. These deliver strong returns 
for customers through the application of the 
most current LED technology. Our focus has 
been to provide products which address the 
heavy industrial market and in particular those 
applications which demand the use of lighting 
which is rated for use in hazardous locations.
The value that Dialight’s products bring to 
this hazardous market applies to the installed 
base of industrial lighting and to brand new 
installations giving an addressable market 
size in the tens of billions of pounds globally. 
Our sales of £45.5m are tiny in relation 
to the available market and bearing in mind 
that Dialight is the pioneer of LED lighting 
for industrial applications, the opportunity 
for superior growth exists for years to come.
It is useful to understand why it is that this market 
is appropriate for our products and what value 
we bring to our potential customers. We address 
customers in the Oil and Gas, Power Generation, 
Heavy Process Industry and Manufacturing and 
Food and Beverage markets, most of whom will 
have round the clock operations with lighting 
running 24/7 and no ability to easily shut down 
their processes. It is in these applications that our 
ability to save more than 50% of the energy bill 
and guarantee uninterrupted lighting for up to 
ten years drives rapid paybacks and signiﬁcant 
return on investment.
These customers operate on a global basis 
and following our expansions into Australia, the 
Middle East and Japan in 2011, we established 
Dialight Asia based in Singapore to address the 
ASEAN market. Additionally we continued our 
programme of recruitment of sales personnel 
in the US, Mexico, Eastern Europe, Western 
Europe, Russia and Australia to more than double 
the number of Dialight sales people throughout the 
world. A key part of our expansion has been the 
establishment of a Dialight ofﬁce in Houston, 
T exas. A large proportion of all Oil and Gas 
projects are speciﬁed by major engineering 
companies based in Houston. These projects 
typically have a long gestation period and 
will provide long-term business for Dialight.
Towards the end of 2012, we introduced 
a further extension to our High Bay range 
of products which will extend the applications 
which our LED lights can address. This new 
product produces over 25,000 lumens and 
allows us to replace up to 1,000 watts of 
conventional lighting using only 250 watts. 
This is just the latest in a continuing ﬂow 
of improved new products. 
Since our Solid State Lights are based 
on semiconductor technology, they lend 
themselves to control and monitoring which 
cannot be achieved with conventional lighting. 
In June of 2012, Dialight purchased the trade 
and assets of Airinet, based in Pueblo, Colorado 
for their ability to develop unique controls for 
our industrial lights. Multiple features will be 
available with the Airinet product set which will 
signiﬁcantly enhance the payback of our lighting 
systems with minimal extra cost. We expect ﬁrst 
signiﬁcant sales to be in 2013.
Lighting
2012 2011 
Revenue £45.5m £26.4m 
Proﬁt £8.6m £2.0m  www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 8
Revenues reduced by 8% in the year driven 
by difﬁcult conditions in the Trafﬁc market. 
Obstruction signals were broadly ﬂat due to the 
deferral of a major contract in the USA. Contribution 
Margins were held at last year’ s levels.
Traffic signals 
Sales into this market were down in both Europe 
and North America. The potential for growth in 
Europe remains due to low penetration of LED 
based signals but current economic conditions are 
delaying signiﬁcant adoption rates. Our relationships 
with key Trafﬁc Systems OEMs throughout Europe 
remain strong and business with Siemens in both 
Germany and the UK is particularly important. 
Our sales to towns and cities throughout Europe 
are through these OEMs who supply a complete 
trafﬁc system. One would expect that with the 
current low level of adoption we would see a 
return to growth as the economy improves or as 
capital for cost saving projects becomes available. 
The North American market for LED Trafﬁc signals 
is now mature. The majority of the installed base 
of trafﬁc signals has already been converted to 
LED technology. We are now beginning to replace 
the LED signals which were supplied over ten years 
ago. A major issue in funding this replacement is 
the fact that efﬁcient signals are being replaced 
with even more efﬁcient signals saving perhaps 
a further 10 watts of power. Put simply, there is 
minimal saving produced by the new lights. In 
an effort to encourage this replacement, Dialight 
has introduced an integrated signal head which 
will give the cities a twenty year life for their new 
lights with only a single, simple power supply 
change, thus allowing our customers to use 
a twenty year life for their payback calculations. 
Obstruction signals
Dialight has pioneered the use of LED technology 
for aircraft warning lights on tall structures around 
the world. For the US market, these lights are 
regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration 
and Dialight has often been the only qualiﬁed 
source for an LED version of various of these 
lights. The beneﬁts of LEDs in this application 
Performance review
are obvious being much more reliable than the more 
conventional light sources that have been used 
by other suppliers. The lights themselves can be put 
into roughly three categories: red beacons for wind 
turbines and painted structures; medium intensity 
white strobe lights for telecommunications towers 
between 200 and 500 feet; and, high intensity white 
strobes for broadcast towers of more than 500 feet. 
The market for red beacons is the most mature and 
has been serviced by a number of suppliers for the 
past several years. The market for medium intensity 
white strobes has been the exclusive province of 
Dialight since 2007 with signiﬁcant sales in 2010, 
2011 and 2012. Channel to market is through value 
added resellers who have added extra features 
and functionality to our signals. The potential 
remaining market for this product in the US is still 
in excess of $200m so some competition was to 
be expected and in the latter part of the year one of 
our former resellers introduced a competing product 
to the market. This had the effect of delaying the 
award of a major contract from an operator of over 
7,000 towers which had previously been expected 
by Dialight. It is likely that this will be awarded 
in 2013 and Dialight is in a good position to be 
awarded a signiﬁcant piece of this. More than 
50% of this market rests with the top ten tower 
operators and Dialight is conﬁdent in its position 
with those operators. In order to safeguard our 
channel position, the Company has decided to 
take a more direct approach to its customers 
and has enhanced its offering to the market 
to give control and monitoring options to its 
customers using technology derived from its 
Airinet acquisition (which is discussed further 
in the Lighting segment above).
In late 2011, the Company introduced a high 
intensity strobe for very tall towers in the US market 
and during 2012 sold some 20 systems. The 
potential for this market is at least the same as 
that for the medium intensity product and the 
product is signiﬁcantly more complicated. This 
product will largely be sold on a direct basis to 
end users. It is expected that this product will 
extend the growth horizon to the Obstruction 
signals product line.
Our European business supplies Obstruction 
signals primarily for the Offshore Wind Turbine 
market. Several major German projects were 
deferred to 2013 but we were still able to show 
some minor growth in Europe and it is expected 
these projects will be shipped in the New Year.
Signals
Revenue breakdown
Pro it breakdown
2012 2011 
Revenue £48.1m £52.5m 
Proﬁt £11.3m £11.8m 
Segmental analysis
Lighting
Signals
Components www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 9
Performance review
Per ormance review
Up until this year, we have reported two 
components segments; one being LED 
Indication Components the other being 
Electromagnetic Disconnects. During 2012 
the part of Electromagnetic Disconnects which 
relates to Utility Switches was divested and 
so we will now report a combined Components 
Segment which is the combination of LED 
Indication and the remaining small portion of 
Electromagnetic Disconnects. This segment is 
cyclical and over time is not expected to grow. 
Much of the business is channelled through 
distributors and has a very diverse customer 
base. Margins are strong and stable and are 
expected to remain so. The business is split 
between sales through distributors, which 
constitutes more than half of the revenues 
and address over 15,000 Dialight customers. 
The balance of the business goes through 
contract manufacturers who assemble for our 
major OEM customers who supply high end 
servers, internet access equipment, cellular 
infrastructure and storage. We believe the 
fundamentals of the business remain sound 
and should provide several years of continued 
proﬁt input albeit with ﬂuctuations in line with 
the general electronics market. 
Operations and engineering 
Once again our Engineering and Operations 
teams had a busy year. From the introduction 
of ground breaking new products to establishing 
manufacturing on a new continent, our technical 
staff were kept fully engaged all year.
Major new product introductions this year saw 
our ﬁrst 100 lm/W products hit the market – 
the ﬁrst in the industry. This has now become 
our standard and we are striving to further 
improve this efﬁciency in 2013 but signiﬁcantly 
this improvement will not be as a result only of 
improved LED efﬁciency. Within any LED lighting 
system losses occur due to optical, thermal and 
electronic inefﬁciencies. Dialight engineers and 
scientists work to optimise the performance of 
all three technologies to give the best possible 
performance as they have done over the last four 
years. The efﬁciency of our lights has doubled 
since the introduction of our ﬁrst Safesite
®
 
product. This improved efﬁciency translates 
directly into savings in electricity usage and 
therefore cost. In addition to electricity savings, 
reliability is vital to many of our customers. 
In applications where access is difﬁcult or 
dangerous, process shutdowns are expensive, 
reliable lighting is paramount. From the launch 
of our ﬁrst lights, all of our products have 
carried a ﬁve-year comprehensive warranty. 
Once again an industry exclusive for Dialight 
is the announcement of a ten year warranty for 
our latest products thus giving our customers 
an even longer period over which to calculate 
savings and return on investment as well as 
enjoying maintenance free lighting. In addition 
to these technical improvements, our engineers 
have reduced our costs to give over 8% 
improvement in Lighting contribution margins. 
Ongoing redesign to reduce our costs as well 
as improving performance is the watchword 
for our engineers and we will continue this 
task in 2013. 
In order to service the growth in our Lighting 
business we have expanded production capacity 
in existing facilities as well as opening a new facility 
in Penang, Malaysia. Our plan is that this new 
plant will be used for the duty free supply of 
Lighting products into most of the fast growing 
Asia Paciﬁc region. Malaysia gives us not only 
a cost effective base but also closeness to 
important geographies in the Oil and Gas markets.
Intellectual property is important to us and 
in the year we had eight new patents granted. 
We ﬁled 36 new applications and we had 115 
patent applications pending at the year end. 
Summary 
Once again our niche strategy has delivered 
top and bottom line growth with a road map to 
sustain this for the coming years. Our products 
have improved during 2012 and have brought 
better savings in energy, less maintenance and 
improved safety to our customers. The key 
Lighting segment is positioned to drive the 
Group forward to achieve continued growth 
which will be more strongly fuelled by our 
continued developments and innovations in 
Lighting as we enable the penetration of our 
solutions into the vast installed base of 
Industrial Lighting. 
The following pages set out the Group’ s business 
model and investment proposition, and its strategy 
and Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”). 
To demonstrate some achievements during 
the year and to highlight the future we have 
included a regional review of the Americas, 
Asia Paciﬁc/Australia and Europe/Middle East 
alongside relevant case studies.
Roy Burton
Group Chief Executive
Components
2012 2011 
Revenue £21.5m £23.7m 
Proﬁt £3.1m £4.9m  www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 10
Performance review
Creating  
long-term value 
 or our customers
Our business  
model
Dialight deﬁnes the current state of LED  
lighting technology with continuous innovations 
in light output, efﬁcacy and reliability for our 
complete line of high-speciﬁcation lighting 
ﬁxtures speciﬁcally designed for industrial, 
commercial, hazardous location and 
transportation applications.
These results are directly related to our ongoing 
commitment to advancing Solid State Lighting 
products that vastly reduce maintenance, 
improve safety, ease disposal and are more 
environmentally friendly – thereby helping 
to reduce CO
2
 emissions, the dominant 
Greenhouse Gas contributor to global warming.
With our high-speciﬁcation range of products 
we are uniquely positioned for a number 
of long-term global growth trends, many of 
which are driven by government regulations 
and environmental initiatives.
Our investment proposition:
it’s all about lighting
1
Mechanical design/ 
thermal heatsinking
Our LED ﬁxtures are optimally designed 
to dissipate heat generated by LEDs and 
electrical components in order to meet 
lifetime expectations set by our customers. 
2
Electrical design 
Highly efﬁcient universal power supplies 
are custom built for each luminaire, tailored 
to meet speciﬁc certiﬁcations, extreme 
temperatures and rugged environments.
3
High-brightness LEDs  
and optics system
We apply the brightest LEDs from the world’s 
most recognised manufacturers, which have 
third-party test data and analysis to support 
our lifetime claims and full performance 
warranty. Paired with our proprietary optics, 
we concentrate light to the targeted area, 
rather than waste it on walls, tops of shelves 
or into the night sky.
4
Highly durable and  
e cient lenses
Dialight provides its customers with extremely 
durable lens options for a range of indoor 
and outdoor applications. Depending on our 
customers’ speciﬁc needs, we offer lenses 
made from glass, polycarbonate or acrylic.
1
2
3
4
Why Dialight  
LED xtures www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 11
Performance review
Per ormance review
The corner stones o 
our business model
With continuing improvements in LED technology 
and our ability to turn these into even stronger value 
propositions for our customers, we are seeing exciting 
opportunities for the Group in new products, markets 
and sectors across the world.
1
2
3
4
Delivering long-term 
value propositions
Markets Development
Delivering  
long-term value 
propositions
Technology
Acquisitions
Markets
We focus on large niche markets, each with a barrier 
to entry, offering compelling operational, environmental and 
cost-efﬁciency beneﬁts using advances enabled by LED 
technology to expand our presence in new markets. 
Development
We use our technological expertise in thermal management, 
optics and electronic circuitry to innovate through the 
development and improvement of new and existing products, 
bringing further efﬁciencies through cost improvements 
and product design. 
Technology
We apply for intellectual property protection for all newly 
developed products and designs whenever possible. 
Acquisitions
Our expansion into key regions continues with the acquisition 
of the trade and assets in Airinet, the establishment of 
Dialight Asia, a joint venture company in Singapore, and the 
establishment of a new manufacturing facility in Malaysia. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 12
Performance review
It’s all about 
lighting
Our strategy 
and KPIs
Lighting units sold (‘000’s)
133,000 +111%
Lighting pro t (£m)
£8.6m +323%
Lighting contribution (£m)
£20.2m +114%
11 12
2.0
8.6
11 12
9.4
20.2
11 12
63
133
Diamond Pet Foods, 
California, USA
10
21 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 13
Performance review
Our vision
is to bring the value of Solid State Lighting 
to customers in a broad range of industries 
and markets.
Our aim
is to achieve our vision through our 
continued belief in our existing strategy.
Per ormance review
Patents led, pending and granted
In 2012 Dialight had 115 patents pending, 36 having 
been ﬁled and 8 granted This contrasted with 
ﬁgures of 78, 25 and 8, respectively, in 2011.
11 12
10 11 12
Group EPS
42.0p +38.6% 55 +120%
Sales heads
25
55
23.8
30.3
42.0
Protect
We use our low-cost manufacturing base and 
continually review and monitor cost-saving 
opportunities to reduce our material cost.
Never complacent
-  LED efﬁciency and cost improvement 
supports our customer value proposition
-  We vigorously defend any intellectual 
property infringement
-  We have a strong pipeline of new 
and improved products
-  Ongoing redesign and re-engineering to 
reduce costs and improve performance
Identi y
We focus on niche markets with compelling 
operational and cost-efﬁciency beneﬁts for our 
customers and expand our presence in new 
markets enabled by advances in LED technology.
Expansion into the hazardous and industrial 
lighting markets including the following:
- Oil, gas and petrochemicals
- Chemical and pharmaceutical plants
- Mining
- Heavy industrial 
i
Develop
We create intellectual property rights across 
all research teams and develop new products 
incorporating this defensible technology.
Through this process of developing 
and improving we have managed to:
-  Be the ﬁrst to market in LED applications 
for over 20 years
- File and register a large number of patents
-  Demonstrate a commitment to highly 
educated and skilled engineering teams
 Filed  Granted  Pending
8
36
115
Focus
We use our technological expertise in thermal 
management, optics and electronic circuitry 
to develop innovative products in niche markets.
Our award winning High Bay is dominating 
the LED market. At the end of 2012 we have:
-  Increased High Bay light output from 17,000 
to 25,000 lm/W
-  Increased the installed base of High Bays
-  Reduced the amount of power required
Target
We consider acquisitions with valid channel 
to market, strong geographical coverage 
and proven technology.
During the year we have:
-  Acquired the trade and assets of Airinet
-  Established a presence in Singapore following 
the incorporation of Dialight Asia
-  Established a manufacturing facility in Malaysia
-  Continued our search for appropriate acquisitions www.dialight.com
The region includes a manufacturing facility 
in Roxboro, NC, a sales ofﬁce in Houston, TX, 
corporate headquarters in Farmingdale, NJ 
and Dialight’s largest factory, located 75 miles 
south of the USA-Mexico border in the city 
of Ensenada, Baja California.
The Ensenada site has over 700 employees 
and more than 175,000 sq ft of production space 
in two large facilities. The mild climate and strategic 
position of Ensenada in the Paciﬁc rim make this 
location perfect for year round manufacturing and 
distribution. Ensenada has capabilities to build Solid 
State Lighting, Trafﬁc signals, Obstruction signals, 
and panel mount LED indicators. It is certiﬁed by 
ISO9001-2008, INMETRO, IECEX, ATEX, FAA, 
NOM and RETIELAB.
Manufacturing processes in Ensenada range 
from state-of-the-art Surface Mount Technology 
(“SMT”) to Computerized Numeric Control 
(“CNC”) milling machines for machining 
of aluminium castings and electrical test 
equipment for finished products. The strong 
growth of Lighting in 2012 required investment 
in these types of machinery and equipment 
and will continue through 2013.
Home to the Group’s largest manufacturing facility and the largest 
region by revenue. As Dialight moves into 2013, the Americas will 
see continued investment and expansion.
 In the last 12 months we 
have seen great results in 
the Americas, delivering to 
new customers and driving 
growth across the board”
Ariel Abam
General Manager
Dialight de Mexico
 » Setting the standard or ha ardous location lighting
 » Acquisition o Airinet, controls company in Colorado
 » Proximity to oil and gas multinationals
Summary
Revenue
£93.0m
Performance review
Regional review
The
Americas
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 14
The year also saw the acquisition of the 
assets of Airinet. Airinet has developed leading 
edge networked management systems for 
Lighting, which deliver features such as dimming, 
daylight harvesting, ﬂexible scheduling, tailored 
occupancy, diagnostics, power monitoring, 
and real time data reporting. These networks 
are based on power line, wireless, or hybrid 
communications to deliver two way capabilities. 
Among its existing patent applications is its 
Light Control Module which instantly upgrades 
an ordinary light to a “smart” light without 
modiﬁcation to existing equipment. This system 
will allow substantial energy savings on top of 
those that are already available from switching 
to Dialight’s LED lights.
Dialight is established as a leading supplier in 
the Lighting market in North America. Sales into 
México, Colombia and Venezuela grew in 2012 
and are expected to continue to do so through 
2013. These emerging markets are adopting 
LED industrial technology and Dialight has 
won several projects in the industrial and 
oil and gas sectors in 2012 with major clients. www.dialight.com
15 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Performance review
The Texas-based customer, who has in excess 
of 1,000 land rigs in its ﬂeet including platform 
and barge rigs, decided to move forward with 
the installation following a highly successful 
trial of Dialight’s LED light ﬁxtures. Dialight was 
uniquely positioned to provide the lighting system 
as the only manufacturer of the speciﬁc types 
of LED ﬁxtures with the hazardous location 
certiﬁcations required for the application.
The decision to purchase Dialight 
LED lighting ﬁxtures was made to avoid 
installing ﬂuorescent and HID ﬁxtures which 
typically have frequent bulb failures due to 
the severe shock and vibration of the rig, 
costing the operator thousands per year 
in maintenance costs.
Energy consumption reduction
-1 9GWh
Case study
Major oil reﬁnery
Market: Oil, Gas and Petrochemical
A major US rig owner purchased over 1,200 Dialight LED lighting 
ﬁxtures to outﬁt eight new land based drilling rigs in November 
2012. The installation represents a small part of the potential market 
for this type of application, and shows our customers’ awareness 
of the advantages our lights bring.
Start date  November 2012
End date Ongoing
Cost £850,000
View this case study online
www.dialight.com
Per ormance review
Key acts:
Offshore Rig in Gulf Coast www.dialight.com
Overview
July 2012 saw Dialight take on a ﬁve year lease 
for a new 40,000 square foot facility in Penang, 
Malaysia. This allowed the Group to improve 
its speed to market and reduce the level of 
inventory held at other locations. Whilst the 
Malaysian facility will initially be involved in the 
manufacture of products for the largest electronics 
OEMs it will be producing LED lighting products 
from 2013. The facility was established in 
cooperation with a highly experienced local 
management team, all of whom have been 
involved with similar projects before. 
In September 2012 Dialight entered into a 
joint venture arrangement which resulted in the 
establishment of a new Company, Dialight Asia, 
that would bear responsibility for the sale 
and promotion of Dialight Lighting products in 
South East Asia. Dialight Asia will beneﬁt from 
a number of sales personnel that are currently 
employed by our new joint venture partner but 
will also seek to build up a much larger sales 
organisation as time moves on so that Dialight Asia 
is equipped to address key oil and gas markets in 
the region. It is envisaged that ultimately all products 
sold by Dialight Asia will be supplied from the 
Company’ s new facility in Penang.
Dialight’s presence in Asia has been signiﬁcantly strengthened 
through the establishment of Dialight Asia in Singapore and a new 
manufacturing facility in Malaysia that will operate alongside our 
American and European facilities. Dialight is also signiﬁcantly 
investing and expanding in Australia.
 The addition of a manufacturing 
presence in Malaysia is in line 
with Dialight’s strategy for global 
expansion. It brings us closer 
to our growing customer base 
in Asia while strengthening 
our value proposition”
Maran Elangkathir
Plant Manager,
Dialight Penang Sdn Bhd
(Malaysia)
 2012 has seen real growth in our 
capabilities through the addition 
of sales resource which allows 
us to increase our reach 
throughout Australia”
Malcolm Lee
Managing Director
Dialight ILS Australia Pty Ltd
 » Increased sales capability in South East Asia
 » Manu acturing acilities closer to our customers
 » 100% growth in sales and 150% increase in employees in Australia
Summary
Revenue
£10.8m
Performance review
Regional review
continued
Asia Paci c/
Australia
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 16
During 2012 Dialight also expanded its reach 
to New Zealand with the appointment of a 
new distributor. In Australia, Dialight increased 
its small base in Perth, Western Australia, with 
the successful recruitment of key staff including 
a regional oil and gas sector manager and 
business development managers in Adelaide, 
Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney. 
This recruitment has continued into 2013.
The year also saw the appointment of a third 
party warehousing company in Sydney to 
distribute stock on the east coast of Australia 
and the appointment of 16 electrical wholesaler 
stockists nationally. Per ormance review
www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 17
Performance review
At the outset the key objectives for the plant 
were to be more energy and resource efﬁcient, 
and also more environmentally friendly. As part 
of this the project team recognised that the 
lighting solution would play an important role 
in achieving these objectives.
The challenge was to ﬁnd suitable light ﬁxtures 
that were certiﬁed for use in the hazardous 
environment, would deliver reliable lighting 
in normal and emergency mode operation, 
and would meet the requirements for reduced 
energy consumption and reduced maintenance. 
The original design for the facility featured a mix 
of ﬂuorescent T8s and metal halide ﬁxtures, 
but Dialight were given the opportunity to propose 
a new lighting design featuring its LED lighting 
technology and the beneﬁts immediately became 
Case study
Leading chemical plant
Market: Chemical and Pharmaceutical
A leading specialty chemicals company announced the construction 
of a new, best in class, energy efﬁcient and environmentally friendly 
butyl rubber plant. The facility is located on a 200,000 square metre 
plot of land on Jurong Island, Singapore and is ﬁtted with Dialight 
applications throughout.
 - Provision of 2,370 LED lighting ﬁxtures 
for indoor/outdoor process areas and 
internal roads
 - Resulting 55% energy reduction
 - Annual power savings of 1,150,000kWh 
(equivalent to SGD 241,500)
 - 811 metric tons CO
2
 emissions 
avoided annually
 - Return on investment in 1.5 years for  
ﬁxtures operated 24/7
apparent. Dialight provided the lighting design 
to convert the conventional lighting for indoors 
and outdoors areas to LED products for both 
non-hazardous and hazardous application.
The decision to use LED lighting throughout 
the ﬁve major production areas of the facility 
was made simple with the ﬁve-year performance 
warranty from Dialight which would result 
in eliminating the burden of maintenance. 
By converting to LED lighting, energy 
consumption and carbon emissions reduced 
by 55%. The low operating temperature of 
the LED ﬁxtures was also a health and safety 
beneﬁt, as it removed the risk of burn injury 
common with metal halides for anyone who 
might come into contact with the ﬁxture.
Key acts:
View this case study online
www.dialight.com
Lanxess Pte Ltd, Jurong Island, Singapore Overview
Dialight Europe Limited operates out of Newmarket, 
UK with facilities in Germany and Denmark and 
a sales ofﬁce in Dubai.
2012 presented many challenges as Dialight 
constantly kept up with changes, as more 
and more product variants as well as design 
improvements were introduced. The number 
of changes and the rate of change accelerated 
throughout the year.
Dialight’s vertical integration strategy – setting 
up key production processes in-house, has 
delivered great results over the last few years, 
reducing costs and lead times, as well as 
increasing ﬂexibility and responsiveness. 
This shift began with signiﬁcant investment 
in: moulding equipment to support the Trafﬁc 
programme; new SMT and through hole 
equipment that enabled us to build light 
engines and power supplies for all LED Lighting; 
a second machining centre to machine High 
Bay castings; a powder coating plant to paint 
them; and, cable processing equipment to 
produce the ever increasing variety of wiring 
harnesses that we now use. 
www.dialight.com
The last 12 months has seen on-going improvements in respect 
of Dialight’s European Lighting products. Planning and teamwork 
were some of the key ingredients to delivering success in 2012.
 We’re building on what we’ve 
learnt over the years and will 
continue to grow by working 
closely together as a team. This 
means ensuring we understand 
the changing needs of our 
customers and developing new 
reliable technologies so that we 
keep delivering what they want 
at the right price and time”
Simon Scott
Operations Manager
Dialight Europe Limited (UK)
 » 17 direct sales personnel in the region
 » Strong regional distributors in Abu Dhabi, UAE and atar
 » Manu acturing acility in Newmarket, UK
 » Vertical integration o supply chain
Summary
Revenue
£25.9m
Performance review
Europe/ 
Middle East
Regional review
continued
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 18
Taken together, these developments mean 
that Dialight now has control of the majority 
of signiﬁcant processes required to produce 
products such as the High Bay.
2012 was also possibly Europe’ s busiest year 
so far but also one of the most organised as 
Dialight has made changes to working practices 
in order to deliver to customers. We’ve drastically 
increased the capacity of processes and assembly 
lines through a combination of investments and 
by running key areas 24/7 as required. 
Sales in mainland Europe ended 2012 with 
trials and orders of products at key hazardous 
customers as well as increased penetration 
of the industrial market with orders from large 
multinational companies Europe wide. In the 
Middle East we secured our ﬁrst large Oil 
and Gas offshore project in Abu Dhabi and 
our increasing sales presence now covers 
Saudi Arabia, Oman, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain 
and the UAE, giving us the opportunity to 
establish long-term concrete relations with 
key customers in the area.  Per ormance review
www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 19
Performance review
Producing 4.5 million cans a day for the 
UK and Northern Europe at its beverage 
canning plant in Milton Keynes UK, the 
company took the decision to review its 
lighting at this facility in order to reduce 
energy consumption.
The Milton Keynes production line and 
warehouse are in constant use and the lighting 
runs 24/7. The company previously had issues 
in two other plants with mercury vapour lamps, 
so had taken a decision to enclose them all 
or change them out altogether. It therefore 
looked at a new lighting solution that would 
save energy as well as meet safety standards.
With 340 x 400w mercury vapour high bays 
throughout the facility, energy costs were high, 
but maintenance was also a big consideration. 
The mercury vapour high bay lamps were 
averaging a 2–3 year lifespan and being replaced 
when they failed or looked ready to fail at a rate 
of around 40 per year. This often involved 
Case study
Consumer packaging company
Market: Heavy industrial
As a leading consumer packaging company with 83 manufacturing 
sites across the globe, Rexam makes the packaging for many of 
the world’s favourite brands, striving to produce it as efﬁciently 
and sustainably as possible. 
bringing in specialist hired riggers at a cost 
of £750 per day.
Rexam looked at six alternative lighting solutions 
from a variety of manufacturers, trying out 
samples over a three month test period, 
before choosing Dialight’s DuroSite
®
 Series 
LED High Bays on the combined basis of 
price and performance. Rather than re-wire 
the plant, they replaced the 400w mercury 
vapours one-for-one with 150w LED High 
Bays throughout the production 
and warehouse areas.
Rexam calculate that its lighting energy needs 
for the High Bays have reduced from 1,100kWh 
to 433kWh per year, saving £43,000 annually 
at a rate of £0.06/kWh, and estimates a 
payback period of a little over two years when 
compared with the alternative solution of open 
rated lamps. Further savings can be counted 
from the reduced maintenance burden thanks 
to Dialight’s continuous performance warranty.
 - Annual savings of £43,000 in energy costs
 - Replacement of 340 x 400w MV with 
150w LED High Bays
 - Over 60% reduction in energy needs
 - 460 tonnes annual reduction in CO
2
 emissions
 - Expensive maintenance eliminated
 - Improved safety and productivity
 - Payback in just over two years
Key acts:
Rexam, Milton Keynes, UK
View this case study online
www.dialight.com www.dialight.com
20 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Performance review
Strong nancial 
position
Revenue in 2012 is split 
geographically:
2012
% of T otal
2011
% of Total
North America 69.5 68.2
UK 9.0 10.3
Rest of Europe 9.9 11.6
Rest of World 11.6 9.9
This demonstrates the Group’s sensitivity to 
our North American business and the potential 
impact of US dollar exchange rates. The major 
currencies the Group is exposed to are the 
US Dollar and the Euro. The following exchange 
rates were used in translating the Income 
Statement and Consolidated statement of total 
ﬁnancial position of the Group and Company:
2012
Average
rate
2012
At reporting
date
2011
Average
rate
2011
At reporting
date
USD 1.58 1.63 1.60 1.55 
Euro 1.23 1.23 1.15 1.20
The overall impact of the currency movements 
has been to increase turnover by £0.5m and 
operating proﬁt by £0.2m.
As reported in the Interim Management Statement 
in November 2012 we will now report our key 
business segments as Lighting, Signals and 
Components. The Components segment includes 
a small element of disconnect non-utility switch 
revenue with the residual utility switch business 
now treated as Discontinued. The major and 
fastest growing segment is Lighting and the 
Group’s long-term growth is dependent 
on continued high growth in this segment. 
Going concern
The Group’s business activities together with 
the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are described within 
this Financial Review. The ﬁnancial position 
of the Group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described below.
The Group has considerable ﬁnancial resources 
together with a broad spread of customers 
across different geographic areas and 
industries. As a consequence, the Directors 
believe that the Group is well placed to manage 
its business risks successfully. The Directors 
have also considered the Group’s forecasts 
and projections. After making enquiries, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Income statement
Revenue in 2012 grew by 12.3% to £115.1m 
compared with £102.5m in 2011. This excludes 
revenue from discontinued operations. This 
performance is in mixed market conditions with 
Lighting growing by 72.7% growth year-on-year 
to £45.5m, Signals revenue down by 8.2% and 
Components revenue down 9.3% at £21.5m. 
Overall, sales pricing has remained broadly 
constant with growth in Lighting achieved 
purely in volume alone. There has been no 
impact of acquisitions in the year as Airinet 
(acquired in June 2012) is a development 
opportunity only with controls for our industrial 
LED lighting business with product expected 
to be launched in the ﬁrst half of 2013.
Financial review
The Group has 
considerable ﬁnancial 
resources together with a 
broad spread of customers 
across different geographic 
areas and industries. As a 
consequence, the Directors 
believe that the Group is 
well placed to manage its 
business risks successfully.  www.dialight.com
21
Performance review
Per ormance review
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
The tables beneath demonstrate the 
performance of the respective segments:
Lighting 2012 2011
Turnover £m 45.5 26.4
Operating proﬁt £m 8.6 2.0
Return on sales % 18.9 7.7
Proportion of Group 
operating proﬁt %* 37.3 10.8
Signals 2012 2011
Turnover £m 48.1 52.5
Operating proﬁt £m 11.3 11.8
Return on sales % 23.6 22.4
Proportion of Group 
operating proﬁt %* 49.3 63.1
Components 2012 2011
Turnover £m 21.5 23.7
Operating proﬁt £m 3.1 4.9
Return on sales % 14.4 20.6
Proportion of Group 
operating proﬁt %* 13.4 26.1
*  Note this is the Segment EBIT as a percentage of the 
Continuing Operations EBIT before central costs.
The Lighting segment has had a strong year. 
There has as noted been proﬁt growth in excess 
of 300% driven by the 72.7% increase in sales, a 
growth in contribution margin, of a 8.6 percentage 
point gain (from 35.7% in 2011 to 44.3% in 2012) 
and an almost 150% growth in return on sales 
percentage from 7.7% to 18.9%. The overall 
investment in sales resource has risen signiﬁcantly 
in 2012 with an incremental £2.7m of sales cost 
or a 74% increase on 2011. This has funded a 
more than doubling of sales headcount and this 
is key to our future growth. 
The Signals segment had a poor year with trafﬁc 
signal volumes down 19% and not able to be 
offset by obstruction signals revenue which only 
grew by 2% which is disappointing. Contribution 
margin remained in the 47% range with 
an overall return on sales in excess of 20%.
The Components segment, which as now 
reported includes the residual non-utility meter 
disconnect component activity, has had a 
marginally worse year, as expected, with market 
conditions weaker and with overall revenue 
reduced by 9.3% to £21.5m. Proﬁtability has 
been impacted by a less proﬁtable product 
mix as well as incurring one-off start-up cost 
of establishing our new Malaysian facility 
in the second half of 2012.
A signiﬁcant contributor to these increasing 
returns in Lighting particularly is the impact of 
the Group’s re-engineering and cost reduction 
initiatives. In 2012, the Group has invested 
over £5.2m (2011: £5.1m) on research and 
development which largely relates to the Signals 
and Lighting segments and which represents 
5.6% of the combined Signals and Lighting 
revenue. The key focus is to drive down the 
material cost of sales which for the Group as a 
whole represents 48.6% of revenue (2011: 48.9%) 
compared to direct labour which only represents 
4.6% of revenue (2011: 5.3%). The largest single 
material cost item the Group is exposed to is 
the cost of LED’s and forecast market price 
reductions in LED’s as well as increases in light 
output give the Group conﬁdence to make 
signiﬁcant investment in re-engineering to reduce 
the number of LED’s purchased per product. 
Overall there has been a 2.1% improvement 
in return on sales from material cost down.
In addition to the leverage of material cost through 
cost down which has driven up contribution 
margin we also achieved leverage of our 
plant overhead, development cost as well as 
administration costs. With overall sales revenue 
up 12.3% plant development cost was broadly 
ﬂat and administration costs marginally increased 
from £8.8m to £9.1m.  www.dialight.com
22 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Performance review
Increasing  
UK pro ts
Income statement continued
The overall impact of material cost down, leverage 
of plant overhead, leverage of development and 
leverage of administration cost has been to 
achieve £4.1m of incremental EBIT (2012 over 
2011) on £12.6m of incremental sales (2012 over 
2011). This is what we refer to as our Operating 
Leverage and the level achieved of 31.7% has 
marginally exceeded our target, communicated 
publically, of 30.0%. Lighting has however 
performed better with a 2012 operating leverage 
of 35%.
The only other signiﬁcant cost which we publicly 
state that we do not wish to leverage is sales 
and marketing costs, particularly in Lighting. 
We do not forecast to leverage these as the 
recruitment of additional sales staff is the key 
constraint to our future Lighting revenue growth. 
Sales and marketing cost grew by 21% in 2012 
to an increase in overall headcount from 25 heads 
at the end of 2011 to 55 heads at the end 
of 2012. We plan to double sales headcount 
again in 2013.
The Operating Leverage has increased the overall 
Group Return on Sales to 17.0% in 2012 from 
15.1% in 2011.
In 2011 there were one-off non-underlying 
expenses relating to the settlement of a dispute 
with a rail signalling customer of £2.8m and 
the buy-out of the US deﬁned beneﬁt pension 
scheme of £0.7m. The latter is disclosed 
in non-underlying ﬁnancial expense and the former 
in non-underlying administrative expenses. 
In 2011, we granted a lifetime licence to a 
third party for the use of a number of our utility 
disconnect switch patents. The income from 
this licence was £2.7m and is included within 
non-underlying other operating income.
The underlying tax charge for 2012 is £6.4m 
(2011: £5.2m) which represents an effective tax 
rate of 32.7%. This is lower than the effective rate 
of 33.3% in 2011 as the mix of proﬁt generated 
in the UK has increased together with the 
lower effective rates in the UK. As the trend 
of increasing UK proﬁts continues, this, together 
with lower future rates of UK corporation tax and 
the beneﬁt of the so called Patent Box lowering 
tax rates for UK companies with UK patents 
on the products its sells should enable 
the Group to continue to marginally lower 
the effective rate going forward.
Proﬁt for the period attributable to Equity 
Holders of the Company increased by 
40.4% to £13.6m from £9.7m in 2011.
EPS from continuing operations has increased 
32.3% to 41.4 pence in 2012 from 31.3 pence 
in 2011.
Consolidated statement of total 
financial position
Group net assets have increased to £63.0m 
from £54.8m in 2011. The main reason for this 
increase has been the increase in working capital 
to support the growth of the Group. Overall 
working capital has increased to £24.2m from 
£19.6m in 2011. The working capital to sales 
percentage has increased marginally to 21% of 
sales. Other increases in net assets have been 
investment in plant and equipment to expand 
capacity to support growth and increases 
in intangibles from the acquisitions of Airinet 
£4.9m (being upfront cash consideration 
of £1.6m as well as the future contingent 
consideration of £4.6m discounted to a 
present value of £3.3m).
We have a good mix and ageing of inventory 
moving forward to achieve our ambitious 
growth targets.
The split and movement in working capital 
is outlined below:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Inventories 19.6 15.8
Trade and other 
receivables 27.0 22.8
Trade and other 
payables (22.4) (19.1)
24.2 19.6
The Group’ s cash position at 31 December 2012 
was £15.0m compared with £13.7m at the end 
of 2011. This is after the additional working capital 
build to support growth, paying tax of £4.3m, the 
acquisition of Airinet for upfront cash consideration 
of £1.6m and dividends of £3.4m.
The Group has no debt other than potentially to its 
UK pension schemes which currently have a small 
deﬁcit of £1.2m (2011: £0.8m surplus). This deﬁcit 
has arisen as the corporate bond rate to discount 
the liabilities has fallen, the inﬂation rate used to 
pay pensions has increased as well as other 
changes in actuarial assumptions.
Cash flow
The signiﬁcant improvement in operating proﬁt 
has been offset by increases in working capital 
which has resulted in net cash from operations 
of £13.8m (2011: £12.4m). From this we have 
funded capital expenditure of £4.2m (2011: £2.5m), 
supported new product development to achieve 
Financial review 
continued www.dialight.com
23
Per ormance review
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Performance review
cost savings in product costing and other cost 
improvement of £2.8m (2011: £1.6m). There has 
also been tax of £4.3m paid in 2012, a signiﬁcant 
increase on the £1.7m paid in 2011 as the 
premium paid to buyout the US pension scheme 
of £2.3m in 2011 was fully allowed for tax, the 
acquisition of Airinet has been completed for 
£1.6m and dividends of £3.4m paid. 
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong 
capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor 
and market conﬁdence and to sustain future 
development of the business. The Board 
considers consolidated total equity as capital. 
As at 31 December 2012 this totalled £63.0m 
(2011: £54.8m).
In respect of dividend, the Board has 
a progressive dividend policy and aims 
for three times cover. The result for 2012 
was 3.2 times (2011: 3.0 times).
The Board has historically monitored Total 
Shareholder Return (“TSR”) compared to the 
FTSE SmallCap Index and FTSE Electronics/
Electrical Index to ensure that Dialight’s 
performance is in line with peer companies. Going 
forward performance will be compared to the 
FTSE mid-250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
There were no changes in the Group’s approach 
to capital management during the year.
Dividend
In line with the Group’s progressive dividend 
policy it is proposed to pay a ﬁnal dividend 
of 9.5 pence per share giving a total dividend 
for the year of 13.5 pence per share an increase 
of 35% over 2011 when an interim of 3.3 pence 
per share and a ﬁnal of 6.7 pence per share 
was paid (total 10.0 pence per share). The ﬁnal 
dividend, if approved, would be paid to members 
on the register on 12 April on 8 May 2013.
Banking
The Group has its banking relationships with 
Barclays Bank PLC and our US subsidiary 
has its banking relationships with Wells Fargo. 
The Group has a £3m overdraft facility as well 
as a revolving secured credit facility of £7m. 
There was no use of either of these facilities 
at the end of 2012 or 2011.
The Group has relationships with Capital One in 
the US and SME EuroFinance in Europe to offer 
ﬁnance facilities to its customers. These facilities 
are not underwritten by the Group.
Mark Fryer
Group Finance Director www.dialight.com
24 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Performance review
The following section sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing 
the Group. There may be other risks and uncertainties, which are not 
yet known or which are currently considered to be immaterial, but later 
turn out to have a material impact. Some of the areas set out will be 
outside of any inﬂuence that the business may exert. Should any of the 
risks actually materialise then Dialight’s business, ﬁnancial condition, 
prospects and share price could be materially adversely affected.
Principal risks 
and uncertainties
Changes in government 
legislation or policy
National and local policies with regard 
to energy savings in a number of areas 
such as transport and communication 
are constantly evolving.
This should favour Dialight’s efforts in growing sales in some key niche current and potential 
opportunities identiﬁed by the Signals segment. Additionally, legislation may introduce new higher and 
more exacting speciﬁcations for existing products which will require product redesign and regulatory 
re-certiﬁcation. Therefore changes in product speciﬁcations should favour Dialight in giving it an 
advantage over competition.
Mitigating activities include:
 - It is Dialight’s policy to operate in highly regulated markets which require suppliers to achieve 
compliance with demanding product standards.
 - Our design and engineering departments have a proven track record in technical ability evidenced by 
strong working relationships with customers and regulatory bodies, the design and introduction of 
new products and a portfolio of registered intellectual property.
Macro-economic conditions
The Group’s sales and proﬁts may 
be impacted by spending slowdowns  
and/or increasing inﬂationary pressures.
Area o risk
A continuing signiﬁcant slowdown in economic conditions globally and in certain territories such as North America 
could have a material effect on sales and operating proﬁt, in particular for the Components segment. Increasing 
inﬂationary pressures on areas such as raw material and sub-contract costs may have an adverse impact in 
operating margins. The current adverse conditions for public organisations to reduce and/or defer their capital 
spending budgets may impact on sales of some of our products. 
Mitigating activities include:
 - We closely monitor the general electronics demand index as well as industry forecasts so as to become 
aware of market trends.
 - Monthly data provided by distributors in America is examined, documented and reviewed as this is also 
considered to provide valuable information on market demand. 
Competitive environment
We operate in competitive markets and 
there exists a threat that existing competitors 
or potential new entrants will be successful 
in taking marketshare.
The threat may, for example, come from an extremely aggressive pricing policy for larger trafﬁc contract 
bids in America and Europe.
Mitigating activities include:
 - Our focus on identifying, developing and maintaining sales routes to market, servicing 
strong customer relationships, competitive and leading-edge product portfolios and cost-efﬁcient 
manufacturing plants support Dialight as a major player in its chosen markets and helps to reduce 
the risk of losing market share to competition.
Laws and regulations
The Group’s operations are subject to 
a wide range of laws and regulations 
including employment, environmental 
and health and safety legislation.
Mitigating activities include:
 - Group policies and procedures are documented and communicated throughout the Group. All Group 
companies have an employee handbook detailing employment practices and staff who receive the 
appropriate training and support to operate in their roles.
 - A Governance and Risk Committee has been established to monitor compliance with existing policies and 
procedures and consider improvements and changes to these on an ongoing basis.
Description and mitigating activity www.dialight.com
25
Per ormance review
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Area o risk Description and mitigating activity
Strategy or revenue growth 
– LED Lighting
The achievement of our goals is dependent 
on growing sales in the chosen markets for 
industrial white lighting.
The adoption by the market of LEDs for new applications is principally dependent on the increased efﬁciency 
and reduced cost of LEDs versus existing technologies such as ﬂuorescent or high-intensity discharge. The 
achievability of the Group’ s longer-term sales growth would be seriously at risk if the parties who are developing 
the LEDs did not achieve the expected progress such that new applications did not become feasible.
Additionally with the fast-changing technology world that exists there is a possibility of a technology being 
developed that supersedes LEDs.
Mitigating activities include:
 - Our engineers are actively contributing with their presence on industry related boards, attendance 
and presentations at industry seminars etc, so as to be proactively involved and to keep abreast 
of developments on a regular basis.
Intellectual property
The development and ownership of 
intellectual property is critical in underpinning 
the growth potential for the business.
The Group operates a stringent policy on the sharing of know-how with third parties as well as having a well 
deﬁned policy on the in-house identiﬁcation and registration of patents. If the Group fails to or is unable to 
protect, maintain and enforce its existing intellectual property, it may result in the loss for the Group of the 
exclusive right to use technologies and processes which are included or used in its businesses.
Mitigating activities include:
 - Plans to improve the quality of the new product introduction systems across the businesses have 
been implemented with good progress being made as evidenced by the expanding patent portfolio.
Currency exchange
The Group is exposed to translation 
exchange rate risk.
As a signiﬁcant proportion of the Group’s results, assets and liabilities are reported in US Dollars and 
Euros, they are subject to exchange rate risk when translated to UK Sterling for incorporation into the 
Group’ s results. In addition, transactions are carried out by Group companies in currencies other than 
UK sterling leading to transactional foreign exchange risk.
Mitigating activities include:
 - Where possible the Group nets such exposures and will maintain a hedging programme utilising 
foreign exchange forward contracts and currency overdrafts to cover speciﬁc contracts and such 
proportion of other anticipated exposures as can be estimated with reasonable certainty.
Acquisition strategy
Inability to identify suitable acquisition 
targets and to integrate successfully 
acquired businesses into the Group.
The successful implementation of Dialight’s acquisition strategy depends on its ability to identify targets, 
successful completion of the transaction, achievement of an acceptable rate of return and a successful 
and timely integration post-acquisition.
Mitigating activities include:
 - The Board plans to make acquisitions of businesses where the targets ﬁt appropriately into the 
Group strategy by strengthening Dialight’s product range and existing technologies, offering new 
and attractive sales routes to markets, having high performance and motivated management and 
having a proven proﬁt record.
Financial markets
Turmoil in global ﬁnancial markets could 
pose risks to ﬁnancial position.
Any turmoil poses risks to the ﬁnancial position of both our customers and suppliers, and also to the 
ability of the Group to renegotiate bank facilities.
Mitigating activities include:
 - There are ongoing reviews of supplier bases to ensure wherever possible that there is not 
over-reliance on one speciﬁc supplier.
 - The Group has a banking relationship with a number of banks. Currently the Group has not drawn 
down any borrowings against the existing facility with Barclays Bank plc. Regular contact will be 
kept with the banks to ensure that they understand the business and its requirements.
 - Customers are subject to credit checks and there is very close review of trade debtor days 
outstanding and overdue amounts. Purchase limits are set for all customers.
If a product of the Group does not conform to agreed speciﬁcations or is otherwise defective, the Group 
may be subject to claims by its customers arising from end-product defects or other such claims.
Mitigating activities include:
 - The Group carries appropriate product liability insurance.
 - We have a well developed stringent quality control system to help identify any defects before they 
are despatched to customers.
Product liability risks
Products should conform 
to agreed speciﬁcations. Governance
www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 26
Chairman’s overview/
Board of directors
Roy Burton 
(65)
Group Chief Executive
Appointed President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of 
Dialight Corporation in July 2002, Roy Burton became 
Group Chief Executive in September 2005. Roy has 
many years’ experience in the electronics industry, 
having started his career in the UK working with 
Philips Electronics, ITT and Amphenol Corporation 
with whom he relocated to the US. In 1994 he 
became Group President Electronics for Thomas 
and Betts Corporation headquartered in Memphis, 
Tennessee and prior to his appointment at Dialight 
was Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Coraza Systems Inc. 
Roy is based at Dialight Corporation’s headquarters 
in Farmingdale, New Jersey.
Mark Fryer 
(45)
Group Finance Director
Mark Fryer was appointed as Group Finance Director on 
31 August 2010. Prior to his appointment Mark was the 
Group Finance and Business Development Director of 
Manganese Bronze Holdings plc (2002 to August 2010). 
Prior to this he worked at GKN plc as Finance Director 
of the Industrial Services Division and was latterly 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of a GKN subsidiary in the 
US. He was also Financial Controller of Mercury 
Communications, a subsidiary of Cable & Wireless plc. 
Mark is a Chartered Accountant, having qualiﬁed with 
Ernst & Young in 1988.
Stephen Bird 
(52)
Senior Independent Director
Stephen Bird joined Dialight as a Non-Executive 
Director on 10 January 2013 and was appointed 
Senior Independent Director on 21 February 2013. 
Stephen is a member of the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees. He is currently Group 
Chief Executive of The Vitec Group plc, an international 
Group principally serving customers in the broadcast, 
photographic and military, aerospace and government 
markets headquartered in the UK. He was formerly 
a Non-Executive Director of Umeco plc and previously 
Divisional Managing Director of Weir Oil & Gas, 
part of Weir Group plc. Prior to this he worked in 
senior roles at Danaher Corporation, Black & Decker, 
Unipart Group, Hepworth PLC and Technicolor Group.
You will see that the layout of the following 
pages is slightly different to that of last year 
but still provides all that information that 
is required by existing legislation, the 
UK Listing Rules and current corporate 
governance requirements. 
The Company has again seen signiﬁcant 
growth during 2012 and this continues 
to present challenges to those structures 
and processes in place to manage the 
Group’s compliance with both external 
and internal regulations. Expansion into 
new geographies including Malaysia 
and Singapore ensures that Dialight’s 
governance framework is continually 
evolving to accommodate changing 
conditions and requirements.
The new Corporate Governance Code 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council 
(“FRC”) in September 2012 has been 
reviewed by the Board although the 
Company is reporting against the Corporate 
Governance Code published in June 2010 
in respect of the 2012 ﬁnancial year. 
Our disclosure in relation to Directors’ 
remuneration has been slightly amended 
to reﬂect the changing landscape and 
this can be found on pages 42 to 49. 
Governance developments will be 
kept under observation by the Board.
Finally, I would like to extend a warm 
welcome to our two new Non-Executive 
Directors who joined the Board on 
10 January 2013. Stephen Bird and 
Tracey Graham assumed their respective 
roles of Senior Independent Director 
and Chair of Remuneration Committee 
respectively, with effect from 
21 February 2013. 
Bill Ronald
Chairman
Bill Ronald 
(57)
Chairman
On 12 September 2012 Bill Ronald was appointed 
Group Chairman and Chairman of the Nominations 
Committee following the retirement of Harry Tee CBE. 
Having joined the Board in May 2009, Bill previously 
held the positions of Senior Independent Director 
(from August 2010), Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and member of the Audit Committee. 
Bill remains a member of the Remuneration Committee. 
Outside of the Group Bill is also Chairman of the 
Compleat Food Group, Senior Non-Executive Director 
for Halfords Group and Chair of Trustees of the 
Muscular Dystrophy Campaign. 
www.dialight.com 27
Governance
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
www.dialight.com
Find out more online
www.dialight.com
Richard Stuckes 
(45)
Non-Executive Director
Richard Stuckes joined Dialight as a Non-Executive 
Director in May 2009 and is a member of the Audit, 
Nominations and Remuneration Committees. He is 
currently the managing director of the paints business 
in EMEA for AkzoNobel who acquired the business 
from Imperial Chemical Industries (“ICI”) in 2008. 
Richard originally joined ICI Paints on 1 January 2005 
as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, ICI Paints UK and Ireland. 
Prior to this, Richard gained extensive experience 
in the lighting industry through his 13 years with 
Philips Lighting, including his role as Managing 
Director for the UK activity and for both the 
Spanish and Portuguese businesses.
Robert Lambourne 
(60)
Non-Executive Director
Robert Lambourne joined Dialight as a Non-Executive 
Director in May 2010. He is Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and a member of the Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees. He is a Chartered Accountant 
and has held a number of public company executive 
directorships, most recently as Finance Director of RMC 
Group Plc. He is an experienced Non-Executive Director 
of both public and private companies in the UK and 
overseas. In the UK, he has been a Non-Executive Director 
of Pace Micro T echnology plc, Abacus Group Plc and 
Analyst Investment Management plc as well as a 
number of private companies. Outside the UK, he has 
been a Non-Executive Director of Huttig Inc in the USA 
and Chairman of Penox SA in France. He is currently 
the Chairman of Gabem Holdings Limited, Gabem 
Management Limited and The Learn Centre Limited 
and is Non-Executive Director of The Tintometer Limited.
Tracey Graham 
(47)
Non-Executive Director
Tracey Graham joined Dialight as a Non-Executive 
Director on 10 January 2013 and was appointed Chair 
of the Remuneration Committee on 21 February 2013. 
Tracey is also a member of the Audit and Nominations 
Committees. Tracey was previously Chief Executive 
of Talaris Limited, an international cash management 
technology business until 2010 where she led the 
company’s management buy-out from De La Rue Plc, 
backed by private equity house Carlyle in 2008. Prior 
to this, Tracey held senior positions in banking and 
insurance with HSBC and AXA insurance. Tracey is 
currently Non-Executive Director of RPS Group plc 
and Albemarle and Bond Holdings plc, and chairs 
their respective Remuneration Committees. 
She is also a Non-Executive Director of the 
Royal London Group.
Left to right, top to bottom: Bill Ronald, Roy Burton, 
Mark Fryer, Stephen Bird, Tracey Graham, 
Robert Lambourne, Richard Stuckes. 28
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
www.dialight.com
Governance and 
accountability
Directors’ 
and Corporate 
Governance  
report
Committees and these are documented through 
the relevant committee terms of reference. The 
matters reserved for Board decision and the 
committees’ terms of reference are reviewed 
on an annual basis. These are available on 
the Company’s website at www.dialight.com 
or from the Company Secretary at Exning Road, 
Newmarket, Suffolk, CB8 0AX (“Registered Ofﬁce”).
The Board delegates authority, within clearly 
deﬁned limits, to the Group Chief Executive and 
the Group Finance Director (“the Executive”) for 
acquisitions, investments, capital expenditure 
and other major contracts committing the 
Group’s expenditures or other such liabilities. 
The Executive, in turn, may further delegate this 
authority to senior management or Directors 
of Group subsidiary companies. Levels of 
authority delegated to the Executive and 
senior management and Directors of Group 
subsidiaries are reviewed from time to time.
The Board held seven scheduled meetings 
during 2012 including a three-day annual 
strategy and planning meeting hosted in the UK. 
They also met on a number of other occasions 
as the situation and circumstances required. 
Further details of Directors’ attendance at 
all scheduled meetings of the Board and its 
Committees can be found in the table on 
page 29. Attendance details in respect of 
Stephen Bird and Tracey Graham do not 
appear as both were appointed following 
the end of the year on 10 January 2013 and, 
neither were invited to or attended any meetings 
during 2012. There are eight Board meetings 
scheduled to take place in 2013.
Division of responsibilities
There are clearly established roles for the 
Chairman and Group Chief Executive. Individual, 
documented role statements are available 
on the Company’s website or from the 
Registered Ofﬁce.
UK Corporate Governance Code
The main corporate governance rules that 
apply to the Group for the year ended 
31 December 2012 are contained in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (“Code”) 
as published and updated by the FRC in June 2010 
and the UK Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) 
Listing Rules. These require Dialight to describe, 
in its annual report, its corporate governance 
from two points of view: the ﬁrst dealing 
generally with the application of the Code’s 
main principles and the second dealing 
speciﬁcally with non-compliance with any 
of the Code’s provisions. It is the view of the 
Board that Dialight has been compliant with 
the provisions of the Code throughout the year 
ended 31 December 2012. This statement, 
together with the Remuneration report, explains 
how Dialight has applied the main principles and 
complied with the provisions of the Code during 
the year.
Leadership
The role of the Board
The Board is accountable to the Group’s 
stakeholders, including its shareholders, for the 
standards of governance operated throughout 
the Group. It is committed to high standards 
throughout all of the Group’s operating locations.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule 
of matters that are speciﬁcally reserved for 
its decision including, the approval of annual 
and interim results; recommendation of 
dividends; approval of annual budgets; review 
of Group strategic plans; approval of larger 
capital expenditure and investment proposals; 
review of the overall system of internal control 
and risk management; and, the review 
of corporate governance arrangements. 
Speciﬁc responsibilities are delegated to 
the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration 
Membership of the Board
In 2012 the Board consisted of a Chairman, 
two Executive Directors and three Non-Executive 
Directors. Following Harry Tee CBE’s retirement 
in September 2012 this reduced the number 
of Non-Executive Directors to two as Bill Ronald 
was appointed as Chairman. The balance 
has once again changed in 2013 with the 
successful appointment of two additional 
Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman
Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors
2012
2013 www.dialight.com
29
Governance
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until 
additional Directors were appointed. Stephen Bird 
and Tracey Graham became Senior Independent 
Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 
respectively, with effect from 21 February 2013, 
at which point Robert Lambourne relinquished 
these additional responsibilities.
All Non-Executive Directors constructively 
challenge the Board and assist in developing 
the strategy of the Group and scrutinise the 
performance of management against the 
Group’ s objectives and strategy. The Chairman 
holds meetings with the Non-Executive 
Directors without the Executive Directors 
present on a range of matters whilst the 
Senior Independent Director does the same 
with other Non-Executive Directors as part of 
the Chairman’ s annual performance appraisal 
as well as on such other occasions as required.
Board agendas are prepared by the Chairman 
in conjunction with the Group Chief Executive 
and the Company Secretary. At each meeting 
the Board is provided with regular and timely 
information on the ﬁnancial performance of 
businesses within the Group, and of the Group 
as a whole, together with reports on trading, 
health and safety, performance, markets and 
other relevant issues. Board and committee 
papers are distributed to Directors in advance 
of Board and committee meetings to facilitate 
informed debate at the meeting.
The Non-Executive Directors
Following the appointment of Stephen Bird 
and Tracey Graham on 10 January 2013, 
the Board now comprises four independent 
Non-Executive Directors, the remaining two 
being Robert Lambourne and Richard Stuckes. 
Following Bill Ronald’s appointment as 
Group Chairman on 12 September 2012, 
Robert Lambourne took on Bill Ronald’s 
existing responsibilities and became Acting 
Senior Independent Director and Acting 
The Group Chief Executive has delegated 
responsibility for the management of the 
Group’s day-to-day operations to senior 
management. In addition he is responsible for 
the preparation and presentation of strategic 
options for the Group’s growth in shareholder 
value and sets the operating plans and budgets 
required to deliver the agreed strategy. He is 
also responsible for ensuring that the Group 
maintains appropriate risk management and 
control mechanisms.
The Chairman
In addition to other matters, the Chairman has 
responsibility for the leadership of the Board, 
ensuring the effectiveness of the Board, 
organising and planning Board meetings 
and the effective and timely communication 
of information to shareholders. The Chairman 
provides advice, counsel and support to 
the Group Chief Executive as and when required 
and maintains open and continual contact with 
the Non-Executive Directors to allow any issues 
to be addressed outside of the formal scope 
of the regular Board meetings.
Read our committees 
terms of reference online
www.dialight.com
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nominations
1
Committee
Bill Ronald
2
7/7 4/4 4/4 5/10
3
 
Roy Burton
4
7/7 n/a n/a 10/10
Mark Fryer
4
7/7 n/a n/a n/a 
Robert Lambourne 7/7 4/4 4/4 10/10
Richard Stuckes 7/7 4/4 4/4 9/10 
1  There were a large number of Nominations Committee meetings during 2012 to consider both the succession 
to Harry Tee CBE as Chairman and the search process for two additional Non-Executive Directors.
2 Bill Ronald was appointed Group Chairman on 12 September 2012.
3  Bill Ronald was not invited and did not attend those Nominations Committee meetings regarding the search 
for a successor to Harry Tee CBE although he did attend all of those for which he received an invitation.
4  Neither Roy Burton or Mark Fryer are members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and attend 
meetings by invitation only.
Number of meetings attended www.dialight.com
30
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Board effectiveness, 
composition and 
appointments
Effectiveness
Composition of the Board
In addition to the Non-Executive Directors, 
the Board also includes three further Directors: 
the Chairman; the Group Chief Executive; 
and the Group Finance Director.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are 
considered to be independent in accordance 
with the Code and it is thought that the current 
balance on the Board ensures that no individual 
or group dominates the Board’s decision 
making process. The Non-Executive Directors 
are independent of management and are free 
from any relationship which could affect the 
exercise of their independent judgement and 
therefore meet the criteria set out in the Code. Their 
biographies appear on pages 26 and 27. These 
demonstrate a range of experience that brings 
independent judgement to issues of strategy, 
performance, resources and standards of 
conduct which are vital to the future success 
of the Group. The Board has considered and 
conﬁrmed that each Non-Executive Director 
continues to demonstrate that he has sufﬁcient 
time to devote to the Company’s business.
Each Non-Executive Directors’ knowledge and 
understanding of the Group is enhanced by visits 
to Group facilities and through presentations from 
members of senior management.
No individuals apart from the Committee 
Chairmen and Committee members are allowed 
to be present at Committee meetings although 
other individuals, including the Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group 
HR Director and external auditors, may attend 
meetings at the prior invitation of the relevant 
Committee Chairman.
Appointments to the Board
The Board has established a Nominations 
Committee to lead the process for all Board 
appointments, making recommendations where 
required. Membership details of the Committee 
can be found in the table below.
Group structure and Committee membership
Bill Ronald (Chairman)
Stephen Bird*
Roy Burton
Tracey Graham* 
Robert Lambourne
Richard Stuckes
Tracey Graham (Chairman)*
Stephen Bird*
Robert Lambourne
Bill Ronald
Richard Stuckes
Robert Lambourne (Chairman)
Stephen Bird*
Tracey Graham*
Richard Stuckes
The Board
Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee
Members Members Members
Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance report 
continued
The composition of the Board 
demonstrates a range of 
experience that brings 
independent judgement to 
issues of strategy, performance, 
resources and standards of 
conduct which are vital to the 
future success of the Group.
* Stephen Bird and Tracey Graham’s appointments to these Committees became effective from 21 February 2013. Neither were members during the year under review. www.dialight.com
31
Governance
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
With the exception of Harry Tee CBE who retired 
on 12 September 2012, all members served 
throughout the year and, with the exception 
of Roy Burton, are considered independent 
pursuant to the Code. 
The Nominations Committee is responsible for 
reviewing the size, structure and composition 
of the Board, making recommendations 
where necessary, giving consideration to the 
provision of adequate succession planning for 
Senior Executives and Directors and making 
recommendations regarding re-election and 
re-appointment of Directors should this be 
required. In appropriate cases, recruitment 
consultants are engaged to assist with any 
recruitment process. During the year the 
Committee led the process to appoint a new 
Group Chairman in advance of Harry Tee CBE’s 
retirement as well as the search for two 
additional Non-Executive Directors to join the 
Board. Harry Tee CBE did not attend any 
meetings concerning the succession to the 
Group Chairman role as required pursuant 
to the Code. Bill Ronald, having been put 
forward as a candidate did not attend any 
Committee meetings regarding this issue either.
Commitment
Service contracts of the Executive Directors 
and the terms and conditions of appointment 
of the Non-Executive Directors are available for 
inspection at the Company’s Registered Ofﬁce 
during normal business hours on any weekday 
(except Bank Holidays) and at the Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”). Further details of 
these can be found in the Remuneration report 
on pages 42 to 49.
Development
All new Directors receive a full and formal 
induction programme on joining the Board. 
This includes the provision of information on 
the Group, its products and markets, ﬁnancial 
information and general advice on Directors’ 
duties under the Companies Act 2006 and 
the UK Listing Rules. Visits to Group locations 
also form part of the process as do meetings 
with key senior management.
Further training needs are provided as required 
following discussion between individual 
Directors and the Chairman. Any resources 
required in this respect are provided by 
the Company.
Information and support
The Company Secretary, in accordance with 
guidance from the Chairman, takes the lead 
on ensuring that the Board and its Committees 
receive the necessary information that they 
require to operate efﬁciently. All Directors 
have access to the advice and services of 
the Company Secretary, who is responsible to 
the Board for ensuring that Board procedures 
are followed and that applicable rules and 
regulations are complied with. The Company 
Secretary is also responsible for advising the 
Board, through the Chairman, on all matters 
of governance and best practice. In addition, 
the Company Secretary ensures that the 
Directors receive appropriate training as 
necessary. Directors may take independent 
professional advice on any matter at the 
Company’ s expense if they deem it necessary 
in order to carry out their responsibilities effectively. 
No such advice was taken during the year.
Evaluation
Evaluation of the Board and its Committees is 
by way of responses to a questionnaire issued 
to all members of the Board. Feedback from 
these questionnaires is then gathered and 
collated by the Company Secretary for 
presentation to the Board in order to facilitate 
discussion. The Chairman is responsible for 
conducting the performance evaluation of the 
Group Chief Executive. The Non-Executive 
Directors, led by the Senior Independent 
Director, are responsible for evaluating the 
performance of the Chairman and the Group 
Chief Executive conducts evaluations of 
the other Executive Directors and senior 
management. The Board will look to conduct 
an external evaluation for 2013.
The questionnaire issued to Board members 
covers a range of topics including the Board’ s 
remit, its objectives and its procedures and 
administration. The ﬁndings from the results 
of this exercise were submitted to the Board 
in February 2013. A number of issues were 
identiﬁed and appropriate actions agreed 
for the future, for example the need for an 
external Board evaluation in 2013.
Re-election
The Company’s Articles of Association 
(“Articles”) and the Companies Act 2006 
govern the appointment and re-appointment 
of directors. However, the Board has decided 
to adopt provision B.7.1 of the Code so that 
all Directors will stand for re-election on an 
annual basis. An amendment to the Articles 
is proposed at the forthcoming AGM to 
formalise this provision. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 32
Governance
Accountability 
and auditors
The following controls are in place which enable the Board 
to review the effectiveness of its systems of internal control: 
Management structure
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal 
schedule of matters speciﬁcally reserved for decision by the Board. 
Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for speciﬁc aspects 
of the Group’s affairs. The Executive Directors also meet regularly with 
senior management of the operating businesses on a range of issues.
Risk assessment
Risk registers are produced by the regions and centrally by Dialight plc, 
on a quarterly basis. Completed registers are then considered and 
reviewed by the Governance and Risk Committee (comprising the 
Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and representatives 
from the business, where required). This results in the production of what 
are considered to be the Group’s principal risks for presentation to the 
Board for consideration and approval.
The registers classify risks as strategic, macro-economic, operational, 
ﬁnancial and organisational or health and safety/compliance risks and 
include information on the risk, its likely consequences, an assessment 
of the risks’ impact, an assessment of the risks’ likelihood, details of the 
controls to mitigate risks, a rating of the existing controls and details of 
the owner of each risk.
Health and safety issues are also considered and reviewed by the Group 
Health and Safety Committee (comprising the Company Secretary, the 
Group Health and Safety Ofﬁcer and various nominated health and safety 
individuals from each site worldwide). This Committee was established 
to provide oversight, challenge and support implementation of the 
Group’s Health and Safety Policy and to ensure Group wide compliance 
with obligations to provide a safe working environment for all staff.
Code of Business Conduct and supporting policies
In 2011, the Board approved the Code of Business Conduct (“CBC”), 
which set out the standards for what Dialight believe constitute 
acceptable behaviour for all employees as well as the Group’s dealings 
with shareholders, customers, suppliers and agents and its impact on 
the environment and the community. The CBC is underpinned by a 
number of supporting policies. Both the CBC and the supporting policies 
contain provisions that cover implementation, compliance and monitoring 
to ensure consistency of application throughout the Group. The 
Governance and Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring and 
reporting on the Group’s compliance with the CBC and supporting 
policies to the Audit Committee.
Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance report 
continued
Effectiveness continued
Financial and business reporting 
The basis on which the Company generates 
and preserves value over the longer term and 
the strategy for delivering the objectives of 
the Company can be found in the Business 
model, in the Performance review section 
on pages 10 to 11.
Risk management and  
internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the 
Group’s system of internal control and risk 
management and for reviewing its effectiveness 
on an annual basis. Such systems can only 
be designed to manage, and not eliminate, 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. 
They can provide reasonable, but not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 33
Governance
Governance
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee monitors, through reports to it by the Group Finance 
Director, the controls that are in force and any perceived gaps in the 
control environment. The Audit Committee also considers and determines 
relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by these reports or 
the external auditors, as well as considering issues raised in accordance 
with the Group’s Conﬁdential Disclosure Policy.
Internal audit
The Group Finance Director has instigated a series of peer group ﬁnancial 
control reviews during 2012 following the successful use of these in 2011. 
The Audit Committee agrees the annual scope of these reviews in 
advance and this scope may be revised from time to time according 
to changing business requirements and circumstances. Reporting 
of the ﬁndings of these assessments is initially to executive management 
to seek response and corrective actions which are then reported to the 
Audit Committee. This process has been supplemented with further 
testing in 2012 including a detailed review of security systems by 
specialist external consultants.
For 2013 the same peer group internal audit approach will be adopted, 
supplemented by additional specialist external assessments of 
the Group’s ﬁnancial systems and controls. The scope of these 
assessments has been agreed by the Audit Committee in advance. 
Insurance
The Group maintains insurance cover to insure all major risk areas based 
on the scale of the risk and availability of cover in the external market.
Legal and compliance
Reports are presented to the Board on any material legal or compliance 
issues that may impact the Group.
Compliance with controls
A process of control risk self-assessment is used in the Group where 
senior managers are required to detail and certify controls in operation 
to ensure the control environment in their business area is appropriate. 
They also conﬁrm monthly, in writing, that risk management processes 
and appropriate controls are in place and are operating effectively.
The Board conﬁrms that it has conducted a review of the system 
of internal controls in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 
covering all material controls, including ﬁnancial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Manual
The existing Group Policies and Procedures Manual includes detail 
concerning delegation of authority and authorisation levels, segregation 
of duties and other control procedures together with accounting 
policies and procedures. 
Quality and integrity of personnel
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through 
high recruitment standards and ongoing development and training. 
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control 
environment. Ethical standards the Company expects from its staff are 
also communicated through the CBC and relevant supporting policies.
Financial information
There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting 
system. Each year the Board approves the annual budget and updated 
business strategic plan. Key risk areas are identiﬁed and reported to the 
Board. Performance is monitored on a monthly basis against budget 
and the prior year and relevant actions identiﬁed.
The business produces detailed ﬁve-year strategy and one-year 
business plans. Plans will include consideration of the ﬁnancial 
projections and the evaluation of business alternatives. Business 
plans are presented by each management team to the Board as 
part of the strategic review meeting.
The Board receives and reviews monthly management accounts 
together with full year forecasts which are updated monthly. 
Performance against forecast and budget is closely monitored.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director submit 
papers to the Board on a monthly basis that focus on key developments, 
performance and issues in the businesses.
Investment appraisal
Capital expenditure and research and development projects are 
regulated by budgetary process and authorisation levels set out in 
the Manual. For expenditure beyond speciﬁed levels, detailed written 
proposals have to be submitted to the Board for approval. Reviews 
are carried out after the acquisition is complete and, for some projects 
during the acquisition period, to monitor expenditure; major overruns 
are investigated. Due diligence work is carried out if a business is to 
be acquired. www.dialight.com
34
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Details of the role and activities of the 
Remuneration Committee during the year can 
be found in the Directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 42 to 49. Membership information can 
be found on page 30. Robert Lambourne was 
appointed Acting Chairman of the Committee 
following Bill Ronald’s appointment as Group 
Chairman on 12 September 2012 until the 
appointment of a new chair in February 2013. 
Bill Ronald continues to be a member of the 
Committee as he was considered independent 
on his appointment as Chairman pursuant 
to provision D.2.1 of the Code.
The Committee has oversight of the internal 
audit process.
The Committee considers the cost-effectiveness, 
independence and objectivity of KPMG Audit Plc 
(“Auditors” or “KPMG”), the external auditors, 
on a regular basis, agrees their level of 
remuneration, and reviews the extent of 
non-audit services provided by KPMG during 
the year. The Auditors bi-annually conﬁrm their 
policies to ensure independence and provide 
the Committee with a report on their own 
internal quality control procedures.
Committee meetings are attended by the 
Auditors at the invitation of the Committee 
Chairman to ensure full communication of 
matters relating to the audit. The Committee 
also meets with the Auditors without the 
Executive Directors present to discuss the 
adequacy of controls and any material 
judgemental areas.
Prior approval of the provision of any non-audit 
services must be provided by the Group Finance 
Director, although assignments with proposed 
fees over £20,000 require the approval of the 
Committee as a whole. This serves to ensure 
that independence is maintained and other 
potential providers of the service under discussion 
have also been adequately considered.
Membership details of the Audit Committee 
can be found on page 30. With the exception 
of Bill Ronald, whose membership ceased 
upon his appointment as Group Chairman 
on 12 September 2012, Stephen Bird and 
Tracey Graham, who were appointed on 
10 January 2013, all members of the Committee 
served throughout the year and are considered 
independent pursuant to the Code. The Board 
considers that the Committee Chairman has 
recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience and 
an understanding of accounting and ﬁnancial 
issues relevant to the industries in which the 
Group operates.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing 
a wide range of matters including the half year 
and annual accounts before their submission 
to the Board for approval and monitoring the 
controls that are in force to ensure the integrity 
of the information reported to the shareholders. 
The Committee makes recommendations to the 
Board on the appointment and responsibilities 
of external auditors and on their remuneration 
both for audit and non-audit work and 
discusses the nature, scope and results 
of the audit with external auditors.
The Committee monitors risk management 
and internal control processes as part of its 
responsibilities and reviews reports on the 
effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal 
ﬁnancial control, ﬁnancial reporting and risk 
management. The Committee also monitors the 
integrity of internal ﬁnancial controls and it will 
assess the scope and the effectiveness of the 
established systems to identify, assess, manage 
and monitor ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial risks. 
Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance report 
continued
Full Remuneration report
p42
Audit Committee  
and Auditors
Remuneration  
Committee www.dialight.com
35
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Governance
Shareholder relations 
are a Board priority
Other statutory  
information
Principal activities
Dialight plc (“the Company”) is the holding 
company of the Dialight Group of Companies, 
the world leader in applied LED technology. The 
Group’s operations comprise three segments: 
Lighting; Signals; and Components. Details 
of each segment’s operations can be found 
in the Performance Review on pages 7 to 9. 
Business review and management report
The Board is required to present a fair view of 
the business performance of the Group during 
the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2012, 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group and the future developments 
of the business. The information that satisﬁes the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 can 
be found in the Overview, Performance review 
and Sustainability report sections on pages 
1 to 25 and 39 to 41. Each is incorporated by 
reference into, and forms part of, this Directors’ 
and Corporate Governance report.
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.5(2) 
also requires the Annual Report to include a 
management report. The information that fulﬁls 
this requirement can be found in the Overview 
and Performance review sections on pages 
1 to 25 and this Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance report on pages 28 to 38.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are 
given high priority. The Chairman has overall 
responsibility for ensuring that there is effective 
communication with investors including being 
aware of the views of major shareholders on 
matters such as corporate governance.
On a day-to-day basis the Board’s primary 
contact with major shareholders is via the Group 
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, 
who have regular dialogue with individual 
institutional shareholders and deliver 
presentations to analysts after the full and 
half year results. Copies of the shareholder 
presentations are made available on the 
website at www.Dialight.com.
The Non-Executive Directors are kept appraised 
of shareholder views through the provision of 
a report at each Board meeting on shareholder 
activity. In addition to updates on share price 
and trading activity, this could include the 
consideration of recent analyst brieﬁngs and 
feedback from results road shows. In addition 
all members of the Board are offered 
invitations to attend all presentations 
and meetings with shareholders.
Constructive use of the AGM
The AGM presents an additional opportunity 
to communicate with private and institutional 
investors. The Chairman aims to ensure that 
the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nominations Committees are available at these 
meetings to answer questions. Each substantially 
separate issue is proposed as a separate 
resolution. Details of resolutions to be proposed 
at the AGM on 25 April 2013 can be found in 
the separate circular to shareholders. The Notice 
of the AGM and related documents are sent to 
shareholders at least 20 working days before 
the date of the meeting.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 7 March 2013 the Company had received 
the following notiﬁcations pursuant to DTR 5 
of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority.
Shareholder
Number of
voting rights
% of
issued share
capital/
voting rights 
Generation Investment Management LLP 3,209,284 10.09
BlackRock Inc. 3,168,908 9.86
Standard Life Investments Ltd 2,759,830 8.58
Impax Asset Management Ltd 1,538,820 4.87
BlackRock UK Special Situations Fund
1
1,300,855 4.05
Legal and General Group plc 1,207,443 3.82
The Tee family 1,015,128 3.16
1   Note that this holding also forms part of the larger holding of BlackRock Inc, 
but was notiﬁed in its own right. www.dialight.com
36 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Governance
Communication with 
employees is key
which will expire on 30 April 2013. A resolution 
to renew this authority will be put to 
shareholders at the AGM on 25 April 2013.
Political and charitable contributions
During the year the Group made contributions 
of £1,229 (2011: £1,270) to various charities. 
It is Group policy that no donations are made 
nor expenditure incurred for political purposes 
and as a result there were no such political 
donations or expenditure made or incurred 
during the year (2011: £nil).
Employees
Regular communication with employees is key 
to ensuring that there is clarity which allows all 
to understand their role in improving the Group’s 
business performance. Regular meetings 
are held by management teams to discuss 
performance and strategy. All are encouraged 
to contribute to discussions. 
Employment policies are designed to attract, 
retain and motivate the best people. These 
cover performance management, employee 
development, succession planning and 
recruitment, as well as including guidelines 
on staff appraisals and consultations between 
individuals and local management. Training 
and development is undertaken locally but all 
employees are given equal opportunities to 
develop their experience and their careers.
The Group gives full and fair consideration 
to applications for employment from disabled 
persons where the requirements of the job can 
be adequately fulﬁlled by a disabled person. 
Employees who become disabled are provided, 
where practicable, with continuing employment 
under normal terms and conditions and are 
provided with training and career development 
wherever appropriate.
appointed following the end of the year can 
be found on pages 26 and 27, together with 
brief biographical details for each. Stephen Bird 
and Tracey Graham joined the Board on 
10 January 2013.
The interests of the Directors and their families 
in the share capital of the Company as well 
as details of the Directors’ remuneration 
and service contracts can be found in the 
Remuneration report on pages 42 to 49. 
None of the Directors had or has an interest in any 
material contract relating to the business of the 
Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
The Company has arrangements in place to 
consider and deal with Directors’ conﬂicts of 
interest. An annual review is undertaken, facilitated 
by the Company Secretary, with all identiﬁed 
conﬂicts recorded on a register that is adopted 
by the Board.
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
During the year the Company maintained liability 
insurance and third party qualifying indemnity 
provisions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 
for its Directors and ofﬁcers. 
Financial instruments
The ﬁnancial risk management objectives and 
policies of the Group including interest rate, 
currency and credit risk are outlined in note 23 
to the Group’ s consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
AGM
The Company’s AGM will take place at 
11.30 am on 25 April 2013 at Glazier’s Hall, 
9 Montague Close, London Bridge, London 
SE1 9DD. An explanation of the business 
to be transacted at the AGM can be found 
in the separate circular to shareholders. 
At the 2012 AGM shareholders granted the 
Directors the authority to purchase up to 
3,180,023 ordinary shares in the Company, 
Other statutory  
information continued
Results and dividends
Results for the year are set out in the consolidated 
income statement on page 51. The Board 
recommends a ﬁnal dividend of 9.5 pence per 
share, making a total dividend for the year of 
13.5 pence per share (2011: 10.0 pence per 
share). Subject to the approval of shareholders 
at the 2013 AGM, the ﬁnal dividend will be paid 
on 8 May 2013 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 12 April 2013. 
Acquisitions and investments
On 7 June 2012 Dialight announced the 
acquisition of the trade and assets of Airinet, 
a lighting controls company based in Pueblo, 
Colorado in America. Up-front consideration 
was US $2.6m with additional sums being 
payable on future revenue though to 2020 
of up to US $7.4m. Completion took place 
on 1 August 2012.
The Group acquired a lease commencing 
on 1 July 2012 for a manufacturing facility 
in Penang, Malaysia. The facility began 
manufacturing in September 2012. Dialight 
Penang Sdn Bhd, a wholly owned subsidiary, 
was established to facilitate this growth in 
the Group on 27 April 2012.
On 29 August 2012 the Group announced 
the establishment of Dialight Asia, a joint venture 
with Lumina Holdings Systems Limited in 
Singapore. Dialight Asia will be responsible 
for the promotion and sale of lighting products 
in South East Asia. The transaction completed 
on 31 August 2012. 
Directors and interests
The names of those Directors that served 
on the Board during 2012 and that have been 
Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance report 
continued www.dialight.com
37
Governance
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
may only be amended by a special resolution 
of the Company at a general meeting. No one 
person has any special rights of control over the 
Company’s share capital and all shares are fully 
paid. Each ordinary share carries the right to one 
vote at general meetings of the Company. There 
are no speciﬁc restrictions on the transfer of the 
Company’s shares, although the Articles contain 
provisions whereby Directors may refuse to 
register a transfer of a certiﬁcated share which 
is not fully paid. Subject to statutory provisions, 
the rights attached to a class of shares may be 
varied whether or not the Company is being 
wound up in accordance with the Articles. 
Directors
The Directors are responsible for the 
management of the business of the Company 
and may exercise all powers of the Company 
subject to applicable legislation and regulation 
and the Articles and any special resolution of the 
Company passed at a general meeting. The 
Directors have the power to issue and buy back 
shares in the Company, as well as to grant 
options over or otherwise dispose of unissued 
shares in the Company, to such persons, at such 
times and on such terms as they think proper.
The Directors are not aware of there being any 
signiﬁcant agreements that contain any material 
change of control provisions to which the Company 
is a party. The rules of the Performance Share Plan 
provide that, in the event of a change of control 
through a general offer or scheme of arrangement, 
shares subject to awards under the Performance 
Share Plan could be released within one month 
of the date of notiﬁcation of the likely change 
of control. The Company has established the 
Dialight Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust 
(“ESOT”) in which all employees of the Group, 
including Executive Directors, are potential 
beneﬁciaries. The ESOT currently holds 47,596 
(2011: 39,216) ordinary shares in the capital of 
the Company. The Trustees of the ESOT retain 
Research and development
The Group continues to invest resources 
engaged in technology and product development 
in America, Denmark, Germany and the UK 
and to update and expand its product range. 
Investment in this area is essential for the Group 
to retain and increase its market share in its 
competitive markets. Where appropriate 
intellectual property applications are made 
in relevant jurisdictions, the Group acts on 
any suspected infringements of our intellectual 
property and the use of conﬁdentiality agreements 
are encouraged when dealing with third parties.
Payments to suppliers
Terms of payment are agreed with individual 
suppliers prior to supply. It is the Group’s policy 
to settle with its suppliers as payments fall due, 
provided the supplier has delivered the goods 
and services in accordance with agreed 
terms and conditions. As the Company is a 
non-trading holding company it has no trade 
creditors. At 31 December 2012, the Group 
had an average of 81 days’ (2011: 47 days’) 
purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Share capital and structure
As at 31 December 2012 the Company 
had 32,150,231 fully paid ordinary shares of 
1.89 pence each in issue which are listed on 
the London Stock Exchange. The Company has 
a single class of shares. No shares have been 
issued that carry any special rights with regard 
to the control of the Company. Full details of the 
Company’s share capital are given in note 35 
to the accounts. During the year the Company 
issued 350,000 ordinary shares to satisfy 
existing awards pursuant to the Company’s 
Performance Share Plan and Annual 
Performance Bonus Plan.
The rights and obligations attached to the 
Company’s shares are contained in the 
Company’s Articles, a copy of which can be 
obtained from the Registered Ofﬁce. The Articles 
Find out more online at
www.dialight.com
the voting rights over the shares held in the ESOT 
and may exercise these rights independent of the 
interests of the Company.
Going concern
The Directors have reasonable expectations, 
after making appropriate enquiries, that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operation for the foreseeable future. For 
this reason they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the annual report 
and accounts.
Disclosure of information to the auditors
The Directors who held ofﬁce at the date of 
approval of this Directors’ report conﬁrm that, 
so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’ s auditors 
are unaware and each Director has taken all the 
steps that he ought to have taken as a Director 
to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’ s 
auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as 
auditors to the Company and to authorise the 
Board to determine the Auditors’ remuneration 
will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
By order of the Board.
Nick Giles
Company Secretary
7 March 2013
Registered office
Dialight plc
Exning Road
Newmarket
Suffolk CB8 0AX
Company number 2486024 www.dialight.com
38
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Directors’ and Corporate 
Governance report 
continued
Responsibility statement of the 
Directors in respect of the annual 
financial report
We conﬁrm that to the best of our knowledge: 
 - the ﬁnancial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position 
and proﬁt or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
 - the Directors’ and Corporate Governance report 
includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position 
of the issuer and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
For and on behalf of the Board of Dialight plc
Roy Burton
Group Chief Executive
Mark Fryer
Group Finance Director
7 March 2013
 - for the parent company ﬁnancial statements, 
state whether applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained 
in the parent company ﬁnancial statements; and
 - prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to 
presume that the Group and the parent 
company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are sufﬁcient 
to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of 
the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its ﬁnancial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the 
assets of the Group and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the 
Directors are also responsible for preparing a 
Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration report 
and Corporate governance statement that 
complies with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial 
information included on the Company’ s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Other statutory  
information continued
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the annual report and the Group and parent 
company ﬁnancial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
Group and parent company ﬁnancial statements 
for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law they are 
required to prepare the Group ﬁnancial statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
and applicable law and have elected to prepare 
the parent company ﬁnancial statements in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards 
and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice). 
Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the ﬁnancial statements unless they 
are satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and parent company 
and of their proﬁt or loss for that period. In preparing 
each of the Group and parent company ﬁnancial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
 - select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently;
 - make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
 - for the Group ﬁnancial statements, state whether 
they have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU; www.dialight.com
39
Governance
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Environmental responsibilities
ISO14001
During the year Dialight reviewed all 
environmental management procedures and 
deﬁned and implemented a new Environmental 
management system for the European business. 
This resulted in the Group gaining extended 
certiﬁcation for ISO14001 to cover sites in 
Germany and Denmark as well as the existing 
certiﬁcation in the UK.
Products
The Group’ s biggest environmental impact by far 
is a positive one. Dialight’ s lighting products last 
much longer and use less energy when compared 
to their counterparts that utilise different technology. 
The Group’ s engineers play an important role 
in progressing the programme to reduce the 
amount of material used in its products and, 
where practical, to substitute hazardous 
material. This action covers Dialight’s own 
purchases and material used by suppliers. 
The Group’s products are WEEE compliant 
and compliance with the regulation has not 
had a material impact on the Group. Following 
a customer request Dialight is now registered 
for recycling of electrical and electronic waste 
in Germany under their interpretation of the 
WEEE regulations known as Elekto-G.
Utility usage
No manufacturing sites or the Group’ s business 
in general terms have a signiﬁcantly negative 
environmental impact although increases in the level 
of production and the addition of a new facility in 
Malaysia will continue to challenge the level of our 
carbon footprint. The Group’ s environmental policy 
speciﬁes that manufacturing sites should operate 
within systems which monitor, control and, where 
practical, minimise any environmental effect. 
Emissions of gases, chemicals and water are well 
below government thresholds and, in most cases, 
Sustainability 
report
Sticking to  
our values
As Dialight continues to 
grow and remains focused 
on its delivery against market 
expectations, its approach 
and recognition of the 
importance of its environmental 
responsibilities, treatment of 
employees and the way it does 
business increases in parallel. 
The next three years will see 
Dialight continue to move 
forward with its cohesive and 
holistic approach to corporate 
responsibilities through centralised 
oversight, improving data 
gathering, continued effective 
communication and further 
introduction of initiatives and 
targets to stimulate activities 
throughout the Group.
undetectable. Principal areas of focus are the 
reduction of waste, and the minimisation of 
water and energy consumption. 
During the year a concerted effort has been 
made to obtain and record utility usage data 
from all company sites worldwide in order to build 
accurate information that will enable Dialight to 
monitor increases in these levels going forward. 
T o comply with new mandatory greenhouse gas 
reporting regulations further work is ongoing to 
ensure that the company will be able to present 
a breakdown of its carbon usage in its next 
annual report. 
All Group sites worldwide will be using Dialight 
lights by the end of 2013 unless such site is a 
shared facility. This will drastically reduce current 
energy and maintenance costs.
Recycling
All sites operate to increase, reuse and recycle 
materials including packaging. During the year the 
Group has been collating details of the types of 
recycling conducted at all locations with the aim of 
working towards full utilisation of recycling facilities 
where these exist and seeking to promote the 
beneﬁts of recycling to all employees. The UK 
location generates a high volume of scrap wood, 
including cable reels and non-euro standard pallets 
that had previously been incinerated. T o stop this 
activity arrangements have been put in place with 
a charitable community business which recycles 
wood waste into products for sale or wood pellets 
for domestic wood burning heating systems. 
In addition, one of the UK’s environmental 
objectives of 2012 was to move to “zero to landﬁll” 
from March 2013 through a change in waste carrier. 
With this in place all waste will be recycled, or if this 
is not possible incinerated at the Lakeside Energy 
waste plant at Colnebrook, Berkshire. This change 
is envisaged to be cost neutral to the business. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 40
Governance
Sustainability  
report continued
Ethical business
The Code of Business Conduct (“CBC”)
Dialight’ s CBC was introduced during 2011 and 
formalized the expected standards of behaviour 
and conduct that were applicable to employees 
and third parties engaged on the Group’ s 
business. The CBC contains guidance on general 
standards of conduct, corporate hospitality and 
gifts, bribery and corruption, conﬂicts of interest, 
conﬁdentiality, fraud, political and charitable 
donations, employment, health and safety, 
relationships with third parties, the community 
and the environment. All parts of the CBC are 
underpinned by a number of supporting policies.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Dialight conducts all its business in an honest 
and ethical manner. The Group takes a 
zero-tolerance approach to bribery and 
corruption and is committed to acting 
professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our 
business dealings and relationships wherever 
it operates as well as implementing and 
enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. 
The workplace
Health and safety
Dialight is committed to achieving and maintaining 
the highest reasonable standards of health and 
Valero Refinery, New Jersey, US www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 41
Governance
safety across all Group companies and operating 
locations so as to provide a safe environment 
for employees, customers and visitors. Although 
ultimate responsibility for health and safety and the 
operation of the Group’ s Health and Safety policy 
lies with the Group Chief Executive and the Board, 
this responsibility is delegated to plant managers, 
at each of the Group’ s facilities, or nominated 
Senior Management, at all other locations.
Existing Health and safety procedures and 
systems are designed to:
 - run training programmes for employees 
on health and safety matters whilst 
reinforcing the importance of a 
culture which is focused on safe 
working procedures; 
 - monitor and assess work procedures and 
implement changes where required;
 - communicate with all employees 
to develop a work culture which 
recognises the importance of health 
and safety procedures.
The Group Health and Safety Committee 
oversees the operation of Group health and 
safety arrangements as well as considering 
and agreeing objectives and standards for 
implementation and action worldwide. This 
includes representatives from each of the 
Group’s locations as well as the Group Health 
and Safety Ofﬁcer and is chaired by the 
Company Secretary with the minutes of 
meetings being sent to the Board. A report 
on health and safety matters is included in the 
monthly reports submitted to the Group Chief 
Executive by the regional management and 
health and safety performance is also a standing 
agenda item at Dialight Board meetings.
During 2012 work began on the creation of a 
global health and safety management system 
with appropriate process documents and template 
forms. This was part of a wider objective to 
achieve OHSAS 18001 accreditation at all 
Group manufacturing and R&D locations. Basic 
requirements of this standard will be rolled out 
in the UK and then shared with Denmark and 
Germany as a ﬁrst step before being introduced 
in the rest of the Group. Communication of safety 
initiatives now takes place in a monthly publication 
called “Safety Matters”. Whilst this currently only 
represents work done in the UK, the intention is to 
roll it out to all locations so that all employees can 
beneﬁt from sharing and discussing those actions 
taken in the various regions of the Group.
Employees
Dialight’ s culture is one of openness, honesty and 
accountability and recognition that all employees 
play a part in delivering the Group’ s business 
performance in a safe and efﬁcient environment.
All decisions relating to selection for employment 
and promotion are based on ability and merit.
Dialight values the contribution of its employees 
highly and it is a recognised facet of the Dialight 
culture that employees are encouraged to take 
responsibility and exercise their own initiative 
for the overall good of the Group. The Dialight 
Excellence Award is designed to recognise 
these events and to give the individuals involved 
a boost to their morale by acknowledging their 
extraordinary service. Individuals who take the 
time and trouble to write articles promoting 
Dialight’s activities are also recognised 
through the Dialight Author Award.
Governance
Total CO
2
 saved by Dialight customers
61 ,726 tonnes
Total $ saved by Dialight customers 
in energy usage
£5,900,177 www.dialight.com
42 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Governance
Introduction
Directors’ 
remuneration  
report
Naturally a number of items considered by the 
Committee towards the end of 2012 will carry 
over into 2013 and the Committee will continue 
to review these arrangements. Other key actions 
and decisions that have been taken during the 
year include changes made to the rules of the 
Annual Performance Bonus Plan (“APBP”), 
in particular to provide for a clawback mechanism 
on the deferred share awards that form part 
of annual bonus awards. 
The Group has delivered Total Shareholder 
Return (“TSR”) over the three years to 
31 December 2012 of 467.8%, outperforming 
the comparator index by 68.4% which resulted 
in the vesting of 100% of shares subject to 
awards under the Performance Share Plan 
(“PSP”). During the same period Dialight’s 
share price has increased from 204.8 pence 
to 1109.1 pence. The Committee is aware of 
planned changes for remuneration disclosure 
in the future and awaits ﬁnal guidance from 
the government and the FRC, although has 
incorporated some of those already conﬁrmed 
changes into this year’s report. 
The structure of the report has also been subject 
to re-evaluation and it is hoped that these will 
beneﬁt disclosure and also start to develop 
a reporting framework that will satisfy all new 
requirements when these become effective.
Robert Lambourne
Acting Chair to 21 February 2013
Tracey Graham
Committee Chair from 21 February 2013
We are pleased to present the Directors’ 
remuneration report for the year ended 
31 December 2012, following a number 
of changes to the Committee that took place 
during the year in light of Bill Ronald standing 
down as Committee Chair and being appointed 
as Group Chairman in September 2012. 
The Committee Chair role has been ﬁlled on 
an acting basis by Robert Lambourne until 
21 February 2013 when Tracey Graham was 
formally appointed. For continuity it was agreed 
that it would be appropriate for us both to be 
associated with the 2012 Remuneration report. 
Following the appointment of two further 
Non-Executive Directors the Committee 
now comprises Tracey Graham (Chair), 
Robert Lambourne, Richard Stuckes, 
Stephen Bird and Bill Ronald, all of whom, 
excluding Bill Ronald, are Independent 
Non-Executive Directors. The increase in 
breadth of skills available to the Board is 
particularly important as Dialight continues 
to grow. 
The principal responsibility of the Committee 
is to determine the remuneration of Executive 
Directors including pension rights and 
compensation payments. The Committee 
also monitors the level and structure of 
the remuneration for the Groups Senior 
Management as deﬁned by the Board. 
The Committee has considered a number 
of issues during the year. Towards the end 
of 2012 the Committee considered the existing 
remuneration structure in light of the Company’s 
entry into the FTSE 250 index and its impact on 
base salary, bonuses, long-term incentives and 
pensions as well as ensuring that remuneration 
policy and implementation is clear and 
understandable for all stakeholders.
The increase in breadth of skills available to the Board is particularly 
important as Dialight continues to grow. www.dialight.com
43
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Governance
Governance and the role of 
the Remuneration Committee
Whilst the Board remains responsible for the 
Group’ s remuneration policy, the Committee has 
been delegated the authority by the Board to 
determine and review the remuneration packages 
for the Executive Directors and certain other Senior 
Executives (including contract terms, remuneration 
and other beneﬁts such as performance related 
bonus schemes, long-term incentives, pension 
rights and compensation payments) as well as 
the responsibility to recommend and monitor 
the structure of the remuneration of the Group’s 
Senior Management, as deﬁned by the Board.
Remuneration Committee calendar for 2013
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Sep Jun Oct Jul Nov Aug Dec
 
Review levels of achievement
 - Review and conﬁrm 2012 results 
and ﬁnalise APBP awards
 - Conﬁrm outcome for 2010  
PSP awards
 - Consider and approve Directors’ 
Remuneration Report
 - Conﬁrm annual remuneration timetable
 - Determine 2013 PSP grant levels
Market review
 - Consider market data in advance 
of salary review
 - Formally note PSP awards for 2013
 - Review Group remuneration policy
 - Review committee terms of reference
Year end review
 - Review market position
 - Propose and set annual salary levels
 - Set 2014 APBP objectives
 - Consider Executive performance  
against 2013 objectives
 - Review performance for existing  
PSP awards
During the year the committee comprised 
the following members:
 - Bob Lambourne  
(Acting Committee Chairman – 12 
September 2012 – 21 February 2013);
 - Bill Ronald  
(Committee Chairman – 1 January 2012 
– 12 September 2012); and
 - Richard Stuckes.
All members served throughout the year and 
are considered independent in accordance 
with the Code. Bill Ronald was the Committee 
Chairman up until 12 September 2012 when 
he was appointed as Chairman of Dialight plc. 
As Bill was considered independent on 
his appointment as Chairman he remains a 
member of the Committee. Details of the number 
of meetings held during the year as well as details 
of attendance at these meetings can be found 
in the Directors’ and Corporate Governance 
report on page 29.
A copy of the terms of reference for the 
Committee can be found on the Company’ s 
website or on request from the Registered 
Ofﬁce. The Committee has access to the advice 
of the Group Chief Executive, the Chairman, the 
Group HR Director and the Company Secretary 
(none of whom participate in any discussion 
concerning their own remuneration) and 
external advisers as required. 
Part 1:  
Unaudited information www.dialight.com
44
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Element Description How set
Base salary Set with reference 
to relevant market data 
and reﬂect the individual’s 
experience, responsibilities 
and performance
 - Salaries are reviewed annually with 
changes effective from 1 January
 - Benchmarked against a bespoke 
comparator group of companies 
that are adjusted for size and market 
capitalisation both in the US and the UK
 - Salaries are positioned around lower 
quartile for key performers
APBP Reward short-term 
performance against 
pre-agreed ﬁnancial and/
or personal objectives
 - Financial targets are set by the 
Remuneration Committee against 
the Group budget
 - From 2013 maximum bonus achievable 
is 175% and 100% for the Group Chief 
Executive and the Group Finance 
Director respectively
PSP From 2013 the PSP provides 
a three-year incentive based 
on the achievement of growth 
in TSR and EPS
 - Performance conditions are agreed by 
the Remuneration Committee annually
 - Awards are generally made post the 
full year results
 - Threshold vesting is at 25% with 
a straight line through to 100%
 - Maximum value of award is up 
to 100% of salary
Pension Provision of competitive 
retirement beneﬁts
 - Company contributions into deﬁned 
contribution schemes
 - Cash payment for Group Chief Executive 
into separate US SERP arrangement
Beneﬁts Provision of market 
competitive beneﬁts
 - Life insurance, car allowances and 
medical insurance
The Committee has reviewed the structure of remuneration for the Executive Directors and certain 
Senior Executives in the Group and conﬁrms the policy, as outlined above, has been applied in 
a consistent way.
Service contracts of Directors
Name Contract date Notice period
Contractual
early termination
payment
Roy Burton 1 October 2005 12 months (Company)
12 months (Executive)
No provisions exceeding
 12 months’ emoluments
Mark Fryer 5 August 2010 12 months (Company)
6 months (Executive)
No provisions exceeding
 12 months’ emoluments
Elements of remuneration
(i) Basic salary
Salaries are reviewed on an annual basis and any changes take effect from 1 January each year. 
Base salary is determined by reference to relevant market data and the individual’s experience, 
responsibilities and performance. As the Group Chief Executive is based in the US his salary is paid 
in US Dollars. Salaries (as well as total remuneration) are benchmarked against a mixture of US and 
UK companies of a similar size and operating in similar sectors. Where this is not the case, data 
is adjusted to smooth out differences in market capitalisation and annual revenues to provide an 
appropriate benchmark. The Committee is keen to ensure that remuneration continues to attract, 
motivate and retain top talent. Accordingly, the Committee has developed proposals to introduce 
above inﬂation but moderate base salary increases for 2013 to reﬂect the company’s signiﬁcant 
growth and increase in scale that will see the Group Chief Executive receive a 5% salary increase, 
taking his base salary to $560,000 p.a. effective 1 January 2013, to be reviewed again in December 2013. 
Governance and the role of the 
Remuneration Committee continued
During the year ended 31 December 2012 the 
Committee consulted with Kepler Associates, 
who provided advice regarding executive 
remuneration benchmarking, annual bonus 
plans and long-term incentive design, and 
Clifford Chance LLP , who advised on the 
operation of the Group’s PSP and APBP . 
Pett Franklin & Co LLP (“Pett Franklin”) provided 
advice and assistance in regard to the APBP 
and Deloitte LLP (“Deloitte”) provided advice 
in regard to Executive pension arrangements. 
Kepler Associates, Pett Franklin and Deloitte 
provided no other services to the Company. 
Clifford Chance LLP also provided general 
corporate legal advice to the Company. 
At the AGM in 2012 the Remuneration report 
received 19,150,638 votes in favour of its 
approval representing 95% of the total 
votes cast.
Remuneration policy
The objective of Dialight’ s remuneration policy is 
to provide packages that are designed to attract, 
retain and motivate people of high quality and 
experience. The Committee believes that the base 
salary and beneﬁts for the Executive Directors 
should represent a fair return for employment 
but that the maximum total potential remuneration 
may only be achieved in circumstances where 
challenging objectives have been met that 
contribute to Dialight’s overall proﬁtability 
and performance. 
Performance related elements, including 
the APBP and the PSP , form a signiﬁcant 
proportion of the total remuneration of the 
Executive Directors aligning their interests 
with those of the shareholders and providing 
incentives for performance. A signiﬁcant part 
of the Executive Directors’ total package 
is therefore considered to be at risk.
Directors’ remuneration  
report continued
Part 1:  
Unaudited information www.dialight.com
45
Governance
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
measure for 2013. The Group Chief Executive’ s 
additional 25% of salary bonus opportunity will be 
based on two further equally weighted measures 
which are clearly aligned to the strategy of Dialight. 
The ﬁrst measure relates to growth in lighting 
contribution signiﬁcantly in excess of budget for 
2013 and the second measure will focus on 
developing key talent within the Group. Both 
these additional objectives will only begin to 
pay out if the threshold level of Group EBIT 
growth of 10% is achieved. 
(iii) PSP
The PSP was approved by the shareholders of the 
Company at an EGM held on 29 September 2005. 
Executive Directors and other members of 
senior management, as approved by the 
Committee, are eligible to receive awards, 
which are released after three years subject 
to the satisfaction of performance conditions 
determined by the Remuneration Committee 
at the time of grant.
Awards are normally made in the six-week period 
following the announcement by the Company of its 
results for any period. The number of shares which 
are the subject of the award will be calculated by 
dividing the value of the award by the average price 
of the Company’s ordinary shares on the London 
Stock Exchange over the 30 trading days prior to 
the date of the award. The initial value of an award 
granted in any one ﬁnancial year will be determined 
by the Committee. Awards will not normally 
exceed 100% of an individual’s basic salary.
Up to and including those awards made in 2012, 
vesting has been based purely on the TSR 
performance of the Company relative to two indices 
(the FTSE All Share Electronics/Electrical Equipment 
Index and the FTSE SmallCap Index), each index 
having equal weighting. The Committee believed 
this to be the appropriate measure of long-term 
Group success, which provided strong alignment 
between the interests of shareholders and 
executives. TSR is measured over a three-year 
period with the measurement period beginning 
on the ﬁrst day of the ﬁnancial year in which the 
award is made. If the percentage increase in 
the Company’ s TSR is equal to the percentage 
increase in the TSR of the comparator index, 25% 
of the ordinary shares subject to an award will vest, 
rising, on a straight-line basis, to 100% vesting if 
the percentage increase in the Company’ s TSR 
is equal to the increase in the TSR of the index 
plus 15% per annum. No ordinary shares will 
vest if the percentage increase in the Company’ s 
TSR is below the percentage increase in the 
TSR of the comparator index.
In the event of a change of control of the Group, 
the Committee may, at its discretion, release the 
value of the ordinary shares early. In determining 
the value of the beneﬁt, the Committee may take 
into account the length of time between the start 
of the measurement period and the triggering 
event as well as the level of performance up to 
the date of this event.
Prior year Awards
Having considered the TSR performance 
condition for the three ﬁnancial years ending 
on 31 December 2012 it is likely that awards 
made under the PSP on 26 May 2010 will vest 
in full on 26 May 2013. Subject to the approval 
of the Remuneration Committee the Group 
Chief Executive will receive 127,582 shares 
on this date.
Awards of 100% and 75% of salary were made to 
the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director on 26 April 2012 equivalent to 30,163 
and 15,384 shares respectively. Subject to the 
achievement of performance conditions these 
will vest on 26 April 2015.
Changes to the PSP from 2013
With effect from 1 January 2013 a number 
of changes have been made to the operation 
of the PSP . Whilst the PSP will continue to be 
structured as an annual award of conditional 
shares or nil cost options, the Committee has 
made the following amendments further to 
consideration and consultation with the 
Group’s major shareholders.
The Group Finance Director will receive a 7.5% 
increase, taking his base salary to £240,000 p.a. 
effective 1 January 2013, to be reviewed again 
in December 2013.
(ii) APBP
The APBP was approved by shareholders of 
the Company at the AGM held on 20 April 2011 
and currently links bonus payments to the 
growth in Group EBIT. Bonuses are paid though 
a mixture of cash and deferred shares, subject 
to the achievement of the agreed objectives. 
No awards under the APBP are pensionable. 
Where Executives’ receive a deferred share award 
as well as a cash award, half of the deferred share 
element vests after two years with the balance 
vesting after three years, subject to continued 
employment with the Group.
2012 Awards
For the 2012 ﬁnancial year maximum bonus 
opportunities for the Group Chief Executive and 
the Group Finance Director were set at 150% 
and 100% of base salary respectively. The Group 
achieved EBIT of £19.7m, growth of 26.7%.
Having considered the Group’ s EBIT performance 
against the APBP objectives, the Committee 
approved cash bonuses of 100% and 75% for 
the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director respectively, details of which can be found 
on page 47. No deferred share awards were 
made in respect of the 2012 ﬁnancial year. 
2013 Awards
The decision has been made to increase the 
maximum annual bonus opportunity for the Group 
Chief Executive from 150% to 175% of salary in 
order to provide appropriate market positioning. 
The Group Finance Director’ s maximum opportunity 
will remain at 100% of salary. This decision followed 
consideration by the Committee alongside its 
advisors prior to consultation with the Group’s 
major shareholders.
Bonuses under the APBP for 2013 will continue 
to be paid using a mixture of cash and deferred 
shares with Group EBIT the primary performance  www.dialight.com
46
Governance
Dialight plc  Annual report and accounts 2012
associated investment charges to the executive. 
The ﬁrst contribution under this additional 
arrangement was made on 30 June 2012. 
(v) Additional beneﬁts
The Group Chief Executive received taxable life 
assurance and medical beneﬁts during the year. 
The Group Finance Director received taxable 
beneﬁts including a car allowance and medical 
insurance for him and his immediate family 
as well as life assurance.
(vi) Performance review
The graph below shows the ﬁve-year TSR 
performance of the Group, compared with 
the performance over the same period for 
the FTSE Small Cap and the FTSE All Share 
Electronics/Electrical Equipment. These were 
selected as they were considered to be a broad 
representation of Dialight’s peer group in terms 
of its size and industry sector.
Directors’ remuneration  
report continued
Part 1:  
Unaudited information 
continued
the Group Finance Director). Participants will 
have ﬁve years from their date of joining to 
build their shareholdings to the required level.
(iv) Pensions
The Group Finance Director receives 
contributions of 15% of base salary into a 
deﬁned contribution pension scheme. The Group 
Chief Executive currently receives employer 
contributions under both a 401(k) plan plus an 
employer contribution under the Supplemental 
Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”). In addition 
he receives a cash contribution under the SERP 
of $100,000 that is made on 30 June of each 
year. This contribution is subject to clawback 
such that any or all of it may be forfeited in the 
event of embezzlement, theft, gross negligence 
or other misconduct, until the beneﬁt is 
transferred to him. Investment options under this 
scheme are the same as those available under 
the 401(k) plan, with the same transfer of any 
Elements of remuneration continued
(iii) PSP continued
 EPS has been introduced as a complementary 
measure of performance relating to 50% 
of 2013 and future awards. It is felt that this 
will strengthen line-of-sight and help to focus 
participants on maintaining the Company’s 
strong ﬁnancial performance. The EPS vesting 
condition will be Dialight’s compound annual 
3-year EPS growth rate. For awards made in 
2013, this element will vest in full if Dialight’s 
3-year EPS growth exceeds 25% p.a. with 
threshold vesting (25%) if Dialight’s 3-year EPS 
growth is 10% p.a. over the period. None of this 
element will vest if Dialight’s EPS growth over 
the 3-year period is less than 10% p.a. The 
Committee will review the performance targets 
prior to the grant of any future awards to ensure 
they are appropriately stretching but achievable.
 TSR will be retained in respect of the remaining 
50% of awards in order to maintain strong 
shareholder alignment but in order to reﬂect the 
company’ s new position in the FTSE250, the TSR 
vesting condition will be based upon Dialight’s 
3-year TSR % outperformance of the FTSE Mid250 
Index (excluding investment trusts). This element 
will vest in full if Dialight’ s 3-year TSR exceeds Index 
TSR +10% p.a., with threshold vesting (25%) 
if Dialight’s 3-year TSR is in line with Index TSR. 
The TSR outperformance requirement is broadly 
in line with practice at other FTSE-listed companies, 
taking into account Dialight’s relative size.
 From 2013, the annual PSP opportunity for the 
Group Finance Director will be increased from 
75% of salary to 100% of salary, in line with 
the award level of the Group Chief Executive.
PSP Share retention guidelines
The Committee has also introduced new share 
retention guidelines for all members of the PSP , 
requiring participants to accumulate and maintain 
a holding of Dialight shares equivalent in 
value to their annual PSP award (i.e. 100% 
of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 
-100%
0%
100%
200%
300%
400%
500%
600%
700%
800%
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Total Shareholder return %
at 31 December
Dialight FTSE Small Cap FTSE All Share Electronics / Electrical Equipment
Total Shareholder Return www.dialight.com
47
Governance
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Linking remuneration 
with performance
External appointments
No Executive Directors currently hold any external directorships of listed companies.
Statutory and audit requirements 
2012 has seen the publication of a large amount of information, ofﬁcial or otherwise, as well as 
increasing focus on the debate around remuneration issues. The foregoing remuneration report 
contains the information that is required by the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and 
Medium Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the Listing 
Rules of the UK Listing Authority and describes how the Company has applied the principles 
of the Code with regard to remuneration (“Regulations”).
These Regulations require the Group’s Auditors to report on the audited information within the 
report and to state if this section of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Regulations. To assist with this process this report has been divided into separate sections 
for that information that is unaudited and audited.
As in prior years, this report will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM for an advisory 
vote. This is in respect of remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and will not 
be speciﬁc to individual levels of remuneration. 
Part 2: Audited information
Table 1 – Directors’ emoluments
The remuneration of the Directors is set out below:
Salary/fees
’000
Bonus paid
in cash
’000
Bonus paid
in shares
’000
Pensions
1
’000
Beneﬁts
’000
2012
’000
2011
’000
Executive Directors
Roy Burton US$530 US$530 — US$155 US$47 US$1,262 US$1,390
Mark Fryer £223 £167 — £34 £14 £438 £484
Non-Executive Directors
Bill Ronald
2
£56———— £56 £35
Robert Lambourne
3
£35———— £35 £35
Richard Stuckes £30———— £30 £30
Past Chairman
Harry Tee CBE
4
£70———— £70 £100
1 Figures represent contributions to deﬁned contribution arrangements.
2  Bill Ronald was appointed Group Chairman on 12 September 2012, prior to that date Bill received £30,000 per annum 
as Senior Independent Director and an additional £5,000 per annum as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. As 
Group Chairman Bill received £100,000 per annum on a pro-rata basis (from 12 September 2012 to 31 December 2012).
3  Robert Lambourne receives an additional £5,000 per annum as Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
The additional one-off payment of £6,000 referred to above for his additional duties will be paid in March 2013.
4  Harry Tee CBE retired from his position as Group Chairman on 12 September 2012. He received £100,000 
per annum pro-rata (from 1 January 2012 to 12 September 2012).
Chairman and Non-Executive 
Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Committee, excluding 
Bill Ronald, carried out an assessment of the 
Chairman's fees at the end of 2012 having last 
done so in 2010. Having considered appropriate 
benchmarking data provided by Kepler Associates, 
the Committee decided to increase these by 25% to 
£125,000 from 1 January 2013. The Remuneration 
Committee intends to carry out the next review of 
the Chairman's fees in December 2014.
Fees for the Non-Executive Directors are 
determined by the Chairman, the Group Chief 
Executive and the Group Finance Director. The 
Non-Executive Directors do not take part in these 
discussions. The Non-Executive Directors’ fees 
were considered at a meeting of the Committee 
on 12 December 2012 following a report from 
Kepler Associates. It was agreed that from 
1 January 2013 the Non-Executive Directors’ 
fees be increased to £40,000 per annum, that 
the fee for chairing the Audit or Remuneration 
Committees remain at £5,000 per annum, and 
that a fee of £5,000 per annum be introduced 
for the appointed Senior Independent Director. 
It was further agreed that Robert Lambourne 
be paid a one-off payment of £6,000, 
in recognition of his additional duties as both 
acting Chair of the Remuneration Committee and 
acting Senior Independent Director prior to the 
appointment of Stephen Bird and Tracey Graham. 
This will be paid in March 2013. Details of current 
Non-Executive Directors’ fees can be found 
in the emoluments table below.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate 
in the APBP or the PSP and they are not eligible 
for pension scheme membership.
The Non-Executive Directors have standard 
letters of appointment. Non-Executive Directors’ 
letters of appointment are available for inspection 
at the Company’s Registered Ofﬁce and will be 
made available at the AGM.  www.dialight.com
48
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Table 2 – Awards under Dialight plc incentive plans (PSP and APBP)
CSA denotes a Conditional Share Award whilst NCO denotes a Nil-Cost Option.
Type 
of Award
Award 
date
Number at 
1 January 
2012
Awarded 
in year
Vested 
in year
Exercised 
in year
Lapsed 
in year
Number at 
31 December
 2012
Exercise 
price
Earliest 
vesting/
exercise date
Expiry
 date
Value at 
31 December 
2012
1
Roy Burton
PSP CSA 30.04.09 160,926 — 160,926
2
—— — ————
PSP CSA 26.05.10
3
127,582 ———— 127,582 — 26.05.13 — 1,356
PSP CSA 17.02.11 58,137———— 58,137 — 17.02.14 — 618
PSP CSA 26.04.12
4
— 30,163——— 30,163 — 26.04.15 — 321
APBP CSA 26.04.12
4
— 14,785——— 14,785 — 26.02.13
5
— 157
Total 346,645 44,948 160,926 — — 230,667 — — — 2,452
Type of 
Award
Award 
date
Number at 
1 January 
2012
Awarded
 in year
Vested 
in year
Exercised 
in year
Lapsed 
in year
Number at 
31 December 
2012
Exercise
 price
Earliest 
vesting/
exercise date
Expiry 
date
Value at 
31 December 
2012
1
Mark Fryer
PSP CSA 02.09.10
3
37,822 — — — — 37,822 — 02.09.13 — 402
PSP NCO 17.02.11 29,549 — — — — 29,549 — 17.02.14 — 314
PSP NCO 26.04.12
4
— 15,384——— 15,384 — 26.04.15 — 164
APBP NCO 26.04.12
4
5,027——— 5,027 — 26.02.13
5
26.04.17 53
Total 67,371 20,411——— 87,782 ——— 933
1  The value of the awards under the PSP and APBP shows the number of awards held multiplied by the market price of the Company’s shares at 31 December 2012. 
It has been assumed that the maximum number of awards vested in accordance with the performance conditions as discussed on page 45. On 31 December 2012 
the share price was 1063 pence per share.
2  On 30 April 2012 this award vested in full following satisfaction of the performance conditions. 63,371 shares were sold on 3 May 2012 to meet tax and social security 
liabilities at a price of 983 pence per share. The remaining 97,555 shares were retained by the Group Chief Executive.
3  PSP performance conditions in respect of awards granted on 26 May 2010 indicate that 100% of the total award will vest. Vesting and release of these awards is subject 
to decision of the Committee.
4  In respect of the PSP the number of shares awarded on 26 April 2012 were the share equivalents of 100% of the base salary of the Group Chief Executive and 75% 
of the base salary of the Group Finance Director, based on the average of the mid market closing values of the Company’s shares for the 5 dealing days ending on 
25 April 2012 of 1089 pence per share. Shares subject to the APBP were based on the same average.
5  Awards subject to the APBP vest in two separate tranches. 50% of those awards made on 26 April 2012 vested on 26 February 2013 with the balance to be released 
the following year. The award made to the Group Finance Director was a nil-cost option which to date has not been exercised. The Group Chief Executive received those 
shares subject to 50% of this award on 26 February 2013 and subsequently sold 3,188 of these shares to meet tax and social security liabilities. These shares were sold 
at a price of 1200 pence per share. The balance of 4,205 shares were retained by the Group Chief Executive.
6  The price of an ordinary share on 26 April 2012 was 1061 pence per share. During the year, the range of share prices was 1244 pence to 680 pence per share, with the 
price on 31 December 2012 being 1063 pence per share, the market price of an ordinary share in the company.
Directors’ remuneration  
report continued
Part 2:  
Audited information 
continued www.dialight.com
49
Governance
Governance
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Table 3 – Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2012 are set out below:
31 December
2012
31 December
2011
Executive Directors
Roy Burton
1
279,701 182,146
Mark Fryer — —
Non-Executive Directors
Bill Ronald
2
15,850 13,500
Robert Lambourne
3
4,000 1,000
Richard Stuckes
4
26,263 24,178
Total 325,814 1,674,181
5
1  Some of these shares are held through nominees. Roy Burton received 97,555 ordinary shares on 30 April 2012 following the vesting of the awards granted under 
the PSP in April 2009.
2 Bill Ronald purchased 2,350 ordinary shares on 14 November 2012 at a price of 1055 pence per share. Some of these shares are held through a nominee.
3  Robert Lambourne sold 1,000 shares on 19 November 2012 at a price of 1043 pence per share. These shares were held through nominees. On the same 
day he purchased 4,000 shares at a price of 1045 pence per share which are held by his self-invested personal pension (“SIPP”).
4 Richard Stuckes purchased 2,805 ordinary shares on 4 December 2012 at a price of 1062 pence per share. Some of these shares are held through nominees.
5 The total for 2012 differs from that previously reported following the removal of Harry Tee CBE from the table. Harry Tee CBE retired on 12 September 2012.
The Group Chief Executive received a further 4,205 shares following the release of the ﬁrst tranche of 50% his 2011 award under the APBP . This means he 
now has a beneﬁcial interest in a total of 283,906 shares of the Group. In addition Stephen Bird and Tracey Graham purchased 2,000 and 1,000 ordinary 
shares at prices of 1245 pence and 1234 pence respectively on 1 March 2013. Stephen Bird’s shares were purchased with his SIPP whilst Tracey Graham 
purchased the shares in her own name. There have been no further changes in Directors’ holdings since 31 December 2012.
By order of the Board
Tracey Graham and Robert Lambourne
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee
7 March 2013 www.dialight.com
50 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of 
Dialight plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 
set out on pages 51 to 96. The ﬁnancial 
reporting framework that has been applied 
in the preparation of the Group ﬁnancial 
statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as 
adopted by the EU. The ﬁnancial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the parent company ﬁnancial 
statements is applicable law and UK 
Accounting Standards (UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice). 
This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditors’ report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted 
by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities 
of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
responsibilities statement set out on page 38, 
the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the ﬁnancial statements and for being 
satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the ﬁnancial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’ s (“APB’ s”) 
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the 
financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of 
ﬁnancial statements is provided on the APB’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
 - the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view 
of the state of the Group’s and of the parent 
company’s affairs as at 31 December 2012 and 
of the Group’s proﬁt for the year then ended;
 - the Group ﬁnancial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU;
 - the parent company ﬁnancial statements have 
been properly prepared in accordance with 
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
 - the ﬁnancial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the 
Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 - the part of the Directors’ remuneration report 
to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
 - the information given in the Directors’ report 
for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial 
statements are prepared is consistent 
with the ﬁnancial statements; and
 - the information given in the Corporate 
governance statement set out on pages 28 
to 38 with respect to internal control 
and risk management systems in relation 
to ﬁnancial reporting processes and about 
share capital structures is consistent 
with the ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect 
of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required 
to report to you if, in our opinion:
 - adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the parent company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or 
 - the parent company ﬁnancial statements and 
the part of the Directors’ remuneration report 
to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns; or
 - certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
speciﬁed by law are not made; or
 - we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit; or
 - a corporate governance statement has not 
been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review:
 - the Directors’ statement, set out on page 37, 
in relation to going concern;
 - the part of the Corporate governance statement 
on pages 28 to 38 relating to the Company’ s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code speciﬁed for our 
review; and
 - certain elements of the report to Shareholders 
by the Board on Directors’ remuneration.
Greg Watts
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham B4 6GH
7 March 2013
Independent auditor’s report
To the members of Dialight plc www.dialight.com
51
Header
Underhead
Financials
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012
12 months ended 31 December 2012 12 months ended 31 December 2011
Note
Underlying
£’000
Non-
underlying
£’000
T otal
£’000
Underlying*
£’000
Non-
underlying*
£’000
Total*
£’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 115,130 — 115,130 102,498 — 102,498
Cost of sales (73,951) — (73,951) (69,078) — (69,078)
Gross proﬁt 41,179 — 41,179 33,420 — 33,420
Distribution costs (12,488) — (12,488) (9,084) — (9,084)
Administrative expenses (9,114) — (9,114) (8,824) (2,808) (11,632)
Other operating income —2424 — 2,741 2,741
Proﬁt/(Loss) from operating activities 4 19,577 24 19,601 15,512 (67) 15,445
Financial income 8 1,078 — 1,078 1,265 — 1,265
Financial expense 8 (968) 48 (920) (1,234) (704) (1,938)
Net ﬁnancing income/(expense) 8 110 48 158 31 (704) (673)
Proﬁt/(Loss) before income tax 4 19,687 72 19,759 15,543 (771) 14,772
Income tax expense 9 (6,442) (22) (6,464) (5,177) 332 (4,845)
Proﬁt/(Loss) from continuing operations after tax 13,245 50 13,295 10,366 (439) 9,927
Discontinued operations
Gain/(Loss) from discontinued operations (net of taxes) 5 149 149 — (336) (336)
Proﬁt/(Loss) for the year 13,245 199 13,444 10,366 (775) 9,591
Proﬁt for the period attributable to:
Equity owners of the Company 13,573 9,670
Non-controlling Interests (129) (79)
Proﬁt for the year 13,444 9,591
Earnings per share
Basic 18 42.0p 30.3p
Diluted 18 41.3p 29.5p
Earnings per share – continuing operations
Basic 18 41.4p 31.3p
Diluted 18 40.7p 30.6p
The accompanying notes form part of the ﬁnancial statements.
* Reclassiﬁcation – See note 5. www.dialight.com
52
Header
Underhead
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2012
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Other comprehensive income
Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations (1,697) 74
Income tax on exchange difference on translation of foreign operations 264 (26)
Actuarial losses on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes (2,413) (188)
Income tax on actuarial losses on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 555 60
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (3,291) (80)
Proﬁt for the year 13,444 9,591
Total comprehensive income for the year 10,153 9,511
Attributable to:
 Owners of the parent 10,279 9,586
 Non-controlling interest (126) (75)
Total comprehensive income for the year 10,153 9,511 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 53
Header
Underhead
Financials
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Note
Share
capital
£’000
Merger
reserve
£’000
Translation
reserve
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
T otal
£’000
Non-
controlling 
interests
£’000
T otal
equity
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 601 1,449 3,451 2,232 46,967 54,700 64 54,764
Proﬁt — — — — 13,573 13,573 (129) 13,444
Other comprehensive income:
Foreign exchange translation differences, net of taxes — — (1,436) — — (1,436) 3 (1,433)
Actuarial losses on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, 
net of taxes — — — — (1,858) (1,858) — (1,858)
Total other comprehensive income — — (1,436) — (1,858) (3,294) 3 (3,291)
Total comprehensive income for the year — — (1,436) — 11,715 10,279 (126) 10,153
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity:
Own shares issued 7 — — — (7) — — —
Share-based payments, net of tax — — — — 1,412 1,412 — 1,412
Deferred bonus share scheme — — — — 199 199 — 199
Dividends — — — — (3,412) (3,412) — (3,412)
Dividends on shares awarded under the PSP — — — — (150) (150) — (150)
Unpaid dividends returned from shareholders — — — — 3 3 — 3
Total contributions by and distributions to owners 7 — — — (1,955) (1,948) — (1,948)
Change in ownership interests in subsidiaries:
Acquisition of subsidiaries with non-controlling interest — — — — — — 29 29
Balance at 31 December 2012 608 1,449 2,015 2,232 56,727 63,031 (33) 62,998
Balance at 1 January 2011 597 1,449 3,407 2,232 38,484 46,169 — 46,169
Proﬁt — — — — 9,670 9,670 (79) 9,591
Other comprehensive income:
Foreign exchange translation differences, net of taxes — — 44 — — 44 4 48
Actuarial losses on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans,  
net of taxes 19 — — — — (128) (128) — (128)
Total other comprehensive income — — 44 — (128) (84) 4 (80)
Total comprehensive income for the year — — 44 — 9,542 9,586 (75) 9,511
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity:
Own shares issued 4 — — — (4) — — —
Share-based payments, net of tax — — — — 1,511 1,511 — 1,511
Deferred bonus share scheme 7 — — — — 230 230 — 230
Dividends 17 — — — — (2,683) (2,683) — (2,683)
Dividends on shares awarded under the PSP 17 — — — — (115) (115) — (115)
Unpaid dividends returned from shareholders — — — — 2 2 — 2
Total contributions by and distributions to owners 4 — — — (1,059) (1,055) — (1,055)
Change in ownership interests in subsidiaries:
Acquisition of subsidiaries with non-controlling interest 13 — — — — — — 139 139
Balance at 31 December 2011 601 1,449 3,451 2,232 46,967 54,700 64 54,764
At 31 December 2012 the number of shares held by the Group through the Dialight Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOT”) trust was 47,596 
(2011: 39,216). The market value of these shares at 31 December 2012 was £505,945 (2011: £274,120). www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 54
Header
Underhead
Consolidated statement of total nancial position
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Notes
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 10,849 8,929
Intangible assets 12 18,236 12,158
Deferred tax assets 14 1,631 1,950
Employee beneﬁts 19 — 803
Total non-current assets 30,716 23,840
Inventories 15 19,610 15,842
Trade and other receivables 16 26,987 22,846
Cash and cash equivalents 14,962 13,700
Total current assets 61,559 52,388
Total assets 92,275 76,228
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (22,417) (19,136)
Provisions 22 (455) (434)
Contingent consideration 13 (615) —
Tax liabilities (1,450) (1,409)
Total current liabilities (24,937) (20,979)
Employee beneﬁts 19 (1,238) —
Contingent consideration 13 (2,668) —
Provisions 22 (434) (485)
Total non-current liabilities (4,340) (485)
Total liabilities (29,277) (21,464)
Net assets 62,998 54,764
Equity
Issued share capital 17 608 601
Merger reserve 17 1,449 1,449
Other reserves 4,247 5,683
Retained earnings 56,727 46,967
63,031 54,700
Non-controlling interests (33) 64
Total equity 62,998 54,764
The accompanying notes form part of the ﬁnancial statements.
These ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roy Burton Mark Fryer
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Company Number: 2486024 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 55
Header
Underhead
Financials
Consolidated statement of cash ows
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Note
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Operating activities
Proﬁt for the year 13,444 9,591
Adjustments for:
Financial income 8 (1,078) (1,265)
Financial expense 8 920 1,234
Income tax expense 9 6,335 4,724
Share-based payments 457 391
Deferred bonus share scheme 199 230
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 1,974 1,833
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 914 936
Gain on sale of discontinued operation, net of tax 5 (547) —
Operating cash ﬂow before movements in working capital 22,618 17,674
Increase in inventories (7,474) (6,396)
Increase in trade and other receivables (4,905) (3,662)
Increase in trade and other payables 3,927 7,807
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 22 7 (235)
Pension contributions in excess of the income statement 19 (385) (489)
Buy-out of US pension scheme 19 — (2,331)
Cash generated from operations 13,788 12,368
Income taxes paid (4,287) (1,744)
Interest paid 8 (35) (30)
Net cash generated from operating activities 9,466 10,594
Investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 13 (1,641) (427)
Non-controlling interest 33 —
Interest received 8 13 25
Disposal of discontinued operation, net of cash disposed of 5 4,290 —
Capital expenditure 11 (4,233) (2,512)
Capitalised expenditure on development 12 (2,772) (1,637)
Sale of tangible ﬁxed assets 11 43 32
Net cash used in investing activities (4,267) (4,519)
Financing activities
Dividends returned 3 2
Dividends paid 17 (3,430) (2,698)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (3,427) (2,696)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,772 3,379
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 13,700 10,359
Effect of exchange rates on cash held (510) (38)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 14,962 13,700 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 56
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
1. Reporting entity
Dialight plc is a company domiciled in England. The address of the Company’s registered ofﬁce is Exning Road, Newmarket, Suffolk CB8 0AX. 
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together referred to as the “Group”).
2. Basis of preparation
(a) Statement of compliance
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the EU (“IFRSs”). The Company has elected to present its parent company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with 
UK GAAP . During the year the Board deemed it was more appropriate to reclassify the 2011 consolidated income statement for the results 
of discontinued operations.
(b) Consolidated basis of preparation
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain ﬁnancial instruments which are carried at fair value. 
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors that are likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in 
the Overview and Performance review on pages 1 to 25. The ﬁnancial position of the Company, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Financial review on pages 20 to 23. The ﬁnancial statements include the statements covering the Group’s objectives, policies 
and processes for managing its capital; management of its ﬁnancial risk objectives; details of its ﬁnancial instruments; and its exposures to credit risk 
and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable ﬁnancial resources and, as a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business 
risks successfully.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company has sufﬁcient resources to continue in existence for the foreseeable future. 
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual ﬁnancial statements.
(c) Use of estimates, judgements and assumptions
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made a number of judgements. The process of preparing the Group’s 
ﬁnancial statements inevitably requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions concerning the future and the resulting accounting estimates 
will, by deﬁnition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and judgements that have the most signiﬁcant effect on the amounts included 
in these consolidated ﬁnancial statements are as follows:
Goodwill (see note 12)
Each year the Group reviews the carrying values of its goodwill balances by carrying out impairment tests. These tests require estimates and 
judgements to be made of the value in use of its cash generating units (“CGUs”) which are dependent on key assumptions such as future cash 
ﬂows and future growth rates of the CGUs, and discount rates.
Uncertainties associated with the current economic environment could impact key assumptions made as part of this review, although sensitivity 
analysis has been performed on the carrying of goodwill.
Fair value of intangible assets acquired in a business combination (see note 13)
On the acquisition of a business it is necessary to attribute fair values to any intangible asset acquired (provided it meets the criteria to be recognised). 
The fair values of any intangible assets are dependent on estimates and judgements of attributable future revenues, proﬁtability and cash ﬂows.
Development costs and deferred costs (see note 12)
The Group capitalises development costs and deferred costs provided they meet certain criteria as set out in the respective accounting policy. Costs 
are only capitalised where management are satisﬁed as to the ultimate commercial viability of the projects concerned based on available information.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets (see note 12)
The impairment analysis of goodwill and intangible assets is based upon the estimate of future discounted cash ﬂows. Factors such as lower than 
anticipated sales and resulting decreases of net cash ﬂows and changes in discount rates could lead to impairments.
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans (see note 19)
The valuation of the deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans are based upon actuarial assumptions related to the measurement of pension liabilities and assets. 
If the relevant factors developed materially differ from the assumptions used this could have a signiﬁcant impact on our deﬁned beneﬁt obligation. 
The main assumptions made in accounting for the Group’s pension plans relate to the expected rate of return on investments within the plans, the rate 
of increase in pensionable salaries, the rate of increase in the retail price index and consumer price index, the mortality rate of plan members and the 
discount rate applied in discounting liabilities. For each of these assumptions there is a range of possible values. Small changes in these assumptions 
can have a signiﬁcant impact on the size of the deﬁcit calculated under IAS 19. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 57
Header
Underhead
Financials
2. Basis of preparation continued
(c) Use of estimates, judgements and assumptions continued
Warranty (see note 20)
The warranty provision is estimated requiring management to make estimates and assumptions with respect to values and conditions which cannot be 
known with certainty at the time the ﬁnancial statements are prepared. Estimates are evaluated based on historical results and experience together with 
any known factors at the time of estimate. If the relevant rate of product returns differed materially from the estimates this may have a material impact 
on the level of provision required.
Tax (see note 8)
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding tax 
bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be 
available against which temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufﬁcient 
taxable proﬁts will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
3. Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated ﬁnancial statements and have 
been applied consistently by Group entities.
(a) Basis of consolidation
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred 
to the Group. Control is the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain beneﬁts from its activities. In assessing 
control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
 - the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
 - the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquire; less
 - the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identiﬁable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with 
a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010
For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Group’s interest 
in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business 
combinations were capitalised as part of the acquisition.
Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 (date of transition to IFRSs)
As part of its transition to IFRSs, the Group elected to restate only those business combinations that occurred on or after 1 January 2003. In respect 
of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2003, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the Group’s previous accounting framework, UK GAAP .
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements from 
the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 58
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2012
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(b) Foreign currency translation
For the purpose of presenting consolidated ﬁnancial statements the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations including goodwill and fair 
value adjustments arising on consolidation are translated using exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items of overseas operations are translated at average exchange rates for the period.
Since the transition date, resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity within the Group’s translation reserve. Such 
translation differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of. Foreign currency transactions 
are accounted for at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are recognised in the income statement. 
(c) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments are recorded initially at cost and are re-measured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement. The fair value of derivatives at 31 December 2012 
is £nil (2011: £nil).
(d) Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
(e) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group and have ﬁnite useful lives are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses.
(f) Depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant 
and equipment. Land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Buildings 16–50 years
Plant, equipment and vehicles 3–10 years
Amortisation
Amortisation is recognised in proﬁt and loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, 
from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Patents and trademarks 1–4 years
Development costs 3–5 years
Order book 1–2 years
Customer relationships 1–7 years
Technology 7 years
(g) Goodwill
Goodwill that arises upon acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. For the measurement of goodwill at initial recognition, see note 3(a).
Subsequent measurement
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses until disposal or termination of the previously acquired 
business when the proﬁt or loss on disposal or termination will be calculated after charging the gross amount at current exchange rates of any 
such goodwill through the income statement. Goodwill is allocated to the CGUs and is tested at least annually for impairment. An impairment loss 
recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 59
Header
Underhead
Financials
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(h) Research and development costs
Expenditure on research activities undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientiﬁc or technical knowledge and understanding is recognised 
in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research ﬁndings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved 
products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufﬁcient resources to 
complete the development. The expenditure capitalised includes direct cost of material, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. 
Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
(i) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-ﬁnancial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill 
and intangible assets that have indeﬁnite lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date. 
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. A CGU is the smallest identiﬁable asset 
group that generates cash ﬂows that largely are independent from other assets and groups. Impairment losses are recognised in proﬁt and loss. 
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated ﬁrst to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units 
and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro-rata basis. 
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. 
Any impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed 
at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change 
in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does 
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. 
A ﬁnancial asset, in particular the carrying value of trade receivables, is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events 
have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash ﬂows of that asset. Any impairment losses are recognised through the income statement.
(j) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories comprises all costs of purchase, costs of conversion 
and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the balance sheet date. Items are valued using the ﬁrst in, ﬁrst out 
method. When inventories are used, the carrying amount of those inventories is recognised as an expense in the period in which the related revenue 
is recognised. Provision for write-down to net realisable value and losses of inventories are recognised as an expense in the period in which the 
write-down or loss occurs. 
(k) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the 
Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash ﬂow statement. 
(l) Share capital
(i) Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by members.
(ii)  When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased by the ESOT, the amount of the consideration paid is recognised as a deduction from equity.
(iii)  Under the terms of the PSP and deferred bonus scheme, dividends accrue on shares not yet vested, however if in the event that the shares lapse 
or are forfeited then the dividends will not be paid and the accrual is reversed.
(m) Employee beneﬁts
(i) Deﬁned contribution pension plans
Obligations for contributions to deﬁned contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement when they are due. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 60
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2012
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(m) Employee beneﬁts continued
(ii) Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future 
beneﬁt that employees have earned for their service in the current and prior periods; that beneﬁt is discounted to determine its present value and any 
unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit 
rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by an independent qualiﬁed actuary using 
the projected unit method. When the calculation results in a beneﬁt to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised 
past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
When the beneﬁts of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased beneﬁt relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the period until beneﬁts become vested. To the extent that the beneﬁts vest immediately, the expenses 
are recognised immediately in the income statement. 
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period they occur directly into equity through the statement of comprehensive income.
(iii) Share-based payment and deferred bonus transactions
The PSP allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of the award granted is recognised as an employee expense with 
a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the performance period during which the employees 
become unconditionally entitled to the award. 
The fair value of the grants is measured using the Monte Carlo model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the grants were made. 
The amount recognised as an expense is only adjusted to reﬂect forfeitures resulting from failures to meet non-market conditions. The share-based 
payments are equity settled.
Key Group employees are awarded shares in the Company under the Annual Performance Bonus Plan. The fair value of the award granted is 
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the 
performance period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. 
(n) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and 
it is probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation. 
Warranties
A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying products are sold. The provision is based on historical warranty data, a weighting 
of possible outcomes against their associated probabilities, and the expected costs of honouring warranty claims. 
(o) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently stated at their amortised cost less any impairment losses. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. 
If any such indication exists the assets’ recoverable amounts are estimated being the greater of their net selling price and value in use. In assessing 
value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market 
assessment of the time value of the money and risks speciﬁc to the asset. Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
An impairment loss in respect of trade and other receivables is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the 
recoverable amount.
(p) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently stated at amortised cost. 
(q) Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns and allowances, trade 
discounts, volume rebates and product returns. Revenue represents the invoiced value of goods supplied and is recognised in the income statement 
when the signiﬁcant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the external customers in line with contractual arrangements and the 
amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic beneﬁt associated with the transaction will ﬂow to the Group. 
(r) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
(ii) Net ﬁnancing costs
Net ﬁnancing costs comprise interest receivable, interest payable, borrowings, interest on pension assets and liabilities, foreign exchange gains 
and losses, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement and unwinding on discount. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 61
Header
Underhead
Financials
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(s) Income tax expense
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax expense is recognised in proﬁt or loss except to the extent that it relates to items 
recognised directly in equity. 
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable proﬁt for the year. Taxable proﬁt differs from proﬁt as reported in the income statement because it 
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding tax 
bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be 
available against which temporary differences can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufﬁcient 
taxable proﬁts will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited 
to proﬁt and loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when 
they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend 
is recognised.
(t) Segment reporting
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including 
revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. All operating segments’ operating results are reviewed 
regularly by the Group’s Chief Executive to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance and for which 
discrete ﬁnancial information is available.
Segment results that are reported to the Group’s Chief Executive include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated 
on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets (primarily the Company’s headquarters), head ofﬁce expenses and income 
tax assets and liabilities.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the year to acquire property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding 
goodwill, order book and customer relationships.
(u) New endorsed standards and interpretations not adopted
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2013 and have 
not been applied in preparing these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Except as stated below, none of these are expected to have signiﬁcant effect 
on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group.
IAS 19 (2011) changes the deﬁnition of short-term and other long-term employee beneﬁts to clarify the distinction between the two. For deﬁned beneﬁt 
plans, removal of the accounting policy choice for recognition of actuarial gains and losses is not expected to have any impact on the Group, since it 
already recognises them immediately in other comprehensive income. The principal impact is expected to be that the return on plan assets recognised 
in the income statement will in future be calculated by applying the rate used to discount the plans’ liabilities, rather than their long-term expected rate 
of return. This is expected to decrease the proﬁt from operating activities for 2012 and decrease the deﬁned beneﬁt plan remeasurement loss recognised 
in other comprehensive income. The Group does not expect the impact of the revised measurement principles to be material. IAS 19 (2011) is effective 
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with early adoption permitted.
(v) Determination of fair values
A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of fair value, for both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial assets and 
liabilities. Fair values have been determined for measurement and/or disclosure purposes based on the following methods. Where applicable, further 
information about the assumptions made in determining fair values is disclosed in the notes speciﬁc to that asset or liability.
Plant and equipment
The fair value of plant and equipment recognised as a result of a business combination is based on market values. The market value of items of plant, 
equipment, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings is based on the quoted market prices for similar items.
Intangible assets
The fair value of patents, customer relationships and trademarks acquired in business combinations is based on the discounted cash ﬂows expected 
to be derived from the use or eventual sale of the assets. The fair value of technology is based on estimated replacement cost. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 62
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2012
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(v) Determination of fair values continued
Inventory
The fair value of inventory acquired in a business combination is based on its estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated 
costs of completion and sale and a reasonable proﬁt margin based on the effort required to complete and sell the inventory.
Trade and other receivables and payables
The fair value of trade and other receivables is estimated as the present value of future cash ﬂows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the 
reporting date. For receivables and payables with a life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reﬂect the fair value.
Share-based payments transactions
The fair value of employee stock options is measured using the Monte Carlo model. The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the 
performance period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. The Monte Carlo model takes into account the terms 
and conditions upon which the grants were made.
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price and deducting the 
current spot rate. Where discounted cash ﬂow techniques are used, estimated future cash ﬂows are based on management’s best estimates and the 
discount rate is a market related rate for a similar instrument at the balance sheet date. Where other pricing models are used, inputs are based on 
market related data at the balance sheet date.
Cash and cash equivalents
The carrying amount reported in the balance sheet approximates to fair value.
4. Operating segments
Following the disposal of the major part of the Electromagnetic Component segment, the Group now has three reportable segments, as described 
below, which are the Group’s strategic business units. The strategic units offer different products. They require different technology and marketing 
strategies. For each of the units the CEO reviews internal monthly reports. The following summary describes the operations in each of the Group’s 
reportable segments.
The Group comprises the following business segments:
 - Signals, which addresses the increasing demands for Energy Efﬁcient signalling solutions through the use of high brightness LEDs and utilisation 
of a number of associated technologies. Areas of business include Trafﬁc Signals, Obstruction Signals;
 - Lighting, which addresses the increasing demands for Energy Efﬁcient Lighting solutions through the use of high-brightness LEDs and utilisation of 
a number of associated technologies. Areas of business is Solid State Lighting products for Hazardous and Non-Hazardous Industrial application; and
 - Components, whose sales are primarily to Electronics OEMs for status indication and residual disconnect components for automotive and niche 
industrial applications. 
There is no inter-segment revenue.
2011 has been reclassiﬁed to take into account the new reportable segments.
All revenue relates to the sale of goods. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that 
can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated expenses comprise corporate costs including share-based payments. Unallocated assets and 
liabilities comprise an element of cash, borrowings, taxation and pension fund liabilities where it has not been possible to allocate to a speciﬁc segment.
There are no individual customers representing more than 10% of revenue. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 63
Header
Underhead
Financials
4. Operating segments continued
Reportable segments
2012
Lighting
£’000
Signals
£’000
Components
£’000
Continuing
 Operations
£’000
Electro-
Magnetic
Components
(discontinued)
£’000
T otal
£’000
Revenue 45,538 48,136 21,456 115,130 14,555 129,685
Contribution 20,183 22,621 10,276 53,080 1,933 55,013
Overhead costs (11,594) (11,278) (7,190) (30,062) (2,460) (32,522)
Segment results 8,589 11,343 3,086 23,018 (527) 22,491
Unallocated expenses (3,441) — (3,441)
Non-underlying operating proﬁt 24 — 24
Operating proﬁt 19,601 (527) 19,074
Net ﬁnancing income 158 — 158
Proﬁt on sale — 725 725
Proﬁt before tax 19,759 198 19,957
Income tax expense (6,464) (49) (6,513)
Proﬁt after tax 13,295 149 13,444
2011
Lighting
£’000
Signals
£’000
Components
£’000
Continuing
 Operations
£’000
Electro-
Magnetic
Components
(discontinued)
£’000
Total
£’000
Revenue 26,375 52,456 23,667 102,498 11,026 113,524
Contribution 9,421 25,122 12,414 46,957 1,539 48,496
Overhead costs (7,391) (13,327) (7,533) (28,251) (1,996) (30,247)
Segment results 2,030 11,795 4,881 18,706 (457) 18,249
Unallocated expenses (3,194) — (3,194)
Non-underlying expenses (67) — (67)
Operating proﬁt 15,445 (457) 14,988
Net ﬁnancing expense (673) — (673)
Proﬁt before tax 14,772 (457) 14,315
Income tax expense (4,845) 121 (4,724)
Proﬁt after tax 9,927 (336) 9,591
Other information
Lighting
£’000
Signals
£’000
Components
£’000
Continuing
 Operations
£’000
Electromagnetic
Components
(discontinued)
£’000
2012
T otal
£’000
Capital additions* 3,317 2,675 899 6,891 100 6,991
Depreciation and amortisation (1,063) (822) (486) (2,371) (129) (2,500)
*  Capital additions include property, plant and equipment, development costs, concessions, patents, licences and trademarks and exclude customer relationships 
and technology. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 64
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2012
4. Operating segments continued
Reportable segments continued
Other information
Lighting
£’000
Signals
£’000
Components
£’000
Continuing
 Operations
£’000
Electromagnetic
Components
(discontinued)
£’000
2011
Total
£’000
Capital additions* 1,910 1,310 653 3,873 217 4,090
Depreciation and amortisation (565) (1,056) (349) (1,970) (494) (2,464)
*  Capital additions include property, plant and equipment, development costs, concessions, patents, licences and trademarks and exclude customer relationships 
and technology.
Not included above are central asset additions of £14,000 (2011: £59,000) and depreciation and amortisation of £35,000 (2011: £33,000) 
not allocated to a segment.
T otal ﬁnancial position – assets
Lighting
£’000
Signals
£’000
Components
£’000
Electromagnetic
Components
(discontinued)
£’000
2012
T otal
£’000
Segment assets 35,256 26,166 11,719 1,496 74,637
Unallocated assets* 17,638
Consolidated total assets 92,275
T otal ﬁnancial position – liabilities
Lighting
£’000
Signals
£’000
Components
£’000
Electromagnetic
Components
(discontinued)
£’000
2012
T otal
£’000
Segment liabilities (12,499) (4,100) (4,805) (2,879) (24,283)
Unallocated liabilities* (4,994)
Consolidated total liabilities (29,277)
Total ﬁnancial position – assets
Lighting
£’000
Signals
£’000
Components
£’000
Electromagnetic
Components
(discontinued)
£’000
2011
Total
£’000
Segment assets 18,851 28,081 7,509 6,713 61,154
Unallocated assets* 15,074
Consolidated total assets 76,228
Total ﬁnancial position – liabilities
Lighting
£’000
Signals
£’000
Components
£’000
Electromagnetic
Components
(discontinued)
£’000
2011
Total
£’000
Segment liabilities (3,716) (6,880) (2,656) (5,164) (18,416)
Unallocated liabilities* (3,048)
Consolidated total liabilities (21,464)
* Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise cash, borrowings, taxation and pension fund liabilities where it has not been possible to allocate to a speciﬁc segment. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 65
Header
Underhead
Financials
4. Operating segments continued
Geographical segments
The Electromagnetic Components, Components, Signals and Lighting segments are managed on a worldwide basis but operate in three principal 
geographic areas: UK, Europe and North America. The following tables provide 1) an analysis of the Group’s sales by geographical market, irrespective 
of the origin of the goods, and 2) an analysis of total assets and non-current assets by location.
All revenue relates to the sale of goods.
Sales revenue by geographical market
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
North America 90,141 77,454
UK 11,694 11,702
Rest of Europe 12,872 13,160
Rest of World 14,978 11,208
Electro-magnetic components (discontinued) (14,555) (11,026)
115,130 102,498
Total assets Non-current assets
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
North America 53,911 38,692 13,797 6,462
UK 22,376 22,930 6,373 6,035
Rest of Europe 10,624 13,090 7,800 7,911
Rest of the World 5,364 1,516 1,115 679
92,275 76,228 29,085 21,087
Reconciliations of reportable segment proﬁt or loss
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Total proﬁt or loss for reportable segments 22,491 18,249
Elimination of discontinued operations 527 457
Unallocated amounts:
Other corporate expenses (3,441) (3,194)
Non-underlying expenses — (67)
Non-underlying operating income 24 —
Net ﬁnancing income/(expenses) 158 (673)
Consolidated proﬁt from continuing activities before tax 19,759 14,772 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 66
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2012
5. Discontinued operations
From late 2011 a strategic review of the Electromagnetic Components Segment was conducted. As a result, the sale of patents and trademarks 
was concluded in late 2012. This segment has been presented as a Discontinued Operation in the Income Statement.
Results of discontinued operation
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Revenue 14,555 11,026
Expenses (15,082) (11,483)
Results from operating activities (527) (457)
Tax 129 121
Results from operating activities, net of tax (398) (336)
Gain on sale of discontinued operation 725 —
Tax on gain on sale of discontinued operation (178) —
Proﬁt/(Loss) for the year 149 (336)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 0.5p (1.0)p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 0.5p (1.1)p
The 2011 Income statement has been reclassiﬁed to reanalyse the result of the discontinued operating segment.
The loss from discontinued operation of £527,000 (2011: loss of £457,000) is attributable entirely to the owners of the Company.
Cash ﬂows from (used in) discontinued operation
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Net cash used in operating activities 1,166 1,702
Net cash from investing activities 4,290 —
Net cash from ﬁnancing activities — —
Net cash ﬂows for the year 5,456 1,702
Effect of disposal on the ﬁnancial position of the Group
2012
£’000
Property, plant and equipment (38)
Intangibles (463)
Inventories (3,064)
Net assets and liabilities (3,565)
Consideration received, satisﬁed in cash 5,741
Cash paid for redundancy and staff costs (952)
Cash paid for professional and other fees (499)
Net cash inﬂow 4,290 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 67
Header
Underhead
Financials
6. Non-underlying income/expense
In the second half of 2012, the group undertook a one-off contract to supply through a third party lighting for a commercial venture. The board deemed 
this not part of the Group’s core business and have shown the proﬁt made of £24,000 as Non-underlying operating Income.
In the second half of 2012, £189,000 which had previously been provided in respect of the US Pension scheme was released. This has been shown 
as Non-underlying Income in the ﬁnancing expense line where the provision was previously expensed.
Following the acquisition of Airinet Inc. in June 2012 the cost of unwinding the discount calculated on the contingent consideration between the date 
of acquisition and 31 December 2012 of £141,000 has been expensed as a non-underlying ﬁnancial expense.
Prior year non-underlying Income/Expense
In the ﬁrst half of 2011, the Group granted a lifetime licence to a third party for the use of a number of our patents. The income from this licence 
of £2.741,000 is included within non-underlying other operating income.
In the second half of 2011, the Group reached agreement to settle a longstanding dispute with a rail signalling customer for which an LED signal had 
been in development since 2007. This dispute was provided in full for £2.8m in the ﬁrst half of 2011 and this amount was paid in full in January 2012. 
The provision is included within non-underlying administrative expenses and non-trade payables at 31 December 2011.
In the ﬁrst half of 2011, the Group successfully bought out the US deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme. The cash cost of securing these liabilities was 
£2.3m and as a result there is a one-off non-underlying ﬁnancial expense of £0.7m which comprises £0.5m net settlement loss and £0.2m of fees 
and other incidental expenses.
7. Personnel expenses
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Wages and salaries 20,145 17,598
Social security contributions 2,461 1,992
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 457 391
Deferred bonus share scheme 199 230
Contributions to deﬁned contribution plans 621 530
Total charge for deﬁned beneﬁt plans — 32
23,883 20,773
The average number of employees by geographical location was:
2012
Number
2011
Number
UK 160 146
US and Mexico 1,395 958
Rest of World 71 35
1,626 1,139
In 2012 the Group employed an average of 952 direct staff (2011: 823) and 305 indirect staff (2011: 316). www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 68
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2012
8. Net financing income/(expense)
Recognised in proﬁt and loss
12 months 31 December 2012 12 months 31 December 2011
underlying
£’000
Non-
underlying
£’000
T otal
£’000
underlying
£’000
Non-
underlying
£’000
Total
£’000
Interest income on bank deposits 13 — 13 25 — 25
Net change in fair value of ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt  
or loss held for trading 145 — 145 ———
Expected return on assets in the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 920 — 920 1,240 — 1,240
1,078 — 1,078 1,265 — 1,265
Interest expense on ﬁnancial liabilities (35) — (35) (30) — (30)
Interest charge on pension scheme liabilities (933) — (933) (1,204) — (1,204)
Unwind of discount on contingent consideration — (141) (141) ———
Non-underlying settlement loss on buy-out of US pension scheme — 189 189 — (704) (704)
(968) 48 (920) (1,234) (704) (1,938)
Net ﬁnancing income/(expense) recognised in condensed consolidated 
income statement 110 48 158 31 (704) (673)
9. Income tax expense
Current tax expense
Recognised in the income statement
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Current tax expense 
Tax expense from continuing operations 6,464 4,845
Tax from discontinued operations (excluding gain on sale) (129) (121)
6,335 4,724
Tax on gain on sale of discontinued operation 178 —
Income tax expense 6,513 4,724 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 69
Header
Underhead
Financials
9. Income tax expense continued
Current tax expense continued
Recognised in the income statement
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Current tax expense
Current year 5,443 3,540
Adjustment for prior years (91) (100)
5,352 3,440
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,068 1,492
Adjustment for prior years 93 (208)
Income tax expense 6,513 4,724
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2012
%
2012
£’000
2011
%
2011
£’000
Proﬁt from continuing operations 13,444 9,591
Total income tax expense 6,513 4,724
Proﬁt excluding income tax 19,957 14,315
Income tax using the UK corporation tax rate 24.5 4,889 26.5 3,793
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 10.2 2,035 8.2 1,178
Change in deferred tax rate 0.4 71 0.6 90
Non-deductible expenses (0.7) (148) 0.1 19
Unrecognised losses carried forward —— 0.5 68
Losses now recognised (1.0) (197) ——
Over provision in prior years —— (2.1) (308)
Research and development credits (0.7) (133) (0.5) (75)
Other (0.1) (4) (0.3) (41)
32.6 6,513 33.0 4,724
The 2012 Budget on 21 March 2012 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 22% by 2014, and the December 2012 Autumn 
Statement announced a planned further reduction to 21% by 2014.  A reduction in the rate from 26% to 25% (effective from 1 April 2012) was 
substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, and further reductions to 24% (effective from 1 April 2012) and 23% (effective from 1 April 2013) were 
substantively enacted on 26 March 2012 and 3 July 2012 respectively.  
This will reduce the company’s future current tax charge accordingly.  The deferred tax asset at balance sheet date has been calculated based 
on the rate of 23% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
It has not yet been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the announced further 2% rate reduction, although this will further reduce 
the company’s future current tax charge and reduce the company’s deferred tax asset accordingly.
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Share-based payments 955 1,120 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 70
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2012
10. Profit for the year
Proﬁt for the year has been arrived at after charging:
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Research and development costs
Expensed as incurred 2,499 3,703
Amortisation charge 526 663
3,060 4,366
Depreciation of ﬁxed assets 1,974 1,833
Amortisation of customer relationships 312 272
Amortisation of concessions, patents, licences and trademarks 35 —
Amortisation of technology 50 —
Operating leases – property 892 760
Operating leases – other 141 138
Auditor’s remuneration:
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Audit of these ﬁnancial statements 42 41
Amounts receivable by auditors in respect of:
Audit of ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 122 109
Other amounts pursuant to legislation 10 9
Other services relating to taxation 68 108
200 226
Advisory work in respect of acquisition 16 —
Pension and actuarial services:
Pension advisory services in respect of Group pension 37 30
Audit related assurance services 31 —
284 256 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 71
Header
Underhead
Financials
11. Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings
£’000
Plant,
equipment
and vehicles
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2011 5,467 31,004 36,471
Exchange adjustments (37) 24 (13)
Businesses acquired —6464
Additions 52 2,460 2,512
Disposals (110) (1,650) (1,760)
At 31 December 2011 5,372 31,902 37,274
At 1 January 2012 5,372 31,902 37,274
Exchange adjustments (140) (1,165) (1,305)
Additions 73 4,160 4,233
Disposals (43) (421) (464)
At 31 December 2012 5,262 34,476 39,738
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2011 (3,011) (25,242) (28,253)
Exchange adjustments 66 12
Charge for year (144) (1,689) (1,833)
Disposals 111 1,618 1,729
At 31 December 2011 (3,038) (25,307) (28,345)
At 1 January 2012 (3,038) (25,307) (28,345)
Exchange adjustments 96 913 1,009
Charge for year (115) (1,859) (1,974)
Disposals 43 378 421
At 31 December 2012 (3,014) (25,875) (28,889)
Carrying amount at 31 December 2012 2,248 8,601 10,849
At 31 December 2011 2,334 6,595 8,929
At 1 January 2011 2,456 5,762 8,218 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 72
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2012
12. Intangible assets
Concessions,
patents,
licences and
trademarks
£’000
Goodwill
£’000
Order
book and
customer
relationships
£’000
Technology
£’000
Development
costs
£’000
Total
£’000
Costs
Balance at 1 January 2011 1,237 7,246 1,821 — 6,685 16,989
Additions arising from internal developments 210 — — — 1,427 1,637
Additions acquired through business combinations — 769 285 — — 1,054
Effects of foreign exchange movement 7 (115) — — 75 (33)
Balance at 31 December 2011 1,454 7,900 2,106 — 8,187 19,647
Balance at 1 January 2012 1,454 7,900 2,106 — 8,187 19,647
Additions arising from internal developments 275 — — — 2,497 2,772
Additions acquired through business combinations (note 13) — 4,218 — 702 — 4,920
Disposals — — — — (2,572) (2,572)
Effects of foreign exchange movement (16) (113) — — (244) (373)
Balance at 31 December 2012 1,713 12,005 2,106 702 7,868 24,394
Amortisation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 January 2011 (1,237) — (189) — (5,075) (6,501)
Amortisation for the period — — (272) — (664) (936)
Effects of foreign exchange movement — — — — (52) (52)
Balance at 31 December 2011 (1,237) — (461) — (5,791) (7,489)
Balance at 1 January 2012 (1,237) — (461) — (5,791) (7,489)
Amortisation for the period (35) — (312) (50) (526) (923)
Disposals — — — — 2,107 2,107
Effects of foreign exchange movement 1 — — — 146 147
Balance at 31 December 2012 (1,271) — (773) (50) (4,064) (6,158)
Carrying amounts at 31 December 2012 442 12,005 1,333 652 3,804 18,236
At 31 December 2011 217 7,900 1,645 — 2,396 12,158
At 1 January 2011 — 7,246 1,632 — 1,610 10,488
The amortisation charge for the development costs is reﬂected in research and development costs shown within cost of sales on the face of the 
income statement. The amortisation charge for concessions, patents, licences and trademarks is shown within administrative expenses in the income 
statement. The amortisation charge for order book and customer relationships is shown within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to beneﬁt from the business combination. 
CGUs are identiﬁed geographically and at a product segment level. The carrying amount of the goodwill has been allocated as follows:
Signals and Lighting segments
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
UK Lighting 2,328 2,328
European Trafﬁc 3,886 3,999
European Obstruction 1,255 1,255
Australian Lighting 113 113
Japanese Lighting 205 205
US Lighting 4,218 —
12,005 7,900
The change in value in the European Trafﬁc goodwill ﬁgure is due to foreign currency translation. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 73
Header
Underhead
Financials
12. Intangible assets continued
The Group tests goodwill (at the CGU level) annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those 
regarding the discount rates and growth rates.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reﬂect current market assessments of a number of factors that impact on the time value of money 
and any risk speciﬁc to the CGU. The rate includes management’ s assessment of a normal level of debt to equity ratio within similar companies in its sector. 
The Group prepares cash ﬂow forecasts derived from the most recent ﬁnancial budgets approved by management covering a ﬁve-year period. 
Management has arrived at the ﬁve-year plan based upon certain assumptions derived from research carried out by external consultants who 
specialise in areas of the Group’s business and their knowledge of the business. The key assumptions within the ﬁve-year forecasts are revenue growth 
(which varies depending on the CGU’s product groups and the markets addressed) and contribution margin, which is based on management’s best 
estimate of material, labour and production cost trends and manufacturing efﬁciencies. Cash ﬂows beyond the ﬁve-year period are extrapolated using 
estimated growth rates of between 0% and 1%.
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions
Impairment testing is dependent on management’s estimates and judgements, particularly as they relate to the forecasting of future cash ﬂows, 
the discount rates selected, and expected long-term growth rates.
Any adverse change in these assumptions could reduce the recoverable amount below carrying amount.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash ﬂow for the CGUs is 8.2% (2011: range of 8.0% to 10.4%).
The growth rates management has applied in the value in use calculations for each of the CGUs over the ﬁve-year period vary due to the nature of the 
products, industries and countries in which the CGU operates. The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis signiﬁcantly reducing the growth rates. 
Even at this level no impairment would be required to be recorded. The Directors do not believe that a signiﬁcant change to the assumptions is probable.
13. Acquisition of trade and assets and subsidiaries
On the 7 June 2012, Dialight plc’s US subsidiary, Dialight Corporation acquired the trade and assets of Airinet Inc, a lighting controls company, for 
upfront consideration of $2.6m with additional sums payable based on future revenue through to 2020 of up to $7.4m. Dialight assumed no liabilities 
on the acquisition and all employees transferred to Dialight Corporation on completion. All patent applications have transferred to Dialight ownership. 
The intangible assets including goodwill on acquisition are expected to be $7.7m. 
Recognised amounts of identiﬁable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value
31 December
 2012
(Provisional)
£’000
Intangible assets 702
Net assets acquired 702
Goodwill 4,218
Total consideration 4,920
Satisﬁed by:
Cash and cash equivalents 1,641
Contingent consideration 3,279
4,920
Net cash outﬂow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 1,641
1,641
The goodwill of £4,218,000 arising from the acquisition represents the potential future beneﬁt to the group of the development by the Airinet team 
of controls to the Group’s Industrial LED lighting portfolio.
If new information obtained within one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date identiﬁes 
adjustments to the above amounts, the acquisition accounting will be revised.
The acquisition will further enhance the payback to customer by adding controls capability to our hazardous LED lighting customers.
Airinet did not contribute to revenue between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. The costs incurred of £16,000, in making the 
acquisition have been expensed in the Income Statement as required under the revised standard. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 74
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2012
13. Acquisition of trade and assets and subsidiaries continued
Recognised amounts of identiﬁable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value continued
Contingent consideration
The group is expecting to pay the selling shareholders additional consideration of $7,400,000 based on future revenues derived from the sales of the controls 
units. The payments are scheduled through to 2020 so have been discounted to $5,114,000 using a discount rate of 9.5%. At 31 December 2012 the 
contingent consideration has increased to $5,337,000 due to the unwind of the discount ($223,000).
Prior year acquisitions
On 4 January 2011, the Group acquired 75% of the issued share capital of Lightday Investment Pty Ltd trading as Industrial Lighting Solutions 
(“Lightday”), an Australian company and distributor of ultra efﬁcient lighting products. Lightday was acquired from its management for a consideration 
of AUD$300,000 (£192,000) which was payable in cash.
The acquisition will serve the large industrial/hazardous/mining sector in Australia and further supports the Group’s thrust into the industrial and 
hazardous lighting market with its ultra efﬁcient lighting products.
Lightday contributed £1,509,000 to revenue and a loss of £179,000 to proﬁt before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and 
31 December 2011. The costs incurred of £8,000, in making the acquisition have been expensed as required under the revised standard.
On July 2011, the Group’s newly established wholly owned subsidiary Dialight Japan, acquired the assets and contracts of I-Spec Limited, its Japanese 
distributor. The cash consideration paid at the date of acquisition was USD $350,000 (£222,000) which was $280,000 (£178,000) payable in cash and 
$70,000 (£44,000) payable as deferred consideration. Dialight Japan was set up in June 2011. Part of the consideration paid for the assets and contacts 
of I-Spec Limited was 25% of the share capital in Dialight Japan, that was transferred to the sellers of I-Spec Limited on 1 July 2011. The 25% was valued 
at cost and deemed part of the acquisition of I-Spec and it has been treated as Goodwill.
Dialight Japan contributed £256,000 to revenue and a loss of £274,000 to proﬁt before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and 
31 December 2011. The costs incurred of £38,000, in making the acquisition have been expensed as required under the revised standard.
The acquisition will serve the large industrial and hazardous lighting sector in Japan and further supports the Group’s thrust into the industrial 
and hazardous lighting market with its ultra efﬁcient lighting products.
If the acquisition of I-Spec Limited through Dialight Japan KK had occurred on 1 January 2011, management estimates that consolidated revenue 
would have been £13.9m and the Group proﬁt before tax for the year would have been £14.1m.
Recognised amounts of identiﬁable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value
Note
31 December
2011
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 11 64
Intangible assets – customer relationships 12 285
Current assets 229
Current liabilities (257)
Deferred tax 14 (86)
Net assets acquired 235
Goodwill 12 318
Non-controlling interest, based on their proportionate interest in the recognised amounts of the assets and liabilities of the acquired companies (139)
Total consideration 414
Satisﬁed by:
Cash and cash equivalents 370
Deferred consideration 44
414
Net cash outﬂow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 370
Cash and cash equivalents acquired 57
427
No remeasurement has been made to the preliminary fair values.
In addition to the £318,000 of Goodwill acquired through business combinations above the fair value of goodwill in BTI acquired in 2010 was amended by £451,000. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 75
Header
Underhead
Financials
14. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Property, plant and equipment — — (860) (818) (860) (818)
Intangible assets — — (1,748) (1,314) (1,748) (1,314)
Employee beneﬁts 1,410 1,095 — — 1,410 1,095
Provisions 1,358 1,714 — — 1,358 1,714
Other items 1,471 1,273 — — 1,471 1,273
Tax assets/(liabilities) 4,239 4,082 (2,608) (2,132) 1,631 1,950
Set off of tax (2,608) (2,132) 2,608 2,132 — —
Net tax assets 1,631 1,950 — — 1,631 1,950
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses anticipated to be available.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred taxation liabilities have not been 
recognised is £nil (2011: £nil). 
Movement in temporary differences during the year
Property,
plant
and
equipment
£’000
Intangible
assets
£’000
Employee
beneﬁts
£’000
Provisions
£’000
Other
short-term
timing
differences
£’000
Total
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2011 (379) (548) 1,364 1,638 1,087 3,162
Recognised in income (437) (219) (883) 42 213 (1,284)
Exchange (2) (10) (55) 34 — (33)
In respect of prior year acquisitions* — (451) — — — (451)
On acquisition — (86) — — — (86)
Recognised in equity — — 669 — (27) 642
Balance at 31 December 2011 (818) (1,314) 1,095 1,714 1,273 1,950
Balance at 1 January 2012 (818) (1,314) 1,095 1,714 1,273 1,950
Recognised in income (42) (476) (58) (331) (254) (1,161)
Exchange — 42 — (19) — 23
Recognised in equity — — 373 — 446 819
Balance at 31 December 2012 (860) (1,748) 1,410 1,364 1,465 1,631
* During 2011 the fair value relating to ‘BTI’ was amended, see note 13.
15. Inventories
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Raw materials and consumables 11,175 9,712
Work in progress 773 580
Finished goods 7,662 5,550
19,610 15,842
Inventories to the value of £63,079,000 (2011: £55,525,000) were recognised as expenses in the year. Included within this ﬁgure was the reversal 
of inventory provisions to net realisable value of £710,000 (2011: £499,000). www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 76
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2012
16. Trade and other receivables
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Trade receivables 24,595 21,507
Other non-trade receivables 894 265
Prepayments and accrued income 1,498 1,074
26,987 22,846
The Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 22.
17. Capital and reserves
Share capital
2012
Number
2012
£’000
2011
Number
2011
£’000
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each 32,150,231 608 31,800,231 601
During the year, 350,000 shares were issued (1.10% of the total ordinary share capital issued) at par. The ordinary shares issued have the same rights 
as the other shares in issue.
Issued share capital
Ordinary shares
2012
Number
2011
Number
In issue at 1 January 31,800,231 31,600,231
Shares issued 350,000 200,000
Issued and fully paid at 31 December 32,150,231 31,800,231
Merger reserve
On acquiring Lumidrives Limited in 2006 the Company issued ordinary shares as part of the consideration. Merger relief was taken in accordance 
with Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 and hence £546,000 was credited to the merger reserve.
On acquiring BTI in 2010 the Company issued ordinary shares as part of the consideration. Merger relief was taken in accordance with Section 612 
of the Companies Act 2006 and hence £903,000 was credited to the merger reserve.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences from 1 January 2004 arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements 
of foreign operations for the Company.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve comprises the nominal value of “B” preference shares redeemed since the capital reorganisation in 2005.
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are 
no income tax consequences for the Company.
Final proposed dividend
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
9.5 pence per ordinary share (2011: 6.7 pence) 3,054 2,131 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 77
Header
Underhead
Financials
17. Capital and reserves continued
Dividends continued
During the year the following dividends were paid:
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Final – 6.7 pence (2011: 5.2 pence) per ordinary share 2,131 1,643
Interim – 4.0 pence (2011: 3.3 pence) per ordinary share 1,286 1,050
Less: dividends on shares held in trust (5) (10)
3,412 2,683
Final dividend – 6.7 pence on shares awarded under the PSP and deferred bonus share scheme not yet vested 55 38
Interim dividend – 4.0 pence on shares awarded under the PSP and deferred share scheme not yet vested 19 24
Dividends accrued on shares awarded under the PSP and deferred share scheme but not yet vested 63 38
Dividends paid on shares awarded under the PSP vested during the period 13 15
Total (amount shown in the statement of changes in equity) 3,562 2,798
18. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share at 31 December 2012 was based on the proﬁt for the year of £13,444,000 (2011: £9,591,000) 
and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 31 December 2012 of 31,988,109 (2011: 31,672,355).
Diluted earnings per share
The calculation of diluted earnings per share at 31 December 2012 was based on proﬁt for the year of £13,444,000 (2011: £9,591,000) and a weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 31 December 2012 of 32,534,704 (2011: 32,484,865) calculated as follows:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted)
2012
’000
2011
’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 31,988 31,672
Effect of share options on issue 547 813
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 32,535 32,485
Underlying earnings per share are highlighted below as the Directors consider that this measurement of earnings gives valuable information 
on the performance of the Group.
2012
£’000
T otal
2011
£’000
Total
Proﬁt attributable to ordinary shareholders (basic and diluted) 13,444 9,591
Earnings per share
Basic earnings 42.0p 30.3p
Non-underlying items 0.6p (1.4)p
Underlying earnings 41.4p 31.7p
Diluted earnings 41.3p 29.5p
Non-underlying earnings 0.6p (1.4)p
Underlying diluted earnings 40.7p 30.9p www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 78
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2012
19. Employee benefits
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligations
The Group makes contributions to two deﬁned beneﬁt plans to provide beneﬁts for employees upon retirement. All plans are closed to new members 
and future accrual.
In the ﬁrst half of 2011 the Group bought out the US deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme. The cost of securing these liabilities was £2,331,000 and as a 
result there was a one-off non-underlying ﬁnancial expense of £704,000 which consists of £459,000 net settlement loss (per note 19) and £245,000 
of fees and other incidental expenditure.
In the second half of 2012 £189,000 which had previously been provided in respect of the US Pension scheme was released. This has been shown 
as Non-underlying Income in the ﬁnancing expense line where the provision was previously expensed.
Recognised liability for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations
2012
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
UK
schemes T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Present value of liabilities 22,736 22,736 20,273 — 20,273
Fair value of plan assets (21,498) (21,498) (21,076) — (21,076)
Recognised liability/(assets) for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 1,238 1,238 (803) — (803)
Plan assets consist of the following:
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
UK
schemes
 T otal
UK
schemes
Total
Equities 7,985 7,638
Bonds and gilts 10,583 9,057
Cash 2,930 4,381
21,498 21,076
Movements in the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations
2012
£’000
2012
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
UK
schemes
US
scheme T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligations at 1 January 20,273 — 20,273 19,997 14,525 34,522
Current service cost ——— 32 — 32
Employee element of service cost ——— 10 — 10
Interest cost 933 — 933 1,075 129 1,204
Beneﬁts paid (936) — (936) (972) — (972)
Liabilities extinguished ——— — (14,697) (14,697)
Actuarial losses 2,466 — 2,466 131 1 132
Settlement cost ——— — 459 459
Currency (gains)/losses ——— — (417) (417)
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligations at 31 December 22,736 — 22,736 20,273 — 20,273 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 79
Header
Underhead
Financials
19. Employee benefits continued
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligations continued
Movements in fair value of plan assets
2012
£’000
2012
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
UK
schemes
US
scheme T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 21,076 — 21,076 20,417 12,664 33,081
Expected return on scheme assets 920 — 920 1,054 186 1,240
Employer contributions 385 — 385 489 2,331 2,820
Member contributions ——— 10 — 10
Beneﬁts paid (936) — (936) (972) — (972)
Assets distributed ——— — (14,697) (14,697)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 53 — 53 78 (134) (56)
Currency losses ——— — (350) (350)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 21,498 — 21,498 21,076 — 21,076
Deﬁcit/(surplus) 1,238 — 1,238 (803) — (803)
Expense recognised in the income statement
2012
£’000
2012
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
UK
schemes
US
scheme T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Current service costs ——— 32 — 32
Settlement cost ——— — 459 459
Interest on obligation 933 — 933 1,075 129 1,204
Expected return on plan assets (920) — (920) (1,054) (186) (1,240)
13 — 13 53 402 455
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the income statement:
2012
£’000
2012
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
UK
schemes
US
scheme T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Administrative expenses ——— 32 — 32
Net ﬁnancing (income)/expense 13 — 13 21 402 423
13 — 13 53 402 455 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 80
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
19. Employee benefits continued
Expense recognised in other comprehensive income
2012
£’000
2012
£’000
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
2011
£’000
UK
schemes
US
scheme T otal
UK
schemes
US
scheme Total
Actuarial gains/(losses) on plan assets 53 — 53 78 (134) (56)
Change in assumptions in respect of liabilities (989) — (989) (739) — (739)
Experience gains/(losses) on liabilities (1,477) — (1,477) 608 (1) 607
Net actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income (2,413) — (2,413) (53) (135) (188)
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income — — (8,552) — — (6,139)
Historical information
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
2008
£’000
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (22,736) (20,273) (34,522) (31,663) (32,473)
Scheme assets 21,498 21,076 33,081 30,715 28,004 
(Deﬁcit)/surplus 1,238 803 (1,441) (948) (4,469) 
Actuarial (losses)/gains on liabilities (2,466) (132) (2,348) (782) 3,788
Experience (loss)/gain on assets 53 (56) 538 2,626 (7,195)
Experience gain/(loss) on currency — 54 (69) 371 (1,066)
Liability for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations
The principal assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are:
UK schemes (% per annum) US scheme (% per annum)
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010
Discount rate at 31 December 4.40 4.70 5.50 n/a n/a 5.00
Future salary increases n/a n/a 3.00 n/a n/a n/a
Future pension increases 2.90 3.00 3.65 n/a n/a n/a
Inﬂation – RPI 2.90 3.00 3.70 n/a n/a n/a
Inﬂation – CPI 2.40 2.20 3.00 n/a n/a n/a
Deferred revaluation 2.40 2.20 3.00 n/a n/a n/a
The expected long-term rates of return were:
UK schemes (% per annum) US scheme (% per annum)
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010
Equities 6.50 6.50 6.50 n/a n/a n/a
Bonds 4.40 3.00 4.20 n/a n/a n/a
Gilts 3.00 3.00 4.20 n/a n/a n/a
Cash 3.00 3.00 4.20 n/a n/a 1.00 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 81
Header
Underhead
Financials
19. Employee benefits continued
Expense recognised in the income statement
For its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 31 December 2012, used SAPS mortality tables 
based on year of birth (as is published by the Institute of Actuaries). The UK mortality tables are based on the latest mortality investigations and reﬂect 
an industry-wide recognition that life expectations have improved. The average life expectancy of an individual currently aged 45 years and retiring 
at age 65 years is 24.10 years for males and 26.7 years for females. For individuals currently aged 65 years the average life expectancy is 22.3 years 
for males and 24.7 years for females.
The expected long-term rate of return for investments is based on the portfolio as a whole and not on individual asset categories. The return is based 
exclusively on historical returns, without adjustments which are crossed checked against market expectations from external sources. 
The Group expects that contributions to the UK deﬁned beneﬁt plans in 2013 will be at a similar level to contributions paid in 2012.
Share-based payments
PSP
In September 2005 the shareholders approved the PSP .
During the year an award under the PSP was made to the Executive Directors and senior managers, details of which are set out below:
Date of award
Number
of awards
at the
beginning
of year
Number
of awards
granted
during
the year
Number
of awards
vested
during
the year
Number
of awards
forfeited
during
the year
Number
of awards
at the
year end
Fair value
pence per
share
Vesting
period
Maturity
date
April 2009 342,491 — (341,620) (871) — 56 3 years April 2012
April 2010 208,993 — — (3,091) 205,902 186 3 years May 2013
September 2010 37,822 — — — 37,822 322 3 years Sept 2013
February 2011 140,078 — — (14,500) 125,578 411 3 years Feb 2014
April 2012 — 79,927 — (14,402) 65,525 684 3 years April 2015
729,384 79,927 (341,620) (32,864) 434,827
Further details of the PSP are included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 42 to 49.
The fair value of the awards made is measured using the Monte Carlo model with the following inputs:
April
2012
award
February
2011
award
September
2010
award
May
2010
award
Share price £6.84 £6.24 £4.01 £2.79
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil £nil
Expected volatility 38% 40% 42% 41%
Award life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 
Correlation
Dialight and the FTSE SmallCap Index 26% 29% 30% 33%
FTSE SmallCap Index and the FTSE All Share 
Electronic/Electrical Equipment Index 86% 86% 87% 86%
The employee expense in 2012 is £457,000 (2011: £319,000) (see note 7). www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 82
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
20. Provisions
Warranty
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 919
Effects of foreign exchange movement (38)
Provisions made during the year 588
Provisions used during the year (580)
Balance at 31 December 2012 889
Warranty
2012
£’000
Warranty
2011
£’000
Due within one year 455 434
Due between one and ﬁve years 434 485
889 919
The provision is based on estimates made from historical warranty data associated with similar products.
21. Trade and other payables
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Trade payables 16,920 11,424
Other taxes and social security 236 339
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 5,261 7,373
22,417 19,136
The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 22.
22. Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk from its use of ﬁnancial instruments.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring 
and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The Group’s risk 
policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and 
adherence to limits.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews 
the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
Credit risk
Trade and other receivables
Credit risk is the risk of ﬁnancial loss if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations by not paying the receivables due.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is inﬂuenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
Operationally the Group has no signiﬁcant concentration of credit risk.
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Each new customer is analysed individually 
for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. 
The Group’s review includes external ratings when available and in some cases bank references. Purchase limits are set for customers. Customers that 
do not meet the benchmark creditworthiness may transact with the Group only on a pre-payment basis.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. Impairment 
losses are determined having taken into account special customer circumstances and ﬁnancial position, together with Group information about general 
payment trends. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 83
Header
Underhead
Financials
22. Financial risk management continued
Credit risk continued
Exposure to credit risk
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
Gross
2012
£’000
Impairment
2012
£’000
Gross
2011
£’000
Impairment
2011
£’000
Not past due 19,299 — 17,365 —
Past due 0–30 days 3,338 219 3,145 145
Past due 31–120 days 1,439 85 942 39
Past due 121–365 days 833 59 185 12
More than one year 59 10 105 39
Total 24,968 373 21,742 235
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 235
Effects of foreign exchange (12)
Utilisation of provision (29)
Provision created 180
Balance at 31 December 2012 374
The allowance accounts in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisﬁed that no recovery of the 
amount owing is possible; at that point the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the ﬁnancial asset directly.
Other non-trade receivables of £773,000 (2011: £265,000) are not past due and have no impairment.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates which affect the Group’s income. The objective 
of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to manage exposure to interest rate risk setting a proportion of any borrowings to a ﬁxed rate basis. Historically interest rate 
swaps have been considered and entered into. Currently the Group has no borrowings.
Foreign currency risk
Exposure to currency risk arises in the normal course of the Group’s business.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than each subsidiaries functional 
currency. The currencies giving rise to risk are primarily Euro and US Dollars.
Where possible the Group uses natural hedging within the Group to hedge the majority of its foreign currency risk. Natural hedging is the mechanism 
whereby the cash inﬂows in a particular currency are matched to the cash outﬂows in that currency at the same business or different group company. 
Foreign exchange contracts may be taken out to manage exposures that are not mitigated through natural hedging.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than UK Sterling, the Group ensures that the net exposure is kept 
to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address short-term imbalances. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 84
Header
Underhead
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
22. Financial risk management continued
Market risk continued
Foreign currency risk continued
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:
2012
$’000
2012
€’000
2011
$’000
2011
€’000
Trade receivables 3,762 1,520 4,945 425
Currency cash 1,152 353 2,337 1,205
Trade payables (5,856) (183) (5,688) (604)
Gross balance sheet exposure (942) 1,690 1,594 1,026
Estimated forecast sales 4,800 16,231 16,554 4,620
Estimated forecast purchases (20,856) (3,330) (21,957) (4,094)
Gross exposure (16,998) 14,591 (3,809) 1,552
Forward exchange contracts —— ——
Net exposure (16,998) 14,591 (3,809) 1,552
The following signiﬁcant exchange rates applied during the year:
2012
Average
rate
2012
At balance
 sheet
date
2011
Average
rate
2011
At balance 
sheet
date
US Dollar 1.58 1.63 1.61 1.55
Euro 1.23 1.23 1.15 1.20
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difﬁculty in meeting the obligations associated with its ﬁnancial liabilities that are settled by 
delivering cash or another ﬁnancial asset. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufﬁcient 
liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the 
Group’s reputation.
Exposure to liquidity risk
For non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities the Group’s exposure relates principally to trade and other payables.
Trade and other payables arise in the normal course of business and there are no unusual or onerous terms and conditions.
The following are contractual maturities of ﬁnancial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements:
31 December 2012
£’000
Carrying
amount
Contractual
cash ﬂow
2 months or
less
2–12
months 1–2 years
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Trade and other payables 22,417 (22,417) (22,417) — —
22,417 (22,417) (22,417) — —
31 December 2011
£’000
Carrying
amount
Contractual
cash ﬂows
2 months or
less
2–12
months 1–2 years
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities
Trade and other payables 19,136 (19,136) (17,876) (1,260) —
19,136 (19,136) (17,876) (1,260) — www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 85
Financials
22. Financial risk management continued
Capital management 
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market conﬁdence and to sustain future development 
of the business. The Board considers consolidated total equity as capital. As at 31 December 2012 this totalled £62,998,000 (2011: £54,764,000).
Our target is to generate a return on capital in excess of 25% excluding cash holdings. In 2012 the return was 40.8% (2011: 36.5%). In addition, 
the target in respect of EPS is 15% growth per annum. In 2012 underlying EPS growth was 30.6% (2011: 33.2%).
In respect of dividend, the Board was progressive dividend policy and aims for three times cover. The result for 2012 was 3.18x (2011: 3.03x).
The Board monitors TSR compared to FTSE SmallCap Index and FTSE Electronics/Electrical Index to ensure that Dialight’s performance is in line with 
peer companies.
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year.
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term ﬂuctuations on the Group’s earnings. Over the longer 
term, however, permanent changes, in particular in foreign exchange rates, would have an impact on equity value and consolidation earnings.
At 31 December 2012 it is estimated that a general increase of 1% in the value of the Euro and US Dollar against UK Sterling would have reduced the 
Group’s proﬁt before tax by approximately £197,000 for the year ended 31 December 2012 (2011: £169,000), and would have reduced the Group’s 
equity by approximately £145,000 for the year ended 31 December 2012 (2011: £76,000).
Fair values versus carrying amounts
The fair values of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
Carrying
amount
2012
£’000
Fair value
2012
£’000
Carrying
amount
2011
£’000
Fair value
2011
£’000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 14,962 14,962 13,700 13,700
Loans and receivables
Trade and other receivables 26,987 26,987 22,846 22,846
Total ﬁnancial assets 41,949 41,949 36,546 36,546
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Trade and other payables (22,417) (22,417) (19,136) (19,136)
Provisions (889) (889) (919) (919)
Total ﬁnancial liabilities (23,306) (23,306) (20,055) (20,055)
Net ﬁnancial assets 18,643 18,643 16,491 16,491
Details of the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of ﬁnancial instruments reﬂected in the table are set out in note 3(v).
23. Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Less than one year 964 819
Between one and ﬁve years 2,694 1,644
More than ﬁve years 1,165 1,537
4,823 4,000
Of the £4,823,000 (2011: £4,000,000), £4,667,000 (2011: £3,841,000) relates to property and the balance to plant and equipment.
The Group has no off balance sheet arrangements that need to be disclosed as within the context of Section 410A of the Companies Act 2006. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 86
Notes to the consolidated nancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
24. Capital commitments
Capital commitments at 31 December for which no provision has been made in the accounts were:
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Contracted 752 379
25. Contingencies
During 2011 the Roxboro UK Pension Fund (“Scheme”) was closed to future accrual. As part of the negotiations regarding closure, the Company 
agreed to grant a parent company guarantee in respect of all present and future obligations and liabilities (whether actual or contingent and whether 
owed jointly or severally and in any capacity whatsoever) of Dialight Europe Limited, the principal employer, to make payments in the Scheme up to 
a maximum amount equal to the entire aggregate liability, on the date on which any liability under the Guarantee arises, of every employer (within the 
meaning set out in Section 318 of the Pensions Act 2004 and regulations made thereunder) in relation to the Scheme, were a debt under Section 75(2) 
of the Pensions Act 1995 to have become due on that date.
26. Related parties
The ultimate controlling party of the Group is Dialight plc. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation. 
Intra-group transactions are priced on arm’s length basis.
Transactions with key management personnel
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 1% of the Company.
Details of the remuneration for the Company Directors are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 42 to 49.
The main Board Directors are considered to be the Group’s key management personnel. The IFRS 2 charge in respect of Key employees was 
£292,000 (2011: £241,000).
27. Significant subsidiaries
Country of incorporation
Percentage
owned Principal activity
Dialight Corporation* USA 100% Manufacture and sale of Components, Signals and Lighting products
Dialight Garufo GmbH* Germany 100% Manufacture and sale of Signals products
Dialight Europe Limited England and Wales 100% Manufacture and sale of Components, Signals and Lighting products
Dialight Lumidrives Limited England and Wales 100% Dormant company
Belling Lee Limited England and Wales 100% Non-Trading
Dialight BTI A/S Denmark 100% Manufacture and sale of Signal products
Dialight ILS Australia Pty Limited* Australia 75% Sale of Signals and Lighting products
Dialight Japan KK* Japan 75% Sale of Signals and Lighting products
Dialight Asia Pte. Ltd* Singapore 75% Sale of Signals and Lighting products
Dialight Penang Sdn. Bhd.* Malaysia 100% Manufacture and sale of Component products 
All of these are included within the consolidation. Those marked with an * are indirectly held. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 87
Financials
Company balance sheet (prepared under UK GAAP)
At 31 December 2012
Note
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 30 113 134
Investments 31 16,845 16,508
Debtors 32 21,532 24,625
38,490 41,267
Current assets
Debtors 32 18,214 14,947
18,214 14,947
Creditors
Amounts falling due within one year
Other creditors 33 (5,289) (4,694)
Cash at bank and in hand (349) (193)
Current liabilities (5,638) (4,887)
Net current assets 12,576 10,060
Total assets less current liabilities 51,066 51,327
Net assets excluding pension fund liability 51,066 51,327
Pension fund asset 37 115 13
Net assets including pension fund liability 51,181 51,340
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 35, 36 608 601
Capital redemption reserve 36 2,232 2,232
Other reserve 36 1,386 1,049
Proﬁt and loss account 36 46,955 47,458
Equity shareholder funds 51,181 51,340
The accompanying notes form part of the ﬁnancial statements.
These ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2013 and were signed on its behalf by:
Roy Burton Mark Fryer
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 88
Notes to the Company nancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
28. Accounting policies
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under historic cost accounting rules and in accordance with UK GAAP .
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the ﬁnancial statements.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own proﬁt and loss account.
No Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses is required under UK GAAP as it is treated as related to the proﬁt and loss account. Actuarial 
movements and related deferred tax will therefore only appear in the reserves note.
The Company is exempt from the requirement of FRS1 “Cash Flow Statements” to prepare a cash ﬂow statement on the grounds that the Company 
is consolidated in the Group consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost, less estimated net realisable value, of tangible ﬁxed assets on a straight-line basis over 
the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The principal annual rates used for this purpose are:
Ofﬁce equipment between 10% and 20%
Computer equipment  between 20% and 33.3%
Plant, machinery, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings  between 10% and 20%
Motor vehicles between 25% and 33.3%
Leased assets
The costs of operating leases are charged to the proﬁt and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered 
by a forward exchange contract. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling 
at the balance sheet date or if appropriate at the forward contract rate.
Taxation
Deferred taxation is recognised without discounting in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and 
accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost, less provisions for impairment in value. Where the consideration for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary undertaking includes shares in the Company to which the provisions of Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 apply, the cost represents 
the nominal value of shares issued together with the fair value of any additional consideration given and costs.
Pension contributions
The Company operates both deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution plans. The assets of all the arrangements are held separately from the assets 
of the Company in independently administered funds. The amount charged against proﬁts in respect of deﬁned contribution arrangements are the 
contributions payable to those arrangements in the accounting period.
For the deﬁned beneﬁt arrangements the assets are measured at market values. The liabilities are measured using the projected unit method, discounting 
at the current rate of return of a high quality corporate bond of the appropriate term and currency to the liability, as required under FRS 17.
The deﬁned beneﬁt scheme surplus or deﬁcit is recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
The movement in the deﬁcit is split between operating charges, ﬁnancing items and actuarial gains and losses in the statement of recognised gains 
and losses.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately recognised and are 
no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the ﬁnancial statements.
Cash and cash equivalents
The carrying amount reported in the balance sheet approximates to fair value. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 89
Financials
28. Accounting policies continued
Share-based payments
The PSP allows employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of awards granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding 
increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to 
receive the awards. The fair value of the awards granted is measured using a pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the awards were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reﬂect the actual number of share awards that vest except where 
forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Where the Company grants awards over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognised an increase in the cost of investment in its 
subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiary’s ﬁnancial statements with the corresponding 
credit being recognised directly in equity.
29. Staff costs
Staff costs during the year were:
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Wages and salaries 1,014 926
Social security costs 131 124
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 120 83
Deferred bonus share scheme 199 230
Pension costs 59 55
1,523 1,418
The average number of employees (including Executive Directors) employed during the year was:
2012
Number
2011
Number
UK 6 4
Details for each Director of remuneration, pension entitlements and interests in share options are set out in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 42 to 49.
30. Fixed assets
Plant
equipment
and vehicles
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2012 189
Additions 14
At 31 December 2012 203
Depreciation
At 1 January 2012 (55)
Charge for the year (35)
At 31 December 2012 (90)
Net book value at 31 December 2012 113
Net book value at 31 December 2011 134 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 90
Notes to the Company nancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
31. Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings:
£’000
Cost
At 1 January 2012 21,296
Share-based payment 337
At 31 December 2012 21,633
Provisions
At 1 January 2012 (4,788)
Proﬁt and loss account —
At 31 December 2012 (4,788)
Net book value at 31 December 2012 16,845
Net book value at 31 December 2011 16,508
In accordance with UITF 41 “Scope of FRS 20 (IFRS 2)” the cost of investment is increased to reﬂect the cost of share options awarded to employees 
of the Company’s subsidiaries.
Name
Percentage
owned Country of incorporation and operation
Dialight Corporation* 100% United States of America
Dialight Europe Limited 100% England and Wales
Dialight Garufo GmbH* 100% Germany
Dialight Lumidrives Limited 100% England and Wales
Belling Lee Limited (formerly Dialight BLP Limited) 100% England and Wales
Dialight BTI A/S 100% Denmark
Dialight ILS Australia Pty Limited* 75% Australia
Dialight Japan KK* 75% Japan
Dialight Asia Pte. Ltd* 75% Singapore
Dialight Penang Sdn. Bhd.* 100% Malaysia
The investment is held directly by the Company except for those companies where indicated by *.
32. Debtors
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 38,872 39,140
Other debtors 287 216
Deferred tax asset (note 34) 587 216
39,746 39,572
Less non-current portion: amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings (21,532) (24,625)
Current portion 18,214 14,947 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 91
Financials
33. Creditors
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Amounts falling due within one year:
Other taxes and social security costs 60 35
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3,757 3,757
Corporation tax payable 166 158
Accruals and deferred income 1,306 744
5,289 4,694
34. Deferred tax asset
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
At 1 January 212 783
Prior year adjustment (22) (91)
Proﬁt and loss account 332 (624)
Recognised in equity 30 144
At 31 December 552 212
An analysis of deferred tax is as follows:
Capital allowances 18 31
Short-term timing differences 569 185
Debtors (see note 32) 587 216
Pension liability (see note 37) (35) (4)
552 212
35. Called up share capital
2012
Number
2012
£’000
2011
Number
2011
£’000
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each 32,150,231 608 31,800,231 601
Shares classiﬁed as liabilities — —
Shares classiﬁed in shareholder funds 608 601
608 601
During the year,350,000 shares were issued (1.10% of the total ordinary share capital issued) at par. The ordinary shares issued have the same rights 
as the other shares in issue. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 92
Notes to the Company nancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
35. Called up share capital continued
Share-based payments
PSP
In September 2005 the shareholders approved the PSP .
During the year an award under the PSP was made to the Executive Directors and senior managers, details of which are set out below:
Date of award
Number
of awards
at the
beginning
of year
Number
of awards
granted
during
the year
Number
of awards
released
during
the year
Number
of awards
forfeited
during
the year
Number
of awards
at the
year end
Fair value
pence per
share
Vesting
period
Maturity
date
April 2009 342,491 — (341,620) (871) — 56 3 years April 2012
April 2010 208,993 — — (3,091) 205,902 186 3 years May 2013
September 2010 37,822 — — — 37,822 322 3 years Sept 2013
February 2011 140,078 — — (14,500) 125,578 411 3 years Feb 2014
April 2012 — 79,927 — (14,402) 65,525 684 3 years April 2015
729,834 79,927 (341,620) (32,864) 434,827
Further details of the PSP are included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 42 to 49.
The fair value of the awards made is measured using the Monte Carlo model with the following inputs:
April
2012
award
February
2011
award
September
2010
award
May
2010
award
Share price £6.84 £6.24 £4.01 £2.79
Exercise price £nil £nil £nil £nil
Expected volatility 38% 40% 42% 41%
Award life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Correlation
Dialight and the FTSE Smallcap Index 26% 29% 30% 33%
FTSE Smallcap Index and the FTSE All Share 
Electronic/Electrical Equipment Index 86% 86% 87% 86%
36. Capital and reserves
Share
capital
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Other
reserve 
capital
contribution
£’000
Proﬁt
and loss
account
£’000
Total
£’000
At 1 January 2012 601 2,232 1,049 47,458 51,340
Own shares issued 7 — — (7) —
Net expense recognised in equity — — — 36 36
Proﬁt for the year — — — 2,631 2,631
Dividends to shareholders — — — (3,412) (3,412)
Dividends on shares awarded under the PSP — — — (150) (150)
Dividends returned from shareholders — — — 3 3
Share-based payments — — 337 197 534
Deferred bonus share scheme — — — 199 199
At 31 December 2012 608 2,232 1,386 46,955 51,181
At 31 December 2012 the number of shares held by the Group through the ESOT was 47,596 (2011: 39,216). The market value of these shares at 
31 December 2012 was £505,945 (2011: £274,120). www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 93
Financials
36. Capital and reserves continued
The capital contribution reserve is non-distributable and arises from the accounting for share-based payments (see note 35).
The proﬁt for the year was £2,631,000 (2011: £5,768,000). Net expenses recognised directly in equity relate to the net actuarial gain (net of deferred 
tax) arising in respect of the pension scheme.
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Proﬁt and loss reserve excluding pension liability 46,840 47,445
Pension reserve 115 13
Proﬁt and loss reserve 46,955 47,458
Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Proﬁt for the year 2,631 5,768
Other gains and losses 36 (66)
Dividends paid (3,412) (2,683)
Dividends on shares awarded under the PSP (150) (115)
Dividends returned 3 2
Share-based payments (net of tax) 534 524
Deferred bonus share scheme 199 230
Net addition to shareholder funds (159) 3,660
Opening shareholder funds 51,340 47,680
Closing shareholder funds 51,181 51,340
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are 
no income tax consequences for the Company.
Final proposed dividend
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
9.0 pence per ordinary share (2011: 6.7 pence) 2,894 2,131
During the year the following dividends were paid:
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Final – 6.7 pence (2011: 5.2 pence) per ordinary share 2,131 1,643
Interim – 4.0 pence (2011: 3.3 pence) per ordinary share 1,286 1,050
Less: dividends on shares held in trust (5) (10)
3,412 2,683
Final Dividend – 6.7 pence on shares award under the PSP and deferred bonus scheme not yet vested 55 38
Interim Dividend – 4.0 pence on shares award under the PSP and deferred bonus scheme not yet vested 19 24
Dividends accrued on shares awarded under the PSP and deferred bonus scheme but not yet vested 63 38
Dividends paid on shares awarded under the PSP vested during the period 13 15
Total (amount shown in the statement of changes in equity) 3,562 2,798 www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 94
Notes to the Company nancial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
37. Pensions
The Company operates both a deﬁned beneﬁt executive scheme and deﬁned contribution plan. The assets of the schemes are held separately from 
those of the Company. The deﬁned beneﬁt plan is closed to new members.
Recognised asset for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Present value of liabilities (1,693) (1,578)
Fair value of plan assets 1,843 1,595
Recognised asset for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 150 17
Deferred tax (see note 34) (35) (4)
Pension asset net of deferred tax 115 13
Plan assets consist of the following:
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Bonds 1,707 1,503
Cash 136 92
1,843 1,595
Movements in the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Liabilities at 1 January 1,578 1,483
Interest cost 75 82
Beneﬁts paid (51) (49)
Actuarial loss/(gain) 91 62
Liabilities at 31 December 1,693 1,578
Movements in fair value of plan assets
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Assets at 1 January 1,595 1,475
Expected return on scheme assets 76 82
Employer contributions 85 85
Beneﬁt paid (51) (49)
Actuarial gain 138 2
Assets at 31 December 1,843 1,595
Expense recognised in the proﬁt and loss account
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Interest on obligation 75 82
Expected return on plan assets (76) (82)
(1) —
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the proﬁt and loss account:
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Net ﬁnancing income 1 —
1 — www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 95
Financials
37. Pensions continued
Expense recognised in statement of recognised gains and losses
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
Actuarial gain on plan assets 138 2
Experience (losses)/gain on liabilities (36) (1)
Change in assumptions in respect of liabilities (55) (61)
Net actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in Statement of recognised gains and losses 47 (60)
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in Statement of recognised gains and losses (433) (480)
Historical information
2012
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2009
£’000
2008
£’000
Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation (1,693) (1,578) (1,483) (1,471) (1,338) 
Scheme assets 1,843 1,595 1,475 1,339 1,273 
Surplus/(deﬁcit) 150 17 (8) (132) (65) 
Actuarial (losses)/gain on liabilities (91) (62) 24 (162) 228 
Experience gain/(losses) on assets 138 2 37 79 (290)
Liability for deﬁned beneﬁt obligations
The principal assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are:
UK Scheme (% per annum)
2012 2011 2010
Discount rate at 31 December 4.40 4.70 5.50
Future salary increases n/a n/a n/a
Future pension increases 2.90 3.00 3.65
Inﬂation – RPI 2.90 3.00 3.70
Inﬂation – CPI 2.40 2.20 3.00
Deferred revaluation 2.40 2.20 3.00
The expected long-term rates of return were:
UK Scheme (% per annum)
2012 2011 2010
Equities n/a n/a n/a
Bonds 4.40 3.00 5.50
Cash 3.00 3.00 4.20
For its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 31 December 2012, used SAPS mortality tables based on year 
of birth (as is published by the Institute of Actuaries). The UK mortality tables are based on the latest mortality investigations and reﬂect an industry-wide recognition 
that life expectations have improved. The average life expectancy of an individual currently aged 45 years and retiring at age 65 years is 24.10 years for males 
and 26.5 years for females. For individuals currently aged 65 years the average life expectancy is 22.2 years for males and 24.6 years for females.
The expected long-term rate of return for investments is based on the portfolio as a whole and not on individual asset categories. The return is based 
exclusively on historical returns, without adjustments which are crossed checked against market expectations from external sources.
The Company expects that contributions to the deﬁned beneﬁt plan in 2013 will be at a similar level to contributions paid in 2012.
38. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions conferred by FRS 8 and has not disclosed transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries that 
are part of the Group or the investees of the Group.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemptions available under FRS 29 whereby parent companies are not required to apply the disclosure requirements 
of the standard in their own single entity ﬁnancial statements, on the basis that the disclosures are included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group. www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 96
Five-year summary
Prepared under IFRSs
2012*
£m
2011*
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Revenue* 115.1 102.5 99.2 77.3 77.9
Research and development cash expenditure 5.0 5.1 3.7 3.7 3.2
Underlying operating proﬁt* 19.6 15.5 11.2 5.5 5.3
Non-underlying operating loss — (0.1) — — —
Finance income/(charges) 0.2 (0.6) 0.1 (0.2) 0.3
Proﬁt before gain on disposal of discontinued operations and taxation* 19.8 14.8 11.3 5.3 5.6
Cash generated from operating activities 13.8 12.4 14.0 11.0 6.0
Net cash 15.0 13.7 10.4 9.1 4.1
Shareholders’ funds 63.0 54.8 46.2 40.1 37.5
Statistical information Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations* 41.4 31.3 23.8 10.6 11.2
Dividends per share 13.5 10.0 8.0 6.6 6.0
Dividend cover (times) 3.2 3.0 3.0 2.7 1.9
Operating margin* 17.0% 15.1% 11.3% 7.1% 6.8%
* Results for 2011 and 2012 are presented for continuing operations and exclude the results of operations classiﬁed as discontinued. Company Secretary and Registered Office
Nick Giles FCIS 
Exning Road 
Newmarket 
Suffolk CB8 0AX 
Telephone: +44 (0)1638 778640 
Registered in England and Wales 
Company Number 2486024 
Email: info@dialight.com  
www.dialight.com 
Financial advisers and stockbrokers
Canaccord Genuity Ltd
88 Wood Street 
London EC2V 7QR
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex, BN99 6DA
Equiniti’s Shareholder Contact Centre can be contacted by telephone 
on 0871 384 2495* (international callers: 
+44 121 415 7047) between 8.30am and 5.30pm each business day, 
excluding Bank Holidays.
You can also access details of your shareholding and a range of other 
shareholder services by registering at 
www.shareview.co.uk.
*  Calls to this number are charged at 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
Share price
Information concerning the day-to-day movement of the share price of the 
Company can be found on our website www.dialight.com or the London 
Stock Exchange’s website www.londonstockexchange.com. 
 
Forward looking statements
Certain sections of this Annual Report contain forward-looking statements that 
are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic 
and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and 
sectors in which the Company and its subsidiaries and associates operate. It is 
believed that the expectations reﬂected in the Annual Report are reasonable 
but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual 
results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
Dealing service
Equiniti offers Shareview Dealing, a service which allows you to sell your 
Dialight plc shares or add to your holding if you are a UK resident. You can deal 
in your shares on the internet or by telephone. For more information about this 
service and for details of their rates, log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing 
or telephone on 0845 603 7037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to 
Friday. If you wish to deal, you will need your account/shareholder reference 
number which appears on your share certiﬁcate.
Alternatively, if you hold a share certiﬁcate, you can also use any bank, 
building society or stockbroker offering share dealing facilities to buy 
or sell shares. If you are in any doubt about buying or selling shares, 
you should seek professional ﬁnancial advice.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
One Snowhill 
Snow Hill Queensway  
Birmingham B4 6GH
Legal advisers
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row 
London EC1Y 8YY
Butzel Long
Suite 100 
150 West Jefferson Ave 
Detroit, MI 48226 
USA
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
PO Box 885 
Mortlock House 
Station Road, Histon 
Cambridge CB24 9DE
Financial calendar 2013/2014
Annual General Meeting/Interim Management Statement 25 April 2013 
Half Yearly Financial Report 22 July 2013
Interim Management Statement 7 November 2013 (provisional)
Regional headquarters
Dialight Corporation
1501 Route 34 South 
Farmingdale, NJ 07727 
USA 
Telephone: +1 732 919 3119 
Facsimile: +1 732 751 5778
Dialight Europe Limited
Exning Road 
Newmarket 
Suffolk CB8 0AX 
Telephone: +44 (0) 1638 665161 
Facsimile: +44 (0) 1638 660718
www.dialight.com
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 97
Directory and shareholder information
Shareholder information
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Share price rebased to Dialight share price
at 31 December
Dialight FTSE Small Cap FTSE All Share Electronics / Electrical Equipment Cover images
Top: Diamond Pet Foods, California, US
Middle: Kuehne + Nagel Ltd, London, UK
Bottom: Lanxess Pte Ltd, Jurong Island, Singapore 
Dialight plc
Exning Road 
Newmarket 
Suffolk CB8 0AX
www.dialight.com
