  Innovating for a bright future
 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Dialight designs, manufactures and sells LED lighting fixtures for use 
in hazardous and industrial locations. Our lights are for specific use 
on top of telephone towers, wind turbines and other tall structures, 
as well as traffic signals and large industrial or hazardous sites.
Market-leading products will ensure that we continue 
to stay ahead of the competition and lead the way as 
the only pure-play LED industrial lighting company.
 Leading the way 
in LED lighting
Dialight at a glance
page 2
Our global reach
page 4
Our markets
page 10 STRATEGIC REPORT
02 Dialight at a glance
04 Our global reach
06 Chairman and Chief Executive’s statement
08 Our business model
10 Our markets
12 Our strategy
14 Key performance indicators
16 Principal risks and uncertainties
20 Performance review
20 Lighting
21 Our key and new products
22 Signals
23 Components
24 Financial review
27 Sustainability report
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
30  Chairman’s overview and Board of Directors
32  Corporate governance and Directors’ report
36  Report of the Nominations Committee
37  Report of the Audit Committee
41  Other statutory disclosures
43  R e s p o ns ib ili t y s t a t e m e n t
44  Remuneration Committee report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
63  Independent auditors’ report
66  Consolidated income statement
67  C o ns o li d a t e d s t a t e m e n t 
of comprehensive income
68  C o ns o li d a t e d s t a t e m e n t 
of changes in equity
69  C o ns o li d a t e d s t a t e m e n t 
of total financial position
70  Consolidated statement of cash flows
71  Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements
99  Company balance sheet
100  Notes to the Company  
financial statements
108  F i v e - y e a r s umma r y
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
109  Directory and shareholder information
VISIT US ONLINE
www.dialight.com
SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWS ALERTS
www.dialight.com/
siteservices/alertservices
01
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 02
Page title
Lighting is the growth driver for our business
We are committed to advancing LED products for the benefit 
of our customers, their employees and the overall environment.
OUR SEGMENTS
Lighting
Includes products for hazardous and 
non-hazardous industrial application. 
We address the increasing demands 
for energy efficient lighting solutions through 
the use of high-brightness LEDs and 
a number of associated technologies.
Performance review
page 20
Signals
Includes Traffic, Transportation and 
Obstruction Signals. Our products address 
the increasing demands for energy efficient 
signalling solutions through the use 
of high-brightness LEDs and a number 
of associated technologies.
Performance review
page 22
Components
Includes sales primarily to electronics 
Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”) 
for status indication and residual disconnect 
components for automotive and niche 
industrial application.
Performance review
page 23
Dialight at a glance
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
03
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014
State-of-the-art
Dialight is a fast moving, disciplined, outwardly 
focused company with an appetite for controlled 
risk. Continuous improvement and redesign 
of our products is fundamental to our growth 
and market leadership.
Niche expertise
Our products are ideally suited to meet 
the demanding lighting requirements in the 
hazardous and industrial sectors of the 
lighting market. Such markets are often 
regulated using strict certification processes.
Financial review
page 24
OUR HIGHLIGHTS
Group revenues excluding 
discontinued operations 
£159.8m +21.8%
131.2
115.1
159.8
2012 2013 2014
Total dividend 
15.0p +4%
14.4
13.5
15.0
2012 2013 2014
Lighting segment revenues 
£99.9m +45.8%
68.5
45.5
99.9
2012 2013 2014
Underlying profit from  
operating activities 
£18.1m +24.6%
14.5
19.6
18.1
2012 2013 2014
Underlying EPS 
36.8p +19.5%
30.8
41.7
36.8
2012 2013 2014
Our key and new products
page 21
LED Lighting specialists
LED lighting vastly reduces maintenance, improves safety, eases disposal and is more environmentally 
friendly than conventional alternatives. It helps to reduce CO
2
 emissions, the dominant Greenhouse 
Gas (“GHG”) contributor to global warming. As a recognised innovator in this sector, our Lighting 
segment continues to be the key growth engine of the business.
Lighting operating profit 
£14.5m +26%
11.5
8.6
14.5
2012 2013 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 04
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our global reach
Spotlight on our 
global footprint
Dialight is becoming known worldwide as 
the leader in technology advancements, 
reliability and longevity in lighting.
REGIONAL LIGHTING REVENUES
LIGHTING REVENUES
Non-hazardous 55% 
Hazardous 45% 
North America
Revenue
£70m
Europe and 
Middle East
Revenue
£20m
Asia and Australia
Revenue
£10m Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 05
Nuclear power generation is a lengthy and complex process. Plant operators 
must maintain precisely controlled environments in order to safely create, 
heat and cool the uranium rods and bundles to provide power to millions 
of homes. High vibration in the reactor core, pool rooms, machine rooms, 
pumping stations and even overhead cranes can cause lighting throughout 
the facility to fail. The short (two to three years) lifespan of lighting 
fixtures can soon result in the plant’s lighting maintenance costs 
spiralling out of control.
At the EDF nuclear power plant in Dampierre-en-Burly, France, the 
metal halide fixtures inside the plant failed regularly, on average every 
eight months. Prompted by maintenance and safety concerns with this 
traditional lighting setup, EDF retrofitted this facility with Dialight’s 
superior LED DuroSite fixtures.
With a ten-year full-performance warranty, the DuroSite High Bay 
eradicated EDF’s maintenance costs. In the pool room, the addition 
of Dialight’s brighter LEDs dramatically increased visibility.
In rooms traditionally kept dark except in cases of emergency, existing 
lighting could take up to 20 minutes to deliver full output. However, the 
instant-on functionality of Dialight’s products allowed EDF to light the 
rooms immediately, increasing employee response times and eliminating 
safety hazards.
Outside of the facility, Dialight’s DuroSite High Bay and LPK Linear LEDs 
were added to all areas for an immediate, dramatic improvement to traditional 
streetlights, improving accessibility and security around the plant.
CASE STUDY
Nuclear power plant, France
French nuclear power plant eliminates 
maintenance with Dialight.
MARKET 
• Power generation
PRODUCTS
• DuroSite High Bay
• DuroSite Linear Fixture
• LPK Linear
• Vigilant High Bay
BENEFITS
• Ten-year warranty
• Superior reliability
• Cost savings
• Increased security
MORE INFORMATION
For more information, visit www.dialight.com.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 06
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chairman and Chief Executive’s statement
Overview 
The adoption of LED technology continued through 2014 into many 
market segments, particularly, streetlights and commercial lighting. 
Dialight has continued to focus on its niche markets where LED 
technology builds defensible positions and delivers efficient payback to 
customers. Lighting and the Obstruction business (part of the Signals 
segment) performed strongly and with the exception of our traffic signals 
business, the balance of the Group also performed well.
Group revenue in the year grew by 22% to £159.8m from £131.2m 
in 2013. Underlying operating profit increased by 24.6% to £18.1m 
in the year mainly as a result of the increased profit from Lighting 
and Obstruction. 
Non-underlying net costs of £2.3m (2013: £2.9m) were incurred during 
the year. Profit before tax was £15.5m (2013: £11.2m). 
Underlying earnings per share (“EPS”) was 36.8 pence (2013: 30.8 pence) 
with basic EPS of 29.4 pence (2013: 26.2 pence). 
Net cash at 31 December 2014 was £0.6m (2013: £7.1m). The four year 
unsecured £25m HSBC Revolving Credit Facility, arranged in the year, 
financed the working capital to support the significant growth in lighting.
Dividend
The Board is recommending, subject to approval by shareholders, a final 
dividend of 9.8p (2013: 9.5p) giving a total dividend for the year of 15.0p 
(2013: 14.4p). This will be paid on 2 June 2015 to shareholders on the 
register at 1 May 2015. 
People
Our colleagues are instrumental to the ongoing success of the business. 
We now employ over 2,300 people across the Group and our growth 
ambitions provide our colleagues with rewarding careers. We would 
like to thank everyone for their continued dedication and hard work 
throughout the year and into 2015.
Bill Ronald
Chairman
Richard Stuckes
Interim Group 
Chief Executive Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 07
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Board changes
As noted last year, Mark Fryer stepped down as Group Finance Director 
at the beginning of 2014. In June 2014, we announced the appointment 
of Fariyal Khanbabi as our new Group Finance Director, who started on 
8 September 2014. During the period until July 2014, Kevin Higginson 
joined us as Interim Chief Financial Officer but was not appointed 
to the Board.
As part of our trading update released on 16 January 2015, we advised 
that Roy Burton, Group Chief Executive, had informed the Board that 
he was undergoing treatment for a medical condition which impacted on 
his ability to travel at that time. Since that announcement, Roy has further 
advised the Board, as a consequence of that medical condition, of his 
intention to step down as Group Chief Executive from 2 March 2015, which 
we announced on 2 February 2015. As part of that announcement we 
advised that Richard Stuckes, a Non-Executive Director of the Company 
since 2009, had been appointed as Interim Group Chief Executive 
and assumed all executive responsibilities from 2 February. 
Richard has extensive and relevant experience which will fully equip him 
to lead the Company in the interim period. Our Nominations Committee 
is undertaking, with the assistance of an external recruitment agency, the 
process for appointing a new Group Chief Executive. Our Board is grateful 
for Richard being available to step into the role at this stage. 
We would like to take this opportunity on behalf of the Board to place on 
record our thanks to Roy for the outstanding contribution he has made to 
the development of Dialight during the past 13 years. All who know Roy 
will recognise the extent to which the business has benefitted from his vision 
and relentless energy in building the platform for growth that he leaves as 
his legacy. More importantly we take this opportunity to offer our best 
wishes to Roy for his recovery.
Roy will remain available to provide counsel and assistance.
Outlook 
The adoption of LED lighting in the industrial and hazardous markets is 
still at an early stage and the opportunity for growth remains significant. 
We continue to see strong demand for our LED lighting and the Board 
remains confident in the future prospects of the Group.
Bill Ronald   Richard Stuckes
Chairman  Interim Group Chief Executive
The results benefitted from continued 
development of our sales channels 
and new product innovation.” Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 08
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our business model
LARGE NICHE 
MARKETS
HIGH BARRIERS 
TO ENTRY
MISSION  
CRITICAL NEEDS
GLOBAL 
PRESENCE
FLEXIBLE 
SALES MODEL
ROBUST 
MANAGEMENT
Extended value creation 
PRODUCT 
DEVELOPMENT
TECHNOLOGICAL 
INNOVATION
Focusing our expertise
Continuous improvement
Delivering on our long-term value propositions Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 09
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Extended value creation 
Focusing our expertise
Continuous improvement
MISSION CRITICAL NEEDS
Environments that demand round the 
clock, all year long, reliable and efficient 
lighting solutions.
ROBUST MANAGEMENT
We prioritise financial management and 
strive for healthy cash generation in order 
to reinvest in the business. This ensures 
we are always one step ahead of the 
competition, maintaining our position 
as recognised leaders in the field.
LARGE NICHE MARKETS
We address the needs of customers in 
heavy industry and hazardous locations 
where lighting is seen as being 
mission critical. 
GLOBAL PRESENCE
By monitoring potential markets and our 
existing marketplaces we are able to engage 
in a focused plan of geographic growth 
either organically, with acquisitions, or 
through relationships with partners. Exposure 
to established as well as developing markets 
ensures long-term business sustainability.
HIGH BARRIERS TO ENTRY
These are markets with significant barriers 
to entry where lighting is depended upon 
24/7 and the environment is challenging. 
Our deep understanding of customer 
needs and regulations in these environments 
differentiates us from our competitors.
FLEXIBLE SALES MODEL
We have manufacturing facilities worldwide 
and sell to end customers internationally, 
either directly through sales offices and/or 
authorised sales representatives, or 
indirectly via distributors depending on the 
development of the geographic market.
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
Continually developing our existing products to vastly reduce 
maintenance, improve safety, ease disposal and be even more 
environmentally friendly. We use our technological expertise in 
thermal management, optics and electronic circuitry, lenses and 
leading-edge LEDs to improve our existing products, bringing 
further efficiencies through cost improvements and product design. 
TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION
Driving technological innovation to ensure we maintain our leading 
role. We also apply for intellectual property protection for all newly 
developed products and designs whenever possible. Our continued 
innovation ensures that we stay ahead of the competition. We do 
not simply rely on our existing range of products; we continue 
to strive for better.
Our business model is underpinned by our philosophy that, through our continued 
innovation and product development, we will keep delivering on our long-term 
value propositions to our shareholders. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 10
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our markets
Exciting opportunities for the group
MINING
Our products are built to withstand extensive 
shock and vibration and their reliability is 
of paramount importance to customers 
in this market.
HEAVY INDUSTRIAL
Steel foundries, pulp and paper mills, 
automotive manufacturers and other heavy 
industrial producers often operate around the 
clock. Our energy and maintenance savings 
quickly pay dividends for our customers.
FOOD & BEVERAGE
Food processing, agricultural, cold storage and 
food grain industry operators all profit from our 
consistent, high performance products, which 
can be illuminated 24 hours a day.
POWER GENERATION
The heavily regulated nuclear, fossil and renewables 
power industry requires rugged products with 
demanding certifications. Our products’ reliability 
eliminates constant maintenance burdens while 
drastically reducing energy consumption.
OIL, GAS & PETROCHEMICAL
Safety is a number one priority for both upstream 
and downstream operators. Our products meet 
the market’s heavily regulated requirements 
and specifications. 
THE LIGHTING MARKET
Industrial 7% 
Parts & accessories 17% 
Portable 17% 
Commercial 20% 
Outdoor 17%
Residential 22%
£50bn
ANNUAL REVENUE
Source: 
Freedonia IMS
The lighting market is estimated 
to be worth £50bn annually 
(source: Freedonia IMS). The 
industrial sector, Dialight’s main 
sector of focus, equates to 7% 
of this total market or £3.5bn 
annually. Assuring a 20 year 
retro-fit cycle, Dialight estimates 
that this gives a total addressable 
market of at least £70bn. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 11
An American institution, Ford Motor Company is the second largest 
auto manufacturer in the US and the fifth largest in the world. In 2010, 
the company took a bold pledge to reduce the amount of energy used 
to produce each vehicle by 25%, starting with its flagship facility 
in Dearborn, MI, US. 
In addition to its environmental goals, safety and cost savings were 
also strong motivators. The company’s existing High Intensity Discharge 
(“HID”) and fluorescent lighting produced sub-optimal visibility, while 
unpredictable failure or even catastrophic combustion of the fixtures 
created an inefficient and costly maintenance challenge with lights that 
often needed replacement after just two years.
Ford turned to Dialight for a solution. In 2014, the company installed over 
25,000 Dialight fixtures at its facilities. In just a few months, the company 
has already achieved 20% greater efficiency and expects to save 56m 
kilowatt-hours annually – enough electricity to power more than 6,000 
average-sized homes per year. That equates to a nearly 70% reduction 
in lighting energy consumption compared to traditional technologies and 
the company expects to reduce its annual energy costs by approximately 
$7m. In addition, Ford has virtually eliminated lighting maintenance with 
the 15-year life expectancy of the new Dialight products.
Continuing its drive toward operational efficiency, environmental stewardship 
and fiscal responsibility, Ford plans to install Dialight lighting at 17 other 
manufacturing facilities across the globe.
CASE STUDY
Ford Motor Company
Ford saves approximately $7m in annual 
energy costs with Dialight.
MARKET 
• Automotive manufacturing
PRODUCTS
• Vigilant High Bay
• Vigilant 60K High Bay
HIGHLIGHTS
• Approximately $7m annual energy savings
• Improved visibility and safety 
• 15-year life expectancy
• Zero maintenance
MORE INFORMATION
For more information, visit www.dialight.com.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 12
OUR AIM
Our objectives are simple. We aim to:
•  be the number one industrial LED lighting 
supplier worldwide;
•  develop world-class new technology in the field of 
power supplies, controls and monitoring systems; and
•  maintain our competitive advantage leading the field 
in terms of product efficacy, reliability and return 
on investment for our customers.
Building on our strengths
Key performance indicators
page 14
Principal risks and uncertainties
page 16
OUR VISION
To bring the value of LED Lighting to customers 
in a broad range of industries and markets.
OUR VALUES
Innovation
Continue to be the first to market in the industry.
Expertise
We have over 40 years of LED industry experience.
Sustainability
Our LED products reduce energy consumption, lower 
GHG emissions and eliminate the need for mercury 
in lighting technology.
1
HIGHLY REGULATED 
NICHE MARKETS
• Industrial/hazardous only
• High barriers to entry
• Value in highly reliable solutions
2
INNOVATION AND 
TECHNOLOGY
• Pure-play LED
• Large Intellectual Property 
(“IP”) portfolio
3
STRATEGIC EXPANSION 
• Growing sales team and channel
• Targeted acquisitions
• Expanding production capacity
Our strategy
STRATEGIC REPORT Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 13
How does Dialight technology differ?
INTEGRATED SYSTEMS APPROACH
POWER SUPPLY TECHNOLOGY
• In-house designed, patent-protected technology.
• Most efficient power supplies available today.
• Key to fixture longevity (ten-year warranty).
INTELLIGENT CONTROLS
• Integrating with existing building/process management system infrastructure.
• Hazardous certified control systems.
INTELLIGENT THERMAL MANAGEMENT
• Temperature compensation technology managing heat 
from LEDs to maximise life.
OPTICAL DESIGN
• Custom reflectors to direct light to where it is needed at the work place.
POWER SUPPLY 
TECHNOLOGY
OPTICAL 
DESIGN
INTELLIGENT 
CONTROLS
INTELLIGENT 
THERMAL 
MANAGEMENT
INTEGRATED 
SYSTEMS 
APPROACH
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 14
Our strategy
page 12
Principal risks and uncertainties
page 16
Sustainability
page 27
HOW WE MEASURE OUR SUCCESS
The following key performance indicators measure how 
successfully we are achieving our objectives. These have 
been chosen as they best provide the metrics by which we 
can measure our progress in the delivery of our strategy. 
The Sustainability report on pages 27 to 29 provides information regarding 
our greenhouse gas emissions.
Achieving our objectives
Lighting segment revenues 
£99.9m +46%
Lighting units sold 
287 ,000 +40%
68.5
205,000
45.5 133,000
99.9 287,000
2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014
Lighting sale heads  
(excluding sales support) 
111 +14%
Underlying EPS 
p/share
36.8p +20%
Patents pending, granted and filed 
177 total +25%
97
30.8
28
55
41.7 118 111
36.8
31
2012 2012 Pending 2013 2013 Granted 2014 2014 Filed
Key performance indicators
Lighting operating profit 
£14.5m +26%
11.5
8.6
14.5
2012 2013 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 15
Located in a remote part of Western Australia where weather conditions 
are hot and dusty, a new iron ore mine has just been commissioned 
producing high quality ore that is shipped to steel makers around the 
world. As with any mine, appropriate lighting is a key component to safe 
operations, for both processing and non-processing infrastructure. 
Initially, the electrical engineering company tasked with electrical design 
and product selection opted to run with traditional HID light fittings as part of 
the Lighting solution. The tender was then released and won by Crushing 
Services International (“CSI”), based on cheaper, less efficient traditional 
HID luminaires. The challenge for Dialight was to provide a more efficient 
solution whilst keeping within the budget restraints.
Swayed by the Dialight advantage, CSI chose our DuroSite products 
for their durability, energy efficiency, five-year full-performance warranty, 
long-term reduction in operational and maintenance cost, and proven 
performance in rugged conditions. For example, the advanced optics 
and light efficacy of the DuroSite Conveyor Lights offered increased 
spacing between luminaires on conveyors, resulting in fewer fixtures 
being used overall, further reducing energy and maintenance related 
costs. In addition, Dialight’s DuroSite Emergency Shower Safe Luminaire 
and DuroSite Bulkhead Emergency Lighting closed the loop on their 
fully integrated emergency lighting system. 
With over 1,500 DuroSite units installed to outfit the entire site with Dialight 
luminaires, the company saw a 50% reduction in energy consumption 
compared to the HID lighting they initially planned to install.
CASE STUDY
Mining operator, Western Australia
Australian mine cuts energy use by 50% 
with Dialight DuroSite fixtures.
MARKET 
• Mining
PRODUCTS
• DuroSite High Bay
• DuroSite Bulkhead Emergency Lighting
• DuroSite Bulkhead Luminaire
• DuroSite Emergency Shower Safe Luminaire
• DuroSite Conveyor Lights
• DuroSite Area Light Gen II
HIGHLIGHTS
• >50% increase in efficiency
• Increased safety
• Emergency lighting integration
• Five-year warranty
• Minimal maintenance
MORE INFORMATION
For more information, visit www.dialight.com.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 16
STRATEGIC REPORT
Principal risks and uncertainties
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group maintains a risk management 
framework which seeks to ensure that all risks 
are identified, evaluated and mitigated. These have 
been subject to a detailed review in 2014, resulting 
in the establishment of a corporate risk register 
which incorporates the principal risks described 
on the following pages. There may be other risks 
and uncertainties as yet unknown, or which are 
currently considered immaterial, which may result 
in a material impact. Some of the areas of risk will 
be outside of the Company’s influence or control. 
Should any risk actually materialise, then Dialight’s 
business, financial condition, prospects and share 
price could be materially adversely affected.
Corporate governance
page 30
Report of the Audit Committee
page 37
Risk management
The principal risks and uncertainties which could affect the Group comprise four distinct 
categories – strategic, operational, financial and compliance.
BOARD COMMITTEES
BOARD
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
RISK COMMITTEE
FINANCIAL 
RISKS
CORPORATE, OPERATIONAL 
AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 17
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTIVITY
• The Group’ s sales and profits may be impacted by 
spending slowdowns and/or increasing inflationary 
pressures in key territories.
• A spending slowdown, for example in 
North America, could adversely impact profitability 
in the Components segment. Also, the current adverse 
conditions for public organisations to reduce or defer 
capital spend may impact sales volumes.
• Cost inflationary pressures, e.g. on raw materials, may 
have an adverse impact on operating margins across 
the business. This could also result in customers 
defaulting on payment terms, supply chain risks 
and a higher risk of inventory obsolescence.
• We closely monitor the general electronics demand 
index as well as industry forecasts so as to become 
aware of market trends.
• Monthly data provided by distributors in America 
is examined, documented and reviewed as this also 
provides valuable information on market demand.
• This information is used to update strategic plans 
and financial forecasts, which are subject to formal 
review by the Board.
• The Group has a broad base of customers, 
with no single customer exposing the Group to 
a disproportionate level of risk. Group policies ensure 
customers are given an appropriate level of credit based 
on their trading history and financial status. Our ability 
to mitigate risks arising from supply chain issues, e.g. 
single source supply, has in 2014 been enhanced 
by the appointment of a dedicated supply 
chain manager.
Macro-
economic 
conditions 
(Strategic)
AREA OF RISK
• National and local policies with regard to energy 
savings in a number of areas, such as transport and 
communication, are constantly evolving. This should 
favour Dialight’s efforts in growing sales in some key 
niche current and potential opportunities identified 
by the Signals segment.
• Additionally, legislation may introduce new higher 
and more exacting specifications for existing products 
which will require product redesign and regulatory 
recertification. Therefore, changes in product 
specifications should favour Dialight in giving 
it an advantage over competition.
•  Dialight’s policy is to operate in highly regulated 
markets which require suppliers to achieve compliance 
with demanding product standards.
• Our design and engineering functions have 
a proven track record in introducing new products 
and maintaining a portfolio of registered intellectual 
property through strong working relationships with 
customers and regulatory bodies.
 C ha ng es i n 
government 
legislation 
or policy 
(Compliance)
•  We operate in competitive markets. In our niche 
industrial lighting segment, new entrants may attack 
our market share by offering cheaper products 
as the market becomes more commoditised.
•  We have a successful track record of quickly 
introducing new products offering better 
performance and functionality to customers. 
• Maintaining strong customer relationships, remaining 
competitive through engineering “cost down” initiatives 
and cost efficient manufacturing plants are key Dialight 
strengths in protecting market share. 
Competitive 
Environment 
(Strategic) Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 18
STRATEGIC REPORT
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
•  The Group’s operations are subject to a wide range 
of laws and regulations including employment, 
environment and health and safety legislation.
•  Internal policies and procedures are routinely 
reviewed and updated to incorporate current 
legislation. Governance policies have been 
integrated into a single framework document in 
2014. Business control unit management are 
required to certify compliance with governance 
policies on a quarterly basis.
• Employees are issued with handbooks detailing 
employment practices and staff receive appropriate 
training and support to perform their roles.
• The Group’s Risk Committee provides an advisory 
and oversight service on compliance to the Board 
and Executive Committee.
Laws and 
Regulations 
(Compliance)
DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTIVITY AREA OF RISK
• Continuation of our success is partly dependent 
upon the continued operation of our manufacturing 
facilities across the world, supported by bespoke 
computer systems. The occurrence of major 
operational problems could have a material adverse 
effect on the Group. These may include risk of fire, 
flood or major IT outage.
•  Manufacturing sites have developed business 
continuity/disaster recovery plans to minimise the 
impact of any disruption to its operations. Process 
controls and proactive maintenance programmes 
are designed to prevent problems arising. The plans 
will be fully reviewed in 2015 as part of the Group’s 
risk oversight framework to ensure they remain 
effective and “fit for purpose”.
• Insurance cover provides financial protection 
where appropriate.
Business 
Continuity 
(Operational)
• Achievement of our growth strategy is dependent 
on growing sales in our chosen markets for industrial 
white lighting. The adoption by the market of LEDs 
for new applications continues to depend on increased 
efficiency and reduced cost compared with existing 
technologies such as fluorescent and high-intensity 
discharge. The achievability of the Group’s longer 
term growth would be at significant risk if the rate and 
timeliness of development of LED functionality by third 
parties did not meet the progress required to deliver 
new applications to the market.
• Failure to protect, maintain and enforce our current IP 
may result in the loss for the Group of the exclusive right 
to use technologies and processes which are used 
in our business. Development and ownership of IP 
is critical to the growth strategy of the Group.
• Additionally with fast changing technology, there 
is a possibility of a replacement technology 
being developed.
• Group engineers are actively contributing with their 
presence on industry related boards and attendance 
and presentations at industry seminars, which ensure 
we keep abreast of developments on a regular 
basis, and remain proactively involved.
•  Good progress has been made during 2014 
in enhancing our new product introduction (“NPI”) 
programme, including continued expansion of our 
patent portfolio.
Growth strategy 
(Strategic)
Risk management continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 19
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTIVITY AREA OF RISK
• The Group, like many other companies, is dependent 
on its ability to both service its existing debts and to 
provide sufficient capital to finance its growth strategy.
• The Group needs to operate within the covenant 
conditions of its borrowing facility.
• Products should conform to approved specifications.
• If a Group product does not conform to approved 
specifications, or is otherwise defective, the Group 
may be subject to claims by its customers arising 
from end product defects or other such claims.
•  The Group manages its capital to safeguard its ability 
to continue as a going concern, to optimise its capital 
structure and to provide sufficient liquidity to support 
its operations and the Board’ s strategic plans.
• The Group has a £25m borrowing facility and 
had drawn £7.6m at the balance sheet date. 
Covenant compliance is monitored regularly to 
ensure there is no breach of borrowing conditions.
• The Group carries product liability insurance 
proportionate with the expected level of failure and 
terms of warranty. On certain lighting products the 
term of warranty has been extended up to ten years.
• The Group has a well developed quality control 
system to help identify any defects before they are 
sold to customers. 
Funding 
(Financial)
Product Liability 
(Operational)
• The Group is exposed to both translation 
and transaction risks.
• A significant proportion of the Group’s net assets 
are denominated in foreign currency, which, when 
translated into Sterling, is subject to exchange risk. 
• In addition, transactions are carried out in 
currencies other than Sterling, leading 
to transactional foreign exchange risk.
• Group policy is to net such exposures 
wherever possible.
• The Group utilises currency borrowing facilities 
in order to hedge currency risk.
• There is a strict Group policy which forbids any form 
of forward speculation using Group funds or facilities.
Currency 
Exchange 
(Financial)
•  Disruption to or penetration of our information 
technology platforms could have a material adverse 
impact on the Group.
• The Group has business continuity measures in 
place, such as penetration testing procedures, to 
minimise the impact of any disruption to its operations. 
Technology resources are continuously monitored 
by appropriately trained staff, who provide and 
maintain process controls aimed at securing our 
networks and data.
Cyber Risk 
(Strategic) Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 20
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Lighting segment addresses the increasing demands for energy 
efficient lighting solutions for industrial/hazardous locations.
Lighting grew by over £30m with a contribution margin of over 40%. 
While this is down on 2014 this was primarily due to product mix and a 
number of one off items in the second half. However, margins on a product 
by product basis have continued to be robust and at least in line with 
our expectations. 
Our growth in 2014 was not only in the Americas. Europe is starting to 
pay back our investment and we ended 2014 with an expanded sales 
team, with notable additions in mainland Europe. Growth in Asia was 
a little more modest but we start 2015 with a team that complements 
that in Australia.
Overall the Group is well positioned in its chosen geographies, however, 
sales teams are only one element Dialight needs for commercial success. 
Development of sales channels and the leveraging of major accounts are 
also important and 2014 has seen a strong increase in our channel strength 
through agreements with major distributor networks in North America, 
who in many cases, hold the keys to certain markets and customers. 
Dialight is now considered to be an “anchor” franchise for many of those 
important networks. At the end of 2014 Dialight had 111 direct sales 
personnel (2013: 97). 
In addition to using our distributor partners, our approach is to generate 
demand through the key users. Once again 2014 has shown great progress 
in this area – the previously announced business with Ford Motor Company 
was our first major relationship, but during the year we have made significant 
progress with other major multinational OEMs. 
No sales strategy would be successful without the best products and 
once again we have raised the bar for industrial LED lighting. Our newly 
announced 140 lumen per watt Vigilant High Bay is significantly better 
than the competition and our new 60,000 lumen, 1,000 watt metal halide 
replacement fixture has been well received by both existing and, perhaps 
more importantly, new customers where we did not previously have an 
offering that would address their lighting problems.
During the year our Operations and Engineering teams played a significant 
role in bringing to market groundbreaking new products as well as 
continuing to cost engineer our existing product portfolio. 
Dialight estimates that its products address an installed base of conventional 
lighting that is somewhere between £70bn and £100bn. Penetration of 
LED lighting is in the low single digits thus enabling strong potential for 
growth for some years to come.
With strong demand in Lighting expected to continue in the future, 
expansion of the manufacturing facilities, is constantly under review to 
ensure that production capacity does not become a constraint on the 
Group’s growth.
Lighting
Revenue
£99.9m
2013: £68.5m
Contribution
£42.3m
2013: £31.3m
Operating profit
£14.5m
2013: £11.5m
+46%
+35%
Performance review
+26% Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 21
Vigilant LED High Bay  
125 lumens/watt
High-output Vigilant 
LED High Bay
Low Profile LED Linear 
Luminaires 106 lumens/watt
Our key and new products
In January 2014, we introduced 
a 125+ lumens per watt fixture – our most 
economical High Bay yet. The 26,000+ 
lumen fixture can be used in very high 
ceiling applications and can often reduce 
the number of light fixtures required to 
illuminate an area. The product is backed 
by our industry-leading ten-year full 
performance warranty. Throughout the 
year, we have received global certifications 
for hazardous environments including 
mines, chemical plants and oil refineries. 
The fixture can also be sold with our 
cloud-based controls to more efficiently 
manage an entire industrial lighting system.
The Vigilant High Bay is a great addition 
to the Vigilant family with 60,000 lumen 
output. Offering a replacement to 1,000W 
traditional high output arc lighting, the 
product was designed for high ceiling 
applications in ambient temperatures 
found in industries such as steel, automotive, 
aircraft and other industrial and manufacturing 
facilities. The High-Output Vigilant High Bay 
also holds global certifications and is backed 
by our ten-year full performance warranty.
In July 2014, we introduced the 7 ,000 lumen 
Low Profile LED Linear for sites in need of 
higher clearance. This new linear is nearly 
60% slimmer than previous versions and 
certified for hazardous environments – 
making it far superior to fluorescent and 
other linear competitors. The Low Profile 
LED Linear is available in multiple wattage 
options for efficiency and ideal for 
companies looking to fit the lighting 
into existing luminaires. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 22
STRATEGIC REPORT
Performance review continued
Signals comprises the Obstruction, Traffic and Transportation businesses. 
The Obstruction business experienced strong sales growth whilst demand 
for traffic signals fell.
Overall Signals sales were down 4% although Transportation grew 6% 
and Traffic revenues were down 20% as expected. Most importantly 
however, Obstruction showed significant growth and stronger 
positioning in its chosen markets.
Obstruction
Obstruction revenues grew by 16% to £17.0m, representing an increase 
of 22% at constant currency. This was driven by increased demand in 
the US where our new products attracted strong customer interest and 
reflected gains made in the telecom and broadcast tower retrofit 
business, including orders from major tower operators. 
There were no system wide retrofits in 2014 by the major tower operators. 
There still remain over 70,000 towers to be retrofitted in the US and 
Dialight’s positioning to take a major piece of that business is stronger 
today than it was a year ago.
European sales, which are principally through products sold for use in 
the wind turbine market, were at the same levels as the previous year. 
Long-term demand for obstruction signals in the European market remains 
favourable and we expect to benefit from new onshore installations and 
retrofits that are required under local and national legislation and regulation. 
Traffic and Transport
Traffic Signals sales which remains a small part of the overall Group saw 
no material recovery in the second half of 2014, and overall sales for the 
year were down 20%. Market conditions in the short term are expected 
to remain challenging with anticipated sales largely coming from smaller 
retrofit projects.
European sales are highly dependent on local authority spend. Although 
there is a clear case for the return on investment of switching to efficient 
LEDs, it can take time for large-scale capital projects to be initiated. The 
European business may see some decline but remains cash generative 
and requires little investment. Meanwhile, the US traffic market, which is 
more highly penetrated by LED signals, is becoming more cost competitive. 
The key factors for future success are to leverage our knowledge of the 
market and product, to engineer cost reductions and offer innovative 
value propositions to customers through superior performance.
The transport business continued to provide a steady profit 
and cash contribution.
Signals
Revenue
£40.2m
2013: £41.8m
Contribution
£18.0m
2013: £17.5m
-4%
+3%
Operating profit
£6.0m
2013: £5.2m
+15% Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 23
Components
This segment supplies small LED indicators into the professional 
electronics market through a network of distributors with more than 
15,000 end users. Several hundred new customers were introduced in 
2014, and it is this diversity and breadth of customers and markets that 
are a real strength in this mature market. The segment continues to make 
a solid contribution to the Group’s profitability and cash generation.
Revenue
£19.7m
2013: £20.9m
Contribution
£9.3m
2013: £9.9m
-6%
-9%
Operating profit
£0.4m
2013: £1.3m
-69%
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 24
STRATEGIC REPORT
Income statement
Revenue in the year grew by 21.8% to £159.8m from £131.2m in 2013. 
The revenue growth was driven by significant growth in Lighting revenues 
of £31.4m (50% at constant currency) and Obstruction revenue growth 
of £3.0m (22% at constant currency).
Profit from operating activities (underlying) grew by 24.6% to £18.1m. 
The growth in revenue and profits for the current year has been achieved 
despite adverse currency movements, particularly against the US Dollar.
The Group’s long-term growth continues to be underpinned by high 
growth in Lighting.
The major currencies the Group is exposed to are the US Dollar, the 
Mexican Peso and the Euro. The Group’s major market is North America, 
which generated 60% of revenue in 2014 (2013: 63%). The Group’s results 
are sensitive to the impact of changes in the US Dollar exchange rate. 
The average US Dollar exchange rate was 1.63 in 2014 compared to 1.57 
in 2013. The impact of currency translation on 2014 was to decrease 
revenue by £4.6m and operating profit by £0.6m.
The revenue by segment for the year is as follows:
The Group operates in an area of fast paced technological change and 
continues to be an industry leader in its field. The Group continues to innovate 
and has further refined its integrated controls and monitoring products, 
allowing customers to gain additional efficiencies in the operation of their 
LED lighting. The Group invests in continuous development in order 
to maintain its competitive advantage, and spent £5.3m in 2014.
The performance of each business segment is reviewed 
individually below. Allocation of overhead in each segment is based on 
directly attributed costs plus allocation based on segmental revenue.
Lighting
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Movement
£’m
Revenue 99.9 68.5 31.4 
Contribution 42.3 31.3 11.0
Segment result 14.5 11.5 3.0
The Lighting segment continues to perform strongly with an increase 
in revenue of £31.4m (50% at constant currency). This represents 62.5% 
of total Group revenues. The expansion of sales channels coupled with 
continuous investment in sales heads were the primary drivers of growth.
Financial review
2014 review
Our key and new products
page 21
Lighting 62.5%
Signals 25.2%
Components 12.3%
Fariyal Khanbabi
Group Finance Director Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 25
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
The contribution margin decreased by 3.4% due to increased air freight 
charges as a result of industrial action at a number of west coast ports 
in the US and the mix of products sold. The segment result (operating 
profit) increased by 26% to £14.5m (2013: £11.5m) driven by the 
revenue growth and partly offset by lower contribution margin.
Signals
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Movement
£’m
Revenue 40.2 41.8 (1.6) 
Contribution 18.0 17.5 0.5
Segment result 6.0 5.2 0.8
Signals revenue fell by 3.8% to £40.2m. The two major elements of the 
Signals division are the Traffic and Obstruction businesses. The Obstruction 
business sells anti-collision warning products that are mainly used on 
wind turbines in Europe and on telecom and broadcast towers in the US. 
Revenue grew by 22% (at constant currency) in the higher margin 
Obstruction business due to a recovery of market share in the US. This 
more than offset the lower contribution from the Traffic and Transportation 
business and gave a segment result of £6.0m, 15% ahead of prior year.
Components
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Movement
£’m
Revenue 19.7 20.9 (1.2) 
Contribution 9.3 9.9 (0.6)
Segment result 0.4 1.3 (0.9)
The Components business is a high volume producer of status indication 
lights for OEMs. It is a stable business with established competitors and is 
not seen as a growth market. Components revenue fell by 5.7% year on 
year to £19.7m. This represents 12.3% of Group revenue (2013: 15.9%). 
The contribution margin was broadly flat but the lower revenue resulted 
in a reduction in contribution of £0.6m. There was a slight increase (£0.3m) 
in overheads and these combined to give a segment result of £0.4m 
(2013: £1.3m). 
The combination of the three segments above resulted in operating profit 
before central costs as follows:
Percentage 
of Group
 operating profit 
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Movement
£’m
Lighting 69.4% 14.5 11.5 3.0 
Signals 28.7% 6.0 5.2 0.8
Components 1.9% 0.4 1.3 (0.9)
Operating profit before 
unallocated expenses 20.9 18.0 2.9
Central overheads are not allocated to the three business segments. 
In 2014 they amount to £2.8m, a reduction of £0.7m from 2013. 
This resulted in a profit from operating activities (underlying) of £18.1m, 
an increase of 24.6% over 2013 (£14.5m).
Non-underlying costs
In 2014 there were net non-underlying costs (excluding finance expense) 
of £2.3m (2013: £2.9m) which comprised the following:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Contingent consideration 3.1 —
Inventory provision (2.8) —
Goodwill and asset write-down (1.3) (0.8)
Employee severance and restructuring costs (1.1) (0.4)
Intellectual property past-use access fee — (1.4)
Other (0.2) (0.3)
Non-underlying costs recorded 
in administrative expenses and cost of sales (2.3) (2.9)
In December 2014 an agreement was reached with the former owners 
of Airinet, a business acquired by Dialight in 2012, to settle the amount 
of contingent consideration that was due to them. This has resulted in a 
non-underlying credit of £3. 1m. Airinet was acquired to boost the development 
effort aimed at using wireless control technology in the Lighting sector. 
In addition, at the time of acquisition there was considered to be a prospect 
of using the Airinet technology to achieve specific sales of street lighting 
to large municipalities in the US. These sales were not achieved and this 
is the major reason for the agreement of a reduced amount 
of contingent consideration.
The knowhow that existed in Airinet at the time of acquisition assisted in 
developing the wireless control systems now being deployed in the Lighting 
segment and hence the goodwill arising on the Airinet acquisition has been 
carried forward unimpaired at cost. The capitalised technology cost arising 
on acquisition and subsequent costs of developing that technology, 
which related to the street lighting sales, totalling £0.8m have been 
written off as non-underlying cost. Other intangibles of £0.5m whose 
carrying value was judged to be impaired were also written off.
The Group operates in an environment where the pace of technological 
change is ever increasing, presenting a greater risk of obsolete inventory. 
An inventory provision is calculated to estimate the value of inventory that 
has become unusable or unsaleable due to obsolescence. Management 
agreed with the Board to commence a detailed review of the risk of 
obsolescence during the year. This review was completed by the incoming 
Group Finance Director and identified that the pace of product change 
has increased in the Lighting and Obstruction business with the introduction 
of control based Lighting and the new Vigilant range. The Board concluded 
that a strict ageing over-ride should be added in addition to the existing 
usage formula. As a result the Group incurred a one-off charge of £2.8m. 
As the nature of this charge is non-recurring it has been treated as 
a non-underlying expense.
The Group also incurred redundancy and termination costs mainly relating 
to US and European operations and the closure of its Japanese operation.
For details on the prior year items, please refer to note 6. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 26
STRATEGIC REPORT
Financial review continued
The profit from operating activities was £15.8m (2013: £11.6m) after 
taking account of the non-underlying costs.
Underlying finance expense was £0.2m (2013: £0.1m) and there was 
a non-underlying finance expense of £0.1m (2013: £0.3m) for changes 
in the discount rate applied to the contingent consideration.
The underlying tax charge for 2014 was £6.0m (2013: £4.5m), representing 
an underlying tax rate of 33.5% (2013: 31.3%). The increase is due mainly to 
the weighting of US profits. The non-underlying expense of £2.3m had no tax 
impact (2013: £1.0m) as the nature of the adjustments gave rise to offsetting 
tax impacts. The overall tax charge was £6.0m (2013: £3.5m) and the total 
tax rate was 38.7%.
Underlying profit for the year was £11.9m (2013: £9.9m) and there was 
a net loss from non-underlying trading of £2.4m (2013: £1.5m) resulting 
in a profit for the year of £9.5m (2013: £8.4m). The profit attributable to 
the equity holders of the Company was £9.5m (2013: £8.5m) with £0.1m 
attributable to non-controlling interests in the prior year.
The basic earnings per share from the underlying business was 
36.8 pence (2013: 30.8 pence) and the total earnings per share 
was 29.4 pence (2013: 26.2 pence).
Balance sheet
Group net assets have increased by £6.1m to £72.8m (2013: £66.7m). 
The major changes have been the increase in working capital of £12.0m 
offset by an increase in borrowings of £5.6m.
The split and movement in working capital is outlined below:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Inventories 32.4 24.2
Trade and other receivables 36.9 27.9
Trade and other payables (26.2) (21.0)
43.1 31.1
The increase in working capital of £12.0m was driven mainly by an increase in 
inventory of £8.2m to support the significant growth in Lighting. The working 
capital to sales percentage has increased from 23.7% in 2013 to 27 .0% in 
2014 as the Group strengthens its supply chain to continue its growth.
The Group’s defined benefit schemes (which are closed to new entrants) 
had a deficit of £1.2m at the balance sheet date compared to a deficit of 
£0.4m at 31 December 2013. The increased deficit of £0.8m in the year 
is mainly due to a change in the discount rate used to value assets.
In the year, the Group signed a four-year unsecured £25m multi-currency 
revolving credit facility with HSBC Bank plc. Under the terms of the 
facility, the Group also has a £25m “accordion” facility, by which further 
facilities may be made available under the current terms. At the balance 
sheet date, £7.6m was drawn on the facility. 
The Group is operating comfortably within its covenant requirements.
Cash flow
There was an overall reduction in the Group’s net cash position of £6.5m 
in the year. Cash generated from operations increased by £1.7m to £8.6m 
(2013: £6.9m). This was utilised to fund capital expenditure of £7.2m 
(2013: £9.3m), of which £3.5m was spent on new product development. 
In addition there were tax payments of £3.1m (2013: £2.2m) and dividend 
payments of £4.8m (2013: £4.6m). 
Banking
The Group has its banking relationships with HSBC Bank plc, 
Barclays Bank plc and Wells Fargo. The Group had utilised £7.6m 
of its facility at 31 December 2014.
The Group has an arrangement with Wells Fargo in the US to offer finance 
facilities to its customers. These facilities are not underwritten by the Group.
Capital management and dividend
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain 
investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development 
of the business. The Board considers consolidated total equity as capital. 
As at 31 December 2014 this totalled £72.8m (2013: £66.7m).
In line with the Group’s dividend policy it is proposed to pay a final dividend 
of 9.8 pence giving a total dividend for the year of 15.0 pence (2013: 14.4 pence). 
A total dividend of 15.0 pence would be covered two times. The final 
dividend, if approved, would be paid on 2 June 2015 to shareholders 
on the register at the 1 May 2015.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities together with the factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance and position are described within 
this review. The financial position of the Group and its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are described below.
The Group has sufficient financial resources together with a broad spread 
of customers across different geographic areas and industries. As a 
consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage 
its business risks successfully. The Directors have also considered the 
Group’s forecasts and projections. After making enquiries, the Directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
2014 review Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 27
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Sustainability report
ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES
Environmental management system
Dialight’s environmental management system (“EMS”) continues to be 
certified to ISO 14001 across its European business. 
Certified sites are located in Denmark, Germany and the UK. We intend 
to add Mexico and the US as certified sites during 2015. The scope of the 
registration is environmental management in the design and manufacture 
of electrical and electronic components and sub-assemblies. The EMS 
includes procedures for the management of waste, trade effluent, hazardous 
substances, environmental processes and procedures, enforcement actions, 
and compliance with regulatory frameworks and legislation.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Dialight is required to report its annual greenhouse gas emissions pursuant 
to the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013 (the “Regulations”). Dialight has systems in place for the 
collation of data for reporting purposes and for reporting against its 
emissions for the full year to 31 December, in parallel with the Company’s 
financial reporting year end.
The table below sets out Dialight’s emissions for 2014 and 2013:
Type of emissions
T onnes of CO 2 e
2014
Tonnes of CO 2
2013
Emissions from combustion 
of fuel and operation of 
facilities emissions
645 tonnes CO
2
e 652 tonnes CO
2
e
Emissions from 
purchased electricity
11,887 tonnes CO
2
e 5,207 tonnes CO
2
e
Methodology
Data has been collated utilising a uniform methodology to ensure accurate 
reporting. Data sources included utility bills and meter readings, business 
travel in Company owned and leased vehicles, and outcomes of maintenance 
activities involving refrigerant gases. Calculations of emissions for the period 
have been based where possible against the Department for Environment, 
Food and Rural Affairs (“Defra”) published emission factors. Where this has 
not been possible assumptions have been made based on available UK 
data to provide consistency in the reporting methodology. Similarly, where 
data has not been available, a standard methodology of proportionality 
of emissions has been utilised based on facility footprint.
PRODUCTS
RECYCLING
UTILITY USAGE
Our lighting products last 
much longer and use less 
energy when compared to 
their counterparts that 
utilise different technology.
To comply with mandatory 
greenhouse gas reporting 
regulations, the Company has 
disclosed its carbon usage 
for the 2014 year.
All sites operate to increase, 
reuse and recycle materials, 
including packaging.
We are committed to being a responsible business Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 28
STRATEGIC REPORT
2014 review
ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED
Greenhouse gas emissions continued
Intensity ratio
To enable year-on-year comparison of its greenhouse gas emissions 
an intensity ratio has been determined. This is based on the tonnes 
of greenhouse gas used during the year expressed as tonnes CO
2
e per £1m 
of turnover; for 2014 this has been calculated as 78.42 tonnes CO
2
e emitted 
per £1m of turnover (2013: 44.66 tonnes CO
2
e).
Assurance
Data was collected and collated in accordance with the Defra 
recommendations. The methodology was not subject to 
independent assurance.
Energy and water use
The Company is required to report on energy and water use as part of 
its environmental management reporting. The data for this is produced 
for the Group as a whole and by each location.
Operations across the Group consumed the following resources 
in 2014 and 2013:
2014
Resource
Total
 consumption Unit
Consumption
 per £ turnover
Electricity 11,777,349 KWh 0.073 KWh
Gas 1,660,267 KWh 0.010 KWh
Oil 6,348 Litre 0.039 mL
Water 7,777,729 Litre 0.048 litres
2013
Resource
Total
 consumption Unit
Consumption
 per £ turnover
Electricity 10,045,070 KWh 0.077 KWh
Gas 2,264,727 KWh 0.017 KWh
Oil 8,302 Litre 0.063 mL
Water 1,756,144,000 Litre 13.38 litres
Waste management
Dialight has three zero-waste-to-landfill sites which are located in Australia, 
Denmark and the UK. Additionally, the variety of waste recycled across 
the business as a whole has increased with locations being supported 
in identifying where additional recycling potential exists and what facilities 
are available to minimise waste to landfill.
Environmental registrations
Dialight is registered and discharges its duties in relation to packaging 
waste, Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations (“WEEE”) 
waste, batteries and trade effluent. Dialight holds the following registrations 
with regards to environmental management required as a result of its 
activities and undertakings: WEEE (Germany and the UK) Packaging 
Waste Obligation (Germany and the UK), Battery Recycling (Germany), 
Trade Effluent (UK), ISO 14001 Environmental Management System 
(Denmark, Germany and the UK), Non-Hazardous Waste Producer 
(Mexico) and Hazardous Waste Producer (UK).
Environmental enforcement actions and governance
There were no environmental enforcement actions or statutory nuisance 
control orders issued against Dialight in 2014 (2013: nil). Dialight works with 
all relevant regulatory organisations to ensure risks to the environment as a 
result of its undertakings are minimised and that all legal obligations are met.
There were no environmental incidents (unintentional emissions to air, 
land or water) as a result of Dialight’s undertakings in 2014 (2013: nil).
ETHICAL BUSINESS
The Code of Business Conduct
Dialight’s Code of Business Conduct (“CBC”) was first introduced during 
2011 and formalised the expected standards of behaviour and conduct 
that were applicable to employees and third parties engaged on the 
Group’s business. The CBC contains guidance on general standards 
of conduct, corporate hospitality and gifts, bribery and corruption, 
conflicts of interest, confidentiality, fraud, political and charitable donations, 
employment, health and safety, relationships with third parties, and 
the environment. All parts of the CBC are underpinned by a number of 
additional policies, which were the subject of a review during 2014 and 
were reissued in 2015 as part of the new governance framework, 
which became effective from 1 January 2015.
Anti-bribery and corruption
Dialight is committed to conducting all its business in an honest and 
ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and 
corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with 
integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we 
operate, as well as implementing and enforcing effective systems 
to counter bribery.
Sustainability report continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 29
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
THE WORKPLACE
Health and safety
Dialight is committed to providing a safe working environment for all 
employees across all locations and activities, from production teams 
to lone working sales force team members.
The Group Chief Executive and Board acknowledge their responsibility 
for health and safety and continually act to identify opportunities for 
improvement, maintain regulatory compliance, and ensure safe environments 
for employees and visitors to our buildings alike through delegated actions 
by senior management at each location.
Health and safety is a standing item on the Board meeting agenda 
and includes information collated from senior management reports 
to provide the Board with full visibility of any major safety concerns 
and incidents within the business.
Dialight actively encourages employees to play their part in ensuring 
the safety of themselves and others. This is achieved by an in-depth 
induction for all new employees and encouraging them to report all 
incidents, accidents and near miss events, no matter how minor, 
and to take part in health and safety related training as required by 
particular roles.
Employees
Dialight’s culture is one of openness, honesty and accountability and 
recognition that all employees play a part in delivering the Group’s business 
performance in a safe and efficient environment.
All decisions relating to selection for employment and promotion will 
be based on ability and merit. The Board of Dialight has considered the 
recommendations of the Davies Report published in 2011 and confirms its 
commitment to the recruitment and promotion of all individuals throughout 
the Group, including those at Board and Executive level, on the grounds 
of ability and merit only. No discrimination of any kind is tolerated.
Dialight is a global company with a global workforce whose diversity 
contributes to Dialight’s success. Regular review of the composition of 
the Group’s employees will provide the necessary information required 
for the Board and the Executive to address any issues that could 
negatively impact this approach and commitment.
Dialight values the contribution of its employees highly and it is a 
recognised facet of the Dialight culture that employees are encouraged 
to take responsibility and exercise their own initiative for the overall 
good of the Group.
SENIOR MANAGEMENT 
DIVERSITY
Male 7 Female 0
BOARD DIVERSITY
This Strategic report was signed on behalf of the Board 
by the Chairman and Interim Group Chief Executive.
Bill Ronald Richard Stuckes
Chairman Interim Group Chief Executive
Male 5 Female 2
TOTAL WORKFORCE 
DIVERSITY
Male 1,204 Female 1,109 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 30
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Chairman’s overview and Board of Directors
I am pleased to introduce this year’s Governance section 
on behalf of all my Board colleagues. Between us we have 
the responsibility for both the stewardship and the 
governance of the Group. 
This section starts by introducing my fellow Directors, sets out details 
of our compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code as updated 
and published by the Financial Reporting Council (“FRC”) in September 2012 
(the “Code”) and includes the information currently required by statute. 
The balance of this section includes reports from the respective chairs 
of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees. Although our 
report on corporate governance compliance applies for the year ended 
31 December 2014, we have included in that report and the Remuneration 
Committee report, where relevant, and reflected in the biographies and 
Committee membership structure, the recently announced Board changes 
in relation to Roy Burton and Richard Stuckes.
Dialight is a company incorporated in the UK and listed on the London 
Stock Exchange. The principal corporate governance rules applying 
to Dialight are contained in the Code, the UK Financial Conduct Authority 
(“FCA”) Listing Rules (“Listing Rules”), the FCA’ s Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules (“DTR”) and the Companies Act 2006 (“CA 2006”) together 
with other regulations. As a result of the continued reference to the Code 
published in 2010 in the Listing Rules, all references to the Code can be 
read to include the earlier version of the Code along with that published 
in September 2012.
As noted in my introduction last year, Mark Fryer, Group Finance Director, 
left the Company on 15 January 2014. Fariyal Khanbabi was appointed 
Group Finance Director in September 2014. During the interim period, 
Kevin Higginson joined us as Interim Chief Financial Officer but was not 
appointed to the Board. Details of Mark Fryer’s termination payment 
arrangements and Fariyal Khanbabi’s remuneration arrangements 
are set out in the Remuneration Committee report.
In relation to the Annual Report specifically, we are required to provide 
detail of our compliance with the Code and explain any derogations 
from it. This section, together with the Remuneration Committee report 
on pages 44 to 54, provides this information which allows our shareholders 
to make an informed judgement of our Company and to understand how 
the Company is governed in relation to the Code as a criterion of good 
practice. We have also replicated our remuneration policy, which was 
approved by shareholders at our 2014 Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), 
by way of an appendix to the Remuneration report. The Code is available 
online from the FRC at www.frc.org.uk and in making our compliance 
disclosures we have had regard to the updated 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code that was issued by the FRC in September 2014.
Bill Ronald
Chairman
Bill Ronald (59)
Chairman
Term of office: Chairman since September 2012. 
Joined the Board in May 2009 
as a Non‑Executive Director. 
Board Committees: Nominations (Chair) 
and Remuneration. 
Experience: Past appointments to a number 
of different boards. Within Dialight, Bill previously 
held the positions of Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and was 
a member of the Audit Committee. 
Current external appointments: Chairman of the 
Compleat Food Group and Fevertree Drinks plc and 
Chair of Trustees of the Muscular Dystrophy Campaign. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 31
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Roy Burton (67)
Group Chief Executive
Term of office: Group Chief Executive between 
September 2005 and March 2015. Joined the Group 
in July 2002 as President of Dialight Corporation. 
Board Committees: Nominations (until March 2015).
Experience: Many years’ experience in the electronics 
industry in the UK working with Philips Electronics, 
ITT and Amphenol Corporation, Group President 
Electronics for Thomas and Betts Corporation, and 
as Chief Executive Officer of Coraza Systems Inc.
Current external appointments: None.
Richard Stuckes (47)
Interim Group Chief Executive
Term of office: Non‑Executive Director between 
May 2009 and February 2015. Appointed Interim 
Group Chief Executive in February 2015.
Board Committees: Audit, Nominations 
and Remuneration (each until February 2015).
Experience: 13 years with Philips Lighting, including 
a role as Managing Director for the UK activity and 
for both the Spanish and Portuguese businesses. 
He was Managing Director of the paints business in 
EMEA for AkzoNobel, Chief Executive Officer for Imperial 
Chemical Industries Paints UK and Ireland. Most recently, 
Chief Executive Officer of DS Smith Packaging Limited.
Current external appointments: None.
Robert Lambourne (63)
Non-Executive Director
Term of office: Chair of the Audit Committee since 
2010. Joined the Board as a Non‑ Executive Director 
in May 2010. 
Board Committees: Audit (Chair), Nominations 
and Remuneration.
Experience: Chartered Accountant, various public 
company executive directorships, most recently as 
Finance Director of RMC Group Plc. Non‑ Executive 
Director of Huttig Inc in the US and Chairman of Penox 
SA in France and Analyst Investment Management plc. 
Non‑ Executive Director of Pace Micro T echnology plc 
and Abacus Group Plc as well as a number of private 
companies in the UK.
Current external appointments: Non‑ Executive 
Director of The Tintometer Limited.
Tracey Graham (49)
Non-Executive Director
Term of office: Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee since February 2013. Joined the Board 
as a Non‑ Executive Director in January 2013. 
Board Committees: Audit, Nominations 
and Remuneration (Chair). 
Experience: Chief Executive of T alaris Limited until 
2010 where she led the company’ s management 
buy‑ out. Senior positions in banking and insurance 
with HSBC and AXA Insurance.
Current external appointments: Non‑ Executive 
Director of RPS Group plc and of Royal London 
Group where she chairs their respective 
Remuneration Committees. 
Stephen Bird (54)
Senior Independent Director
Term of office: Senior Independent Director 
since February 2013. Joined the Board as 
a Non‑Executive Director in January 2013. 
Board Committees: Audit, Nominations  
and Remuneration. 
Experience: Non‑ Executive Director of Umeco plc, 
Divisional Managing Director of Weir Oil & Gas, part 
of Weir Group plc. Senior roles at Danaher Corporation, 
Black & Decker, Unipart Group, Hepworth PLC 
and Technicolor Group.
Current external appointments:  
Group Chief Executive of The Vitec Group plc.
Fariyal Khanbabi (47)
Group Finance Director
Term of office: Joined Dialight plc on 8 September 2014 
as Group Finance Director.
Board Committees: None.
Experience: From 2009 until joining Dialight 
in September 2014 Fariyal was Chief Financial Officer 
at Blue Ocean Group, an independent, privately 
owned, £4 billion revenue fuel trading and distribution 
business. She has over ten years’ experience in senior 
financial positions, including roles at NYSE and 
Nasdaq‑ listed companies.
Current external appointments: None. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 32
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance and Directors’ report
Dialight is incorporated as a public limited company and is registered 
in England with the registered number 2486024. Its shares are listed on 
the London Stock Exchange. The Company’s registered office is Exning 
Road, Newmarket, Suffolk CB8 0AX (the “Registered Office”). 
The Board of Dialight presents its Corporate governance and 
Directors’ report (the “Report”) and the audited financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2014. The Strategic report can be found 
on pages 2 to 29 which, together with the Report of the Remuneration 
Committee, is incorporated by reference into this Report and, accordingly, 
should be read as part of this Report.
Code
Dialight is required to state how it has applied the main principles and 
how it has complied with the provisions set out in the Code, a copy 
of which is available at www.frc.org.uk. It is the view of the Board that 
Dialight has been compliant with the provisions of the Code throughout 
the year ended 31 December 2014.
Leadership
Our governance structure
The Board is accountable to the Group’s stakeholders, including its 
shareholders, for the standards of governance operated throughout 
the Group and at all operating locations. Specific responsibilities are 
delegated to the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees 
and these are documented through the relevant committee terms 
of reference. 
The Dialight Board further delegates authority, within clearly defined 
limits, for the day‑ to‑ day management of the Group to the Executive 
Directors (the “Executive”). The Executive, in turn, may further delegate 
this authority to senior management or Directors of Group subsidiary 
companies. Levels of authority delegated to the Executive, senior 
management and Directors of Group subsidiaries are reviewed 
from time to time.
The matters reserved for Board decision and the committee terms 
of reference are reviewed on an annual basis. These are available on the 
Company’s website at www.dialight.com or from the Company Secretary 
at the Company’s Registered Office.
The Board
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters that are specifically 
reserved for its decision including the approval of annual and interim results; 
recommendation of dividends; convening of shareholder meetings; review 
and approval of Board appointments; approval of annual budgets; review 
of Group strategic plans; approval of larger capital expenditure and 
investment proposals; review of the overall system of internal control and 
risk management; and review of corporate governance arrangements.
The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the 
effectiveness of the system of internal controls in respect of the year 
ended 31 December 2014 covering all material controls, including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Board held seven scheduled meetings during 2014 including 
a three‑ day annual strategy and planning meeting in the US. Further 
details of Directors’ attendance at all scheduled meetings of the Board 
and its Committees can be found in the table opposite. There are nine 
Board meetings scheduled to take place in 2015.
Board agendas are prepared by the Chairman in conjunction with the 
Group Chief Executive and the Company Secretary. At each meeting 
the Board is provided with information on the financial and trading 
performance of businesses within the Group, and of the Group as 
a whole, together with reports on operations, health and safety, markets 
and other relevant issues. Board and Committee papers are distributed 
to Directors in advance of Board and Committee meetings to facilitate 
informed debate at the meeting. If Directors are unable to attend a Board 
meeting they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda 
items with the Chairman.
Board composition
During 2014, the Board comprised the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, 
the Group Finance Director and four Non‑ Executive Directors. One of the 
Non‑ Executive Directors, Stephen Bird, is also the Senior Independent 
Director. Mark Fryer was Group Finance Director during 2014 until he 
stepped down from the Board on 15 January 2014. The Nominations 
Committee engaged the services of an executive search agency, 
Independent Search Partnership, to assist in the recruitment of a new Group 
Finance Director, resulting in the appointment of Fariyal Khanbabi as the 
Group Finance Director on 8 September 2014. She will be seeking election 
as a Director of the Company at the forthcoming AGM. Further details are 
set out in the Nominations Committee report on page 36. Since the year 
end, we have announced that Roy Burton has advised the Board of his 
intention to step down as Group Chief Executive due to ill health on 
2 March 2015, and that Richard Stuckes, previously a Non‑ Executive 
Director, has replaced him as Interim Group Chief Executive with effect from 
2 February 2015. As a consequence of his resignation notice, Roy Burton 
will not be offering himself for re‑ election at the 2015 AGM but will remain 
as an employee of Dialight during his notice period and available to provide 
counsel and assistance as required to ensure an orderly handover of his 
responsibilities. All of the Non‑ Executive Directors are considered to be 
independent in accordance with the Code and it is thought that the current 
balance on the Board ensures that no individual or group dominates 
the Board’s decision making process. The Board reconsidered this 
position as part of its normal year‑ end compliance review. It was noted 
that there was a commercial relationship between Dialight Europe Limited, 
a Group subsidiary company, and DS Smith Packaging Limited, where 
Richard Stuckes was an Executive Director. However, the Board agreed 
that this relationship was of such a level and materiality that there was 
no impact on Richard Stuckes’ independence during his time as 
a Non‑ Executive Director of the Company.
The Board has reconfirmed that the Non‑ Executive Directors are 
independent of management and are free from any relationship which 
could affect the exercise of their independent judgement and they 
therefore meet the criteria set out in the Code. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 33
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
All Directors’ biographies appear on pages 30 and 31. The Dialight Board 
demonstrates a range of experience that brings independent judgement to 
issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which 
are vital to the future success of the Group. The Board has considered and 
confirmed that each Non‑ Executive Director continues to demonstrate that 
he or she has sufficient time to devote to the Company’s business.
All Non‑ Executive Directors constructively challenge and assist in developing 
the strategy of the Group and scrutinise the performance of management 
against the Group’s objectives and strategy. The Chairman holds meetings 
with the Non‑ Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being 
present on a range of matters whilst the Senior Independent Director does 
the same with other Non‑ Executive Directors as part of the Chairman’s 
annual performance appraisal as well as on such other occasions as 
required.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is responsible for aiding the Board in managing its 
financial reporting responsibilities and oversees Dialight’s reporting, risk 
management and internal control systems and processes. The report 
of the Audit Committee can be found on pages 37 to 40.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of the 
Chairman, Executive Directors and the Company Secretary whilst 
monitoring the levels of remuneration of those individuals defined 
as senior management by the Dialight Board. The Company’s current 
remuneration policy, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM 
held on 16 April 2014, can be found in the appendix to the report of 
the Remuneration Committee on pages 55 to 62. The Report of the 
Remuneration Committee for 2014 is set out on pages 44 to 54.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee is responsible for the structure, size 
and composition of the Board. This ensures that the correct balance 
of skills, experience and knowledge is present to assist the Company 
as it continues to grow and provides for appropriate discussion around 
succession. The Report of the Nominations Committee can be found 
on page 36.
Responsibilities
The Board has established and approved clearly established roles 
for the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent 
Director. Individual, documented role statements are available on the 
Company’s website or from the Company Secretary at the Company’s 
Registered Office.
Board/Committee attendance – 2014
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nominations
Committee
Bill Ronald 7/7 n/a 4/4 5/5
Roy Burton 7/7 n/a n/a 4/5
Mark Fryer* — — — —
Fariyal Khanbabi** 3/3 n/a n/a n/a
Stephen Bird 7/7 4/5 4/4 5/5
Tracey Graham 6/7 5/5 4/4 5/5
Robert Lambourne 7/7 5/5 4/4 5/5
Richard Stuckes 7/7 5/5 4/4 5/5
*  Mark Fryer stepped down as Group Finance Director from the Board on 15 January 2014.
**  Fariyal Khanbabi was appointed Group Finance Director on 8 September 2014. Her attendance is expressed as the number of meetings she attended out of the number 
she was eligible to attend. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 34
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate governance and Directors’ report continued
Responsibilities continued
The Chairman
In addition to other matters, the Chairman has responsibility for the 
leadership of the Board, ensuring the effectiveness of the Board, 
organising and planning Board meetings and the effective 
and timely communication of information to shareholders. 
The Chairman provides advice, counsel and support to the Group Chief 
Executive as and when required and maintains open and continual 
contact with the Non‑ Executive Directors to allow any issues to be 
addressed outside of the formal scope of the regular Board meetings.
Group Chief Executive
The Group Chief Executive has delegated responsibility for the management 
of the Group’s day‑ to‑ day operations. In addition he is responsible for the 
preparation and presentation of strategic options for the Group’s growth 
in shareholder value and sets the operating plans and budgets required 
to deliver the agreed strategy. The Group Chief Executive is also responsible 
for ensuring that the Group maintains appropriate risk management 
and control mechanisms. 
Senior Independent Director
The Senior Independent Director takes responsibility for meeting with 
the Non‑ Executive Directors as part of the Chairman’s annual performance 
appraisal as well as on such other occasions as required and addressing 
shareholder concerns where the normal channels of Group Chairman 
or Group Chief Executive fail to resolve an issue or where such contact 
is inappropriate.
Commitment
Service contracts of the Executive and the letters of appointment of the 
Non‑ Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Company’s 
Registered Office during normal business hours on any weekday 
(except bank holidays) and at the AGM. Further details of these can 
be found in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 53.
Development
All new Directors receive a full and formal tailored induction programme 
on joining the Board. This includes the provision of information on the 
Group and its products and markets, financial information and general 
advice on Directors’ duties under the CA 2006 and the Listing Rules. 
Visits to Group locations also form part of the process, as do meetings 
with key senior management.
Further training needs are provided as required following discussion 
between individual Directors and the Chairman. Any resources required 
in this respect are provided by the Company.
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
NOMINATIONS 
COMMITTEE
THE BOARD
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
Chairman:
Bill Ronald
Members: 
Roy Burton (until 2 March 2015)
Stephen Bird
Tracey Graham
Robert Lambourne
Richard Stuckes (until 2 February 2015) 
Chair:
Tracey Graham
Members:
Bill Ronald
Stephen Bird
Robert Lambourne
Richard Stuckes (until 2 February 2015)
Chairman:
Robert Lambourne
Members:
Stephen Bird
Tracey Graham
Richard Stuckes (until 2 February 2015)
Group structure and Committee membership Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 35
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Information and support
The Company Secretary, in accordance with guidance from the 
Chairman, takes the lead on ensuring that the Board and its Committees 
receive the necessary information that they require to operate efficiently. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are 
complied with. The Company Secretary, Nick Giles, is also responsible for 
advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all matters of governance 
and best practice. In addition, the Company Secretary ensures that the 
Directors receive appropriate training as necessary and updates on legal, 
regulatory and corporate governance matters through his Board reports. 
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter 
for the Board as a whole. Directors may take independent professional 
advice on any matter at the Company’s expense if they deem it necessary 
in order to carry out their responsibilities effectively. No such advice was 
taken during the year.
Evaluation
Previous evaluations of the Board and its Committees have been by way 
of responses to a questionnaire issued to all members of the Board, with 
the feedback from these questionnaires being gathered and collated by 
the Company Secretary for presentation to the Board in order to facilitate 
discussion. The Chairman is responsible for conducting the performance 
evaluation of the Group Chief Executive. The Non‑ Executive Directors, 
led by the Senior Independent Director, are responsible for evaluating the 
performance of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive conducts 
evaluations of any other members of the Executive and senior management. 
As noted in last year’s Annual Report and Accounts, given the appointments 
of new Board members made in 2013, and in order to obtain the maximum 
benefit for all Board members from such an exercise, no such review was 
undertaken during 2013. In line with the commitment given in last year’s 
Annual Report, we engaged an independent governance specialist, 
Edis‑ Bates Associates, in 2014 to carry out an external evaluation. 
Edis‑ Bates Associates does not have any other connection with the 
Company. The Board will be discussing the findings of the evaluation 
at its Board meeting scheduled for March 2015. Further details will 
be included in the 2015 Annual Report.
Re‑ election
The Board has decided to adopt provision B.7.1 of the Code so that all 
Directors will stand for re‑ election on an annual basis. Fariyal Khanbabi, 
who was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director on 
8 September 2014, will seek election at the forthcoming AGM.
How we engage with shareholders
Communications with shareholders are given high priority. Although 
overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication 
with investors lies with the Chairman, on a day‑ to‑ day basis the Board’s 
primary contact with major shareholders is via the Executive.
The Non‑ Executive Directors are kept appraised of shareholder views 
through the provision of a report at each Board meeting on shareholder 
activity and, where possible, through analyst briefings and feedback from 
results road shows. In addition, all Directors are offered invitations to 
attend all presentations and meetings with shareholders.
The AGM
The AGM presents an additional opportunity to communicate with private 
and institutional investors. The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairs 
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available 
at these meetings to answer questions.
Each substantially separate issue is proposed as a separate resolution. 
Details of resolutions to be proposed, and shareholders’ options for voting, 
at the forthcoming AGM can be found in the separate circular to shareholders. 
The Notice of AGM (the “Notice”) and related documents are sent to 
shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the meeting.
The Company’s forthcoming AGM will take place at 11.30am on 
15 April 2015 at 200 Aldersgate, Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4HD.
Governance framework
The Board has approved an enhanced governance structure with effect 
from 1 January 2015 through the adoption of a Governance of Dialight 
document. That document describes Dialight’s governance framework, 
provides specific detail on the terms of delegation from the Board 
of Dialight to the Group’s management and governance committees 
and the Group’s approach to internal audit and risk management, and 
includes the Group’s Code of Business Conduct and supporting polices. 
As part of the revised structure, a new Group Chief Executive’s Committee, 
chaired by the Group Chief Executive, has been established and is 
responsible for assisting the Group Chief Executive with the day‑ to‑ day 
executive management of the Dialight Group. This new Executive 
Committee has formal terms of reference governing its operation, 
which have been approved by the Board. Further details of this new 
governance framework will be set out in out 2015 Annual Report. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 36
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Report of the Nominations Committee
Objectives
The Nominations Committee is responsible for and leads the process for all 
Board appointments, making recommendations to the Board where required. 
It is also responsible for reviewing the size, structure and composition of 
the Board, giving consideration to the provision of adequate succession 
planning for the Executive and senior management team, and making 
recommendations regarding re‑ election and re‑ appointment of Directors. 
Where applicable, external search consultants are engaged to assist with 
any recruitment process. In carrying out its Board reviews, and when 
drawing up selection criteria for ongoing succession planning and 
appointment procedures, the Committee has regard to the balance 
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board.
Membership
All members of the Board excluding the Group Finance Director were members 
of the Committee during the year under review and, with the exception of the 
Group Chief Executive, Roy Burton, are considered independent pursuant to 
the Code. Richard Stuckes and Roy Burton stepped down as members of the 
Committee on 2 February 2015 and 2 March 2015, respectively. Appointments 
to the Committee are made by the Board. 
Only members of the Committee have a right to attend meetings. 
Other individuals may be invited to attend for all or any part of a meeting, 
where appropriate. 
Meetings
The number of meetings attended by members of the Committee can 
be found in the Board/Committee attendance – 2014 table on page 33. 
Activities during the year
During the year the Committee undertook the following actions:
• leading the search and recruitment of a new Group Finance Director 
in conjunction with Independent Search Partnership, resulting in the 
appointment of Fariyal Khanbabi in September 2014, and overseeing 
the appointment during the period between January and July 2014 
of an interim Chief Financial Officer; and
• reviewing its terms of reference to ensure they remained in line 
with relevant guidelines and best practice.
Independent Search Partnership does not have any other connection 
with the Company.
Following the recent Board changes which the Committee considered 
and recommended to the Board, and as part of its activities during 2015, 
the Committee will be focusing on the appointment of a permanent 
Group Chief Executive, succession planning and Committee 
membership generally.
Diversity
The Board of Dialight has considered the recommendations of the 
Davies Report published in 2011, and subsequent updates, and confirms 
its commitment to the recruitment and promotion of all individuals throughout 
the Group, including those at Board and Executive level, on the grounds 
of ability and merit only. No discrimination of any kind is tolerated.
Dialight is a global company with a global workforce whose diversity 
contributes to Dialight’s success. Regular review of the composition 
of the Group’s employees will provide the necessary information required 
for the Board and senior management to address any issues that could 
negatively impact this approach and commitment.
Further details on Dialight’s workforce diversity can be found on page 29.
Bill Ronald
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
Members:
Roy Burton (until 2 March 2015)
Stephen Bird
Tracey Graham
Robert Lambourne
Richard Stuckes (until 2 February 2015) Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 37
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Report of the Audit Committee
Objectives
The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written 
terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the Committee taking 
into account relevant legislation and recommended best practice. 
The terms of reference are available on the Company’s website and from 
its Registered Office. The key responsibilities are set out below. The Committee 
reports to the Board on how it discharges its responsibilities. 
Membership
All members of the Committee served throughout the year and are 
considered independent pursuant to the Code. Richard Stuckes stepped 
down as a member of the Committee on 2 February 2015. The Board 
considers that the Committee Chairman has recent and relevant financial 
experience and an understanding of accounting and financial issues 
relevant to the industries in which the Group operates.
Meetings
Committee meetings are attended by the auditors at the invitation of the 
Committee Chairman to ensure full communication of matters relating to 
the audit. The number of meetings attended by members of the Committee 
can be found in the Board/Committee attendance – 2014 table on page 33.
Key responsibilities
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
• oversight of the integrity of the Group’s financial reporting statements; 
• review of Dialight’s annual and half yearly financial statements and 
release of any interim management statements in Q1 and Q3;
• oversight of internal control and risk management systems 
and arrangements;
• operation and monitoring of confidential disclosure policy;
• monitoring and review of the effectiveness of the internal 
audit function; and
• oversight of the relationship with the external auditors and the 
effectiveness of the external audit, including monitoring of the  
non‑ audit services policy and processes.
Activities during the year
A key activity of the Committee during the year was overseeing and 
considering the formal review and critical challenge undertaken by KPMG 
of the Group’s forecasting systems and processes following the profit 
warning that the Company issued in January 2014 in relation to its 2013 
results. This assessment highlighted a number of process improvements, 
which were implemented during 2014 and provided a much more robust 
and focused system of internal control to support Dialight’s growth in the 
coming years. In engaging KPMG to undertake the review, the Committee 
was mindful of the need to ensure independence from a good governance 
perspective and considered after a careful review that KPMG was best 
placed to carry out the review. Whilst some parts of the assignment were 
conducted by the audit team, key aspects were led by members of KPMG’s 
advisory team who have not had any previous involvement with Dialight or 
any subsequent involvement with the audit. The Committee was thus satisfied 
that the independence and objectivity of the auditors was safeguarded. 
The fees incurred for the review of £0.2 million are included in the Auditors’ 
remuneration section in note 10 of the financial statements on page 83.
Robert Lambourne
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Members:
Stephen Bird
Tracey Graham
Richard Stuckes (until 2 February 2015) Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 38
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Report of the Audit Committee continued
Activities during the year continued
The following were identified as key areas of judgement following 
a discussion with KPMG at the Committee’s planning meeting in respect 
of the 2014 external audit.
Non‑ underlying
During the year the Group incurred exceptional items that are disclosed 
separately in order to provide a true and fair view of the underlying 
business performance. The Committee considered a paper presented by 
senior management that set out the items to be treated as non‑ underlying 
in the year and the rationale for the accounting treatment. The Committee 
concluded that it was satisfied with the accounting treatment adopted. 
Goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition 
to the cash generating units (“CGUs”) that are expected to benefit from 
the combination. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined 
from value in use calculations. 
The Committee considered a paper presented by the senior management 
that set out how all CGUs had been re‑ tested in December 2014, based 
on sales projections used in Dialight’s three‑ year strategy model along with 
details of the assumptions and outcome of these tests. The Committee 
concluded on this evidence that there was no need for any adjustments 
to be made to the longer‑ term expectations for the CGUs. 
Separate consideration was given to the goodwill that arose on the Airinet 
acquisition in 2012 following the agreement to reduce the outstanding 
contingent consideration. Airinet knowhow has assisted in developing 
the wireless control systems now being deployed in the Lighting segment 
and hence the goodwill arising on the Airinet acquisition has been carried 
forward at cost as it is considered to be unimpaired. 
Inventory valuation
Dialight operates in an industry whereby developments in product 
technology may result in inventory becoming slow moving or obsolete, 
which in turn may mean that inventory cannot be sold or sales prices 
are discounted to less than the inventory carrying value. This could 
result in a material impairment of the inventory balance.
The Committee considered a paper from senior management on inventory 
ageing methodology. Management agreed with the Board to commence 
a detailed review of the risk of obsolescence during the year. This review 
was completed by the incoming Group Finance Director and identified 
that the pace of product change has increased in the Lighting and 
Obstruction business with the introduction of control based Lighting and 
the new Vigilant range. It concluded that a strict ageing over‑ ride should 
be added in addition to the existing usage formula. As a result the Group 
incurred a one‑ off charge of £2.8m. As the nature of this charge is 
non‑ recurring it has been treated as a non‑ underlying expense.
At the balance sheet date it reviewed the provision for excess and obsolete 
inventory and noted that the level of provision and the methodology applied 
were appropriate to the circumstances.
Revenue recognition
Dialight’s business encounters a high volume of transactions close to 
the year end due to customer requirements. The Group also has a number 
of customers who have different contractual terms, meaning that the risks 
and rewards transfer at different timings (such as on dispatch, on receipt 
at port of destination and on receipt by customer).
The combination of these factors results in an increased risk that 
revenue may not be recognised in the correct period. Following discussions 
with management, the Committee was satisfied that the Group’s revenue 
recognition policies had been applied in all material respects. The Committee 
considered the comments of the auditors around revenue recognition in 
the prior year and noted the suggested improvements had been made.
Development costs
T otal development costs of £5.3m were incurred in the period (2013: £4.5m), 
of which £2.6m or 49% has been capitalised (2013: £2.9m or 64%). The 
book value of capitalised development at 31 December 2014 was £6.8m 
an increase of £0.9m from last year. 
The Committee considered the process by which development expenditure 
was capitalised and noted that this was set out in the Group Controls 
Manual (“GCM”). The Committee noted that process has operated 
adequately during the year and that the standardisation of documentation 
had improved. 
Financial statements
At the request of the Board the Committee considered whether the 2014 
Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable and 
whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess 
the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. The Committee 
was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 
is fair, balanced and understandable. 
Risk management and internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal 
control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness on an 
annual basis. Such systems can only be designed to manage, and not 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. They can provide 
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. This responsibility has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Set out opposite are those elements of the Group’s existing system 
of internal control that have operated during 2014. Where any control 
issues and weaknesses are identified, timely remedial actions are put 
in place. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 39
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Management 
structure
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board and specific responsibility is given to the Executive for 
certain aspects of the Group’ s affairs. The Executive meets regularly with senior management of the operating businesses on a range of issues.
Risk 
management
Following review of the Group’s risk management framework, an updated Group risk register has been established. This helps provide a 
prioritised agenda for the management of the Group’ s principal risks. In 2015 we plan to establish a more integrated framework by cascading 
the Group register to the appropriate business level. An advisory Risk Committee, comprising the Group Finance Director, Group Company 
Secretary and Head of Internal Audit has been established, with one of its objectives being to monitor completion of this process.
Group’s 
compliance 
framework
A new governance framework was considered and approved at the end of the year enshrined in a Governance of Dialight document that 
describes Dialight’s governance arrangements and provides details on the terms of delegation from the Board to the Group’s management 
and governance committees, internal audit and risk management. This now includes the establishment of a new Group Chief Executive’s 
Committee. This latter committee is responsible for assisting the Group Chief Executive with the day‑ to‑ day executive management 
of the Group. As part of that framework the CBC and GCM are integral elements and are described below. 
CBC: 
The CBC sets out the standards for what Dialight believes constitute acceptable behaviour for all employees as well as the Group’s 
dealings with shareholders, customers, suppliers and agents and its impact on the environment. The CBC is underpinned by a number 
of additional policies. Both the CBC and the additional policies contain provisions that cover implementation, compliance and monitoring 
to ensure consistency of application throughout the Group. A review of compliance with the CBC takes place at the end of each year.
GCM:
The GCM provides detail concerning delegation of authority and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures 
together with accounting policies and procedures. 
Quality and 
integrity of 
personnel
Recruitment and training:
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment. High recruitment standards and ongoing development 
and training will ensure Dialight manages to attract and retain the most suitable people. Appointments of senior HR professionals within 
the business have provided the foundations for consistent and effective HR practices throughout the Group that will support this goal. 
Financial 
information
In order to control the business the Board has a planning, budgeting and forecasting system.
Each year the Board approves the updated documents. Key risk areas are identified, reported to the Board and debated with management.
Performance is monitored against budget or latest forecast as appropriate and the prior year. Relevant actions are identified and management 
is charged with implementing.
The Board receives and reviews monthly management accounts and considers the likely outturn for the year in light of the information 
received. Formal reforecasts are undertaken at the appropriate time of year to ensure that the Board is monitoring the development 
of the business towards its targets. Performance against budget or forecast is closely monitored.
The Executive submits papers to the Board on a monthly basis that focus on key developments, performance and issues in the business. 
Investment 
appraisal
Capital expenditure and research and development projects are regulated by budgetary process and authorisation levels set out in the 
GCM. For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Board for approval. Reviews are 
carried out after the acquisition is complete and, for some projects during the acquisition period, to monitor expenditure; major overruns 
are investigated. Due diligence work is carried out if a business is to be acquired.
Audit 
Committee
The Committee monitors, through reports to it by the Group Finance Director, the controls that are in force and any perceived gaps in the 
control environment. The Audit Committee also considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by these 
reports or the external auditors, as well as considering issues raised in accordance with the Group’s Confidential Disclosure Policy.
Internal audit
Internal audit activity has been strengthened during the year by the establishment of a separate function and appointment of a 
Head of Internal Audit. An Internal Audit Charter is now in place which establishes the framework and standards for a systematic and 
disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management, control and governance processes. 
Broader and risk based business process reviews are now planned and undertaken, guided by input from the Executive and approved 
by the Audit Committee. Findings are circulated by report to all levels of management, Board members and external auditors, and timely 
completion of action is followed up on a regular basis.
Insurance
The Group maintains insurance cover to insure all major risk areas based on the scale of the risk and availability of cover in the external market.
Legal and 
compliance
Reports are presented to the Board on any material legal or compliance issues that may impact the Group.
Compliance 
with controls
A process of control risk self‑ assessment is used in the Group where senior managers are required to detail and certify controls 
in operation to ensure the control environment in their business area is appropriate. They also confirm monthly, in writing, that risk 
management processes and appropriate controls are in place and are operating effectively.
 
Risk management and internal control continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 40
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Report of the Audit Committee continued
Internal audit
The Committee has oversight of the internal audit process. The table 
on page 39 sets out the Group’s current approach to internal audit. 
The Committee considers whether these remain appropriate and 
suitable for the needs of the Group on a regular basis.
External auditor – appointment and independence
During the year, the Committee considered the cost effectiveness, independence 
and objectivity of KPMG, the external auditors, on a regular basis, agreed 
their level of remuneration and reviewed the extent of non‑ audit services 
provided by KPMG.
Committee meetings are attended by the auditors at the invitation of 
the Committee Chairman to ensure full communication of matters relating 
to the audit. The Committee also meets with the auditors without the 
Executive Directors present to discuss the adequacy of controls 
and any material judgemental areas.
The auditors bi‑ annually confirm their policies to ensure independence 
and provide the Committee with a report on their own internal quality 
control procedures.
Resolutions to appoint auditors to the Company and to authorise 
the Board to determine the auditors’ remuneration will be proposed 
at the forthcoming AGM.
The performance of KPMG is reviewed on an annual basis by the Committee 
following completion of the audit, taking account of senior management 
and Executive feedback together with a review of the level of service provided 
by the auditors to the Group. The Committee is satisfied with the current 
auditors’ effectiveness. 
It has been decided to defer the external audit tender exercise pending 
the appointment of a permanent Group Chief Executive.
Non-audit services
Prior to any non‑ audit services work being undertaken, the Group 
Finance Director reviews such work and has authority to approve 
assignments up to £20,000 per annum, in the aggregate. Anything above 
this level requires approval of the Committee as a whole. This serves to 
ensure that independence is maintained and other potential providers 
of the service under discussion have also been adequately considered. 
During the year the Committee reviewed and adopted a new policy on the 
provision of non‑ audit services to the Group which maintained the Group 
Finance Director’ s £20,000 approval cap limit.
Details of all fees paid to the external auditors can be found on page 83 
of the financial statements. During the year under review KPMG has been 
engaged for certain non‑ audit related assignments primarily in respect 
of pensions and tax advisory work. As stated above, the Committee also 
engaged KPMG to assist with its assessment of the Group’s forecasting 
and performance process by providing critical challenge. The decision 
to appoint KPMG to undertake this work was made following consideration 
of the scope and potential outcomes of this assessment. The Audit 
Committee weighed up the value added by using a provider with detailed 
knowledge of the business against any threats to the auditors’ independence 
and the extent to which these could be mitigated. The work was scoped 
to ensure that KPMG did not perform any management functions or take 
on any of the responsibilities of Executive management. Whilst some parts 
of the assignment were conducted by the audit team, key aspects were 
led by members of KPMG’s advisory team who have not had any previous 
involvement with Dialight or any subsequent involvement with the audit. 
The Audit Committee was thus satisfied that the independence and 
objectivity of the auditors was safeguarded. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 41
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Other statutory disclosures
Conflicts of interest
The Company has arrangements in place to consider and deal with 
Directors’ conflicts of interest. An annual review is undertaken, facilitated 
by the Company Secretary, with all identified conflicts recorded on a register 
that is adopted by the Board. Conflicted Directors are not able to attend 
meetings where the conflicted contract is discussed and decisions made.
Richard Stuckes declared an interest in an ongoing contract negotiation 
between Dialight Europe Limited and DS Smith Packaging Limited 
in accordance with Section 177 of the CA 2006. None of the other 
Directors had or has an interest in any material contract relating to 
the business of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Directors’ indemnity and insurance
The Company maintains liability insurance and third party qualifying 
indemnity provisions pursuant to the CA 2006 for its Directors and officers.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 2 March 2015 the Company had received the following notifications 
pursuant to DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FCA.
Shareholder Holding
% 
voting rights
Generation Investment Management LLP 5,378,248 16.55
GO Investment Partners LLP 2,285,030 7.03
Montanaro Asset Partners Ltd 1,978,113 6.09
Schroders plc 1,630,259 5.04
Impax Asset Management Ltd 1,538,820 4.87
Mirabaud Asset Management Ltd 1,434,438 4.44
Invicta Capital Management, LLC 1,070,852 3.29
Global presence, investments and acquisitions
The Group’s head office is based in Newmarket, UK, which is also 
its European headquarters. However, the Group operates in various 
geographical areas including Australia, Brazil, Denmark, Germany, 
Malaysia, Mexico, North America, Singapore and the UAE. 
Research and development
The Group continues to invest resources in technology and product 
development in Denmark, Germany, the UK and the US with the aim 
of consistently updating and expanding its product range. The Company 
strongly believes that investment in this area is essential for the Group 
to retain and increase its market share in competitive markets.
Employees
Regular, ongoing communication with employees is key to ensuring 
that there is clarity which allows our employees to understand their role 
in improving the Group’s business performance and awareness of factors 
affecting the Company’s performance. Regular meetings are held by 
management teams to discuss the Company’s performance and strategy. 
All attendees are encouraged to contribute to discussions.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment 
from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately 
fulfilled by a disabled person. Employees who become disabled are provided, 
where practicable, with continuing employment under normal terms and 
conditions and are provided with training, career development and promotion 
where appropriate.
Further details of Dialight’s employment policies and its approach to 
diversity can be found in the Sustainability section of the Strategic report 
on page 29 and in the Report of the Nominations Committee on page 36.
Political donations
It is Group policy that no donations are made, nor expenditure incurred 
for political purposes, and as a result there were no such political donations, 
or expenditure, made or incurred during the year (2013: £nil).
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.4R
The following table is included to meet the requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.4R. The information required to be disclosed by that section, 
where applicable to the Company, can be located in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts at the references set out below:
Location in the Annual Report
Information required Note Pages
Long‑ term incentive schemes:
Significant agreements/change of control — 42
Remuneration Committee report and policy — 44 to 62
Employee benefits — Share‑ based payments (Consolidated) 19 91 and 92 
Called up share capital — Share‑ based payments (Company) 36 103  Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 42
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Other statutory disclosures continued
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Company’ s greenhouse emissions for the year ended 31 December 2014 
can be found in the Sustainability section of the Strategic report on pages 
27 and 28 together with comparative emission data for 2013, which set 
the base year for disclosure purposes. 
Financial risk management
Risk management objectives and policies, including hedging policies and 
exposure (including price, credit, liquidity or cash flow risk) of the Company 
in relation to the use of financial instruments, are contained in note 23 
of the Group’s consolidated financial statements on pages 93 to 96.
Dividend
The Board recommends a final dividend of 9.8 pence per share, making 
a total dividend for the year of 15.0 pence per share (2013: 14.4 pence 
per share). Subject to the approval of shareholders at the 2015 AGM, 
the final dividend will be paid on 2 June 2015 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 1 May 2015. 
Auditors
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware. 
The Directors further confirm that they have taken all reasonable steps to 
ascertain any relevant audit information and have ensured that the auditors 
are aware of such information. At the forthcoming AGM a resolution to 
appoint KPMG LLP as auditors and to authorise the Directors to set their 
remuneration will be proposed. Further details are set out in the Report 
of the Audit Committee.
Share capital and structure 
As at 31 December 2014 the Company had 32,503,258 fully paid ordinary 
shares of 1.89 pence each in issue which are listed on the Main Market of 
the London Stock Exchange. The Company has a single class of shares. 
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares, 
although the Articles of Association (the “Articles”) contain provisions 
whereby Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share 
which is not fully paid. 
No shares have been issued that carry any special rights with regard to the 
control of the Company. Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote 
at general meetings of the Company. During the year the Company issued 
143,366 ordinary shares to satisfy existing awards pursuant to the Company’ s 
Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) and Annual Performance Bonus Plan 
(‘APBP’), which vested during 2014. 
The rights and obligations attached to the Company’s shares are 
contained in the Company’s Articles, a copy of which can be obtained 
from the Registered Office. The Articles may only be amended by a special 
resolution of the Company at a general meeting. No one person has any 
special rights of control over the Company’s share capital and all shares 
are fully paid. Subject to statutory provisions, the rights attached to a class 
of shares may be varied whether or not the Company is being wound up 
in accordance with the Articles. 
At the 2014 AGM shareholders granted the Directors the authority to 
purchase up to 3,250,326 ordinary shares in the Company which will 
expire on 30 June 2015. A similar authority will be sought from 
shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors have the power to issue and buy back shares in the Company, 
as well as to grant options over or otherwise dispose of unissued shares in 
the Company, to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they 
think proper.
Full details of the Company’ s share capital are given in note 17 to the accounts. 
Directors’ interests and Company share plans
The interests of the Directors and their families in the shares of the 
Company can be found in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on 
pages 44 to 54, together with details of the Directors’ service contracts. 
Significant agreements/change of control
The Directors are not aware of there being any significant agreements that 
contain any material change of control provisions to which the Company is a 
party, other than in respect of the four‑ year unsecured £25m multi‑ currency 
Revolving Credit Facility with HSBC Bank plc. Under the terms of that facility, 
and in the event of a change of control of the Company, the bank can 
withdraw funding and all outstanding loans, accrued interests and other 
amounts due and owing can become payable within 30 days of the change.
The Company currently operates three share plans: a PSP , the APBP and, 
following approval at the 2014 AGM of the Dialight plc 2014 Sharesave 
Plan, an all‑ employee sharesave plan (“Sharesave Plan”). A new ten‑ year 
PSP was also adopted by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, replacing the 
existing one, which expires in 2015. Further details of these share plans 
are provided in the Report of the Remuneration Committee and Appendix 
on pages 44 to 62.
The rules of the PSP provide that, in the event of a change of control 
through a general offer or scheme of arrangement, shares subject to 
awards under the PSP could be released within one month of the date of 
notification of the likely change of control. The rules of the Sharesave Plan 
have special provisions which also allow for early exercise in the event of 
a change of control, reconstruction or winding up of the Company. Internal 
reorganisations do not automatically trigger the early exercise of options.
The Company has established the Dialight Employees’ Share Ownership 
Plan Trust (“ESOT”) in which all employees of the Group, including Executive 
Directors, are potential beneficiaries. The ESOT held 9,606 shares at 
31 December 2014 (2013: 2,514). The Trustees of the ESOT retain the 
voting rights over the shares held in the ESOT and may exercise these 
rights independent of the interests of the Company.
By order of the Board
Nick Giles
Company Secretary
2 March 2015
Company number: 2486024
Registered Office
Dialight plc
Exning Road
Newmarket
Suffolk CB8 0AX Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 43
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Responsibility statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company 
financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are required 
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with the International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union 
(“EU”) and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company 
financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit 
or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and parent company 
financial statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•  for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU;
•  for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial 
statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company 
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to 
safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud 
and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulation, the Directors are also responsible 
for preparing a Strategic report, Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration 
report and Corporate governance statement that complies with that law 
and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect 
of the annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable 
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the 
undertakings included in consolidation taken as a whole; and
•  the Directors’ and Corporate governance reports include a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and the position 
of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
For and on the behalf of the Board of Dialight plc
Bill Ronald Fariyal Khanbabi
Chairman Group Finance Director
2 March 2015 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 44
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration Committee report
Annual statement by Tracey Graham, 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration 
Committee’s (the “Committee”) report on remuneration for 2014. 
Details of the business covered by the Committee at its meetings can 
be found in the table on page 45; this included the following key activities:
• proposing the Directors’ remuneration policy to shareholders; 
• carrying out the annual review of the remuneration framework;
• determining the annual remuneration package for the 
Group Chief Executive; 
• considering the termination payment of Mark Fryer, following his 
stepping down as Group Finance Director in January 2014;
• recommending adoption of a new PSP and introduction of the 
all‑ employee Sharesave Plan for shareholder approval; and 
• recommending and agreeing the remuneration arrangements for our 
new Group Finance Director, Fariyal Khanbabi, who joined Dialight in 
September 2014, in line with the approved Directors’ remuneration policy.
Details of Mark Fryer’s termination payments can be found in the Payments 
to past Directors and loss‑ of‑ office payments section on page 51. These 
were also placed on our website in April 2014. Details of the new share 
plans were included in our Remuneration report and AGM Notice last year. 
Details of Fariyal Khanbabi’s remuneration is set out in the Remuneration 
report. In our remuneration policy last year, we included a generic Group 
Finance Director remuneration scenario table. We have replaced that with 
a new table in the remuneration policy section on page 60 to reflect the 
actual position of Fariyal Khanbabi’s remuneration scenarios based 
on her joining package, which was made in line with and pursuant 
to the remuneration policy approved at our 2014 AGM.
Committee meeting attendance by members is included in the 
Board/Committee attendance – 2014 table in our Corporate governance 
and Directors’ report on page 33. Richard Stuckes stepped down 
as a member of the Committee on 2 February 2015.
Our Directors’ remuneration policy was put to a binding vote to, and 
approved by, shareholders at the AGM held on 16 April 2014. The policy 
became effective immediately following that shareholder approval and will 
set the basis for the remuneration framework for Board members for at 
least the next three years from the adoption date and until such time as 
any change or its renewal is proposed to shareholders. We also issued 
a clarification statement on our website, following the release of our 2013 
Annual Report and Accounts, regarding the exercise of any discretion in 
relation to Listing Rule 9.4.2, which we have repeated in our Remuneration 
report for this year. Our annual report on remuneration was also put to an 
advisory vote at our 2014 AGM. The voting outcomes for the two related 
remuneration resolutions together with the resolution for approving the 
new Dialight Performance Share Plan are set out at the end of this report 
on page 54. 
Tracey Graham
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Members:
Bill Ronald
Stephen Bird
Robert Lambourne
Richard Stuckes (until 2 February 2015) Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 45
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
In line with our practice of making Dialight’s remuneration arrangement 
clear, easy to understand and transparent, and so as to enable the 
remuneration policy to become an easy reference document to shareholders, 
we have replicated the policy as an appendix to this report. It is set out on 
pages 55 to 62. The only changes from last year’s printed report are purely 
administrative and deal with the updating of last year’s pagination references 
to the relevant cross references in this year’s Remuneration report, the 
updated remuneration scenarios for the Group Finance Director and the 
deletion of the 2013 Executive Directors’ holding in shares under the 
shareholding guidelines, which now appear in a separate section of the 
Remuneration report on page 50. 
This report continues to be prepared in accordance with the provisions of 
the CA 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium‑ sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. 
It also meets the requirements of the Listing Rules and the DTR. 
The report is divided into two sections: the first is the Annual report on 
remuneration (which focuses on the implementation of the remuneration 
policy in 2014 and how we intend to implement our remuneration policy 
in 2015). The second part is set out in the appendix to this report and is 
the Directors’ remuneration policy, which details the Group’s remuneration 
policies and links to strategy. In accordance with the regulatory requirements, 
the Annual report on remuneration is being put to an advisory vote 
at our 2015 AGM. 
The sections of the report that are subject to audit can be found 
on pages 46 to 53.
Details of the Company strategy and key performance indicators (“KPIs”) 
can be found on pages 12 to 14. One of our main KPIs relates to the 
growth in both Lighting segment and Group profit. As a result, performance 
related elements of remuneration, notably in the APBP have been linked to 
the growth in earnings before interest and taxes (“EBIT”) for the last three 
years. Other metrics have been considered; however the Committee 
remains in agreement that the use of EBIT as a primary measure remains 
the most effective for incentivising the Executive.
Key Committee decisions made during the year included a decision not 
to pay any cash bonuses in respect of the 2013 financial year in February, 
the approval of the vesting of the 2011 PSP awards and setting APBP 
objectives for 2014, considering the termination payment for Mark Fryer, 
following his stepping down, and recommending and agreeing the 
remuneration arrangements for Fariyal Khanbabi upon her appointment 
as Group Finance Director. 
The Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) performance of Dialight over 
the three‑ year performance period 2012–2014 has been below 
the performance objectives set by the Committee at the date of grant. 
As a result no portion of the 2012 PSP awards will vest in April 2015.
The Committee remains committed to linking remuneration to the 
achievement of Dialight’s strategic objectives and its remuneration 
design to promote the long‑ term success of the Company.
Since the year end, the Committee agreed and recommended to 
the Board the remuneration arrangements for Richard Stuckes on his 
appointment as Interim Group Chief Executive from 2 February 2015, 
increases in salaries and fees for 2015 and determination of the 2014 
bonus payments. Further details are included under the Implementation 
of policy in the 2015 financial year, Executive salaries and Non‑ Executive 
Director fees section on page 53 and will be included in the remuneration 
report for 2015.
Tracey Graham
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
2 March 2015
Committee agenda and matters considered 
The following table sets out the agenda items considered at each of the Committee’s meetings during the year:
January 2014 • Consideration of Mark Fryer’s termination arrangements for approval by the Board
February 2014
• Approval of release of second tranche of deferred share awards under the APBP (relating to the 2011 bonus year)
• Review of 2013 APBP payments
• Approval of 2014 APBP objectives
• Recommendation to grant April 2014 PSP awards
• Recommendation to shareholders for adopting a new set of PSP rules
• Recommendation to shareholders for adopting new Sharesave Plan rules
• Review of draft Remuneration report
September 2014
• Grant of PSP awards
• Review of Terms of Reference 
December 2014
• Executive, senior management and Non‑ Executive Director benchmarking 
• Remuneration governance developments update Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 46
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration Committee report continued
Annual report on remuneration
The following sets out how Dialight’s remuneration policy was implemented in 2014 and how it will be implemented in 2015.
Single figure of total remuneration
The following tables set out the single figure remuneration received by the Executive and Non‑ Executive Directors during the years ended 
31 December 2014 and 2013.
2014
(all figures in 000s)
Salary
2014
Benefits
2014
Pension
2014
Sub-total
fixed
2014
Bonus
2014
APBP
2014
Sub-total
variable
2014
Total
remuneration
2014
Executive Directors
Roy Burton $560 $46 $168 $774 $280 $99 $379 $1,153
Fariyal Khanbabi* £78 £4 £12 £94 £100
†
— £100 £194
Non-Executive Directors
Bill Ronald £125 — — £125 — — — £125
Stephen Bird £45 — — £45 — — — £45
Robert Lambourne £45 — — £45 — — — £45
Tracey Graham £45 — — £45 — — — £45
Richard Stuckes £40 — — £40 — — — £40
Past Directors
Mark Fryer** £10 £0.5 £1.5 £12 — £20 £20 £32
*  Fariyal Khanbabi was appointed Group Finance Director on 8 September 2014. Her annual salary is £247,000 and pursuant to her terms of appointment her salary 
is subject to a first review at the end of 2015, with any revision taking effect from 1 January 2016.
**  Mark Fryer stepped down as Group Finance Director on 15 January 2014 but remained with the Company as an employee until 31 March 2014. The figures disclosed 
in the table above relate only to his remuneration for the period from 1 January 2014 to 15 January 2014 as a Director of the Company. Details of the payments made 
to him on termination and loss of office are set out in the Payments to past Directors and loss‑ of‑ office payments disclosure on page 51.
† The bonus awarded to Fariyal Khanbabi for 2014 of £100,000 was allocated as a cash bonus of £25,000 and an award of shares under the APBP rules of £75,000.
2013
(all figures in 000s)
Salary
2013
Benefits
2013
Pension
2013
Sub‑ total
fixed
2013
Bonus
2013
PSP
2013
Sub‑ total
variable
2013
Total
remuneration
2013
Executive Directors
Roy Burton $560 $56 $158 $774 — $790 $790 $1,564
Non-Executive Directors
Bill Ronald £125 — — £125 — — — £125
Stephen Bird £43 — — £43 — — — £43
Robert Lambourne £51 — — £51 — — — £51
Tracey Graham £43 — — £43 — — — £43
Richard Stuckes £40 — — £40 — — — £40
Past Directors
Mark Fryer £240 £14 £36 £290 — £240 £240 £530 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 47
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Additional disclosures
Executive Directors’ benefits
Executive Directors receive benefits comprising life insurance, healthcare and car allowances.
Pensions
The figure includes the amount of Company contributions to Roy Burton, Mark Fryer and Fariyal Khanbabi’s pensions during the year. Mark Fryer and 
Fariyal Khanbabi received Company contributions of 15% of base salary. Roy Burton currently receives employer contributions under both a US 401(k) 
plan plus an employer contribution under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”). In addition he received a cash contribution under the 
SERP of $100,000 that is made on 30 June of each year for three years of which the third and final payment was made in 2014. This contribution 
is subject to clawback arrangements such that any or all of it may be forfeited in the event of embezzlement, theft, gross negligence or other misconduct, 
until the benefit is transferred to him. Investment options under this scheme are the same as those available under the US 401(k) plan, with the transfer 
of any associated investment charges to the Executive. The first and second contributions under this additional arrangement were made to the SERP 
on 30 June 2012 and 1 July 2013, respectively.
APBP 
The APBP operates on the basis that is set out in the Policy report in the appendix on page 57. Maximum bonus potential is 175% of salary paid 
in a mixture of cash and deferred shares.
2011 APBP
The remaining outstanding balance of deferred share awards under the 2011 APBP , granted in 2012, became eligible for vesting in February 2014. 
Accordingly Roy Burton vested his second tranche balance of 7,392 ordinary shares and received 4,306 ordinary shares following the release of 
that second tranche and sale of sufficient shares to satisfy his related tax liabilities. The value of the shares at vesting on 25 February 2014, based 
on the share price of £7.80 per share and prevailing exchange rate on that date of US Dollars 1.67, and inclusion of a dividend equivalent payment 
of $3,098.50 (based on the same exchange rate), was $99,386.69.
In accordance with the rules of the APBP , Mark Fryer exercised on 25 February 2014 (while an employee of the Group) his first tranche of 2,514 ordinary 
shares under the 2011 APBP , which had vested in 2013. The value of the shares on exercise, based on the share price of £7.80 per share, and inclusion 
of a dividend equivalent payment of £631.01, was £20,240.01. His outstanding balance of 2,513 ordinary shares representing the second tranche 
of deferred shares under the 2011 APBP lapsed on 15 January 2014.
The values of the vesting proceeds detailed above for Roy Burton and Mark Fryer are contained in the single figure of total remuneration table for 2014, 
under the sub‑ heading 2014 APBP , on page 46.
2012 and 2013 APBP
No deferred share awards were made in respect of the 2012 and 2013 financial year ends.
2014 APBP 
Objectives for the 2014 APBP were based on two corporate targets linked to EBIT performance and cash conversion/working capital days.
The maximum opportunity for the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, on her appointment, were 175% and 100% of base salary respectively.
Having considered the EBIT position at the end of year, the Committee approved bonuses for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director 
of 50% ($280,000) and 40% (£100,000) of base salary respectively. This was the result of its achievement of an agreed level of performance. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 48
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration Committee report continued
Additional disclosures continued
PSP 
Awards made in 2011
Awards granted in 2011 were based on the TSR achieved by Dialight compared to the FTSE Electrical and Electronics Index and the FTSE Small Cap 
Index (each having equal weighting). If Dialight’s TSR was equal to the TSR of the comparator index, 25% of the shares subject to an award would vest, 
rising on a straight‑ line basis to 100% vesting if Dialight’s TSR is equal to the TSR of the index plus 15% per annum. No shares would vest if Dialight’s 
TSR was below the percentage increase in the TSR of the comparator index. The awards vested in full at 100% in February 2014 and details of the 
vesting are set out in the table below: 
Executive Performance measure
% of 
award Performance achieved 2011–2013
% of award
vesting
Value¹
at vesting
Roy Burton TSR performance 100% Dialight TSR outperformed the index by 16.9% p.a. 100% $790,000²
Mark Fryer TSR performance 100% Dialight TSR outperformed the index by 16.9% p.a. 100% £240,000³
1. Based on a share price at vesting on 25 February 2014 of 780 pence per share and converted into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.67 (25 February 2014). 
2. Includes dividend equivalent payment of $33,000 (converted using the exchange rate of note 1).
3. Includes dividend equivalent payment of £10,000.
The values of the vesting proceeds, set out in the table above, for Roy Burton and Mark Fryer were contained in the single figure of total remuneration 
table for 2013, under the sub‑ heading PSP 2013, and which is replicated on page 46.
Awards made in 2014 
Awards granted in 2014 measured performance on the following basis:
EPS 
From, and including awards made in, 2013, EPS was introduced as a complementary measure of performance relating to 50% of awards. The EPS 
vesting condition is Dialight’s compound annual three‑ year EPS growth rate. For awards made in 2014, this element will vest in full if Dialight’s three‑ year 
EPS growth exceeds 25% p.a., with threshold vesting (25%) if Dialight’s three‑ year EPS growth is 10% p.a. over the period. None of this element will 
vest if Dialight’s EPS growth over the three‑ year period is less than 10% p.a. The Committee will review the performance targets prior to the grant 
of any future awards to ensure they are appropriately stretching but achievable.
TSR
TSR was retained in respect of the remaining 50% of awards in order to maintain strong shareholder alignment. For awards made in 2014, the TSR 
vesting condition will be based upon Dialight’s three‑ year TSR % outperformance of the FTSE Mid 250 Index (excluding investment trusts). This element 
will vest in full if Dialight’s three‑ year TSR exceeds Index TSR by 10% p.a., with threshold vesting (25%) if Dialight’s three‑ year TSR is in line with Index 
TSR. The TSR outperformance requirement is broadly in line with practice at other FTSE‑ listed companies, taking into account Dialight’s relative size.
Director Plan
% of salary
awarded Nature of interest
Exercise
price per
share
Number of
shares subject
 to an award
Face value of
an award
‘000
Performance
conditions
Date of grant
of award
Date of end of
performance
period
Roy Burton PSP 100% Conditional share award N/A 38,491 $560 TSR/EPS 08.04.14 31.12.16
Fariyal Khanbabi PSP 100% Nil‑ cost option N/A 27,674 £247 TSR/EPS 16.09.14 31.12.16
Awards granted in 2014 had the same EPS and TSR measurements as those for 2013 and were considered by the Committee to be appropriately 
stretching but achievable. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 49
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Total shareholding of Directors 
Beneficially held shares
1
Ordinary shares
at 31 December
2014
Ordinary shares
at 1 January
2014
Roy Burton
2
404,427 365,888
Mark Fryer
3
— 16,538
Fariyal Khanbabi
4
— —
Bill Ronald 18,350 18,350
Stephen Bird 12,000 12,000
Robert Lambourne 4,000 4,000
Tracey Graham 1,000 1,000
Richard Stuckes 37,853 37,853
Total 477,630 455,629
1. Some of these shares are held through nominees. 
2.  Roy Burton received 4,306 ordinary shares following the release of the second tranche of shares under the APBP granted in 2012 and 34,233 ordinary shares following 
the vesting of those awards granted under the PSP in February 2011. Both events took place on 25 February 2014. 
3. Mark Fryer stepped down as Group Finance Director on 15 January 2014.
4. Fariyal Khanbabi was appointed Group Finance Director on 8 September 2014.
5.  There has been no change in Directors’ holdings since 31 December 2014, other than Bill Ronald and Stephen Bird who purchased 7,500 and 8,000 ordinary shares 
respectively on 2 March 2015 at 726 pence and 725 pence per share respectively.
Outstanding awards under the PSP and APBP 
Type of
award
Award
date
Number at
1 January
2014
Awarded
 in year
Vested
 in year
Exercised
 in year
Lapsed
 in year
Number at
31 December
2014
Exercise
price
Earliest vesting/
exercise date
Expiry
date
Roy Burton
PSP CSA 17.02.11 58,137 — 58,137 — — — — — —
PSP CSA 26.04.12 30,163 — — — — 30,163 — 26.04.15 —
PSP CSA 09.04.13 28,210 — — — — 28,210 — 09.04.16 —
PSP CSA 08.04.14 — 38,491 — — — 38,491 — 08.04.17 —
APBP CSA 26.04.12 7,392 — 7,392 — — — — — —
Total 123,902 38,491 65,529 — — 96,864
Type of
award
Award
date
Number at
1 January
2014
Awarded
 in year
Vested
 in year
Exercised
 in year
Lapsed
 in year
Number at
31 December
2014
Exercise
price
Earliest vesting/
exercise date
Expiry
date
Mark Fryer
PSP NCO 17.02.11 29,549 — — 29,549 — — — 17.02.14 17.02.21
PSP NCO 26.04.12 15,384 — — — 15,384 — — 26.04.15 26.04.22
PSP NCO 09.04.13 18,445 — — — 18,445 — — 09.04.16 09.04.23
APBP NCO 26.04.12 2,513 — — — 2,513 — — 26.02.13 26.04.17
Total 65,891 — — 29,549 36,342 — Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 50
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration Committee report continued
Outstanding awards under the PSP and APBP continued
Type of
award
Award
date
Number at
1 January
2014
Awarded
 in year
Vested
 in year
Exercised
 in year
Lapsed
 in year
Number at
31 December
2014
Exercise
price
Earliest vesting/
exercise date
Expiry
date
Fariyal Khanbabi
PSP NCO 16.09.14 — 27,674 — — — 27,674 — 16.09.17 16.09.24
• CSA denotes conditional share awards. These are subject to performance conditions set out on page 48.
• NCO denotes nil‑ cost options. These are subject to performance conditions set out on page 48.
• The market price of a share on 8 April 2014 and 16 September 2014, the dates of the awards made during the year, were 876.06 pence and 892.53 pence, respectively.
• Options under the PSP are exercisable for ten years from the date of grant.
•  Awards under the PSP made in 2012 will lapse in full on 26 April 2015 as a consequence of the related performance target not being achieved during the three‑ year 
financial period ended 31 December 2014.
• Awards under the PSP made in 2013 and 2014 are currently performing below the level required to achieve threshold vesting.
• During the year, the range of share prices was 700 pence to 970 pence, with the price on 31 December 2014 being 810 pence.
• Awards to Mark Fryer that were made in 2012 and 2013 lapsed on 15 January 2014 as noted below following his decision to stand down from the Board of Dialight plc.
• Mark Fryer exercised 2,514 options pursuant to the APBP on 25 February 2014 as noted below. The balance of the award made on 2012 lapsed on 15 January 2014.
•  The award under the PSP made to Fariyal Khanbabi on 16 September 2014 was made pursuant to her terms of appointment following her appointment as 
Group Finance Director on 8 September 2014.
Awards under the Sharesave Plan
Following approval at the 2014 AGM for the adoption of an all‑ employee UK Sharesave Plan and establishment of equivalent arrangements in other countries, 
the first grant was made on 18 September 2014 to eligible employees in the UK, the US and Mexico. Under the terms of the plans employees can save 
up to a limit of £250 per month or local currency equivalent with an option to buy Dialight plc shares at the end of a three‑ year vesting period (subject to 
continued employment) at a 20% discount of the price of a Dialight plc share at the time of invitation. There are no performance measures associated 
with the grant. Details of the option over ordinary shares of Dialight plc granted to Roy Burton under the International Part of the Sharesave Plan are set out 
in the table below:
Balance 
of options at
1 January
2014
Granted in
2014*
Balance 
of options at 
31 December
 2014
First 
exercisable
date
Final
expiry date
Roy Burton — 1,297** 1,297** 01.11.17 15.03.18
*  Option price at grant was 717.6 pence and comprised 80% of the market value of a Dialight plc share on 26 August 2014 being the day immediately preceding the date 
on which invitations were sent to eligible employees.
**  The actual number of shares that will be exercised will be subject to the prevailing USD/GBP exchange rate at the time of exercise used to convert the savings proceeds 
but will not exceed the number of options in the box above.
Executive Directors’ shareholding guidelines
Executive Directors are currently required to accumulate and maintain a holding of Dialight shares equivalent in value to their annual PSP award (i.e. currently 
100% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director). In accordance with the guidelines, Executive Directors have five years from 
joining Dialight to acquire the requisite holding. All Dialight shares, whether purchased on the open market or received through vestings and/or exercises 
under the various Dialight share plans, shall be included to satisfy the requirements. The Dialight share price used to value a holding for the purposes of 
the guidelines will be the higher of (i) the prevailing price on the date that the holding is valued; and (ii) the acquisition price (i.e. the price on the date on 
which the awards were acquired). The table below shows the holdings of ordinary shares in the Company as at 31 December 2014 held by Executive 
Directors and their compliance with the guidelines:
Executive Director
Shares held at
1 January
 2014
Shares held at
31 December
2014
Roy Burton 365,888 404,427
Fariyal Khanbabi — —
Roy Burton has met his required holding. Fariyal Khanbabi, who was appointed an Executive Director on 8 September 2014, has until 8 September 2019 
to build her shareholding up to the required level. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 51
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Payments to past Directors and loss-of-office payments
Mark Fryer stepped down as a Director of Dialight plc on 15 January 2014 but remained an employee until 31 March 2014 (“Termination Date”) in order 
to ensure an orderly handover of his duties. The remuneration arrangements in respect of the termination of his Directorship and employment agreed 
by the Committee were as follows: 
Salary and benefits 
During the period from 15 January 2014 to the Termination Date he continued to receive his full salary and contractual benefits. His remuneration for the 
period from 1 January 2014 to 15 January 2014 as a Director of the Company is included in the remuneration table on page 46.
Payments on termination and loss of office 
Under the terms of Mark Fryer’ s service agreement he was entitled to receive twelve months’ written notice of termination. This was served on 14 January 2014 
and resulted in there being 9.5 months of his contractual notice period outstanding at the Termination Date. The Company agreed to make a smaller 
non‑ contractual compensation payment to Mark Fryer of £135,000 which represented less than seven months’ salary in respect of the termination. 
In addition, Mark Fryer received a sum of £5,000 in consideration for the continuing in force of covenants contained in his previous service agreement 
with the Company.
PSP
As at the date the notice of termination was served (14 January 2014) Mark Fryer held the following outstanding awards which had been granted 
pursuant to the Company’s PSP: 2011 – 29,549 nil‑ cost options, 2012 – 15,384 nil‑ cost options and 2013 – 18,445 nil cost options. As Mark Fryer 
remained an employee at the time of the 2011 award vesting, he was allowed to retain that award of 29,549 shares. These were sold on 25 February 2014 
at a price of £7.80 per share (£230,482.20). He also received, on vesting of the award, a dividend equivalent payment of £9,928.46. The total figure is 
included in the single figure of total remuneration table for 2013 on page 46. All other outstanding awards under the PSP lapsed at that time. 
APBP
Mark Fryer was granted a nil‑ cost option in respect of 5,027 shares on 26 April 2012. Vesting of this award was divided over two years with the first 
tranche of 2,514 shares vesting in 2013. He exercised those shares relating to the first tranche on 25 February 2014 at a price of £7.80 per share resulting 
in a total value of £19,609.20. He also received, on vesting of the award, a dividend equivalent payment of £631.01. The total figure is included in the 
single figure of total remuneration table for 2014 on page 46. The second tranche of that award, representing 2,513 shares, lapsed on 15 January 2014.
All sums payable to Mark Fryer were subject to tax and social security deductions as the Company is required by law to make. Details of his payments 
on termination were posted on the Company’s website in April 2014.
Performance graph and table 
The below graph demonstrates the Company’s TSR performance over the past six years relative to the FTSE Mid 250 Index (excluding investment 
trusts), the FTSE Small Cap Index and the FTSE All‑ share Electronics and Electrical and Equipment Index. All outstanding awards under the PSP , 
with the exception of those made in 2012, use the first index for the TSR measurement.
1,400%
1,200%
1,000%
800%
600%
400%
200%
0%
(200)%
Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Jan 15
 Dialight plc
 FTSE 250
 FTSE Small Cap
  FTSE All‑ share Electronics 
and Electrical Equipment Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 52
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration Committee report continued
Performance graph and table continued
The table below shows the Group Chief Executive’s “single figure” remuneration over the same six‑ year period. 
Year ended 31 December 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Total remuneration ($’000) 745 2,854 4,170 3,843 1,564 1,153
Bonus outcome (% of max) 70 100 100 66.6 0 29
PSP vesting outcome (% of max) 58 100 100 100 100 0
Percentage change in the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive 
The following table sets out the change in remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive from 2013 to 2014 compared with the average percentage 
change for employees as a whole. 
The main benefits provided include medical coverage and life insurance. There has been no change in the level of benefits provided to Group employees.
% change 2013–2014
Group
CEO
Group
 employees
Salary 2.0% 2.0%
Bonus 50%* 0%
Benefits (17.8%) See above
* Figure shown is a % of base salary.
Relative importance of spend on pay 
The chart below shows the total amount paid by the Company to its employees for 2014 and 2013. Details of the total amount of distributions for the 
same two years can also be seen.
Spend on pay
+8%
£31.5m
£34.0m
2013 2014
Distributions
+7%
£4.6m
£4.9m
2013 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 53
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment
The dates on which Directors’ initial service agreements/letters of appointment commenced and the current expiry dates are as follows:
Commencement date Expiry date of current employment/service agreement or letter of appointment
Chairman and Executive Directors
Bill Ronald 14 May 2009 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years. By letter dated 12 September 2012, 
Bill Ronald was appointed Chairman of the Company for an initial term concluding at the 
2016 AGM.
Roy Burton* 1 October 2005 The agreement is terminable by twelve months’ notice by either party.
Fariyal Khanbabi** 8 September 2014 The agreement is terminable by the Company or by the Director on six months’ notice.
Non-Executive Directors
Stephen Bird 10 January 2013 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years.
Tracey Graham 10 January 2013 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years.
Robert Lambourne 26 May 2010 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years. The appointment was 
extended for a further three years in July 2013.
Richard Stuckes*** 14 May 2009 Letter of appointment was for an initial term of three years. The appointment was 
extended for a further three years in June 2012.
*  Roy Burton’s employment and appointment agreement is made between (i) Dialight Corporation, (ii) Dialight plc and (iii) Roy Burton under which he is employed as 
President and Chief Executive Officer of Dialight Corporation and Group Chief Executive of Dialight plc. Upon termination of his employment with Dialight Corporation 
(with or without cause), he shall at the request of Dialight plc immediately resign from office as a Director of Dialight plc (but without prejudice to any claim for severance 
benefits under his employment agreement). Further details are set out under Service contracts under the Directors’ remuneration policy.
**  Fariyal Khanbabi’ s service agreement dated 25 June 2014 was amended by side letter dated 8 September 2014 to reflect her new commencement date of 8 September 2014.
***  Richard Stuckes’ letter of appointment was amended by the Company by a further and supplemental letter dated 31 January 2015, setting out the terms of his 
engagement as Interim Group Chief Executive with effect from 2 February 2015.
Implementation of policy in the 2015 financial year
Executive salaries and Non‑ Executive Director fees
The Committee has agreed to a 2.0% pay increase in salary and fees to be awarded to the Group Chief Executive and Non‑ Executive Directors, respectively, 
with effect from 1 January 2015. This is line with the 2.0% pay award for employees generally across the Dialight Group. The Group Chief Executive’s 
salary will increase from $560,000 to $571,200. As disclosed above the Group Finance Director’s salary is the subject of a first review at the end of 2015, 
with any revision being effective from 1 January 2016.
Under the further and supplemental letter dated 31 January 2015 setting out the terms of Richard Stuckes’ engagement as Interim Group Chief Executive, 
as proposed and recommended by the Committee, he will be paid a salary at the rate of £410,000 per annum and a car allowance of £17,500 per annum. 
He will also participate in the 2015 APBP and be eligible to receive a maximum bonus of 110% of annual salary subject to such conditions as to 
performance and requirements as the Board acting through the Committee deems appropriate. He is also eligible to join the Company’ s pension scheme, 
subject to the rules of that scheme.
Following the fee increase, the base fees for Non‑ Executive Directors increase from £40,000 to £40,800 per annum. The enhancements for chairing 
a Board Committee and acting as Senior Independent Director remain at £5,000 per annum. The Chairman’s fee has also increased from £125,000 
to £127,500 per annum.
Pensions
The Group Chief Executive will receive employer contributions into defined contribution arrangements operated by Dialight Corporation in the US. 
The Group Finance Director will receive a contribution of 15% of base salary into a defined contribution pension scheme.
APBP
The 2015 APBP will be based on targets linked primarily to EBIT performance, although Richard Stuckes will be subject to additional specific objectives 
that are considered appropriate for his current position as Interim Group Chief Executive.
It is the Committee’s view that detailed disclosure of the performance targets in advance for the future financial year is commercially sensitive. 
The targets are based on profit projections for the year ahead which would provide the Company’s competitors with a potential commercial advantage 
and would also be price sensitive. The Committee will, however provide full retrospective disclosure of the performance conditions and targets at the 
end of the relevant financial year.
PSP 
Awards for 2015 will be made in April 2015 under the new rules approved at the 2014 AGM, subject to EPS and TSR performance targets. At the time 
of production of the report these measures had not formally been approved by the Committee. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 54
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration Committee report continued
Implementation of policy in the 2015 financial year continued
General
In addressing the new provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, and having regard to recent new investor remuneration initiatives, during 
the implementation of the policy during 2015, the Committee notes that while the 2014 PSP , approved at the 2014 AGM, contains both malus and clawback 
provisions, the APBP only currently provides for clawback of deferred share awards. The Committee takes the view that while malus provisions are not 
included in the APBP rules, it has the appropriate authority for dealing with any circumstances that might arise during the bonus period. The Committee 
will keep this under consideration during the current policy period and consider including it in future policy reviews. In addition, under the 2014 PSP rules 
the Committee has discretion to specify a holding period for shares received on the vesting of a conditional award or exercise of an option during which 
period the participant shall not sell, charge or otherwise dispose of such shares as the Committee may decide except to the extent necessary to satisfy 
a tax liability. The Committee will keep this under review in the light of developments in this area.
The Committee and advisers
The Committee
Whilst the Board remains responsible for the Group’s remuneration policy, the Committee has delegated authority in respect of the determination and 
review of remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives (including contract terms, remuneration and other benefits 
such as performance related bonus schemes, long‑ term incentives, pension rights and compensation payments) as well as a responsibility to recommend 
and monitor the structure of the remuneration of the Group’s senior management, as defined by the Board.
Committee members
Those individuals who served on the Committee during the year can be found on page 44. All members served throughout the year are considered 
independent in accordance with the Code. 
A copy of the terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Company’ s website or on request from the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
The Committee has access to the advice of the Group Chief Executive (Roy Burton) and the Company Secretary (Nick Giles) (none of whom participate 
in any discussion concerning their own remuneration) and external advisers as required. 
External advice
During the year ended 31 December 2014 the Committee consulted Addleshaw Goddard, which provided advice on the termination arrangements for 
Mark Fryer; Kepler Associates (“Kepler”), which provided advice regarding executive remuneration benchmarking, annual bonus plans and long‑ term incentive 
design; Clifford Chance LLP (“Clifford Chance”), which advised on the operation of the Group’ s PSP and APBP and introduction of the Company’ s Sharesave 
Plan; and Slaughter and May, which provided advice on the service agreement entered into with Fariyal Khanbabi on her appointment as Group Finance 
Director. Addleshaw Goddard, Kepler and Clifford Chance provided no other services to the Company. Slaughter and May provided periodic corporate and 
treasury advice to Dialight. Kepler is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found 
at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. The Committee undertakes due diligence periodically to ensure that its advisers remain independent 
and that the advice provided is impartial and objective.
The total fees charged for the provision of these services during the year were £11,000, £26,000, £34,000 and £2,000 in respect of Addleshaw Goddard, 
Kepler, Clifford Chance and Slaughter and May, respectively. 
The Committee retains the responsibility for the appointment of remuneration advisers and their associated fees. Kepler acts for the Committee 
and the Company and takes instruction through the Company Secretary. 
Statement of shareholder voting
The table below shows the voting outcome at the 2014 AGM for the approval of the remuneration policy and 2013 Remuneration report and adoption 
of the new 2014 PSP , which are all remuneration‑ related matters dealt with at that AGM.
Votes*
% of
votes for
% of votes
against
 Votes
 withheld
Remuneration policy 79.5 20.5 3,351,655
Remuneration report 89.4 10.6 49,729
2014 PSP 83.3 16.7 1,554
* 17,234,842 ordinary shares were voted, representing 53.03% of the issued share capital.
Voting abstentions/votes withheld and oppositions were received on the resolutions set out in the table from shareholders. Dialight received expert 
advice from Kepler to develop a remuneration policy that was considered appropriate, motivating and sufficiently stretching and consulted with its 
major shareholders and the major governance bodies on this policy prior to publication in the Annual Report. The votes cast against the policy related 
to specific issues on certain aspects of the structure of the remuneration and there was no reaction to the quantum of the remuneration. Discussions 
were held with the investment managers regarding their concerns following the AGM. 
The Remuneration Committee report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Tracey Graham. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 55
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Appendix
Policy approval
Dialight’s remuneration policy was first published in the Dialight Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 and approved by 
shareholders at the AGM held on 16 April 2014, which was the date the policy became effective. Following the release of our 2013 Annual Report and 
Accounts, we issued a clarification statement from the Chair of the Committee in respect of the utilisation of Listing Rule 9.4.2 discretion under the policy 
clarifying that any use of that discretion would be restricted to assist only in the facilitation of buy‑ outs of previous employments when recruiting preferred 
candidates. The discretion was not exercised during the recruitment process for Fariyal Khanbabi, when she was appointed Group Finance Director in 
September 2014. The only changes from last year’s printed report are purely administrative and deal with the updating of last year’s pagination references 
to the relevant cross references in this year’s Remuneration report, the updated remuneration scenarios for the Group Finance Director and the deletion 
of the 2013 Executive Directors’ holding in shares under the shareholding guidelines which now appear in a separate section of the Remuneration report 
on page 50. 
The text of the policy is set out below.
Directors’ remuneration policy 
Background and overview of the policy
Dialight’s policy on remuneration is clear. The Committee believes that the base salary and benefits for its Executive Directors should represent a fair 
return for employment but that the majority of remuneration should be variable and dependent on the continued success of the Company. It was agreed 
by the Committee in December 2010 that the practical application of this policy meant that the Group should aim to position base pay between the 
lower quartile and median with key roles and key performers positioned at the 50th percentile or market median. Total remuneration should also be 
targeted to be around the same levels.
It was with this in mind that the Committee conducted a review of the Company’s remuneration towards the end of 2012 that resulted in a number of 
changes that took effect in the year under review. This was primarily because it was felt that, whilst the existing policy and general structure of remuneration 
remained appropriate, a number of changes were required to ensure that the Company remained competitive and attractive to potential new executive 
talent as the Company looked to build on its strong historical performance.
A breakdown of all elements of Executive remuneration and their place in the Company’s remuneration policy can be found overleaf.
Explanatory detail for future remuneration policy table
Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed 
in this report. Such awards include awards made under the PSP prior to the approval of the new rules at the 2014 AGM.
Performance measures and targets
For the APBP , EBIT has been selected as the primary measure to provide a direct link to one of our KPIs and ensure that the bonus is self‑ financing. 
Any other measures will be agreed on an annual basis to ensure alignment with the Company’s strategy for the coming year. Targets are set on an 
annual basis taking into account the Company’s budget as well as external expectations for Dialight and the sector.
For the PSP , the Committee considers that TSR provides clear alignment between Executive Directors’ interests and those of shareholders and provides 
an objective measure of the Company’s success over time, while EPS provides good line of sight and helps focus participants on the Company’s financial 
performance. The TSR outperformance requirement is broadly in line with practice at other FTSE‑ listed companies, taking into account Dialight’s relative 
size. The Committee retains discretion to adjust this target for future awards should circumstances change. EPS targets will be reviewed and confirmed 
prior to each grant, taking account of the Company’s strategic plan, analyst estimates, historical performance and EPS performance ranges used at 
other FTSE companies. 
If an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that an outstanding PSP award or bonus would not achieve its original purpose without 
alteration, the Committee has discretion to amend the targets, provided the new conditions are materially no less challenging than when originally imposed. 
Such discretion could be used to appropriately adjust for the impact of material acquisitions or disposals, or for exceptional and unforeseen events 
outside the control of the management team. 
Difference between Director remuneration policy and that for other employees
The remuneration policy for Senior management is consistent with that for the Executive, including participation in the Company’ s APBP and PSP . Below this level 
employees participate in incentive schemes tailored to their role, as appropriate, and receive salaries and benefits which are consistent with local market practice.
Shareholding guidelines
Executive Directors (and other PSP participants) are required to accumulate and maintain a holding of Dialight shares equivalent in value to their annual 
PSP award (i.e. currently 100% of salary for the Group Chief Executive). Executives will have five years from their date of joining to build their shareholdings 
to the required level. Please refer to the table on page 50.  Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 56
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration Committee report continued
Appendix continued
Future remuneration policy
A breakdown of all elements of an Executive Director’s remuneration package and its place in the Company’s remuneration policy can be found below:
Element/purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary
To ensure that fixed pay 
represents a fair return 
for employment.
The Committee sets base salary 
with reference to relevant market 
data and an individual’s experience, 
responsibilities and performance.
Base salary is considered by 
the Committee on an individual’s 
appointment and then reviewed 
once a year or when an individual 
changes position or responsibilities.
When making a determination 
as to the appropriate remuneration, 
the Committee considers firstly pay 
and conditions for employees across 
the Group, the general performance 
of the Company, wider economic 
environment and, where considered 
relevant, benchmarks the 
remuneration against a bespoke 
group of comparator companies 
incorporated in both the US and 
the UK (size adjusted on the basis 
of market cap and revenue).
Benchmarking is not the only driver 
in salary reviews. 
The Remuneration Committee’s 
normal policy in relation to salary 
of an Executive on appointment 
is to pay lower quartile against 
the market with an expectation 
of paying around median for 
the Company’s key roles 
and performers.
Detail of current salaries for the 
Executive can be found on page 53.
In normal circumstances, increases 
to Executive Directors’ base salaries 
will be broadly in line with price 
inflation subject to those situations 
that for reasons including an 
expansion of duties or a change in 
role these are no longer appropriate 
and a larger increase is required in 
order for the Company to remain 
competitive. It is not envisaged that 
this will be a frequent occurrence.
n/a
Non-Executive Director fees
The Company sets fee 
levels necessary to attract 
and retain experienced and 
skilled Non‑ Executive Directors 
with the necessary experience  
and expertise to advise and assist 
with establishing and monitoring 
the strategic objectives of 
the Company. 
Non‑ Executive Director 
remuneration is determined by 
the Board within the limits set by 
the Articles. Fee levels take into 
account those paid for equivalent 
roles at companies of similar size 
and complexity.
The Board considers fee levels 
every other year.
Non‑ Executive Directors do 
not receive any bonus, do not 
participate in awards under the 
Company’s share plans and are  
not eligible to join the Company’s 
pension scheme.
The Company’s policy in relation to 
fees is to reflect the time commitment 
and responsibilities of the roles, 
normally by paying up to median level 
fees, compared to market, depending 
on the experience and background 
of the Non‑ Executive Directors.
Details of current Non‑ Executive 
Director fees can be found on page 46.
In normal circumstances, increases 
to fees will be broadly in line with 
price inflation, subject to cases 
of material misalignment with the 
market or a change in the complexity, 
responsibility or time commitment 
required to fulfil a Non‑ Executive 
Director role.
It remains important for the Board 
to have the necessary flexibility 
to step outside this general policy 
should the requirement be clear that 
a certain type of individual is required 
to conform with new governance 
requirements or legislation.
n/a Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 57
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Element/purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
APBP
The APBP provides a direct 
link between the level of profit 
generated by Dialight and the 
amount of incentive received  
by the Executive.
The APBP is self‑ financing. 
If the threshold profit level is 
not achieved there will be no 
Company contribution.
The APBP directly supports the 
achievement of EBIT, one of the 
key financial KPIs of the Company.
There is an alignment of 
participants’ interests with 
shareholders as shareholders 
receive a minimum level of profit 
prior to any incentive payments 
to participants being made.
The policy of the Committee is 
to reward the Executive for profit 
growth using a combination of 
cash and shares, subject to the 
rules of the APBP .
Bonuses are paid though a mixture 
of cash and deferred shares, subject 
to the achievement of the agreed 
objectives. Where the Executive 
receive a deferred share award as 
well as a cash award, half of the 
deferred share element vests after 
two years with the balance vesting 
after three years, subject to continued 
employment with the Group.
The rules of the APBP allow for the 
clawback of deferred share awards 
prior to their vesting should the 
Committee take the decision that to 
allow such awards to vest would be 
contrary to the best interests of the 
Company’s shareholders.
Dividends are accrued until 
the vesting and release of shares 
subject to the award at which point 
they are paid to the participant.
The maximum bonus opportunity 
is 175% of salary.
Threshold performance will deliver 
payouts of up to 20% of maximum, 
while payouts for target performance 
will be up to 75% of maximum. 
Payouts above target will be 
delivered in shares.
APBP objectives are set by the 
Committee at the beginning of 
each financial year following the 
finalisation of the budget for that 
year. The primary measure is 
Company EBIT, although other 
financial measures may be 
rewarded, as may additional 
specific objectives that can be 
triggered following satisfactory 
achievement of the primary 
EBIT targets.
The APBP allows a close  
tailoring by the Committee 
of the performance targets to 
the budget and performance 
of the Company for each year.
Appendix continued
Future remuneration policy continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 58
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration Committee report continued
Element/purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
PSP
The PSP provides direct 
alignment between the interests 
of shareholders and those of 
the Executive and the Senior 
management of the business 
through its measurement of the 
Company’s share price and 
earnings performance over 
a three‑ year period.
The PSP provides a three‑ year 
incentive based on the achievement 
of performance conditions. 
A new set of PSP rules is being put 
to shareholders for approval at the 
AGM. Full details and a summary of 
these can be found in the Notice of 
AGM. Awards are normally made in 
the six‑ week period following the 
announcement by the Company of 
its results for any period. The initial 
value of an award granted in 
any one financial year will be 
determined by the Committee.
Awards made prior to and 
during 2014 may be structured 
as conditional shares or nil cost 
options with a seven‑ year exercise 
window from the date of vesting. 
For those awards made from 2015 
onwards the exercise window will 
reduce to two years.
On the adoption of new PSP rules 
at the AGM, the vesting of awards 
made pursuant to these rules may, 
at the discretion of the Committee, 
be deferred in whole or in part 
following the end of a three‑ year 
vesting period. The Company’s 
current policy is for awards to vest 
after three years.
The Committee has the power to 
authorise the payment of dividends 
or dividend equivalents under the 
rules of the PSP .
The new PSP rules contain 
provisions that allow for clawback 
and malus in respect of both 
vested and unvested awards.
Maximum value of award, under the 
new rules, is up to 150% of salary.
Participants in the PSP have 
historically been made awards of 
between 25% and 100% of salary. 
The Executive Directors have 
generally received awards of 100% 
of salary. It is not envisaged that this 
will change.
Threshold vesting is at 25% 
of maximum.
Vesting of PSP awards is subject 
to continued employment and 
performance measures which 
are currently as follows:
• 50% on EPS growth measured 
on a point to point basis over 
the three‑ year performance 
period; and 
• 50% on TSR relative to a 
relevant peer group over the 
three‑ year performance period.
The Committee will review 
the performance measures, 
weightings and targets prior to 
each grant to ensure that they 
continue to be well aligned with 
the delivery of Company strategy.
Sharesave Plan
To provide a mechanism by 
which employees can save up 
to purchase shares at a discount 
to the prevailing market price on an 
annual basis, encouraging employee 
retention and engagement with 
the Company.
The Sharesave Plan will operate 
initially in the UK, the US and 
Mexico but may be introduced 
to other parts of the world in 
due course. It will be open to all 
employees of Dialight with one 
invitation to participate on an 
annual basis.
Employees will be able to save 
up to the maximum of the limits 
approved by HMRC from time to 
time (or local currency equivalent) 
for a total period of three years. 
At the beginning of each savings 
period employees will be granted 
options over shares in Dialight plc 
up to a maximum discount of 20% 
to the prevailing market price. The 
employees’ savings are then used 
to purchase and exercise these 
options at the end of three years.
There are no performance 
conditions attached to the 
Sharesave Plan.
Appendix continued
Future remuneration policy continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 59
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Element/purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Pension
The Company provides this 
benefits package in order to be 
competitive in the relevant market 
and to ensure its ability to recruit 
and retain Executives.
The Company operates 
the Roxboro UK Pension 
Scheme alongside a 401(K) and 
Supplemental Executive Retirement 
Plan (“SERP”) in the US.
There are no defined benefit 
schemes that are still open to new 
entrants or of which the Executive 
Directors are members.
Both employee and employer 
contributions are made to the 
relevant scheme. In addition, 
the Group Chief Executive 
receives cash in lieu of pension 
contributions subject to an 
agreement made in July 2012.
The Group Chief Executive’s 
payment in lieu of contributions 
is subject to clawback.
New Executive Directors are 
entitled to join the existing defined 
contribution scheme offering 
employer contributions 
of up to 15%.
Executive Directors receive 
contributions into defined 
contribution arrangements. 
The Group Chief Executive receives 
a cash payment in lieu of pension 
contribution. Further details of what 
has been paid during 2014 can be 
found on page 46.
It is not anticipated that pension 
contributions (as a percentage 
of salary) will exceed the levels 
currently provided.
There are no performance 
conditions attached to Group 
pension arrangements.
Benefits
The approach of the Committee is 
that other benefits payable remain 
in line with market practice to ensure 
Dialight retains its ability to be 
competitive and remain attractive 
to prospective candidates. 
Executives receive benefits which 
consist primarily of the provision of 
a car allowance, life assurance and 
medical insurance, although may 
include any such benefits that the 
Committee deems appropriate.
Benefits vary by role and individual 
circumstances; eligibility and cost 
are reviewed periodically.
The Committee retains the discretion 
to approve a higher cost in exceptional 
circumstances (e.g. relocation) or in 
circumstances where factors outside 
the company’ s control have changed 
materially (e.g. increases in 
insurance premiums).
The value of all other benefits 
awarded to the Executive Directors 
can be found in the table on page 46.
There are no performance 
conditions attached to benefits.
Appendix continued
Future remuneration policy continued Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 60
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration Committee report continued
Appendix continued
Recruitment policy
Executive Directors will receive base salary in line with the normal policy, eligibility to participate in the APBP (maximum payout of 175% of salary), 
eligibility to participate in the PSP (with a maximum award of 150% salary under the proposed new rules in the policy table), pension contributions 
and other benefits in line with the normal policy. The policy provides for an entry point on salary between lower quartile and median and the Committee 
retains discretion to benchmark prospective salary against the relevant index to ensure that correct consideration of all variables has been completed.
Should a situation present itself the Committee would review the impact of any decision to “buy out” a candidate from existing option/awards in his 
or her current employing company, in order to encourage recruitment, this would be done on a case‑ by‑ case basis. If the Committee determines that 
is appropriate to do so if will apply the following approach:
The fair value of these incentives will be calculated taking into account the following:
• the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive’s cessation of employment;
• the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied; and
• any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value (“lapsed fair value”).
The Committee may then grant up to the same fair value as the lapsed fair value where possible under the Company’s incentive plans (subject to the 
annual limits under these plans). The Committee, however, retains the discretion to provide the lapsed fair value under specific arrangements in relation 
to the recruitment of the particular individual.
The maximum level of variable pay (excluding any buy‑ outs) offered to any new Executive Director would be 325% (comprising 175% in the APBP 
and 150% in the PSP). 
Listing Rule 9.4.2 may be utilised in order to provide the flexibility to the Committee to act outside of the Group’s existing plans to recruit preferred 
candidates. It is likely that this discretion would be restricted to assist only in the facilitation of buy‑ outs of previous emoluments. The approach to the 
recruitment of internal candidates would be similar but the Committee would continue to honour existing contractual commitments prior to any promotion.
For Non‑ Executive Directors, the Committee and the Company would seek to pay fees in line with the Company’s existing remuneration policy.
Remuneration scenarios
The composition and value of the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages at “minimum”, “on‑ target” and “maximum” scenarios are set out above. 
The policy of the Committee is to align Executive Directors’ interests with those of shareholders and to give the Executive Directors an incentive to perform 
at the highest levels. To achieve this it seeks to ensure that a significant proportion of the remuneration package varies with the financial performance 
of the Group and that targets are aligned with the Group’s stated business objectives.
Minimum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration only.
“On-target” performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus:
• 100% of salary paid in bonus 
(67% of maximum opportunity); and
• 25% of PSP award (25% of salary).
Maximum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus the full 
payout of both short and long‑term incentives.
Minimum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration only. 
“On-target” performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus:
• 75% of salary paid in bonus 
(75% of maximum opportunity); and
• 25% of PSP award (25% of salary). 
Maximum performance
Fixed elements of remuneration plus the full 
payout of both short and long‑term incentives.
Group Chief Executive Officer – Roy Burton
$2,314k
24% 42% 33%
$1,474k
9% 38% 53%
$774k
100%
Minimum
On‑ target
Maximum
• Fixed
•  Short ‑ term incentive
 • Long‑ term incentive
Group Finance Director – Fariyal Khanbabi
£791k
31% 31% 38%
£544k
11% 34% 55%
£297k
100%
Minimum
On‑ target
Maximum
• Fixed
•  Short ‑ term incentive
 • Long‑ term incentive Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 61
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Appendix continued
Service contracts
Executive service contracts contain provisions that require twelve months’ notice of termination on either side. Existing service contracts reflect the fact 
that the Group Chief Executive is US based but contain similar provisions. As a result, the Group Chief Executive’s contract is a US contract which has 
been reviewed and amended with the assistance of UK legal advisers to ensure compliance with UK legislation and appropriate best practice. Executive 
service contracts do not contain any provisions for payments outside the scope of those contained in the contract. Roy Burton’s contract has an effective 
date of 1 October 2005. 
Non‑ Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement provided in formal letters of appointment, which contain three‑ month notice periods that 
are mutual. The Non‑ Executive Directors are appointed for a three‑ year term, subject to annual re‑ election by the shareholders, at the Company’s AGM.
Payment for loss of office
Notice periods
Executive Directors’ service contracts require twelve months’ notice to be given by Dialight in the event of termination. Both can be terminated 
with and without cause and require twelve months’ notice from either party.
Subject to his compliance with those restrictive covenants in the contract, the Group Chief Executive is entitled to a severance payment equivalent to 
a full year’s salary, continuing health care under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act benefits (“COBRA”) for the same period and an 
amount equal to the current annual cost of life insurance to Dialight if his employment is terminated without cause. This does not apply should he resign 
or be terminated with cause. 
The Group Finance Director’s contract provides for pay in lieu of notice but does not contain any additional compensation provisions. Both contracts 
do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case. In determining any 
compensation it will take into account the best practice provisions of the Code and published guidance from recognised institutional investor bodies 
and will take legal advice on the Company’s liability to pay compensation and the appropriate amount. The Committee periodically considers what 
compensation commitments the Executive Directors’ contracts would entail in the event of early termination. There are no contractual arrangements 
that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
APBP
In the event of an Executive Director leaving Dialight before the end of a bonus year or prior to the payment of a bonus the Committee has discretion to 
allow them to be paid a portion of bonus relative to their point of leaving. This will be highly contingent on the manner of the Executive Director’s departure 
and whether they are classified as a “good leaver” pursuant to the rules of the APBP .
PSP
The PSP would operate in a similar way to the APBP . Assuming the Executive Director is classed as a “good leaver” the PSP allows for shares subject 
to awards to be released as soon as practicable after the later of the end of the performance period and the date of cessation, and the number of shares 
being reduced by such proportion as the proportion that the period from the date they ceased employment to the end of the relevant performance period 
bears to the relevant performance period, rounding down in each case to the nearest whole number of shares. Should either of the Executive Directors 
leave the Company in any other circumstances the Committee retains discretion to apply the same criteria and award a pro‑ rated amount of shares.
The new rules of the PSP that will be put forward for adoption at the AGM will contain the flexibility for the Committee to allow awards to vest earlier than 
above when an individual leaves. Awards will always be pro‑ rated subject to the exercise of discretion by the Committee and subject to the adoption 
of the new rules. The default position will be for awards to vest in line with the normal date of vesting rather than being released early. 
The Committee retains discretion in the event of a change of control to release awards under the PSP . It is usual in this situation that awards would 
be pro‑ rated for time and performance subject to the discretion of the Committee. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 62
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Remuneration Committee report continued
Appendix continued
Payment for loss of office continued
Employment conditions elsewhere in the Company
The Committee takes into account what the general rise in employee salaries was across the Company at the review date when considering changes to 
the remuneration of the Executive Directors. The Company has not expressly sought the views of employees when drawing up the Directors’ remuneration 
policy but has conducted a review of current job roles and salaries across the Group. 
Shareholder views
The Remuneration Committee consulted extensively with its top ten shareholders and the main shareholder representative bodies, the ABI and ISS, 
on the changes that were introduced in 2013.
The shareholder consultation process consisted of briefing letters, discussions and meetings in a number of cases with the Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee. Shareholders confirmed their support for the Company’s approach at the end of the consultation process.
Note: References in this replicated remuneration policy to the AGM at which the new set of PSP rules were put to shareholders for approval was the 
AGM held on 16 April 2014. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 63
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Dialight plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 66 to 107. In our opinion: 
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 
and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended; 
•  the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted 
by the European Union; 
•  the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with UK Accounting Standards; and 
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks 
of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were 
as follows: 
Goodwill (£11.7 million) 
Refer to page 38 (Audit Committee Report), note 3(g) (accounting policy) 
and note 12 (financial disclosures). 
The risk – Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated 
at acquisition to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to 
benefit from the combination. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are 
determined from value in use calculations. This is a key judgement area 
as adverse changes in assumptions, particularly relating to the forecasting 
of cash flows and discount rates could reduce the recoverable amount 
below the carrying amount. Specific risk factors identified include challenging 
trading conditions, potential loss of a major customer and the maturity 
of certain markets in which the group operates. 
Our response – Our audit procedures in this area included: 
•  agreeing the cash flows in the model to the 2015 budget and three year 
projection, and assessing the historical accuracy of these budgets and 
forecasts by comparing the results achieved in 2014 to the budget set 
at the end of 2013;
•  checking the long-term growth rates in the model don’t exceed industry 
published data; 
•  assessment of the discount rate with assistance from our own 
valuation specialists; 
•  comparing the discounted cash flows to the market capitalisation of the 
Group; and
•  applying a number of sensitivities to the inputs including sales growth 
beyond the 2015 detailed forecast and discount rates in the model 
to assess the appropriateness of the carrying value of the goodwill. 
We also considered whether the Group’s disclosures in respect of the 
impairment review and the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment 
review to changes in key assumptions are appropriate. 
Inventory valuation (£32.4 million) 
Refer to page 38 (Audit Committee Report), note 3(j) (accounting policy) 
and note 15 (financial disclosures). 
The risk – The Group operates in an industry whereby developments 
in product technology may result in inventory becoming slow moving or 
obsolete, which in turn may mean that inventory cannot be sold or sales 
prices are discounted to less than the inventory carrying value. This 
could result in a material impairment of the inventory balance. 
Our response – The Group produces a report of all slow moving 
inventory (based on sales history of finished goods, usage and most 
recent purchase date of raw materials) and this is reviewed by the 
planning and production team in conjunction with the engineering and 
sales team and an appropriate provision percentage is then applied 
to each inventory line. Our audit procedures in this area included: 
•  checking the accuracy and completeness of sales history of finished 
goods, usage and most recent purchase date of raw materials reports; 
•  recalculating the provision based on data from system reports;
•  we assessed the appropriateness of the group’s methodology for 
determining its inventory provision in the light of our understanding 
of the business and the ageing and nature of its inventory; and
•  we challenged the basis for the change in the group’s inventory 
provision for Lighting and Obstruction inventory based on our 
understanding of changes to underlying technology.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect 
of the judgements used in determining the carrying value of inventory. 
Independent auditors’ report
To the members of Dialight plc only Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 64
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditors’ report continued
To the members of Dialight plc only
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued
Revenue recognition (£159.8 million) 
Refer to page 38 (Audit Committee Report), note 3(q) (accounting policy) 
and note 4 (financial disclosures). 
The risk – There is a high volume of transactions close to the year end 
due to customer requirements and the Group’s year-end reporting deadline. 
The Group also has a number of customers who have non-standard 
contractual terms meaning that the risks and rewards transfer at different 
timings (such as on dispatch, on receipt at port of destination and on 
receipt by customer) with the result that there is an increased risk that 
revenue may not be recognised in the correct period. 
Our response – Our audit procedures in this area included: 
•  selecting samples of sale transactions from either side of the financial 
year end, using both statistical tools and specific item selection;
•  testing these samples through analysis of the relevant customer agreements 
to assess the specific sales terms for each transaction and the trigger 
event for revenue, and then tracing back to third party confirmation 
of the identified trigger event thereby checking revenue has been 
recognised in the correct period;
•  trend analysis for the full financial year and discussion with Finance 
Directors of significant divisions of any identified anomalies; and
•  we assessed the adequacy of the Group’s provision for returns in the 
light of credits given to customers and returns relating to the sales 
issued after the financial year end that related to sales in 2014.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect 
of revenue recognition.
Development costs (£6.8 million) 
Refer to page 38 (Audit Committee Report), note 3(h) (accounting policy) 
and note 12 (financial disclosures). 
The risk – The Group operates in an industry whereby a high level of 
research and development into product technology is required to ensure 
the Company keeps at the forefront of technological advances in lighting. 
Costs can only be capitalised if the product or process is commercially 
and technically feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete 
the development. As a result judgement is required in the initial categorisation 
of expenditure between research (which is expensed) and development 
(which is capitalised) and the subsequent assessment for impairment 
of capitalised development costs. 
Our response – Our audit procedures in this area included: 
•  obtaining a detailed list of costs capitalised, and reconciling a sample 
to source documentation including timesheets for relevant employees 
and invoices; 
•  making inquiries of Finance Directors and engineering employees to 
understand the projects and the rationale for capitalising the costs; 
•  corroborating through discussion with the engineering department 
and inspecting feasibility documentation, where available, to confirm 
the viability of the product and that the return on the product is 
expected to exceed the capitalised cost; 
•  examining expensed research and development costs in the general 
ledger to assess whether there are any other significant items recorded 
during the period that should have been capitalised to intangible assets; and 
•  for completed projects, an impairment review was performed by 
obtaining information on sales in the current period and assessing 
projected sales and profits for the remainder of the product life. 
We also considered whether the Group’s disclosures in respect of 
development costs and amortisation are appropriate. 
3. Our application of materiality and an overview 
of the scope of our audit 
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 
£0.9 million (2013: £1.0 million), determined with reference to a benchmark 
of Group profit before taxation (of which it represents 6% (2013: 8%), a 
reduction from the prior year for consistency with the industry peer group). 
We report to the audit committee any corrected or uncorrected identified 
misstatements exceeding £45,000, in addition to other audit misstatements 
that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
Of the Group’s ten reporting components, we subject four to audits 
for Group reporting purposes and two to specified risk-focused audit 
procedures. The latter, were not individually financially significant enough 
to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present specific 
individual risks, principally around inventory valuation, that needed to be 
addressed. These Group procedures covered 94% of total Group revenue; 
96% of Group profit before taxation; and 96% of total Group assets.  Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 65
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
3. Our application of materiality and an overview 
of the scope of our audit continued
The remaining 6% of total Group revenue, 4% of Group profit before 
taxation and 4% of total Group assets is represented by four reporting 
components, none of which individually represented more than 4% of 
any of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax, or total Group assets. 
For these remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated 
group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant 
risks of material misstatement within these. The Group audit team instructed 
component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including 
the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back. 
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which 
ranged from £0.6 million to £0.7 million, having regard to the mix of size 
and risk profile of the Group across the components. The work on all of 
the remaining components was performed by components auditors and 
the rest by the Group audit team. The Group audit team visited three 
component locations in UK and USA to perform the audit work. 
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion: 
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and 
•  the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report 
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements.
5. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters 
on which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based 
on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other 
information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency 
with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material 
misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. In particular, 
we are required to report to you if: 
•  we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge 
we acquired during our audit and the Directors’ statement that they 
consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a 
whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy; or 
•  the Report of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or 
•  the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
•  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or 
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
•  the Directors’ statement, set out on page 26, in relation to going 
concern; and 
•  the part of the Corporate governance statement on page 32 relating 
to the Company’s compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review. 
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 
Scope of report and responsibilities 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out on page 43, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is 
provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/
auditscopeukprivate. This report is made solely to the Company’s members 
as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding 
our responsibilities, published on our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/
auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set 
out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose 
of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Graham Neale
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham B4 6GH
2 March 2015 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 66
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2014
12 months ended
31 December 2014
12 months ended
31 December 2013
Note
Underlying
£’m
Non-
underlying
£’m
Total
£’m
Underlying
£’m
Non-
underlying
£’m
Total
£’m
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 159.8 — 159.8 131.2 — 131.2
Cost of sales (112.6) (2.8) (115.4) (89.6) — (89.6)
Gross profit 47.2 (2.8) 44.4 41.6 — 41.6
Distribution costs (19.8) — (19.8) (18.1) — (18.1)
Administrative expenses (9.3) 0.5 (8.8) (9.0) (2.9) (11.9)
Profit/(loss) from operating activities 4 18.1 (2.3) 15.8 14.5 (2.9) 11.6
Financial income 8 — — — — — —
Financial expense 8 (0.2) (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
Net financing expense 8 (0.2) (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
Profit/(loss) before income tax 4 17.9 (2.4) 15.5 14.4 (3.2) 11.2
Income tax expense 9 (6.0) — (6.0) (4.5) 1.0 (3.5)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations after tax 4 11.9 (2.4) 9.5 9.9 (2.2) 7.7
Discontinued operations
Gain from discontinued operations, net of tax 5 — — — — 0.7 0.7
Profit/(loss) for the year 4 11.9 (2.4) 9.5 9.9 (1.5) 8.4
Profit for the period attributable to:
Equity owners of the Company 9.5 8.5
Non-controlling interests — (0.1)
Profit for the year 9.5 8.4
Earnings per share
Basic 18 29.4p 26.2p
Diluted 18 29.2p 25.9p
Earnings per share – continuing operations
Basic 18 29.4p 23.9p
Diluted 18 29.2p 23.7p
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 67
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations 2.7 (1.3)
Income tax on exchange difference on translation of foreign operations (0.3) —
2.4 (1.3)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension liability (1.0) 0.7
Income tax on remeasurement of defined benefit pension liability 0.2 (0.2)
(0.8) 0.5
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1.6 (0.8)
Profit for the year 9.5 8.4
Total comprehensive income for the year 11.1 7.6
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 11.1 7.7
Non-controlling interests — (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year 11.1 7.6
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 68
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Note
Share
capital
£’m
Merger
reserve
£’m
Translation
reserve
£’m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’m
Retained
earnings
£’m
Total
£’m
Non-
controlling 
interests
£’m
Total
equity
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2014 0.6 1.4 0.8 2.2 61.8 66.8 (0.1) 66.7
Profit — — — — 9.5 9.5 — 9.5
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange translation differences, net of tax — — 2.4 — — 2.4 — 2.4
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension liability,  
net of tax 19 — — — — (0.8) (0.8) — (0.8)
Total other comprehensive income — — 2.4 — (0.8) 1.6 — 1.6
Total comprehensive income for the year — — 2.4 — 8.7 11.1 — 11.1
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Share-based payments, net of tax 7,9 — — — — (0.1) (0.1) — (0.1)
Dividends 17 — — — — (4.9) (4.9) — (4.9)
Total contributions by and distributions to owners — — — — (5.0) (5.0) — (5.0)
Balance at 31 December 2014 0.6 1.4 3.2 2.2 65.5 72.9 (0.1) 72.8
Balance at 1 January 2013 0.6 1.4 2.1 2.2 56.7 63.0 — 63.0
Profit — — — — 8.5 8.5 (0.1) 8.4
Other comprehensive income
Foreign exchange translation differences, net of tax — — (1.3) — — (1.3) — (1.3)
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension liability,  
net of tax 19 — — — — 0.5 0.5 — 0.5
Total other comprehensive income — — (1.3) — 0.5 (0.8) — (0.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year — — (1.3) — 9.0 7.7 (0.1) 7.6
Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Share-based payments, net of tax 7,9 — — — — 0.7 0.7 — 0.7
Dividends 17 — — — — (4.6) (4.6) — (4.6)
Total contributions by and distributions to owners — — — — (3.9) (3.9) — (3.9)
Balance at 31 December 2013 0.6 1.4 0.8 2.2 61.8 66.8 (0.1) 66.7
At 31 December 2014 the number of shares held by the Group through the Dialight Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust (“ESOT”) trust was 9,606 
(2013: 2,514). The market value of these shares at 31 December 2014 was £77,809 (2013: £21,520). Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 69
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Note
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 15.2 13.4
Intangible assets 12 21.0 21.1
Deferred tax assets 14 0.2 0.4
Total non-current assets 36.4 34.9
Inventories 15 32.4 24.2
Trade and other receivables 16 36.9 27.9
Cash and cash equivalents 22 7.9 8.8
Total current assets 77.2 60.9
Total assets 113.6 95.8
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (26.2) (21.0)
Provisions 20 (0.7) (0.3)
Contingent consideration 29 (0.3) (0.6)
Tax liabilities (4.6) (1.7)
Borrowings 13 (7.3) (1.7)
Total current liabilities (39.1) (25.3)
Employee benefits 19 (1.2) (0.4)
Contingent consideration 29 — (2.7)
Provisions 20 (0.5) (0.7)
Total non-current liabilities (1.7) (3.8)
Total liabilities (40.8) (29.1)
Net assets 72.8 66.7
Equity
Issued share capital 17 0.6 0.6
Merger reserve 17 1.4 1.4
Other reserves 5.4 3.0
Retained earnings 65.5 61.8
72.9 66.8
Non-controlling interests (0.1) (0.1)
Total equity 72.8 66.7
The accompanying notes form part of the financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Bill Ronald Fariyal Khanbabi
Chairman Group Finance Director
Company number: 2486024
Consolidated statement of total financial position
As at 31 December Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 70
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Note
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Operating activities
Profit for the year 9.5 8.4
Adjustments for:
Financial income 8 — —
Financial expense 8 0.3 0.4
Income tax expense 9 6.0 3.4
Share-based payments 0.2 0.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 2.5 2.0
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 2.3 1.1
Impairment losses on intangible assets and goodwill 1.3 0.3
Contingent consideration (3.1) —
Gain on sale of discontinued operation, net of tax 5 — (1.0)
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital 19.0 15.0
Increase in inventories (6.9) (5.2)
Increase in trade and other receivables (7.4) (1.5)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 4.0 (1.2)
Increase in provisions 20 0.2 0.1
Pension contributions in excess of the income statement 19 (0.3) (0.3)
Cash generated from operations 8.6 6.9
Income taxes paid (3.1) (2.2)
Interest paid 8 (0.2) (0.1)
Net cash generated from operating activities 5.3 4.6
Investing activities
Non-controlling interests — 0.1
Disposal of discontinued operation, net of cash disposed of 5 — 1.3
Capital expenditure 11 (3.7) (4.9)
Capitalised expenditure on development 12 (3.5) (4.4)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 11 — 0.1
Net cash used in investing activities (7.2) (7.8)
Financing activities
Dividends paid 17 (4.8) (4.6)
Drawdown of bank facility 7.6 —
Payment of upfront loan facility costs (0.3) —
Net cash used in financing activities 2.5 (4.6)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.6 (7.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 7.1 15.0
Effect of exchange rates on cash held 0.2 (0.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 22 7.9 7.1 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 71
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
1. Reporting entity
Dialight plc is a company domiciled in England. The address of the Company’s registered office is Exning Road, Newmarket, Suffolk CB8 0AX. 
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together 
referred to as the “Group”).
2. Basis of preparation
(a) Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the EU (“IFRSs”). The Company has elected to present its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
(b) Consolidated basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments which are carried at fair value.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in existence for the foreseeable future. 
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
(c) Use of estimates, judgements and assumptions
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made a number of judgements. The process of preparing the Group’s 
financial statements inevitably requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions concerning the future and the resulting accounting estimates 
will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts included 
in these consolidated financial statements are as follows:
Significant
Goodwill (see note 12)
Each year the Group reviews the carrying values of its goodwill balances by carrying out impairment tests. These tests require estimates and judgements 
to be made of the value in use of its cash-generating units (“CGUs”) which are dependent on key assumptions such as future cash flows and future 
growth rates of the CGUs, and discount rates.
Uncertainties associated with the current economic environment or the Group’s ability to carry out its strategic plans could impact key assumptions 
made as part of this review. Where these uncertainties present a material risk to the carrying value of goodwill, sensitivity analysis is carried out on 
the relevant CGUs.
Development and patent costs (see note 12)
The Group capitalises development costs and patents provided they meet all criteria set out in the respective accounting policy. Costs are only 
capitalised where management is satisfied as to the ultimate commercial viability of the projects concerned based on available information. The capitalised 
costs are amortised over the useful economic life, which is determined based on the reasonable commercial prospects for the resultant product.
Inventory provision (see note 15)
The Group operates in an environment of technological change, presenting the risk of obsolete inventory. Inventory is reviewed by operational and 
financial management on a regular basis, product-by-product, and the level of provision required is assessed against historic and forecast use for 
that product. The actual level of provision required may be materially higher or lower than expected.
Other
Warranty (see note 20)
The Group offers performance warranties on many of its products. A provision is made for the expected costs of future warranty claims relating 
to past product sales. This provision is estimated based on historic trends for returns, internal knowledge of product performance characteristics and 
the expected costs of remedying warranty-returned products. This information is reviewed by management regularly. Actual returns may be materially 
higher or lower than these estimates, which may have a material impact on the adequacy of the provision for warranty claims.
Contingent consideration (see note 6)
In assessing the fair value of contingent consideration in respect of business combinations, the Directors take account of the terms of the underlying 
purchase agreement. They also consider, based on available evidence, the likelihood of contingent consideration becoming payable, the range 
of possible values, and any other factors that may impact the final amount payable. Actual consideration paid may be materially different to the amount 
provided in the financial statements.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 72
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. Basis of preparation continued
(c) Use of estimates, judgements and assumptions continued
Other continued
Tax (see note 9)
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be 
available against which temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
3. Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and have 
been applied consistently by Group entities.
(a) Basis of consolidation
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred 
to the Group. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; less
• the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection 
with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010
For acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Group’s interest 
in the recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business 
combinations were capitalised as part of the acquisition.
Acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 (date of transition to IFRSs)
As part of its transition to IFRSs, the Group elected to restate only those business combinations that occurred on or after 1 January 2003. In respect 
of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2003, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the Group’s previous accounting framework, UK GAAP.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements 
from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements.
(b) Foreign currency translation
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations including goodwill 
and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation are translated using exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items of overseas operations are translated at average exchange rates for the period.
Since the transition date, resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity within the Group’s translation reserve. 
Such translation differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of. Foreign currency 
transactions are accounted for at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 73
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(c) Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
(d) Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
(e) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses.
(f) Depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, 
plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Buildings    16–50 years
Plant, equipment and vehicles  3–10 years
Amortisation
Amortisation is recognised in profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, 
from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Patents and trademarks  4 years
Development costs   3–5 years
Order book   1–2 years
Customer relationships  7 years
Technology   7 years
(g) Goodwill
Goodwill that arises upon acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. For the measurement of goodwill at initial recognition, see note 3(a).
Subsequent measurement
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses until disposal or termination of the previously acquired 
business when the profit or loss on disposal or termination will be calculated after charging the gross amount at current exchange rates of any such 
goodwill through the income statement. Goodwill is allocated to the CGUs and is tested at least annually for impairment. An impairment loss recognised 
for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
(h) Research and development costs
Expenditure on research activities undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding is recognised 
in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Development expenditure is capitalised only if the expenditure can be measured reliably, the product and process is technically and commercially 
viable, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends and has sufficient resources to complete the development and to use or sell the 
asset. The expenditure capitalised includes direct cost of material, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Other development 
expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 74
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(i) Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date 
to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill 
and intangible assets that have indefinite lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. A CGU is the smallest identifiable 
asset group that generates cash flows that are largely independent from other assets and groups. Impairment losses are recognised in profit and 
loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro-rata basis.
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money 
and the risks specific to the asset.
Any impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed 
at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change 
in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does 
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
A financial asset, in particular the carrying value of trade receivables, is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more 
events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset. Any impairment losses are recognised through the income statement.
(j) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories comprises all costs of purchase, costs of conversion 
and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition at the balance sheet date. Items are valued using the first in, first 
out method. When inventories are used, the carrying amount of those inventories is recognised as an expense in the period in which the related revenue 
is recognised. Provision for write-down to net realisable value and losses of inventories is recognised as an expense in the period in which the 
write-down or loss occurs.
(k) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the 
Group’s cash management are included as a component of borrowings.
(l) Share capital
(i) Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by members.
(ii) When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased by the ESOT, the amount of the consideration paid is recognised as a deduction from equity.
(iii)  Under the terms of the PSP and deferred bonus scheme, dividends accrue on shares not yet vested; however, if in the event that the shares lapse 
or are forfeited then the dividends will not be paid and the accrual is reversed.
(m) Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution pension plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement when they are due.
(ii) Defined benefit pension plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit 
that employees have earned for their service in the current and prior periods; discounting that amount; and deducting the fair value of any plan assets. 
The calculation is performed by an independent qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a potential 
asset to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan 
or reductions in future contributions to the plan. To calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum 
funding requirements.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding interest) and 
the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. The Group determines the net 
interest expense/(income) on the net defined benefit liability/(asset) for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit 
obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then-net defined benefit liability/(asset), taking into account any changes in the net defined 
benefit liability/(asset) during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined 
benefit plans are recognised in profit or loss.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 75
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(m) Employee benefits continued
(ii) Defined benefit pension plans continued
When the benefits of a plan are changed, or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service or the gain or loss 
on curtailment is recognised immediately in profit or loss. The Group recognises gains and losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when 
the settlement occurs.
(iii) Share-based payments and deferred bonus transactions
The PSP allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of the award granted is recognised as an employee expense with 
a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the performance period during which the employees 
become unconditionally entitled to the award. 
The fair value of the grants is measured using Monte Carlo or Black-Scholes models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the 
grants were made. The amount recognised as an expense is only adjusted to reflect forfeitures resulting from failures to meet non-market conditions. 
The share-based payments are equity-settled.
Key Group employees are awarded shares in the Company under the Annual Performance Bonus Plan. The fair value of the award granted is recognised 
as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the performance period 
during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award. 
(n) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable 
that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 
(o) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently stated at their amortised cost less any impairment losses. 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. 
If any such indication exists the assets’ recoverable amounts are estimated, being the greater of their net selling price and value in use. In assessing 
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessment 
of the time value of the money and risks specific to the asset. Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
An impairment loss in respect of trade and other receivables is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine 
the recoverable amount.
(p) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently stated at amortised cost.
(q) Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns and allowances, trade discounts, 
volume rebates and product returns. Revenue represents the invoiced value of goods supplied and is recognised in the income statement when the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the external customers in line with contractual arrangements and agreed shipping 
terms and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefit associated with the transaction will flow 
to the Group.
(r) Expenses
(i) Operating lease payments
Payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
(ii) Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest receivable, interest payable, borrowings, interest on pension assets and liabilities, foreign exchange gains 
and losses, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement and unwinding of discount.
(s) Income tax expense
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax expense is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates 
to items recognised directly in equity. 
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it 
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 76
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. Significant accounting policies continued
(s) Income tax expense continued
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be 
available against which temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited 
to profit and loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when 
they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend is recognised.
(t) Changes in accounting policies
Except for the changes below, the Group has consistently applied the accounting policies set out in this note to all periods presented in these 
consolidated financial statements.
The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments to standards, including any consequential amendments to other standards, 
with a date of initial application of 1 January 2014. There was no material impact on the financial performance or position of the Group.
• Amendments to IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements
• Amendments to IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 
The nature and effect of these changes are explained below.
Adoption of new and revised standards
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2015 and have 
not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group.
(u) Measurement of fair values
A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for both financial and non-financial assets 
and liabilities.
The Group has an established control framework, appropriate for the size and complexity of the Group, with respect to the measurement of fair values. 
When measuring the fair value of an asset or liability, the Group uses market observable data as far as possible. Fair values are categorised into different 
levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
If the inputs used to measure fair value of an asset or a liability might be categorised in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value 
measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 77
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
4. Operating segments
The Group comprises three reportable operating segments. These segments have been identified based on the internal information that is supplied 
regularly to the Group’s chief operating decision maker for the purposes of assessing performance and allocating resources. The chief operating decision 
maker is considered to be the Group’s Chief Executive.
The three reportable operating segments are:
•  Lighting, which develops, manufactures and supplies highly efficient LED lighting solutions for hazardous and industrial applications in which Lighting 
performance is critical;
•  Signals, which develops, manufactures and supplies highly efficient LED signalling solutions for markets including anti-collision Obstruction Lighting 
and Traffic Signals; and
•  Components, which develops, manufactures and supplies status indication components for electronics OEMs, together with niche industrial 
and automotive electronic components.
There is no inter-segment revenue.
All revenue relates to the sale of goods. Segment contribution includes items directly attributable to a segment. Overheads comprise general 
production and selling costs plus corporate costs including share-based payments. 
There are no individual customers representing more than 10% of revenue.
Reportable segments
2014
Lighting
£’m
Signals
£’m
Components
£’m
Continuing
 operations
£’m
Electro-
magnetic
Components
(discontinued)
£’m
Total
£’m
Revenue 99.9 40.2 19.7 159.8 — 159.8
Contribution 42.3 18.0 9.3 69.6 — 69.6
Overheads (27.8) (12.0) (8.9) (48.7) — (48.7)
Segment results 14.5 6.0 0.4 20.9 — 20.9
Unallocated expenses (2.8) — (2.8)
Underlying operating profit 18.1 — 18.1
Non-underlying expense (2.3) — (2.3)
Operating profit 15.8 — 15.8
Net financing expense (0.3) — (0.3)
Profit before tax 15.5 — 15.5
Income tax expense (6.0) — (6.0)
Profit after tax 9.5 — 9.5 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 78
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. Operating segments continued
Reportable segments continued
2013
Lighting
£’m
Signals 
£’m
Components
£’m
Continuing
 operations
£’m
Electro-
magnetic
Components
(discontinued)
£’m
Total
£’m
Revenue 68.5 41.8 20.9 131.2 0.5 131.7
Contribution 31.3 17.5 9.9 58.7 0.1 58.8
Overheads (19.8) (12.3) (8.6) (40.7) (0.5) (41.2)
Segment results 11.5 5.2 1.3 18.0 (0.4) 17.6
Unallocated overheads (3.5) — (3.5)
Underlying operating profit 14.5 (0.4) 14.1
Non-underlying expense (2.9) — (2.9)
Operating profit 11.6 (0.4) 11.2
Net financing expense (0.4) — (0.4)
Profit on sale — 1.3 1.3
Profit before tax 11.2 0.9 12.1
Income tax expense (3.5) (0.2) (3.7)
Profit after tax 7.7 0.7 8.4
Geographical segments
The Lighting, Signals and Components segments are managed on a worldwide basis but operate in four principal geographic areas: North America, UK, 
Europe and Rest of World. The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods.
All revenue relates to the sale of goods.
Sales revenue by geographical market
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
North America 96.3 82.8
UK 16.5 12.0
Rest of Europe 23.9 17.5
Rest of World 23.1 19.4
Electromagnetic Components (discontinued) — (0.5)
159.8 131.2
Reconciliations of reportable segment profit or loss
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Total profit for reportable segments 20.9 17.6
Elimination of discontinued operations — 0.4
Unallocated amounts:
Overheads (2.8) (3.5)
Non-underlying expense (2.3) (2.9)
Net financing expense (0.3) (0.4)
Consolidated profit from continuing activities before tax 15.5 11.2
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 79
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
5. Discontinued operations
The Group disposed of the assets of its Electromagnetic Components business in late 2012. During the prior year, the Group received contingent 
consideration of £1.3m (before tax) and sold some residual inventory. The results of these activities have been presented as discontinued operations.
Results of discontinued operations
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Revenue — 0.5
Expenses — (0.9)
Results from operating activities — (0.4)
Tax — 0.1
Results from operating activities, net of tax — (0.3)
Gain on sale of discontinued operation — 1.3
Tax on gain on sale of discontinued operation — (0.3)
Profit for the year — 0.7
Basic earnings per share — 2.2p
Diluted earnings per share — 2.5p
The operating loss from discontinued operations of £nil (2013: £0.4m) is attributable entirely to the owners of the Company.
Cash flows from/(used in) discontinued operations
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Consideration received, satisfied in cash — 1.3
Cash paid for redundancy and staff costs — —
Cash paid for professional and other fees — —
Net cash inflow from investing activities — 1.3
The net cash used in operating activities for the year ended 31 December 2014 is £nil (2013: £0.1m).
6. Non-underlying income/(expense)
From time to time, the Group incurs costs and earns income that is non-recurring in nature or that is otherwise considered to not be reflective of the underlying 
performance of the business. In the assessment of performance of the components of the Group, management examines underlying performance, which 
removes the impact of non-underlying costs and income. The results of discontinued operations are also considered to form part of non-underlying operations.
The table below presents the components of non-underlying profit or loss recorded within cost of sales:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Inventory provision (2.8) —
Non-underlying costs in recorded cost of sales (2.8) —
The table below presents the components of non-underlying profit or loss recorded within administrative expenses:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Contingent consideration 3.1 —
Goodwill and asset write-down (1.3) (0.8)
Employee severance and restructuring costs (1.1) (0.4)
Intellectual property past-use access fee   — (1.4)
Other (0.2) (0.3)
Non-underlying costs recorded in administrative expenses 0.5 (2.9) Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 80
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. Non-underlying income/(expense) continued
The contingent consideration relates to a reduction in the amount payable on the acquisition of Airinet Inc by the Group’s US subsidiary, Dialight Corporation, 
in June 2012. Following agreement with the former owners, the remaining consideration payable for the Airinet acquisition has been reduced to £0.3m. 
The Group operates in an environment where the pace of technological change is ever increasing, presenting a greater risk of obsolete inventory. 
An inventory provision is calculated to estimate the value of inventory that has become unusable or unsaleable due to obsolescence. At the request 
of the Board a detailed review of the risk of obsolescence was initiated by the incoming CFO. The review identified that the pace of product change 
has increased in the Lighting and Obstruction business with the introduction of control based Lighting and the new Vigilant range. The Board concluded 
that a strict ageing over-ride should be added in addition to the existing usage formula. As a result the Group incurred a one-off charge of £2.8m. 
As the nature of this charge is non-recurring it has been treated as a non-underlying expense.
In the current year, intangible assets of £0.8m relating to the Airinet business were written down in full as they were considered to have no future economic 
benefits. Other intangible assets of £0.5m were also written off as their carrying value was judged to be impaired. During the prior year, the goodwill, 
intangible assets and certain operating assets related to the Group’s Japanese subsidiary, Dialight Japan KK, were written down in full due to 
deterioration in the Group’s projections for that territory.
In the current year, the Group incurred redundancy and termination costs mainly relating to US and European operations and the closure of its 
Japanese operation. During the prior year, the Group closed its UK research and development site and engaged in certain other limited restructuring 
exercises which led to staff redundancies and other termination costs.
The intellectual property past-use access fee related to a one-off payment for access to certain patents and intellectual property over the previous five years.
The table below presents the components of non-underlying profit or loss recorded within finance income/(expense):
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Change in fair value of contingent consideration (0.1) (0.3)
Non-underlying costs recorded in finance expense (0.1) (0.3)
7. Personnel expenses
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Wages and salaries 33.2 27.4
Social security contributions 3.0 2.8
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 0.2 0.4
Contributions to defined contribution plans 1.0 0.8
Total charge for defined benefit plans 0.1 0.1
37.5 31.5
The average number of employees by geographical location was:
2014
Number
2013
Number
UK 148 137
US and Mexico 1,463 1,142
Rest of World 329 275
1,940 1,554
In 2014 the Group employed an average of 1,389 direct staff (2013: 1,133) and 551 indirect staff (2013: 421).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 81
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
8. Net financing (expense)/income
Recognised in profit and loss
Year ending 31 December 2014 Year ending 31 December 2013
Underlying
£’m
Non-
underlying
£’m
Total
£’m
Underlying
£’m
Non-
underlying
£’m
Total
£’m
Interest income on bank deposits — — — — — —
Net interest on defined benefit liability — — — — — —
— — — — — —
Interest expense on financial liabilities (0.2) — (0.2) (0.1) — (0.1)
Change in fair value of contingent consideration — (0.1) (0.1) — (0.3) (0.3)
(0.2) (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
Net financing expense recognised in the consolidated income statement (0.2) (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
9. Income tax expense
Current tax expense
Recognised in the income statement
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Current tax expense
Tax expense from continuing operations 6.0 3.5
Tax from discontinued operations (excluding gain on sale) — (0.1)
6.0 3.4
Tax on gain on sale of discontinued operation — 0.3
Income tax expense 6.0 3.7
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Current tax expense
Current year 6.1 3.5
Adjustment for prior years (0.3) (0.1)
Utilisation of previously unrecognised losses — (0.2)
5.8 3.2
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.3 0.7
Adjustment for prior years (0.1) 0.1
Reduction in tax rate — 0.2
Recognition of previously unrecognised losses — (0.7)
Change in recognised deductible timing differences — 0.2
Income tax expense 6.0 3.7 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 82
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. Income tax expense continued
Current tax expense continued
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2014
%
2014
£’m
2013
%
2013
£’m
Profit for the year 9.5 8.4
Total income tax expense 6.0 3.7
Profit excluding income tax 15.5 12.1
Income tax using the UK corporation tax rate 21.5 3.3 23.3 2.8
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 10.3 1.6 8.3 1.0
Reduction in tax rate 1.3 0.2 1.7 0.2
Non-deductible expenses 4.5 0.7 1.7 0.2
Current year losses for which no deferred tax is recognised 1.3 0.2 4.1 0.5
Recognition of tax effect of previously unrecognised losses — — (7.7) (0.9)
Adjustment for prior years (2.6) (0.4) — —
Changes in recognised deductible timing differences — — 1.7 0.2
Research and development credits (0.6) (0.1) (0.8) (0.1)
Other 3.0 0.5 (1.7) (0.2)
38.7 6.0 30.6 3.7
Tax recognised directly in equity
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Employee benefits — 0.3
Other 0.2 —
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 24% (effective from 1 April 2012) and to 23% (effective 1 April 2013) were substantively 
enacted on 26 March 2012 and 3 July 2012 respectively. Further reductions to 21% (effective from 1 April 2014) and 20% (effective from 1 April 2015) 
were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. This will reduce the Company’s future current tax charge accordingly. The Group effective rate will 
continue to be impacted by the tax rates enacted in the various jurisdictions in which it trades. The deferred tax assets/(liabilities) at 31 December 2014 
have been calculated based on a rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) have not been recognised 
in respect of tax losses amounting to £0.3m because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can use 
the benefits therefrom.
10. Profit for the year
Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Research and development costs
Expensed as incurred 2.7 1.6
Amortisation charge 1.5 0.7
4.2 2.3
Depreciation of fixed assets 2.5 2.0
Amortisation of customer relationships 0.3 0.3
Amortisation of technology 0.1 0.1
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 1.3 0.3
Operating leases – property 1.1 1.1
Operating leases – other 0.1 0.2
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 83
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
10. Profit for the year continued
Auditors’ remuneration:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1
Amounts receivable by auditors in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
Other services 0.2 —
Pension advisory services in respect of Group pension — 0.1
0.4 0.3
11. Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings
£’m
Plant,
equipment
and vehicles
£’m
Total
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2013 5.3 34.5 39.8
Exchange adjustments — (0.8) (0.8)
Additions 0.2 4.7 4.9
Disposals (0.1) (3.4) (3.5)
At 31 December 2013 5.4 35.0 40.4
At 1 January 2014 5.4 35.0 40.4
Exchange adjustments 0.1 1.9 2.0
Additions 0.3 3.4 3.7
Disposals — — —
At 31 December 2014 5.8 40.3 46.1
Accumulated depreciation   
At 1 January 2013 (3.0) (25.9) (28.9)
Exchange adjustments — 0.5 0.5
Charge for year (0.1) (1.9) (2.0)
Disposals 0.1 3.3 3.4
At 31 December 2013 (3.0) (24.0) (27.0)
At 1 January 2014 (3.0) (24.0) (27.0)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (1.3) (1.4)
Charge for year (0.2) (2.3) (2.5)
Disposals — — —
At 31 December 2014 (3.3) (27.6) (30.9)
Carrying amount at 31 December 2014 2.5 12.7 15.2
At 31 December 2013 2.4 11.0 13.4
At 1 January 2013 2.3 8.6 10.9 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 84
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. Intangible assets
Concessions,
patents,
licences and
trademarks
£’m
Goodwill
£’m
Order
book and
customer
relationships
£’m
Technology
£’m
Development
costs
£’m
Total
£’m
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2013 1.7 12.0 2.1 0.7 7.9 24.4
Additions arising from internal developments 1.5 — — — 2.9 4.4
Effects of foreign exchange movement — 0.1 — (0.1) (0.2) (0.2)
Balance at 31 December 2013 3.2 12.1 2.1 0.6 10.6 28.6
Balance at 1 January 2014 3.2 12.1 2.1 0.6 10.6 28.6
Additions arising from internal developments 0.9 — — — 2.6 3.5
Effects of foreign exchange movement — (0.2) — — 0.4 0.2
Balance at 31 December 2014 4.1 11.9 2.1 0.6 13.6 32.3
Amortisation and impairment losses
Balance at 1 January 2013 (1.3) — (0.8) — (4.1) (6.2)
Amortisation for the period — — (0.3) (0.1) (0.7) (1.1)
Impairment — (0.2) (0.1) — — (0.3)
Effects of foreign exchange movement — — — — 0.1 0.1
Balance at 31 December 2013 (1.3) (0.2) (1.2) (0.1) (4.7) (7.5)
Balance at 1 January 2014 (1.3) (0.2) (1.2) (0.1) (4.7) (7.5)
Amortisation for the period (0.4) — (0.3) (0.1) (1.5) (2.3)
Impairment (0.5) — — (0.4) (0.4) (1.3)
Effects of foreign exchange movement — — — — (0.2) (0.2)
Balance at 31 December 2014 (2.2) (0.2) (1.5) (0.6) (6.8) (11.3)
Carrying amount at 31 December 2014 1.9 11.7 0.6 — 6.8 21.0
At 31 December 2013 1.9 11.9 0.9 0.5 5.9 21.1
At 1 January 2013 0.4 12.0 1.3 0.7 3.8 18.2
The amortisation charge for the development costs is reflected in research and development costs shown within cost of sales on the face of the income 
statement. The amortisation charge for concessions, patents, licences and trademarks is shown within administrative expenses in the income statement. 
The amortisation charge for order book and customer relationships is shown within administrative expenses in the income statement.
In December 2014 an agreement was reached with the former owners of Airinet Inc on the contingent consideration related to the acquisition by the 
Group’s US subsidiary Dialight Corporation in June 2012. An impairment review was carried out on the goodwill and intangible assets which arose on 
the acquisition. The knowhow that existed in Airinet at the time of acquisition assisted in developing the wireless control systems now being deployed 
in the Lighting segment and hence the goodwill arising on the Airinet acquisition has been carried forward unimpaired at cost.
The recoverable amount of the intangibles, was estimated using value in use, and had a value of £nil (2013: £0.4m each). The discount rate used in 
the review of 10.95% (2013: 9.8% to 10.3%). Consequently, the capitalised technology cost arising on acquisition and subsequent costs of developing 
that technology, which related to the street lighting sales, totalling £0.8m have been written off as non-underlying cost.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 85
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
12. Intangible assets continued
Signals and Lighting segments
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination. 
CGUs are identified geographically and at a product segment level. This is due to a deterioration in management’s forecasts for the CGU. The change 
in value in the European Traffic goodwill figure is due to foreign currency translation. The carrying amount of the goodwill has been allocated as follows.
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
UK Lighting 2.3 2.3
European Traffic 3.8 4.0
European Obstruction 1.3 1.3
Australian Lighting 0.1 0.1
US Lighting 4.2 4.2
11.7 11.9
The Group tests goodwill (at the CGU level) annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations 
are those regarding the discount rates and growth rates.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of a number of factors that impact on the time 
value of money and any risk specific to the CGU. The rate includes management’s assessment of a normal level of debt to equity ratio within similar 
companies in its sector.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent strategic forecasts approved by management covering a three-year period. 
Management has arrived at the three-year plan based upon certain assumptions derived from a combination of internal assessment and research 
carried out by external consultants who specialise in areas of the Group’s business and their knowledge of the business. The key assumptions within 
the three-year forecasts are revenue growth (which varies depending on the CGU’s product groups and the markets addressed) and contribution margin, 
which is based on management’s best estimate of material, labour and production cost trends and manufacturing efficiencies. Cash flows in years 
four and five are extrapolated using similar growth rates to the first three years. Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using 
estimated growth rates of between 0% and 1%.
Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions
Impairment testing is dependent on management’s estimates and judgements, particularly as they relate to the forecasting of future cash flows, 
the discount rates selected and expected long-term growth rates.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flow for the CGUs was 10.95% (2013: 9.8% to 10.3%).
The growth rates management has applied in the value in use calculations for each of the CGUs over the five-year period vary due to the nature 
of the products, industries and countries in which the CGU operates.
Reasonably possible changes in these assumptions could reduce the recoverable amount below carrying amount.
No such risks were identified in the current year. We carried out sensitivity analyses on our European Traffic CGU using discount rates ranging from 
10.95% to 20% and growth rates ranging from 0% to -10% while still maintaining headroom. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 86
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
2014 2013
£’m £’m
Unsecured borrowings falling due within one year 7.6 1.7
Upfront loan facility costs (0.3) —
7.3 1.7
On 30 April 2014, the Company signed a four-year unsecured £25m multi-currency revolving credit facility with HSBC Bank plc. Under the terms 
of the facility, the Group also has a £25m “accordion” facility, by which further facilities may be made available by HSBC under the current terms 
to support significant investment opportunities that may arise. At 31 December 2014, £7.6m was drawn on the facility.
14. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Property, plant and equipment — — (0.6) (1.0) (0.6) (1.0)
Intangible assets — — (2.8) (2.3) (2.8) (2.3)
Employee benefits 0.6 0.7 — — 0.6 0.7
Provisions 3.0 1.5 — — 3.0 1.5
Other items — 1.5 — — — 1.5
Tax assets/(liabilities) 3.6 3.7 (3.4) (3.3) 0.2 0.4
Set off of tax (3.4) (3.3) 3.4 3.3 — —
Net tax assets 0.2 0.4 — — 0.2 0.4
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses anticipated to be available. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised 
in respect of tax losses amounting to £0.3m because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can use 
the benefits therefrom.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred taxation liabilities have not been 
recognised is £nil (2013: £nil).
Movement in temporary differences during the year
Property,
plant and
equipment
£’m
Intangible
assets
£’m
Employee
benefits
£’m
Provisions
£’m
Other
short-term
timing
differences
£’m
Total
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2013 (0.9) (1.7) 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.6
Recognised in income (0.1) (0.6) (0.1) 0.1 0.1 (0.6)
Recognised in equity — — (0.6) — — (0.6)
Balance at 31 December 2013 (1.0) (2.3) 0.7 1.5 1.5 0.4
Balance at 1 January 2014 (1.0) (2.3) 0.7 1.5 1.5 0.4
Recognised in income 0.4 (0.5) (0.1) 1.5 (1.3) —
Recognised in equity — — — — (0.2) (0.2)
Balance at 31 December 2014 (0.6) (2.8) 0.6 3.0 — 0.2
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 87
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
15. Inventories
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Raw materials and consumables 19.6 13.7
Work in progress 4.1 1.6
Finished goods 8.7 8.9
32.4 24.2
Inventories to the value of £69m (2013: £57.8m) were recognised as expenses in the year within continuing operations. During the year, the inventory 
write-downs totalled £3.8m. The write-downs are included in the income statement.
16. Trade and other receivables
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Trade receivables 34.0 26.0
Other non-trade receivables 1.6 0.8
Prepayments and accrued income 1.3 1.1
36.9 27.9
The Group’s exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 23.
17. Capital and reserves
Share capital
2014
Number
2014
£’m
2013
Number
2013
£’m
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each 32,503,258 0.6 32,359,892 0.6
During the year, 143,366 shares were issued (0.4% of the total ordinary share capital issued) at par. The ordinary shares issued have the same rights 
as the other shares in issue.
Ordinary shares
Issued share capital
2014
Number
2013
Number
In issue at 1 January 32,359,892 32,150,231 
Shares issued 143,366 209,661
Issued and fully paid at 31 December 32,503,258 32,359,892 
Merger reserve
On acquiring Lumidrives Limited in 2006 the Company issued ordinary shares as part of the consideration. Merger relief was taken in accordance 
with Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 and hence £546,000 was credited to the merger reserve.
On acquiring BTI in 2010 the Company issued ordinary shares as part of the consideration. Merger relief was taken in accordance with Section 612 
of the Companies Act 2006 and hence £903,000 was credited to the merger reserve.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences from 1 January 2004 arising from the translation of the financial statements 
of foreign operations for the Company. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 88
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17. Capital and reserves continued
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve comprises the nominal value of “B” preference shares redeemed since the capital reorganisation in 2005.
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there 
are no income tax consequences for the Company.
Final proposed dividend
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
9.8 pence per ordinary share (2013: 9.5 pence) 3.2 3.1
During the year the following dividends were paid:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Final – 9.5 pence (2013: 9.5 pence) per ordinary share 3.1 3.1
Interim – 5.2 pence (2013: 4.9 pence) per ordinary share 1.7 1.5
4.8 4.6
Dividends accrued on shares awarded under the PSP and deferred share scheme but not yet vested 0.1 —
Total (amount shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity) 4.9 4.6
18. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share at 31 December 2014 was based on the profit for the year of £9.5m (2013: £8.5m) and the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 31 December 2014 of 32,479,364 (2013: 32,248,312).
Diluted earnings per share
The calculation of diluted earnings per share at 31 December 2014 was based on profit for the year of £9.5m (2013: £8.5m) and the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 31 December 2014 of 32,675,772 (2013: 32,602,867) calculated as follows:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted)
2014
’000
2013
’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 32,479 32,248
Effect of share options in issue 197 355
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 32,676 32,603
Underlying earnings per share is highlighted below as the Directors consider that this measurement of earnings gives valuable information 
on the performance of the Group.
2014
Per share
2013
Per share
Basic earnings 29.4p 26.2p
Underlying basic earnings* 36.8p 30.8p
Continuing operations basic earnings 29.4p 23.9p
Diluted earnings 29.2p 25.9p
Underlying diluted earnings* 36.6p 30.5p
Continuing operations diluted earnings 29.2p 23.7p
*  Underlying earnings excludes non-underlying items as explained in note 6 and discontinued operations as explained in note 5 and allocates tax at the appropriate rate 
(see note 9).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 89
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
19. Employee benefits
Defined benefit pension obligations
The Group makes contributions to two defined benefit plans (referred to below as Plan A and Plan B) to provide benefits for employees upon retirement. 
Both plans are closed to new members and future accrual. The plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, interest rate risk and 
investment risk. Both plans are final salary defined benefit schemes and are administered by separate funds that are legally separate from the Group. 
Trustees include independent and company-appointed individuals. The trustees of the plans are required by law to act in the best interests of the plan 
participants and are responsible for setting certain policies (e.g. investment) of the funds.
The Company is required to agree a Schedule of Contributions with the Trustees of the Funds following a valuation which must be carried out at 
least once every three years. The last valuation was completed in 2014. The Company expects to pay contributions of £450,000 in respect of the 
Fund in the year to 31 December 2015. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 16 years.
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Total Total
Net defined benefit asset (Plan A) — (0.1)
Total employee benefit asset — (0.1)
Net defined benefit liability (Plan B) 1.2 0.5
Total employee benefit liability 1.2 0.5
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for net defined benefit liability/(asset) and its components.
Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets
Net defined benefit 
liability/(asset)
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Balance at 1 January 22.8 22.7 (22.4) (21.5) 0.4 1.2
Included in profit or loss
Administration costs — — 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2
Interest cost/(income) 1.0 1.0 (1.0) (1.0) — —
1.0 1.0 (0.9) (0.8) 0.1 0.2
Included in other comprehensive income
Remeasurements (gain)/loss:
Actuarial (gain)/loss arising from:
– demographic assumptions (0.1) (0.3) — — (0.1) (0.3)
– financial assumptions 2.5 1.3 — — 2.5 1.3
– experience adjustment 0.1 (0.9) — — 0.1 (0.9)
– return on plan assets excluding interest income — — (1.5) (0.8) (1.5) (0.8)
2.5 0.1 (1.5) (0.8) 1.0 (0.7)
Other
Contributions paid by the employer — — (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3)
Benefits paid (1.1) (1.0) 1.1 1.0 — —
(1.1) (1.0) 0.8 0.7 (0.3) (0.3)
Balance at 31 December 25.2 22.8 (24.0) (22.4) 1.2 0.4 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 90
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. Employee benefits continued
Defined benefit pension obligations continued
Represented by:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Net defined benefit asset (Plan A) — (0.1)
Net defined benefit liability (Plan B) 1.2 0.5
1.2 0.4
Plan assets consist of the following:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Total Total
Equities 10.8 11.1
Bonds and gilts 12.9 11.1
Cash 0.3 0.2
24.0 22.4
All equity securities and government bonds have quoted prices in active markets. 
Actuarial assumptions
The principal assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are:
(% per annum)
2014 2013
Discount rate at 31 December 3.40 4.40
Future salary increases n/a n/a
Future pension increases 3.20 3.50
Inflation – RPI 3.20 3.60
Inflation – CPI 2.30 2.80
Assumptions regarding future mortality have been based on published statistics and mortality tables. The current longevities underlying the values 
of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date were as follows:
2014 2013
Plan A Plan B Plan A Plan B
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners
Males 22.3 22.3 22.2 22.2
Females 24.7 24.7 24.7 24.7
Longevity at age 65 for current members aged 45
Males 24.0 24.0 24.0 24.0
Females 26.7 26.7 26.6 26.2
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 91
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
19. Employee benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would have 
affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below.
Defined benefit obligation
Increase 
£’m
Decrease 
£’m
Discount rate (0.5% movement) (1.8) 2.0
Inflation (0.5% movement) 1.8 (1.7)
Life expectancy (+/–1 year) 0.9 (0.9)
Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does provide an approximation 
of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
Share-based payments
PSP
In September 2005 the shareholders approved the PSP.
During the year an award under the PSP was made to the Executive Directors and senior managers, details of which are set out below. The award 
was split into two components, one of which was based on the EPS performance of the Group, and the other based on the Group’s total shareholder 
return (“TSR”) performance.
Date of award
Number
of awards
at the
beginning
of the year
Number
of awards
granted
during
the year
Number
of awards
vested
during
the year
Number
of awards
forfeited
during
the year
Number
of awards
at the
year end
Fair value
pence per
share
Vesting
period
Maturity
date
February 2011 123,959 — (123,959) — — 411 3 years Feb 2014
April 2012 64,699 — — (19,899) 44,800 684 3 years Apr 2015
April 2013 (EPS) 38,289 — — (15,420) 22,869 1,291 3 years Apr 2016
April 2013 (TSR) 38,289 — — (15,420) 22,869 707 3 years Apr 2016
April 2014 (EPS) — 39,094 — — 39,094 886 3 years Apr 2017
April 2014 (TSR) — 39,094 — — 39,094 377 3 years Apr 2017
Sept 2014 (EPS) — 19,999 — — 19,999 904 3 years Sep 2017
Sept 2014 (TSR) — 19,999 — — 19,999 395 3 years Sep 2017
265,236 118,186 (123,959) (50,739) 208,724
Further details of the PSP are included in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 44 to 62.
The 2014 awards linked to EPS have been valued using the Black-Scholes model and those linked to TSR have been valued using the Monte Carlo model.
The following key assumptions and inputs have been used in the calculation of the fair values:
April 2014 EPS
and TSR award
Sept 2014 EPS
and TSR award
Share price £8.86 £9.04
Exercise price £nil £nil
Expected volatility 37% 36%
Award life 3 years 3 years
Correlation
Dialight and the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) 33% 20%
The employee expense in 2014 was £0.2m (2013: £0.4m) (see note 7). Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 92
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. Employee benefits continued
Share-based payments continued
Save As You Earn (“SAYE”)
In the current year, the Group initiated an all-employee UK Sharesave Plan and established equivalent arrangements in other countries, with the first 
grant made in 18 September 2014 to eligible employees in the UK, the US and Mexico. Under the terms of the SAYE scheme employees can save up 
to a limit of £250 per month or local currency equivalent. Awards under the scheme were made at a 20% discount to the closing mid-market price on 
the date of invitation, vesting over a three-year period. There are no performance conditions attached to the SAYE scheme.
2014 scheme
Outstanding at 1 January 2014 —
Granted during the year 58,377
Forfeited during the year —
Outstanding at 31 December 2014 58,377
The options outstanding at the period end have a weighted average remaining contractual life of three years.
Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation 
were as follows:
Grant date 18 Sept 2014
Share price at grant date 8.97
Exercise price 7.18
Expected volatility 37%
Number of employees 109
Shares under option 58,377
Vesting period (years) 3 years
Option life (years) 3 years
Expected life (years) 3 years
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 2%
Fair value per option 3.16
20. Provisions
Warranty
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2014 1.0
Effects of foreign exchange movement —
Provisions made during the year 0.9
Provisions used during the year (0.7)
Balance at 31 December 2014 1.2
The warranty provision relates to sales made over the past five years. The provision has been estimated based on historical warranty data with similar 
products. The Group expects to settle the majority of the liability over the next two to three years.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 93
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
20. Provisions continued
Warranty
2014
£’m
Warranty
2013
£’m
Due within one year 0.7 0.3
Due between one and five years 0.5 0.7
1.2 1.0
The provision is based on estimates made from historical warranty data associated with similar products.
21. Trade and other payables
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Trade payables 18.3 14.1
Other taxes and social security 0.6 0.4
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 7.3 6.5
26.2 21.0
The Group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 23.
22. Cash and cash equivalents
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of total financial position 7.9 8.8
Bank overdraft used for cash management purposes — (1.7)
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 7.9 7.1
23. Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk from its use of financial instruments.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks and the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for measuring and managing risk. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. The Group’s risk 
policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and 
adherence to limits.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews 
the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
Credit risk
Trade and other receivables
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations by not paying the receivables due.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
Operationally the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Each new customer is analysed individually 
for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered.  Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 94
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. Financial risk management continued
Credit risk continued
Trade and other receivables continued
The Group’s review includes external ratings when available and in some cases bank references. Purchase limits are set for customers. 
Customers that do not meet the benchmark creditworthiness may transact with the Group only on a prepayment basis.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. 
Impairment losses are determined having taken into account special customer circumstances and financial position, together with Group information 
about general payment trends.
Exposure to credit risk
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was:
Gross
2014
£’m
Impairment
2014
£’m
Gross
2013
£’m
Impairment
2013
£’m
Not past due 26.2 — 19.3 —
Past due 0–30 days 6.7 — 3.5 —
Past due 31–120 days 0.7 — 2.2 —
Past due 121–365 days 0.4 — 0.8 0.1
More than one year 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.1
Total 34.1 0.1 26.2 0.2
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
£’m
Balance at 1 January 2014 0.2
Effects of foreign exchange —
Utilisation of provision (0.2)
Provision created 0.1
Balance at 31 December 2014 0.1
The allowance accounts in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery 
of the amount owing is possible; at that point the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the financial asset directly.
Other non-trade receivables of £1.6m (2013: £0.8m) are not past due and have no impairment.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s income. 
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return.
Interest rate risk
The Group’s policy is to manage exposure to interest rate risk setting a proportion of any borrowings to a fixed rate basis. Historically, interest rate swaps 
have been considered and entered into. At 31 December 2014, the Group has drawn £7.6m against its revolving credit facility.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 95
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
23. Financial risk management continued
Market risk continued
Foreign currency risk
Exposure to currency risk arises in the normal course of the Group’s business.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than each subsidiary’s functional currency. 
The currencies giving rise to risk are primarily Euro and US Dollar.
Where possible the Group uses natural hedging within the Group to hedge the majority of its foreign currency risk. Natural hedging is the mechanism 
whereby the cash inflows in a particular currency are matched to the cash outflows in that currency at the same business or different group company. 
Foreign exchange contracts may be taken out to manage exposures that are not mitigated through natural hedging.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than UK Sterling, the Group ensures that the net exposure is kept 
to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address short-term imbalances.
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:
2014
$’m
2014
€’m
2013
$’m
2013
€’m
Trade receivables 0.6 4.2 1.4 2.1
Currency cash 0.2 0.8 2.2 0.7
Trade payables (1.2) (0.8) (1.2) (0.2)
Gross balance sheet exposure (0.4) 4.2 2.4 2.6
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:
2014
Average
rate
2014
At balance
 sheet
date
2013
Average
rate
2013
At balance 
sheet
date
US Dollar 1.63 1.56 1.57 1.66
Euro 1.24 1.29 1.18 1.20
Mexican Peso 21.89 22.92 19.97 21.70
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by 
delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient 
liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the 
Group’s reputation.
Exposure to liquidity risk
For non-derivative financial liabilities the Group’s exposure relates principally to trade and other payables and borrowings.
Trade and other payables arise in the normal course of business and there are no unusual or onerous terms and conditions. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 96
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. Financial risk management continued
Liquidity risk continued
Exposure to liquidity risk continued
The following are contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements:
31 December 2014
Carrying
amount
£’m
Contractual
cash flow
£’m
2 months
or less
£’m
2–12
months
£’m
1–2 years
£’m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 26.2 (26.2) (26.2) — —
Contingent consideration 0.3 (0.3) (0.3) — —
Borrowings 7.3 (7.3) (7.3) — —
33.8 (33.8) (33.8) — —
31 December 2013
Carrying
amount
£’m
Contractual
cash flows
£’m
2 months 
or less
£’m
2–12
months
£’m
1–2 years
£’m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 21.0 (21.0) (21.0) — —
Contingent consideration 3.3 (3.3) — (0.1) (3.2)
Borrowings 1.7 (1.7) (1.7) — —
26.0 (26.0) (22.7) (0.1) (3.2)
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development 
of the business. The Board considers consolidated total equity as capital. As at 31 December 2014 this totalled £72.8m (2013: £66.7m). In line with the 
Group’s dividend policy it is proposed to pay a final dividend of 9.8 pence giving a total dividend for the year of 15.0 pence. A dividend of 15.0 pence 
would be covered 2 times (2013: 1.7).
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. 
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. Over the longer 
term, however, permanent changes, in particular in foreign exchange rates, would have an impact on equity value and consolidation earnings.
At 31 December 2014 it is estimated that a general increase of 1% in the value of the Euro and US Dollar against UK Sterling would have reduced 
the Group’s profit before tax by approximately £0.2m for the year ended 31 December 2014 (2013: £0.1m), and would have reduced the Group’s 
equity by approximately £0.3m for the year ended 31 December 2014 (2013: £0.2m).
Fair values versus carrying amounts
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
Carrying
amount
2014
£’m
Fair value
2014
£’m
Carrying
amount
2013
£’m
Fair value
2013
£’m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 7.9 7.9 8.8 8.8
Loans and receivables
Trade and other receivables 36.9 36.9 27.9 27.9
Total financial assets 44.8 44.8 36.7 36.7
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (26.2) (26.2) (21.0) (21.0)
Contingent consideration (0.3) (0.3) (3.3) (3.3)
Borrowings (7.3) (7.3) (1.7) (1.7)
Total financial liabilities (33.8) (33.8) (26.0) (26.0)
Net financial assets 11.0 11.0 10.7 10.7
Details of the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table are set out in note 3(u).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 97
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
24. Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Less than one year 1.4 1.2
Between one and five years 3.2 3.6
More than five years 0.6 0.9
5.2 5.7
Of the £5.2m (2013: £5.7m), £5.0m (2013: £5.3m) relates to property and the balance to plant and equipment.
The Group has no off balance sheet arrangements that need to be disclosed as within the context of Section 410A of the Companies Act 2006.
25. Capital commitments
Capital commitments at 31 December for which no provision has been made in the accounts were:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Contracted 0.3 0.7
26. Contingencies
During 2011 the Roxboro UK Pension Fund (the “Scheme”) was closed to future accrual. This Scheme is included within the pension liability detailed 
in note 19. As part of the negotiations regarding closure, the Company agreed to grant a parent company guarantee in respect of all present and 
future obligations and liabilities (whether actual or contingent and whether owed jointly or severally and in any capacity whatsoever) of Dialight Europe 
Limited, the principal employer, to make payments in the Scheme up to a maximum amount equal to the entire aggregate liability, on the date on which 
any liability under the guarantee arises, of every employer (within the meaning set out in Section 318 of the Pensions Act 2004 and regulations made 
thereunder) in relation to the Scheme, were a debt under Section 75(2) of the Pensions Act 1995 to have become due on that date. No provision 
has been made in relation to this contingency. 
27. Related parties
The ultimate controlling party of the Group is Dialight plc. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation. 
Intra-group transactions are priced on arm’s length basis.
Transactions with key management personnel
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 1% of the Company.
The main Board Directors are considered to be the Group’s key management personnel. 
Key management personnel compensation comprised the following:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Short-term employee benefits 0.8 0.9
Post-retirement benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments 0.1 0.3
1.0 1.3
The aggregate of remuneration and amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes of the highest paid Director was £0.6m (2013: £0.9m), 
and pension contributions of £0.1m (2013: £0.1m) were made to a money purchase scheme on his behalf. During the year, the highest paid Director 
received 38,491 shares under a long-term incentive scheme.  Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 98
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. Related parties continued
Transactions with key management personnel continued
2014 2013
Number of Directors accruing benefits under:
– Money purchase schemes 3 3
– Defined benefit schemes 0 0
Number of Directors who exercised share options 1 2
Number of Directors in respect of whose qualifying services shares were received or receivable under long-term incentive 
schemes 3 3
28. Significant subsidiaries
The companies listed in the table below are those which, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the revenue, profit or assets of the Dialight Group.
Country of incorporation
Percentage
owned Principal activity
Dialight Corporation* US 100% Manufacture and sale of Components, Signals and Lighting products
Dialight Garufo GmbH* Germany 100% Manufacture and sale of Signals products
Dialight Europe Limited England and Wales 100% Manufacture and sale of Components, Signals and Lighting products
Dialight BTI A/S Denmark 100% Manufacture and sale of Signal products
Dialight ILS Australia Pty Limited* Australia 75% Sale of Signals and Lighting products
Dialight Japan KK* Japan 100% Sale of Signals and Lighting products
Dialight Asia Pte. Ltd* Singapore 75% Sale of Signals and Lighting products
Dialight Penang Sdn. Bhd.* Malaysia 100% Manufacture and sale of Components products 
Dialight Do Brasil T ecnologia Led Ltda* Brazil 75% Sale of Signals and Lighting products
All of these are included within the consolidation. Those marked with an * are indirectly held. A full list of Dialight Group companies will be appended 
to the next annual return of Dialight plc filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Dialight ILS Australia Pty Limited, Dialight Asia Pte. Ltd and Dialight Do Brasil Tecnologia Led Ltda are all owned 75% by the Group and there are 
non-controlling interests of 25%. The total profit for the period attributable to non-controlling interests is less than £0.1m (2013: £0.1m) and their share 
of equity is £0.1m (2013: £0.1m).
29. Contingent consideration
2014 2013
Balance at 1 January 3.3 3.3
Change in fair value (note 8) 0.1 0.3
Effects of foreign exchange movement — (0.3)
Reduction due to settlement (note 6) (3.1) —
Balance at 31 December 0.3 3.3
The contingent consideration relates to the purchase of Airinet Inc in 2012. Following agreement with the former owners, the remaining consideration 
payable for the Airinet acquisition has been reduced to £0.3m.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 99
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Note
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 31 — 0.1
Investments 32 17.3 17.1
Debtors 33 25.0 21.6
42.3 38.8
Current assets
Debtors 33 16.6 18.5
Cash 0.6 —
17.2 18.5
Creditors
Amounts falling due within one year
Other creditors 34 (6.3) (5.6)
Borrowings (7.3) (1.7)
Current liabilities (13.6) (7.3)
Net current assets 3.6 11.2
Total assets less current liabilities 45.9 50.0
Net assets excluding pension fund liability 45.9 50.0
Pension fund asset 38 — 0.1
Net assets including pension fund liability 45.9 50.1
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 36, 37 0.6 0.6
Capital redemption reserve 37 2.2 2.2
Other reserve 37 1.9 1.7
Profit and loss account 37 41.2 45.6
Equity shareholder funds 45.9 50.1
The accompanying notes form part of the financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by:
Bill Ronald Fariyal Khanbabi
Chairman Group Finance Director
Company balance sheet (prepared under UK GAAP)
At 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 100
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30. Accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared under historic cost accounting rules and in accordance with UK GAAP.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the financial statements.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
No statement of total recognised gains and losses is required under UK GAAP as it is treated as related to the profit and loss account. 
Actuarial movements and related deferred tax will therefore only appear in the reserves note.
The Company is exempt from the requirement of FRS 1 “Cash Flow Statements” to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the Company 
is consolidated in the Group consolidated financial statements.
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost, less estimated net realisable value, of tangible fixed assets on a straight-line basis over 
the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The principal annual rates used for this purpose are:
Office equipment    between 10% and 20%
Computer equipment    between 20% and 33.3%
Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings   between 10% and 20%
Motor vehicles    between 25% and 33.3%
Leased assets
The costs of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered 
by a forward exchange contract. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling 
at the balance sheet date or if appropriate at the forward contract rate.
Taxation
Deferred taxation is recognised without discounting in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting 
purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost, less provisions for impairment in value. Where the consideration for the acquisition of a 
subsidiary undertaking includes shares in the Company to which the provisions of Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 apply, the cost represents 
the nominal value of shares issued together with the fair value of any additional consideration given and costs.
Pension contributions
The Company operates both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. The assets of all the arrangements are held separately from the assets of the 
Company in independently administered funds. The amount charged against profits in respect of defined contribution arrangements is the contributions 
payable to those arrangements in the accounting period.
For the defined benefit arrangements the assets are measured at market values. The liabilities are measured using the projected unit method, discounting 
at the current rate of return of a high quality corporate bond of the appropriate term and currency to the liability, as required under FRS 17.
The defined benefit scheme surplus or deficit is recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
The movement in the deficit is split between operating charges, financing items and actuarial gains and losses in the statement of recognised 
gains and losses.
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 101
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
30. Accounting policies continued
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately recognised and 
are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Cash and cash equivalents
The carrying amount reported in the balance sheet approximates to fair value.
Share-based payments
The PSP allows employees to acquire shares of the Company. The fair value of awards granted is recognised as an employee expense with 
a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become 
unconditionally entitled to receive the awards. The fair value of the awards granted is measured using a pricing model, taking into account the terms 
and conditions upon which the awards were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share awards 
that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Where the Company grants awards over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its 
subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiaries’ financial statements with the corresponding 
credit being recognised directly in equity.
31. Fixed assets
Plant,
equipment
and vehicles
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 0.2
Additions —
At 31 December 2014 0.2
Depreciation
At 1 January 2014 (0.1)
Charge for the year (0.1)
At 31 December 2014 (0.2)
Net book value at 31 December 2014 —
Net book value at 31 December 2013 0.1 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 102
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
32. Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
£’m
Cost
At 1 January 2014 21.9
Share-based payment 0.2
At 31 December 2014 22.1
Provisions
At 1 January 2014 (4.8)
Profit and loss account —
At 31 December 2014 (4.8)
Net book value at 31 December 2014 17.3
Net book value at 31 December 2013 17.1
In accordance with UITF 41 “Scope of FRS 20 (IFRS 2)” the cost of investment is increased to reflect the cost of share options awarded to employees 
of the Company’s subsidiaries.
The companies listed in the table below are those which, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the revenue, profit or assets of the Dialight Group.
Name
Percentage
owned Country of incorporation and operation
Dialight Corporation* 100% US
Dialight Europe Limited 100% England and Wales
Dialight Garufo GmbH* 100% Germany
Dialight BTI A/S 100% Denmark
Dialight ILS Australia Pty Limited* 75% Australia
Dialight Japan KK* 100% Japan
Dialight Asia Pte. Ltd* 75% Singapore
Dialight Penang Sdn. Bhd.* 100% Malaysia
Dialight Do Brasil Tecnologia Led Ltda* 75% Brazil
The investment is held directly by the Company except for those companies where indicated by *. A full list of Dialight Group companies 
will be appended to the next annual return of Dialight plc filed with the Registrar of Companies.
33. Debtors
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 41.1 39.6
Other debtors 0.4 0.4
Deferred tax asset (note 35) 0.1 0.1
41.6 40.1
Less non-current portion: amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings (25.0) (21.6)
Current portion 16.6 18.5
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 103
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
34. Creditors
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 5.3 3.8
Accruals and deferred income 1.0 1.8
6.3 5.6
35. Deferred tax assets
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
At 1 January 0.1 0.5
Prior year adjustment — (0.4)
Profit and loss account — —
Recognised in equity — —
At 31 December 0.1 0.1
An analysis of deferred tax is as follows:
Capital allowances — —
Short-term timing differences 0.1 0.1
Debtors (see note 33) 0.1 0.1
Pension liability (see note 38) — —
0.1 0.1
36. Called up share capital
2014
Number
2014
£’m
2013
Number
2013
£’m
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1.89 pence each 32,503,258 0.6 32,359,892 0.6 
Shares classified as liabilities — —
Shares classified in shareholder funds 0.6 0.6
0.6 0.6
During the year, 143,366 shares were issued (0.4% of the total ordinary share capital issued) at par. The ordinary shares issued have the same rights 
as the other shares in issue.
Share-based payments
Please refer to note 19. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 104
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
37. Capital and reserves
Share
capital
£’m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’m
Other
reserve 
capital
contribution
£’m
Profit
and loss
account
£’m
Total
£’m
At 1 January 2014 0.6 2.2 1.7 45.6 50.1
Profit for the year — — — 0.6 0.6
Dividends to shareholders — — — (4.9) (4.9)
Share-based payments — — 0.2 — 0.2
Actuarial loss on pension plan — — — (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2014 0.6 2.2 1.9 41.2 45.9
At 31 December 2014 the number of shares held by the Group through the ESOT was 9,606 ordinary shares (2013: 2,514). The market value of these 
shares at 31 December 2014 was £77,809 (2013: £21,520).
The profit for the year was £0.6m (2013: £3.1m). Net expenses recognised directly in equity relate to the net actuarial gain (net of deferred tax) 
arising in respect of the pension scheme. 
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Profit and loss reserve excluding pension liability 41.3 45.5
Pension reserve (0.1) 0.1
Profit and loss reserve 41.2 45.6
Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Profit for the year 0.6 3.1
Dividends paid (4.8) (4.6)
Dividends on shares awarded under the PSP (0.1) —
Actuarial loss on pension plan (0.1) —
Share-based payments, net of tax 0.2 0.4
Net reduction to shareholder funds (4.2) (1.1)
Opening shareholder funds 50.1 51.2
Closing shareholder funds 45.9 50.1
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 105
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
37. Capital and reserves continued
Dividends
After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are 
no income tax consequences for the Company.
Final proposed dividend
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
9.8 pence per ordinary share (2013: 9.5 pence) 3.2 3.1
During the year the following dividends were paid:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Final – 9.5 pence (2013: 9.5 pence) per ordinary share 3.1 3.1
Interim – 5.2 pence (2013: 4.9 pence) per ordinary share 1.7 1.5
4.8 4.6
Dividends accrued on shares awarded under the PSP but not yet vested 0.1 —
Total (amount shown in the statement of changes in equity) 4.9 4.6
38. Pensions
The Company operates both a defined benefit executive scheme and a defined contribution plan. The assets of the schemes are held separately 
from those of the Company. The defined benefit plan is closed to new members.
Recognised assets for defined benefit obligations
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Present value of liabilities (2.1) (1.8)
Fair value of plan assets 2.1 1.9
Recognised asset for defined benefit obligations — 0.1
Deferred tax (see note 35) — —
Pension assets, net of deferred tax — 0.1
Plan assets consist of the following:
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Bonds 1.9 1.7
Cash 0.2 0.2
2.1 1.9 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 106
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
38. Pensions continued
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Liabilities at 1 January 1.8 1.7
Interest cost 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (0.1) (0.1)
Actuarial loss 0.3 0.1
Liabilities at 31 December 2.1 1.8
Movements in fair value of plan assets
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Assets at 1 January 1.9 1.8
Expected return on scheme assets 0.1 0.1
Employer contributions 0.1 0.1
Benefit paid (0.1) (0.1)
Actuarial gain 0.1 —
Assets at 31 December 2.1 1.9
Expense recognised in the profit and loss account
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Interest on obligation 0.1 0.1
Expected return on plan assets (0.1) (0.1)
— —
Expense recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
Actuarial gain on plan assets 0.1 —
Change in assumptions in respect of liabilities (0.3) (0.1)
Net actuarial loss recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses (0.2) (0.1)
Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses (0.7) (0.5)
Notes to the Company financial statements continued
For the year ended 31 December 2014 Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 107
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
38. Pensions continued
Historical information
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
2012
£’m
2011
£’m
2010
£’m
Defined benefit obligation (2.1) (1.8) (1.7) (1.6) (1.5)
Scheme assets 2.1 1.9 1.8 1.6 1.5
Surplus — 0.1 0.1 — —
Actuarial (losses) on liabilities (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) —
Experience gain on assets 0.1 — 0.1 — —
Liability for defined benefit obligations
The principal assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) are:
UK scheme (% per annum)
2014 2013 2012
Discount rate at 31 December 3.40 4.40 4.40
Future salary increases n/a n/a n/a
Future pension increases 3.20 3.50 2.90
Inflation – RPI 3.20 3.60 2.90
Inflation – CPI 2.30 2.80 2.40
Deferred revaluation 2.30 2.80 2.40
The expected long-term rates of return were:
UK scheme (% per annum)
2014 2013 2012
Equities n/a n/a n/a
Bonds 3.40 4.40 4.40
Cash 3.40 4.40 3.00
For its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 31 December 2014, used SAPS mortality tables 
based on year of birth (as is published by the Institute of Actuaries). The UK mortality tables are based on the latest mortality investigations and reflect 
an industry-wide recognition that life expectations have improved. The average life expectancy of an individual currently aged 45 years and retiring at 
age 65 years is 24.0 years for males and 26.7 years for females. For individuals currently aged 65 years the average life expectancy is 22.3 years 
for males and 24.7 years for females.
The expected long-term rate of return for investments is based on the portfolio as a whole and not on individual asset categories. The return is based 
exclusively on historical returns, without adjustments which are cross-checked against market expectations from external sources.
The Company expects that contributions to the defined benefit plan in 2015 will be at a similar level to contributions paid in 2014.
39. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions conferred by FRS 8 and has not disclosed transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries 
that are part of the Group or the investees of the Group.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemptions available under FRS 29 whereby parent companies are not required to apply the disclosure 
requirements of the standard in their own single entity financial statements on the basis that the disclosures are included in the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group. Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 108
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Prepared under IFRSs
2014
£’m
2013
£’m
2012*
£’m
2011*
£’m
2010
£’m
Revenue
*
159.8 131.2 115.1 102.5 99.2
Research and development cash expenditure 6.2 5.9 5.0 5.1 3.7
Underlying operating profit
*
18.1 14.5 19.6 15.5 11.2
Non-underlying operating loss (2.3) (2.9) — (0.1) —
Finance (charges)/income (0.3) (0.4) 0.2 (0.6) 0.1
Profit before gain on disposal of discontinued operations and taxation* 15.5 11.2 19.8 14.8 11.3
Cash generated from operating activities 8.6 6.9 13.8 12.4 14.0
Net cash 0.6 7.1 15.0 13.7 10.4
Shareholders’ funds 72.8 66.7 63.0 54.8 46.2
Statistical information Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations
*
29.4 23.9 41.4 31.3 23.8
Dividends per share 15.0 14.4 13.5 10.0 8.0
Dividend cover (times) 2.0 1.7 3.2 3.0 3.0
Underlying operating margin
*
11.2% 11.1% 17.0% 15.1% 11.3%
* Results for 2011 and 2012 are presented for continuing operations and exclude the results of operations classified as discontinued.
Five-year summary Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 109
Dialight plc
Annual report and accounts 2014 109
Directory and shareholder information
Company Secretary  
and Registered Office
Nick Giles FCIS
Exning Road
Newmarket
Suffolk CB8 0AX
Telephone: +44 (0)1638 778640
Registered in England and Wales
Company Number: 2486024
Email: info@dialight.com 
www.dialight.com 
Website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website, 
www.dialight.com, which contains information 
about Dialight. Any information on or linked from 
the website is not incorporated by reference 
into the Annual Report and Accounts.
There is a section designed specifically for 
investors at www.dialight.com/PLCHome/Index, 
which includes detailed coverage of Dialight’s 
share price and our financial results. You can 
also review this year’s Annual Report and 
Accounts. Our share price is also available 
on the London Stock Exchange’s website,  
www.londonstockexchange.com. 
Dialight plc shareholders can elect to receive their 
shareholder communications such as the Annual 
Report and Accounts and other shareholder 
documents electronically by registering at  
www.dialight.com/SiteServices/AlertServices.
Financial advisers and stockbrokers
Canaccord Genuity Ltd
88 Wood Street
London EC2V 7QR
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Equiniti’s Shareholder Contact Centre can 
be contacted by telephone on 0871 384 2495* 
(international callers: +44 121 415 7047) between 
8.30am and 5.30pm each business day, 
excluding bank holidays. 
You can also access details of your shareholding 
and a range of other shareholder services by 
registering at www.shareview.co.uk. 
*  Calls to this number are charged at 8 pence 
per minute plus network extras.
Dealing service
Equiniti offers Shareview Dealing, a service 
which allows you to sell your Dialight plc shares 
or add to your holding if you are a UK resident. 
You can deal in your shares on the internet or 
by telephone. For more information about this 
service and for details of their rates, log on to 
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or telephone on 
0845 603 7037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, 
Monday to Friday. If you wish to deal, you will 
need your account/shareholder reference number 
which appears on your share certificate. 
Alternatively, if you hold a share certificate, 
you can also use any bank, building society 
or stockbroker offering share dealing facilities 
to buy or sell shares. If you are in any doubt 
about buying or selling shares, you should 
seek professional financial advice.
Forward-looking statements
Certain sections of this Annual Report contain 
forward-looking statements that are subject 
to risk factors associated with, amongst other 
things, the economic and business circumstances 
occurring from time to time in the countries and 
sectors in which the Company and its subsidiaries 
and associates operate. It is believed that the 
expectations reﬂected in the Annual Report 
are reasonable but they may be affected by 
a wide range of variables which could cause 
actual results to differ materially from those 
currently anticipated.
Trade Marks
The following trade marks appear in this 
document: Dialight, DuroSite, SafeSite 
and Vigilant, and are the registered trade 
marks of the Dialight Group.
Auditors
KPMG LLP
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway 
Birmingham B4 6GH
Legal advisers
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row
London EC1Y 8YY
Butzel Long
Suite 100
150 West Jefferson Ave
Detroit, MI 48226
USA
Principal bankers
HSBC Bank PLC
Level 6 Metropolitan House
CBX3
321 Avebury Boulevard
Milton Keynes MK9 2GA
Financial calendar 2015/2016
Annual General Meeting/
Interim Management Statement
15 April 2015
Half Yearly Financial Report
27 July 2015
Interim Management Statement
5 November 2015 (provisional)
Regional headquarters
Dialight Corporation
1501 Route 34 South
Farmingdale, NJ 07727
USA
Telephone: +1 732 919 3119
Facsimile: +1 732 751 5778
Dialight Europe Limited
Exning Road
Newmarket
Suffolk CB8 0AX
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 1638 665161
Facsimile: +44 (0) 1638 660718
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2014
Dialight plc
Exning Road 
Newmarket 
Suffolk CB8 0AX
www.dialight.com
