 Interactive PDF
Dialog | Annual report and accounts 2010
User Guide 
Welcome to the Dialog annual report and accounts 2010. This interactive pdf allows you to easily 
access the information that you want, whether printing, searching for a specific item or going 
directly to another page, section or website. The different features are detailed below.
Document controls 
Use the document controls located in the top margin to navigate through this report.
Section navigation 
Use the links on the Contents page to navigate to the  
start of a statement. Use the Contents button to return  
to the contents.
Search
Print
Contents
Previous page
Next page
Links 
Throughout this report there are links to pages, other sections and web addresses 
for additional information.
Examples: This is an example of how the links appear within this document.  
They are recognisable by the blue underline, simply click to go to the relevant page 
or web URL (www.dialog-semiconductor.com). Annual report and accounts 2010
Powering ahead...
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Section 1: Overview
02 Dialog at a glance
03 Our markets
06 Chairman’s statement
07 Dialog Semiconductor shares in 2010
Section 2: Business review
12 Business review and strategy
13 Chief Executive’s review
15 Solutions, products technology and key customers
22 Financial review
26 Risks and their management
27 Corporate social responsibility
Section 3: Management and governance
29 Executive management
30 Board of Directors
31 Directors’ report
33 Corporate Governance
35 Directors’ remuneration report 
38 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
38 Responsibility statement
Section 4: Consolidated financial statements and notes
39 Independent Auditors’ report to the members  
 of Dialog Semiconductor Plc
40 Consolidated statement of financial position
41 Consolidated income statement
42 Statement of comprehensive income
43 Consolidated statement of cash flows
44 Consolidated statement of changes in  
 Shareholders’ equity
45 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Section 5: Company financial statements and notes
86 Company statement of financial position
87 Company statement of changes in equity
88 Company statement of cash flows
89 Notes to the Company financial statements
Section 6: Additional information
90 Glossary
92 Advisers and corporate information
93 Group directory Dialog Semiconductor creates energy-efficient, highly integrated, mixed-
signal circuits optimised for portable devices – including Smartphone and 
Tablet PC, lighting and automotive applications. The Company provides 
flexible and dynamic support, world-class innovation and the assurance  
of dealing with an established business partner. 
With its unique focus and expertise in system power management,  
Dialog brings decades of experience to the rapid development of 
integrated circuits for power management, audio, display processing  
and motor control. Dialog’s processor companion chips are essential  
for enhancing both the performance of hand-held products and the 
consumers’ multimedia experience. With world-class manufacturing 
partners, Dialog operates a fabless business model. 
Dialog Semiconductor plc is headquartered near Stuttgart with a global 
sales, R&D and marketing organisation. In 2010, it had US$296.6 million  
in revenue and was again one of the fastest growing European public 
semiconductor companies. At year end 2010, Dialog Semiconductor had 
approximately 400 employees. The company is listed on the Frankfurt 
(FWB: DLG) stock exchange and a member of the German TecDAX index.  02  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Section 1 | Overview
Dialog at a glance
December 2010 – Dialog Semiconductor launched 
the mixed signal DA8223, the world’s first real 
time 2D to 3D video conversion chip for portable 
devices including Smartphones and Tablet PCs. 
The device allows users to view video 3D content 
without the need for glasses.
 ● Emergence of the Tablet PC market as a 
significant future market for Dialog’s power 
management ICs, with leadership position 
already established
 ● Dialog’s ultra low power audio codec ICs 
now in production with designs wins at 
Sony and Samsung Electronics 
 ● Continued standard product (ASSP) 
portfolio expansion with new ASSPs 
released including:
 – Power management companion device 
for Intel’s latest Atom E6xx series
 – Second generation configurable power 
management PMIC
 – New low power Audio Codecs
 – 2D-3D video conversion IC for Tablet PCs 
and Smartphones 
 ● Renesas and NEC, leading application 
processor providers, confirmed as the latest 
members of Dialog’s Processor Partner 
Program Initiative
Total revenue 
(US$m) +36%
*
Gross margin 
(%) +1.4%
*
Operating profit 
(US$m) +58%
*
Net profit 
(US$m) +30%
*
Highlights
2010 Financial highlights – A record year
 ● 36% growth in revenue
 ● Full-year 2010 net profit of US$42.5 million 
or 14.3% of sales completing three years  
of successive profitability
 ● Annual gross margin of 46.3%
 ● Closing year cash balance of  
US$158.2 million, increase  
of US$35.1 million over 2009 
 ●  Dialog remains debt free as at 
31 December 2010
 ● Basic and Diluted 2010 Earnings per share 
(EPS) of 70 cents and 66 cents respectively
2010 Operational highlights
 ● Continued Smartphone design win success 
for power management, audio and display 
technologies through engagement at 
three of the top four global Smartphone 
manufacturers
2010 saw Dialog diversifying its 
customer base with the addition  
of key Asian and Japanese OEMs for 
both power management and audio 
technology for portable platforms. 
Additionally, our IP portfolio was 
enhanced through acquisition and 
licensing agreements with key 
industry partners.
LG and Sharp selects Dialog power  
management technology for Android based  
and 3G Smartphones
First Tablet PC products based on Dialog 
technology appear
Acquisition of Diodes Zetex power  
management assets
Q1
07 10 09 08
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
*Year-on-year growth 2009-2010
07 10 09 08
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
07 10 09 08
0
10
20
30
40
50
07 10 09 08
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  03
Our markets
Section 1 | Overview
Again one step ahead with early 
innovative solutions for the emerging  
high-growth Tablet PC market
Dialog is a global designer, developer and supplier 
of mixed signal integrated circuits with a focus 
on the integration of power management,  
and display processing functionalities for 
high-volume portable devices like Smartphones,  
MP3 players and Tablet PCs, in addition to 
automotive and industrial applications.
Dialog replaces discrete power management 
components with high integrated single chips 
solutions that provide improved reliability, 
design simplicity as well as space saving,  
power and cost advantages.
Dialog is a fabless semiconductor company 
outsourcing the capital intensive production  
of silicon wafers, packaging and testing of 
integrated circuits to leading Asian suppliers.
Wireless
Our wireless power management, audio and 
display semiconductor solutions are designed  
to meet the needs of Smartphones, Tablet PCs, 
ebooks, MP3 players and other portable devices.
With a focus on differentiated display 
power-saving technologies, we offer innovative 
solutions for OLED based displays, e-ink as well 
as powering Qualcomm’s Mirasol™ displays.
Automotive and Industrial
Infotainment in cars is rapidly changing as 
multimedia and wireless technology enter  
the car environment. Dialog has partnered with 
Intel to provide companion power management 
and clock ICs for the Atom E6xx series of 
processors to address these next generation 
automotive infotainment systems.
Dialog Semiconductor’s motor control ICs  
are custom-designed for a wide range of 
automotive applications, including window  
and mirror control, automatic seat belt 
tensioning, windscreen wiper control,  
and control of engine cooling fans.
In the industrial market, Dialog provides  
power electronics solutions for lighting such  
as electronic ballasts for fluorescent or high- 
intensity industrial lighting with the future 
developments focused on energy-efficient  
LED lighting solutions.
Focusing on our strengths
Dialog has longstanding expertise in developing 
analogue and mixed signal products, with a 
focus on power management integrated circuits. 
The Company is currently leveraging its expertise 
to add audio and display integrated circuits to 
its product portfolio, and aims to offer the 
industry’s highest level of power management 
mixed signal integration, with rapid design 
cycle and time to volume production.
 
Sony and Samsung Electronics 
announced as first customers  
for Dialog’s ultra low power 
audio technology
Launch of industry’s first  
2D-3D video conversion IC  
for Smartphones and Tablet  
PCs – with no need for glasses
Q4
Congatec announced as  
first design win for miniature 
industrial embedded PC  
design using Dialog’s Intel  
Atom companion power 
management and clock IC
Q3
Partnering with TSMC for  
BCD process technology and 
NXP for DSP and audio software 
technology
Q2
Smartphone market
(million units)
0
100
200
300
400
500
10 13 12 11
Source: Arete Research/Dialog Marketing 2010
Tablet PC market 
(million units)
0
50
100
150
200
250
13 12 11 15
Source: Arete Research/Dialog Marketing 2010
14
Infotainment market –  
OEM and aftermarket 
(million units)
0
15
30
45
60
75
12 11 10 14 13
Source: iSuppli/Dialog Marketing 2010 04  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Living connectivity Wirelessly connected devices have 
become part of our daily lives. The 
relentless pace of product development 
has seen these amazing handheld gadgets 
grow exponentially in processing 
capability with ever brighter, finer 
resolution displays and a dazzling array 
of processor-hungry applications.
Dialog’ s advanced power management ICs can 
be found at the heart of some of the world’s 
coolest personal portable devices ensuring 
consumers can work, play and communicate 
whenever and wherever life takes them 
without compromising on battery life.
Our display driver technology is opening up 
new and exciting ways for people to connect 
with the world. Dialog’s SmartXtend PM OLED 
drivers will enable manufacturers to produce 
thinner, transparent and flexible displays that 
are incredibly robust while providing higher 
screen resolutions with sparkling clarity at low 
power. While the emerging e-reader market 
is benefiting from the latest generation of 
bistable displays driven by Dialog’s highly 
innovative e-ink and Mirasol driver ICs.
“ PM OLED displays will enable 
manufacturers to produce 
portable devices with exciting 
new form factors with Dialog’s 
driver technology at the heart  
of their innovation.” 
  Andr ew Austin 
 Vice President, Sales 06  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Chairman’s statement
Section 1 | Overview
2010 has been another  
positive year for Dialog 
Semiconductor Plc. We have 
now achieved 13 quarters  
of consecutive growth and  
year-on-year revenue growth  
of 36%.
Our balance sheet is strong with year-end  
cash at US$158 million. The stock price has 
risen 122% this year and by 26 times over the 
past two years. Share liquidity has continued  
to improve significantly throughout the year 
with an average 985,000 shares traded daily 
compared to 510,000 shares in 2009.
The Company continues to focus on deeper 
and broader relationships with existing 
customers meaning more semiconductor 
content sold into a broader range of customer 
applications and at the same time bringing  
new customers on board. We would expect  
to see the results of this progress more clearly 
manifest in the results for next year and beyond.
The acquisition of SiTel Semiconductor B.V.  
is in keeping with this strategy, giving the 
Company access to new customers and 
enhancing our product offering through  
new but complementary technology.
The Board has strengthened the management 
team. This has been done with key hires of 
Martin Powell, VP of Human Resources and 
Andrew Austin as VP of Sales. The Board will 
continue to look for the appointment of new 
top talent to support the significant growth  
of the Company and to ensure a management 
team and structure of a Company with a  
€1 billion plus market capitalisation.
The Board will continue to support the 
management team and employees, who  
have delivered these results in such uncertain 
economic times, through share and bonus 
schemes which will continue to incentivise 
them to achieve first-class results and ensure 
that they share fairly in the rewards generated 
for shareholders (or not, if that be the case). 
Indeed, the Company operates in a volatile  
and uncertain market and the successes  
of the recent past are no guarantee of future 
performance. Despite this note of caution the 
Board and management team are confident 
about the future and thank you for your 
continued support.
Greg Reyes 
Chairman Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  07
Dialog Semiconductor shares in 2010
Section 1 | Overview
2010 saw Dialog outperforming 
the market with the share price 
growing by more than 122%  
in 2010 and share liquidity 
increasing by 93%.
Dialog gains the confidence  
of the market both in Europe 
and the US with many new 
long-term institutional 
shareholders added.
Share price development
2010 saw a significant rise in the Dialog  
share price. Starting the year at €7.63, it rose 
steadily early in the year to reach €12.22 by  
19 February before declining to €7.71 by  
25 May. From 1 September it subsequently 
started to recover closing the year at a yearly 
high of €17.03. 
The following graphs chart the cumulative 
Shareholder return of the Company for the 
past 12 months and for the past five years, 
compared with selected technical benchmark 
indices – Germany’s TecDAX index – which 
Dialog itself entered in September 2009,  
and the Philadelphia SE Semiconductor index 
(“SOX”). As can be seen from the graph,  
for 2010 Dialog outperformed the TecDAX  
by 98.4%, the SOX by more than 86.3%.
Thus, in 2010, we were successful in achieving 
one of our most important corporate 
objectives; namely, to increase the value of the 
Company for the benefit of the Shareholders.
70
100
130
160
190
220
250
280
310
TECDAX (XETRA) – PRICE INDEX DIALOG SEMICON. (XET) PHILADELPHIA SE SEMICONDUCTOR – PRICE INDEX
J 10
F 10
M 10
A 10
M 10
J 10
J 10
A 10
S 10
O 10
N 10
D 10
2010 12-month Dialog Semiconductor share price performance (%) 08  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Section 1 | Overview
Dialog Semiconductor shares in 2010 continued
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
TECDAX (XETRA) – PRICE INDEX DIALOG SEMICON. (XET) PHILADELPHIA SE SEMICONDUCTOR – PRICE INDEX
06
07
08
09
10
2006-2010 Dialog Semiconductor share price performance (%)
Share fundamentals for the financial year 2010
Total number of shares outstanding and registered as of 31 December 2010  65,068,930
Weighted average number of shares during 2010 (basic) 60,313,415 
Weighted average number of shares during 2010 (diluted) 64,840,680
Type  Ordinary
Par value (in £)  0.1
Bloomberg Symbol DLG
Reuters Symbol  DLGS.DE
ISIN  GB0059822006
Key figures for the financial year 2010 based on weighted average number of shares (basic)
Sales per share (in US$)  4.92
Operating profit per share (in US$)  0.75
Net profit per share (in US$) 0.70
Book value per share as of 31 December 2010 (in US$)  3.40
Accounting standards  IAS/IFRS
Market data 2010
Exchange segment Germany  Midcap, Prime All Share, 
  Prime Technology, 
  Technology All Share
Designated sponsor  Close Brothers Seydler
Market capitalisation as of 31 December 2010 (in millions of €)  1,106
Turnover of shares during 2010  984,698 shares/day Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  09
“ Dialog, in its first full year as  
part of the German TecDAX  
Index, outperformed the index  
by 83%, attracting many new 
institutional and retail investors  
as shareholders.”
TecDAX index
Dialog was granted entry to the TecDAX index 
during 2009. The TecDAX tracks the 30 largest 
and most actively traded companies from the 
various technology sectors of the Prime Standard 
segment, excluding those listed in the German 
DAX index. It is amongst the most important 
and leading stock indices in Germany and 
membership is decided by a ranking, based on 
a company’s free-float market capitalisation 
and stock market trading volume.
Freefloat
Dialog’s freefloat is 61,073,899 million shares 
or 93.9% of the 65,068,930 outstanding 
shares. The freefloat is calculated by excluding 
the 3,995,031 shares held in the Dialog 
Semiconductor Plc Employee Benefit Trust.
The freefloat includes the following shares held 
on behalf of discretionary clients as per the 
share register on 31 December 2010.
Trading in Dialog shares
Dialog shares are traded in Germany on the 
XETRA and Frankfurt regulated official markets 
and on all other German regional exchanges  
on the open market.
Dividend policy
Dialog Semiconductor participates in industries 
that are considered to be global growth 
engines and provides its services and products 
to major players in these industries. Dialog’s 
Board of Directors is committed to reinvesting 
all profits into laying the framework for future 
growth and continues to believe that, in line 
with the strategic changes under way, this 
policy is by now in the best interests of all  
its Shareholders.
Investor relations
Dialog Semiconductor understands the 
importance of clear communication with 
investors and analysts, particularly during  
a period of great uncertainty and global 
economic crisis. During 2010, the management 
team continued its efforts to ensure that the 
market was kept up to date with the effect  
the changing macro environment was having 
on its business, together with the important 
and exciting changes under way at the 
Company. Dialog Semiconductor’s shares are 
now followed by eight independent financial 
analysts representing both European and US 
banking institutions. During 2010, we issued 
trading updates and quarterly earning reports, 
we held our annual analyst conference, 
presented at several investor conferences  
and international roadshows, and, in addition, 
kept in regular contact with our investors  
and analysts. Information provided, including 
presentations, press releases and reports of  
the Company, as well as the recommendations 
of analysts covering the Company, can be 
downloaded from the corporate Website: 
www.dialog-semiconductor.com/ 
investor_relations_home.php
Citigroup Global Markets 3,969,435 6.1%
Chase Nominees Ltd. 3,910,823 6.0%
BNP Paribas Securities Services 3,787,895 5.8%
State Street f. Benefit of Clients 3,032,036 4.7%
Morgan Stanley Bank AG 2,963,872 4.6%
CACEIS Bank 2,158,567 3.3%
Disclosure of interests
The provisions of the DTR require that any 
person acquiring a direct or indirect interest  
of 3% or more of a class of shares issued  
by the Company – with voting rights at the 
Company’s general meeting – must inform  
the Company of its interest within two  
working days. If the 3% interest is exceeded, 
the Shareholder must inform the Company  
of any increase or decrease of one percentage 
point in its interest.
With respect to voting rights attached to  
shares held by investment managers (on behalf 
of clients), by scheme operators and ICVCs in 
accordance with DTR 5.1.5, the first threshold 
for disclosure is set at 5% with the next level 
set at 10% and every percentage above 10%.
And 1,978,828 shares (3.0%) held by X-Fab 
Semiconductor AG as per the share register  
on 31 December 2010. 10  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Participating in 3D Advances in 3D technology and ground- 
breaking movies such as Avatar has  
seen the resurgence of 3D. In 2010 3D 
began the migration from movie theatre 
to home theatre with the advent of  
3D TV. 2011 will see 3D break through 
into personal portable devices fitted 
with parallax barrier displays allowing 
consumers to enjoy 3D games, pictures 
and movies without glasses.
As the saying goes: “content is king”  
and consumers investing in 3D Smartphones 
and Tablet PCs will expect unlimited access 
to 3D content regardless, even if it was 
originally shot in 2D. This is where Dialog’s 
experience in power management and 
display technology comes to the fore.
Launching in 2011, Dialog introduces 
DA8223, a real-time 2D to 3D video and 
photo converter IC which produces vibrant 
3D images without any loading on the host 
processor and at unparalleled low power.
“ DA8223 will fundamentally 
change the 3D landscape  
by giving consumers 
unconstrained access to 3D 
content without 3D glasses.”
  Mark T yndall 
Vice President, Business Development 
& Corporate Strategy 12  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Business review and strategy
Section 2 | Business review
Our strategy was validated  
in 2010 when we delivered 
record financial and operational 
results. We have again achieved 
high growth – beyond the 
industry and our peers – with 
increased profitability and an 
even stronger balance sheet.
Major achievements from Dialog  
in the execution of its strategy  
included the following:
DEEPENED our relationships with key 
industry trendsetters and leaders 
EXPANDED North America and  
Asia operations with already increased  
customer success demonstrated
BROADENED our customer base  
by leveraging our portfolio of  
standard solutions
ADDED new partners to our Processor 
Partner Program Initiative 
Wdolore vardis mentat est veriddium 
nederadium telos et mar tvession
Dialog has relationships with a number of 
high-volume customers, many of which are  
considered trendsetters and key industry leaders in 
their respective sectors. Dialog has in 2010 continued 
to focus efforts on these customers to increase both 
the custom semiconductor content sold into the 
customers’ platform and broaden the number of 
platforms addressed.
Dialog opened a new office in Silicon Valley to 
support its growing US customer base and application 
processor partners. In Asia, it has expanded its sales, 
marketing and application support to support the 
continued ramp in the business in Korea, Japan and 
China as new customers continue to be added for 
both standard and custom products. Both these 
regions represent exciting growth opportunities for 
Dialog going forward for both custom and standard 
product engagements.
Dialog has increasingly adapted some of its solutions 
to multiple customers and transitioned its portfolio to 
offer more standard products. In 2010, new products 
included a second generation of configurable Power 
Management ICs, new audio codecs, companion device 
for Intel’ s latest series of Atom processor and a 2D-3D 
video conversion IC. Samsung and Sony were added 
as the first customers to use our audio technology on 
portable platforms and we are engaging with a broad 
base of new industrial customers through our 
engagement with Intel.
Additionally, by investing in enhancing the corporate 
identity and brand development activities, coupled with 
the recent expansion of its sales and marketing force, 
Dialog in 2010 has laid the foundations for marketing 
its products to a much broader customer base.
A key element of our success is to engage with 
application processor vendors and develop power 
management companion chips for their processors. 
This allows us to become an integral part of their  
promotional and application eco system and reach  
a much broader customer base without the need  
for additional sales and support investment. In 2010, 
Dialog expanded relationships with application 
processor vendors within the portable space,  
including adding Renesas, NEC and one other  
major undisclosed application processor vendor.
Dialog remained focused on its existing business 
model, which included fully outsourcing silicon wafer 
production and test to Asian foundry manufacturing 
plants and test houses, and supplying ASICs and 
ASSPs using mainstream CMOS-based process 
technologies. During 2010, a year of tight wafer 
capacity, while growing our business to a level of 
nearly 200 million chips, we were commended by 
many of our customers for our operational excellence 
and support. 
PERFECTION of the fabless model  
while maintaining close contact with  
our manufacturing partners Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  13
Chief Executive’s review
Section 2 | Business review
Maintaining leadership –  
2010 was a very successful  
year for Dialog. We reported 
record revenue and profitability 
and executed our product 
strategy to expand our market 
share in power management 
ICs at major global customers. 
Dialog’s Board and executive team strived  
to continue the success of recent years and 
believe 2010 is testimony to the market 
leadership position they now enjoy. Dialog once 
again outperformed the semiconductor market 
and continued to gain market share against its 
peers. Dialog is well prepared and positioned  
to take advantage of the market opportunities 
unfolding for the growing market of personal 
portable devices as mobile connectivity 
becomes more prevalent in our society.
In 2010, we grew our revenue at an impressive 
36%. This was our third successive year of 
growth above 30%. More importantly, for  
three years we have shown a track record of 
quarterly year-over-year revenue growth –  
a unique achievement in our industry. Our 
profitability metrics also improved as our 
operating expenses were tightly managed.
We continue to generate cash from our 
business and manage our investments very 
carefully. 2010 saw our cash balance increase 
by US$35 million to US$158 million. This will 
help to ensure we are sufficiently funded  
to fuel both our organic and inorganic future 
growth. In addition, we plan to continue our 
strategy to acquire or license complementary 
technology and intellectual property. An 
example in 2010 was the acquisition of the 
Power Management assets from Diodes Zetex 
GmbH. As part of this transaction, a design 
team was also transferred to Dialog. This 
technology has already been successfully 
developed and integrated in a new family  
of power management ICs which we recently 
demonstrated to our customers. 
We have continued to execute on our strategy 
to strengthen technology leadership and in 
February 2011 we acquired SiTel Semiconductor 
B.V., a leader in short-range wireless, digital 
cordless and VOIP technology. As short-range 
wireless technologies are becoming more 
prevalent within our society in a broad range  
of consumer, medical and internet connected 
devices, this represents an exciting new 
expansion area into new adjacent portable 
markets for Dialog. We welcome this new team 
to Dialog and look forward to their positive 
contribution to our continued revenue growth, 
strategic customer diversity and a broader 
product portfolio.
Despite a challenging supply chain situation in 
2010, Dialog was commended by many of its 
major customers for its operational excellence 
in supporting them with on-time deliveries.
For the benefit of our Shareholders, I am 
extremely pleased that 2010 saw us increasing 
our share price from €7.63 at the start of the 
year to close the year at €17.03, an appreciation 
of more than 120%. During 2010, the liquidity  
in our shares increased to a daily average of just 
under one million shares, increasing nearly two 
times over that in 2009. Throughout the year 
through many one-to-one meetings with 
investors, and attendance at both European and 
US conferences, we have focused our investment 
relations efforts on maintaining our relations with 
our existing Shareholders and attracting new 
European and US institutional funds as long-term 
Shareholders of Dialog. Analyst coverage in 
Dialog has also improved with currently seven 
sell side analysts covering our stock.
We have continued to successfully execute  
our growth strategy this year, both extending 
our product portfolio and extending our reach 
into new customers and new growth markets. 
Within the wireless segment, our design win 
success momentum within portable devices has 
continued in 2010, including major design wins 
not only in Smartphones but also within Tablet 
PCs, MP3 players and other portable devices. 
We view the Tablet PC market, which has 
emerged strongly in 2010, as an additive  
and exciting market to Smartphones and one 
which fits perfectly with our expanding  
product portfolio.
Expansion of our portfolio to include more 
standard products has also continued in 2010 
with our launch of new standard product 
families. These launches have included a new 
Intel
®
 Atom™ companion device for the  
latest Atom E6xx series as well as a second 
generation of configurable power management 
ICs. We have also expanded the industry’s 
lowest power audio codec suite of products 
and developed an exciting industry-first 
“2D-3D” video conversion IC for Tablet PCs  
and Smartphones. These products map closely 
with both the prevailing consumer and 
manufacturer demands and provide us with a 
platform for continued future revenue growth.
Our SmartXtend™ passive matrix OLED 
Developments is now ready for industry 
adoption in 2011 within the portable device 
and cellphone markets. The characteristics of 
transparency and flexible displays are proving 
to be strong differentiators for early adopter 
cellphone customers who we are engaging 
with. I remain convinced that our low-energy 
display systems products such as OLED and 
2D-3D converter will be a future driver for 
revenue for Dialog.
Diverse ideas through collaboration 
across the engineering community 14  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
facilities to allow our growth to continue.  
This included moving our Edinburgh design 
centre and Santa Clara office to new upgraded 
locations as well as expansion at our Munich 
design centre. We have also recently started  
a major renovation programme at our 
headquarter offices in Nabern-teck, which will 
allow expanded and modernised work space 
for the next few years to keep pace with 
Company growth. 
We concluded the year with prestigious 
recognition by winning the Global 
Semiconductors Association Outstanding 
European Company Award for the second year 
running, and remain one of the fastest growing 
public semiconductor companies in our field. 
I am fully aware that the success which we 
have achieved in 2010 would not have been 
possible without the unwavering support and 
commitment of all our employees. For this 
unparalleled commitment to the Company, 
they have earned my sincere gratitude. 
Furthermore, I would like to also thank our 
customers, business partners and Shareholders 
for their long-standing loyalty, trust and the 
belief they place in us.
I view this outstanding performance in 2010 as 
both an incentive and an obligation to continue 
our ongoing success story and I am confident 
in the future success of Dialog.
Dr Jalal Bagherli 
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’s review continued
Section 2 | Business review
2010 also saw the recovery of our Automotive 
and Industrial segment with revenues reaching 
a record high. During the year, we were also 
successful in adding a new Japanese motor 
controller customer. The transition to increasing 
use of energy-saving lighting, including LEDs, 
is also providing an exciting opportunity for 
Dialog to further build on its existing lighting 
business for the future. 
I was greatly saddened by the recent death  
at the end of October of a member of our 
management team, Manoj Thanigasalam.  
He was a personal friend and colleague for 
more than 20 years, having worked together 
since the early days in our careers. Manoj is 
greatly missed by the other members of the 
executive team, along with many other 
colleagues and friends that he had across the 
Company and beyond. The Board of Directors, 
the management team and everyone in our 
Company would like to express to his family 
our sincere condolences at their loss.
The consumer demand for mobile connectivity 
through handheld devices is providing Dialog 
with a tremendous market opportunity.  
As a leader in power management integrated 
technology, we’re now a highly-respected 
partner worldwide when it comes to enhancing 
the battery efficiency of portable devices. We 
see long-term growth prospects opening up for 
us in these fields as energy efficiency becomes 
of ever-increasing importance to our society.
The positive business performance reaffirms  
our determination to continue to execute  
the strategy of Dialog where in 2011 we  
aim to achieve:
 ● Continued profitable revenue growth  
driven by market share gain with power 
management and audio ICs especially 
within the Smartphone, Tablet PC and 
portable media device market.
 ● Superior innovation and new standard 
product releases across our business 
segments, including deeper engagement 
within our current and emerging customers 
for high-volume custom products.
 ● Success in PM OLED where together with 
our early cellphone adoptor customers  
aim to bring PM OLED to volume production 
and offer the market new innovative  
display features.
 ● Continued diversification of our customer 
and product base in both portable and 
other industrial markets through both 
organic development and inorganic 
activities – including complementary 
technology-based acquisitions.
To support our growing organisation and 
business, during 2010 we added two new 
members to our executive management team. 
Andrew Austin joined as VP Sales having had  
a successful career at Texas Instruments. 
Additionally, Martin Powell joined as VP Human 
Resources after holding senior executive HR 
roles in the technology industry including 
General Electric (GE) and DELL in his career.
Having completed a major relocation for our 
Swindon facility last year, we have invested  
in major expansion and upgrade of our other 
Capturing Dialog’s teamwork spirit
Manoj Thanigasalam
It is with great sadness that we report the 
passing of Manoj Thanigasalam, a member  
of the Dialog executive management team. 
Manoj died, aged 47, following complications 
from heart surgery on 31 October 2010. He 
leaves behind a wife and two young children.
Manoj was born on 7 November 1963 in  
Sri Lanka. As a young boy he moved with  
his family to the UK where his fascination  
with gadgets and how things worked led  
him to graduate with a degree in physics and 
electronics from Bradford University. Destined  
for a career in the semiconductor industry, 
Manoj joined Philips and from there he 
progressed through the industry working for a 
range of prestigious semiconductor companies 
including Texas Instruments, ARM and Sony.  
In March 2006 Manoj joined Dialog as Vice 
President and General Manager for our Display 
Systems business unit having previously worked 
as VP Business Development at ZBD, a company 
specialising in bistable LCD display technology.
During his distinguished career in the 
semiconductor business, Manoj touched many 
lives and made a great number of close friends 
throughout the whole industry. Manoj is sorely 
missed by all, however his passion for technology 
lives on through us all at Dialog as we build on 
the foundation born from his relentless hard 
work and great dedication for the Display 
Systems business as we strive to build a lasting 
legacy that we can all be proud of. Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  15
Solutions, products technology and key customers
Dialog has combined its Power 
Management technology 
leadership and dedicated 
customer support, delivering 
fully optimised integrated 
products and solutions.
systems. Additionally automotive customers use 
our products in comfort and safety sub-systems; 
and in the industrial market our products are 
used in highly integrated smart-power 
management systems, such as intelligent 
electronic ballasts for fluorescent lighting.
Design, development and production
We are justifiably recognised for the quality and 
feature-rich functionality of our mixed signal 
standard Integrated Circuits and custom 
Application Specific Integrated Circuits solutions.
We nevertheless continually work to increase 
our intellectual property and improve our 
engineering skill base and technology portfolio.
During 2010, we invested US$56.5 million,  
or nearly 19% of our revenue, in research and 
development. Our ability to develop mixed 
signal ASIC and Application Specific Standard 
Product (“ASSP”) designs rapidly enables us to 
respond to customers’ needs for new solutions 
that increase performance, while at the same 
time reducing cost. Our strategy of modifying 
and reusing a wide set of specialised analog 
building blocks speeds up the design process; 
in addition, our use of industry standard design 
tools increases the level of automation and  
the quality of verification in our products.  
Our commitment to continuously deepening 
our expertise has resulted in increased levels  
of integration and product innovation in all 
business sectors.
Our solutions
Our solutions address two major markets: 
portable electronic devices including Smartphones 
and Tablet PCs, and automotive and industrial 
electronics. The demand for an increased feature 
set with improved displays in lithium-ion 
powered portable devices, coupled with the 
expectation of ever-increasing battery life,  
is a major driver in the development of our 
power-saving technology solutions.
Internet connectivity, video streaming and 
high-quality audio on portable devices make 
huge demands on battery energy management, 
as well as on the technology which controls  
the quality of images and displays. Our skill in 
developing highly integrated silicon solutions 
enables our customers to design products 
which deliver excellent performance as well  
as market-leading talk and standby times.
Video must now be transmitted throughout  
the car, captured outside the car and monitored 
with extremely low latency to be able to  
react in real time to the changing external 
environment. Hi-Fi quality is also demanded  
of the audio system and of course better GPS 
support. Our power management and clock 
companion ICs for the Intel Atom processor 
provide an optimum solution for next 
generation multimedia powered infotainment 
Power Management and Audio ICs
Effective Power Management for ever-increasing 
feature-rich portable devices such as Tablet PCs 
presents increasingly new design challenges. 
For example, the introduction of multiple 
processor cores which need to be powered up  
and down in a particular sequence or operate 
in different sleep modes; increased peak 
currents due to lower geometry technologies; 
Lithium-ion type batteries needing to charge 
faster, safer and from a wider variety of sources 
such as USB ports; changing chemical 
structures of batteries; in addition to displays 
which are required to be brighter, bigger and 
incorporate touch functionality with the use  
of new organic substrate materials.
All these trends impact the Power Management 
IC directly, and we constantly evolve our core 
technology and intellectual property to extend 
our market-leading status. With a long legacy 
of delivering different Power Management 
designs for world-leading mobile phone 
manufacturers and portable consumer OEMs, 
we optimise all aspects of the design including 
electrical, thermal and mechanical (packaging) 
considerations. These designs offer 
unprecedented integration with multiple Power 
Management and analogue functions on the 
chip, including programmable high-performance 
LDOs (low drop-out voltage regulators), 
high-efficiency DC-DC voltage converters, 
intelligent battery charging circuits, software 
programmable LED drivers, sensor ADCs, USB 
interfaces, and multichannel audio capabilities. 
Superb attention to detail is key to a robust semiconductor design Main heading
Section X | Xxxxxxxxx
16  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Whether it’s pounding the streets 
blasting out your favourite power songs, 
chilling on the beach to soft ambient 
tunes or scaring yourself silly on the  
last train home listening to the latest 
Stephen King novel, portable audio 
enriches our lives in so many ways.  
The digital audio download market is 
already a multibillion dollar industry 
with more and more consumers listening 
in via their mobile phones, MP3 players 
and other portable mobile devices.
Dialog’s ultra low-power Audio CODEC ICs 
are providing manufacturers and consumers 
with professional quality audio without 
compromising on battery life. Our fully 
programmable audio filters ensure the best 
possible audio tailored to each device at a 
fraction of the power.
Dialog’ s high-performance audio is always with 
you powering the soundtrack of your life.
“ Dialog’s Class D audio amplifiers 
deliver high-quality audio at a 
fraction of the power consumed 
by traditional class AB speaker 
drivers forming a key part of  
our total energy optimised  
audio solutions.”
  Udo Kratz 
Vice President, General Manager,  
Audio and Power Management 
Business Unit
Samsung Electronics’ latest YP-Q3AB MP3 
player offers extended playtime through  
use of the Dialog DA7211 ultra low-power 
Audio CODEC. Main heading
Section X | Xxxxxxxxx
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  17 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  17
On track with life 18  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Section 2 | Business review
Solutions, products technology and key customers continued
In 2010, with Dialog providing the 
semiconductor technology SmartXtend™ 
and with TDK providing the display module, 
together we have completed the development 
of a passive matrix OLED panel.
The technology uses a number of innovative 
techniques, including a unique addressing 
scheme, accurate dynamic current matching 
and state-of-the-art Power Management to 
outperform LCD displays. SmartXtend™ will 
form the basis of a new family of PM-OLED 
drivers which will be brought to production. 
This technology has a very strong value 
proposition in terms of power consumption, 
performance and cost over competing 
technologies. Additionally it provides unique 
differentiating features like screen transparency 
and flexible type displays.
By capitalising on our experience in integrating 
high- and low-voltage circuits on CMOS – the 
most widely used semiconductor technology 
– and combining it with our experience in 
developing and integrating high-performance 
CODECs and other analogue functions, we are 
able to offer a selection of differentiated Power 
Management and audio solutions. The 
integration of more than 40 different functions 
on a single chip delivers significant space, 
power and cost savings to our customers.
In 2010, we launched a new class of Power 
Management product – DA9057, our second 
generation advanced system Power 
Management integrated circuit (PMIC) that 
offers designers greater flexibility in reducing 
power consumption, size and cost in mobile 
phones and other portable multimedia devices. 
Conceived as a platform-PMIC, capable of 
supporting all major families of application and 
mobile graphics processors, DA9057 offers a 
superior level of user configurability compared 
to standard PMIC products.
Display drivers and related-system ICs
The demands from the market for the next 
generation of portable displays to be “always 
on”, thinner, with longer battery life with 
higher visual and video performance even in 
bright sunlight means the current technology 
based on Liquid Crystals (LCD) is struggling.  
To address these important market needs a 
number of new display technologies such as 
OLED, e-paper and MEMs have been launched. 
Dialog has not only worked closely with the key 
innovators of these display technologies but also 
key users to develop and introduce a range of 
truly innovative low power silicon driver solutions.
Automotive and industrial system ICs
Dialog supplies ASICs to leading European 
automotive suppliers who in turn deliver 
Dialog-based products to many leading car 
manufacturers. Our first customer in Japan  
was also added during 2010.
These devices capitalise on Dialog’s expertise 
and knowledge of technology, ranging from 
Power Management systems and mixed signal 
design, to high voltage circuits and embedded 
microprocessors on a single integrated circuit  
in an automotive-qualified CMOS process 
(including flash memory).
Dialog provides ASICs for windscreen wiper 
motors, electric window motors and active 
restrainer seat belt systems. Its partnership  
with leading automotive suppliers has resulted 
Continuous innovation and 
perfection of our Power 
Management IP portfolio allows  
our customers to typically save  
30% of the power consumed  
in their portable devices.
Breakthrough scientific discovery  
requiring advanced high-  
technology equipment
Achievement of near zero failure rates across hundreds of millions of devices requires 
root cause and effect analysis
C W Tsai, Vice Chairman & President of SPIL was 
presented with an outstanding performance 
supplier of the year 2009 award by Jalal  
Bagherli in recognition of their excellence  
in supply with Dialog Semiconductor Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  19
in development of integrated circuits which can 
be connected directly to a car battery without 
external protection circuits.
For the industrial market, Dialog develops 
innovative control ASICs both for conventional 
light sources, such as fluorescent or high-
intensity discharge (“HID”) lamps, and for 
emerging LEDs. These devices seek to deliver 
optimal control and regulation of light sources, 
while maximising their service life. Through 
intelligent control, using advanced digital  
signal processing, these devices help to 
minimise energy consumption.
Manufacture, assembly and testing
We outsource our wafer production to selected 
foundries, principally in Singapore and Taiwan, 
which provide high-quality products and  
have the ability to meet both our stringent 
qualification requirements and tight deadlines. 
In 2010, in addition to CMOS, we have  
also started to use a BCD process which 
enables higher voltage functionality to be 
integrated efficiently into single chip Power 
Management ICs.
The final assembly of our chips is outsourced  
to a number of qualified subcontractors in  
Asia. Our test programmes, based on our own 
and individual customers’ specifications, are 
developed by our test engineers in parallel  
with the design process. All test development  
is undertaken at our Nabern facility using the 
same type of test equipment and handling 
interfaces that are used in our offshore test 
subcontractors in order to speed up the  
volume ramp and production transfer process. 
All production testing and warehousing of  
final product is outsourced to our Asian test 
subcontract partners enabling direct drop 
shipments to our end customers. We have  
also created a specialist offshore operations 
and support centre in Taiwan. We have our 
own manufacturing and technical engineers 
close to foundries, and assembly and test 
subcontractors in Asia. By being “on the spot” 
to resolve any potential engineering issues 
quickly, they can forestall potential delays  
in production.
Quality and environment control
We have an uncompromising approach  
to quality assurance in every area of our 
operations and an uncompromising goal to 
deliver “zero fail” products. Active employee 
participation in error prevention approaches 
has enabled us to win the approval of all our 
major customers and to exceed their parts per 
million (ppm) failure rate expectations.  
The overall objective of our quality 
management system is to provide all our 
customers with the assurance that our products 
and services not only fulfil their current 
contractual requirements, but will also meet 
their future needs. We are committed to 
minimising our impact on the environment  
by developing and promoting environmentally 
compatible products, and operate in accordance 
with the ISO 14001 international environmental 
quality standard. We continuously promote 
awareness and knowledge of environmental 
issues throughout the organisation to ensure 
that they become a natural part of the 
decision-making process. As we demand the 
same standards from our suppliers we only 
form supply partnerships with those who are 
accredited to the same international quality 
standards. For more detailed information on 
specific products, please see our Website: 
www.dialog-semiconductor.com.
Principal customers
Many of Dialog’s principal customers are 
leading portable device and automotive and 
industrial equipment manufacturers that 
purchase both ASICs and ASSPs solutions. 
Customers with a significant contribution to 
revenue include Apple, Bosch, RIM (Research  
in Motion), SonyEricsson and TridonicAtco. 
These top customers represented 88% of 
revenue in 2010.
Given the rapidly evolving nature of the 
technology used in Dialog’s target markets,  
the Company strives to develop long-term 
relationships with its major customers and 
seeks to adopt a partnership approach  
for both standard products and custom 
solutions. Customers look to Dialog for its 
technical expertise, while close working 
relationships with customers provide Dialog 
with an opportunity to develop and refine 
market-leading products with recognised 
industry leaders.
Innovative design through a deep  
understanding of the fundamentals Humans are a sociable bunch. We all like 
to stay connected and socially aware  
of what’s happening with those that 
matter in our lives. Social networking  
has become a killer application in mobile 
devices allowing us to communicate  
in an unprecedented number of ways 
using a rich set of media tools, from text 
to audio clips and pictures to video. It’s 
the appeal of being always-connected, 
wherever we are that makes portable 
mobile products the ideal, socially  
smart devices.
Social networking is driving the need for 
faster wireless, providing communication of 
greater amounts of user-generated multimedia, 
created on more sophisticated applications 
processors and presented on higher resolution, 
brighter screens. All this is putting huge 
energy demands on the battery.
Dialog is at the forefront of power 
management technology ensuring every 
micro-watt of power is used wisely, 
minimising energy wastage while enabling 
faster charging by reducing heat build-up.
“ Dialog is helping to deliver 
enhanced multimedia through 
highly optimised power 
management ensuring our 
customers can keep delivering 
socially smart devices that meet 
the demands of today’ s consumer.”
  Gary Duncan 
Vice President, Engineering Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  21 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  21
Socially smart 22  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Section 2 | Business review
Financial review
Results of operations
Segment reporting
Revenues in the Audio & Power Management 
segment for the year ended 31 December  
2010 were US$245.4 million compared to 
US$176.6 million in 2009, an increase of 
39.0%. The increase in this sector is primarily 
driven by the success of our growing range of 
highly integrated power management solutions 
for portable devices including portable media 
players, Smartphones and Tablet PCs. 
The operating profit in the Audio & Power 
Management segment (see note 23 to the 
consolidated financial statements) increased to 
US$59.1 million compared to US$47.0 million 
in the same period 2009, an increase of 25.6%.
Revenues in the Display Systems segment 
were US$1.9 million for the year ended  
31 December 2010 (2009: US$6.0 million).  
The decline in revenues between 2009 and 
2010 is primarily due to the reduction in 
customer-funded R&D activities which 
contributed predominantly to the 2009 
revenues. The operating loss in this segment 
(see note 23 to the consolidated financial 
statements) for the year ended 31 December  
2010 was US$11.2 million (2009:  
US$12.4 million). These losses reflect our 
investment in the emerging ultra low-power 
display technologies such as PMOLED.
Revenues from our Automotive/Industrial 
Applications segment were US$50.3 million 
for the year ended 31 December 2010 (2009: 
US$33.5 million) representing 17.0% of our 
total revenues (2009: 15.4%). Operating profit 
in the segment (see note 23 to the consolidated 
financial statements) was US$7.0 million for 
the year ended 31 December 2010 (2009: 
US$3.6 million operating losses). The 50.1% 
year-on-year revenue growth reflects the 
recovery in the automotive business which 
started in Q4 2009 and the fact that we also 
benefited from sales of last time buy products 
during 2010 for an amount of US$6.4 million. 
These products were sold as a result of last 
year’s notification of the phasing out of an 
older manufacturing process from one of our 
foundry partners.
Revenues FY 2010
(US$m)
 
Revenues
Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 
2010 were US$296.6 million (2009:  
US$217.6 million). This increase of 36.3% 
results predominantly from higher sales 
volumes in our Audio & Power Management 
and Automotive and Industrial sectors as 
described above. 
The following tables detail the historical consolidated statements of the operations of Dialog for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009:
      2010  2009 
      Revenues   Revenues 
Change
 
     US$000 % US$000 % %
Revenues
Audio & Power Management    245,364 82.7 176,569 81.1 39.0
Display Systems    1,866 0.6 5,987 2.8 (68.8)
Automotive/Industrial    50,326 17.0 33,531 15.4 50.1
Reconciliation    (959) (0.3) 1,526 0.7 (162.8)
Revenues    296,597 100.0 217,613 100.0 36.3
Cost of sales    (159,334) (53.7) (119,886) (55.1) 32.9
Gross profit    137,263 46.3 97,727 44.9 40.5
Selling and marketing expenses    (17,391) (5.9) (14,183) (6.5) 22.6
General and administrative expenses    (17,471) (5.9) (12,584) (5.8) 38.8
Research and development expenses    (56,465) (19.0) (42,621) (19.6) 32.5
Other operating income    – 0.0 333 0.2 (100.0)
Restructuring and related impairment charges    (595) (0.2) – 0.0 –
Operating profit    45,341 15.3 28,672 13.2 58.1
Interest income and other financial income    1,130 0.4 203 0.1 456.7
Interest expense and other financial expense    (120) 0.0 (212) (0.1) (43.4)
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses, net    (2,088) (0.8) 162 0.1 (1,388.9)
Result before income taxes    44,263 14.9 28,825 13.3 53.6
Income tax benefit (expense)    (1,784) (0.6) 3,902 1.7 (145.7)
Net profit    42,479 14.3 32,727 15.0 29.8
2010 2009
217.6
296.6
“ We continue to execute our growth strategy whilst 
maintaining a sound and scalable financial platform.”  
Jean-Michel Richard, CFO, Vice President Finance Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  23
Section 2 | Business review
Cost of sales as % of revenue FY 2010
Cost of sales
Cost of sales consists of material costs, the 
costs of outsourced production and assembly, 
related personnel costs and applicable overhead 
and depreciation of test and other equipment. 
For the year ended 31 December 2010, cost of 
sales increased by 32.9% to US$159.3 million 
(2009: US$119.9 million) resulting from 
increased revenues recorded during the year. 
However, as a percentage of total revenues, 
cost of sales in the same periods decreased 
from 55.1% to 53.7%. This demonstrates  
the gains made possible by our continuous 
efforts to improve the Company’s product mix, 
test time and yields. The underlying* (please 
refer to page 24) cost of sales for 2010 were 
US$158.9 million (53.6% of revenues) 
compared to US$119.7 million (55.0% of 
revenues) in 2009.
Gross profit
Gross profit for the year ended 31 December 2010 
was US$137.3 million (2009: US$97.7 million). 
Our gross profit increased from 44.9% of 
revenues in 2009 to 46.3% of revenues for the 
year ended 31 December 2010, driven by lower 
cost of sales as a percentage of revenue and 
the accelerated introduction of new products 
as prescribed above. 
Selling and marketing expenses
Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily 
of salaries, sales commissions, travel expenses, 
advertising and other marketing costs. In 2010, 
selling and marketing expenses increased to 
US$17.4 million (2009: US$14.2 million)  
in line with increased production volume and  
as a result of the Company’s investment in 
creating value by increasing staff in strategic 
marketing functions. 
Although revenues increased year-on-year, selling 
and marketing expenses decreased from 6.5% 
of total revenues in 2009 to 5.9% of total 
revenues in the year ended 31 December 2010.
Excluding the share-based compensation 
impact, the underlying* selling and marketing 
expenses for 2010 were US$15.8 million (5.3% 
of revenues) compared to US$13.8 million or 
6.3% in 2009.
General and administrative expenses
General and administrative expenses consist 
primarily of personnel and support costs for  
our finance, human resources and other 
management departments. In 2010 general 
and administrative expenses increased to 
US$17.5 million (2009: US$12.6 million).  
This predominantly reflects the increase in  
share-based compensation expenses recorded 
in 2010 in line with the Company share price 
performance during the same period. For the 
year ended 31 December 2010, general and 
administrative expenses as a percentage  
of revenues were 5.9% (2009: 5.8%).  
The underlying* general and administrative 
expenses were US$12.2 million or 4.1%  
of revenues in 2010. This compares to  
US$11.6 million (5.3% of revenues) in 2009.
Research and development expenses
Research and development expenses consist 
principally of design and engineering-related 
costs associated with the development of  
new Application Specific Integrated Circuits 
(“ASICs”) and Application Specific Standard 
Products (“ASSPs”). Research and development 
expenses (net of customer-funded projects) 
increased to US$56.5 million in 2010 (2009: 
US$42.6 million). The absolute US$ increase  
in research and development expenses was 
primarily due to an increased headcount of  
our R&D personnel in support of our growth 
strategy. As a percentage of total revenues 
research and development expenses decreased 
from 19.6% (2009) to 19.0% (2010), resulting 
from a higher revenue base in the latter period.
Other operating income, restructuring  
and related impairment charges
Restructuring and related impairment charges 
of $0.6 million recorded in 2010 are related  
to the closure of our Heidelberg (Germany) 
Design Centre. Other operating income of 
US$0.3 million in the year ended 31 December 
2009 relates to the unexpected settlement 
against receivables which had been written 
down in 2006 as a result of the insolvency of 
BenQ Mobile. For further information please 
refer to note 26.
Operating profit FY 2010
(US$m)
 
Operating profit
We reported an operating profit of  
US$45.3 million for the year ended 31 December 
2010 (2009: US$28.7 million). The improvement 
primarily resulted from increased revenues  
and gross profits recognised in 2010. Excluding 
the share-based compensation impact, the 
underlying* operating profit achieved in 2010 
was US$56.2 million or 18.9% of revenue 
compared with the underlying* operating 
profit of US$31.5 million or 14.5% in 2009.
Interest income and other financial income
For the year ended 31 December 2010, interest 
income and other financial income from the 
Company’s investments (primarily short term) 
was US$1.1 million compared to US$0.2 million 
in the previous year. The increase is primarily 
the result of increased liquidity.
Interest expense and other financial expense
Interest expense and other financial expense 
consist primarily of expenses from the Group’s 
factoring arrangement. Interest and other 
financial expenses in 2010 were US$0.1 million 
(2009: US$0.2 million). The reduction is 
primarily the result of reduced factoring 
utilisation and lower interest rates.
Income taxes
For the year ended 31 December 2010 a net 
income tax charge of US$1.8 million was 
recorded (2009: US$3.9 million tax benefit). 
The amount in 2009 consists of a current tax 
expense of US$3.2 million and a deferred tax 
benefit of US$7.1 million. Previously 
unrecognised deferred tax assets were recognised 
for the first time in Q4 2009. This resulted  
in a contribution of US$7.5 million to the 
Company’s 2009 net profit (for further 
information please refer to note 4). The 
amount in 2010 consists of a current tax 
expense of $5.3 million and a deferred tax 
benefit of $3.5 million. 
2010 2009
55.1
53.7
2010 2009
28.7
45.3 24  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Section 2 | Business review
Financial review continued
Net profit FY 2010
(US$m)
 
Net profit
For the reasons described above, in 2010  
net profit increased by US$9.8 million to  
US$42.5 million or 14.3% of total revenues 
(2009: US$32.7 million or 15.0% of total 
revenues). For the year ended 31 December 
2010, basic earnings per share were US$0.70 
(2009: US$0.67) and diluted earnings per  
share were US$0.66 (2009: US$0.60). The 
underlying* earnings per share (diluted) were 
82 cents for financial year 2010. This compares 
to 65 cents for financial year 2009. Excluding 
the effect of the cash settlement from BenQ 
Mobile insolvency recorded in April 2009  
(see above and note 26), net income for the 
year ended 31 December 2009 would have 
been US$30.4 million.
Liquidity and capital resources
Cash flows
Cash generated from operating activities  
was US$52.0 million (2009: US$33.2 million). 
The cash inflow in 2010 primarily resulted from  
the operating income (before depreciation, 
amortisation and other non-cash effective 
expenses) a decrease in trade accounts 
receivable and higher trade accounts payable. 
This cash inflow was partly offset by an increase 
in inventory balances and a reduction in tax 
liabilities. The cash inflow in 2009 related 
primarily to the operating income (before 
depreciation, amortisation and other non-cash 
effective expenses). This cash inflow was partly 
offset by cash used to finance the increased 
working capital.
Cash used for investing activities in 2010  
was US$15.5 million (2009: cash used  
US$12.3 million). Cash used for investing 
activities in 2010 consisted primarily of the 
purchase of tooling (masks), laboratory equipment, 
probe cards, load boards and other advanced 
test equipment for a total of US$9.8 million (2009: 
US$5.9 million), the purchase of intangible assets 
of US$5.9 million (2009: US$1.8 million) and 
payments related to capitalised development 
costs of US$2.8 million (2009: US$1.0 million). 
Liquidity
At 31 December 2010 we had cash and  
cash equivalents and restricted cash of  
US$158.2 million (31 December 2009: 
US$123.1 million). The working capital  
(defined as current assets minus current 
liabilities) was US$169.2 million (31 December 
2009: US$134.4 million).
If necessary, we have available for use a 
short-term credit facility of US$5.0 million 
which bears interest at a rate of LIBOR + 90bp 
per annum and a multi-currency revolving 
credit line facility of £10 million at a rate of 
LIBOR + 135bp. At 31 December 2010 we had 
no amounts outstanding under these facilities. 
In addition, we have a factoring agreement 
which provides the Company with up to 
US$25.0 million of readily-available cash. 
Accordingly, we believe the funding available 
from these and other sources will be sufficient 
to satisfy our working capital requirements  
in the near to medium term if needed.
Dialog Semiconductor’s underlying financial 
performance for the year ended 31 December 
2010 is summarised below:
  2010 2009
    IFRS Adjustment Underlying* IFRS Adjustment Underlying* 
    US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000
Revenues   296,597 – 296,597 217,613 – 217,613
Cost of sales   (159,334) 460 (158,874) (119,886) 139 (119,747)
Gross profit   137,263 460 137,723 97,727 139 97,866
Selling and marketing expenses   (17,391) 1,604 (15,787) (14,183) 405 (13,778)
General and administrative expenses   (17,471) 5,305 (12,166) (12,584) 1,023 (11,561)
Research and development expenses   (56,465) 3,484 (52,981) (42,621) 1,246 (41,375)
Other operating income   – – – 333 – 333
Restructuring expenses   (595) – (595) – – –
Operating profit   45,341 10,853 56,194 28,672 2,813 31,485
Interest income and other financial income   1,130 – 1,130 203 – 203
Interest expense and other financial expense   (120) – (120) (212) – (212)
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses, net   (2,088) – (2,088) 162 – 162
Result before income taxes   44,263 10,853 55,116 28,825 2,813 31,638
Income tax benefit (expense)   (1,784) – (1,784) 3,902 – 3,902
Net profit   42,479 10,853 53,332 32,727 2,813 35,540
Earnings per share (in US$)
Basic   0.70 0.18 0.88 0.67 0.06 0.73
Diluted   0.66 0.16 0.82 0.60 0.05 0.65
*  Underlying results are based on IFRS, adjusted to exclude share-based compensation charges (FY 2010: US$10.9 million; FY 2009: US$2.8 million) including associated  
social security costs (FY 2010: US$6.6 million; FY 2009: US$1.4 million). The term “underlying” is not defined in IFRS and therefore may not be comparable with similarly  
titled measures reported by other companies. Underlying measures are not intended as a substitute for, or a superior measure to, IFRS measures.
2010 2009
32.7
42.5 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  25
Section 2 | Business review
Balance sheet total was US$253.4 million  
at 31 December 2010 (31 December 2009: 
US$192.3 million). Cash and cash equivalents 
and restricted cash increased by 28.5%  
to US$158.2 million at 31 December 2010  
(31 December 2009: US$123.1 million).  
This increase is predominantly related to an 
operating cash inflow as prescribed above. 
Other current assets increased by 27.6%  
to US$58.3 million (31 December 2009: 
US$45.7 million), driven by higher inventory 
balances and prepaid expenses. 
In 2010, total non-current assets increased  
by 57.1% to US$36.9 million. This increase  
is primarily due to higher balances of property 
plant and equipment and intangible assets  
as capital expenditures and investments were 
higher than depreciation and amortisation and 
impairment charges. Also, in 2010, additional 
net deferred tax assets in the amount of 
US$3.3 million, principally relating to carried 
forward losses, were recognised. This was the 
result of the Group recording the third consecutive 
year of positive net income. Therefore, based 
on the expected positive net result for the near 
future, the management concluded that it was 
appropriate to recognise deferred tax assets  
in an amount of US$10.8 million (2009:  
US$7.5 million). The assessment was based  
on the business plan for 2011 and beyond.
Non-current liabilities relate to provisions, capital 
lease and hire purchase commitments and the 
fair value of derivative financial instruments.
Shareholders’ equity increased to US$205.3 million 
(US$157.0 million at 31 December 2009) which 
is predominantly the result of our net profit  
and the February 2010 capital increase (please 
refer to note 18). The equity ratio (equity  
over total assets) was 81.0% (81.6% at 
31 December 2009).
Statement of financial position
      2010 2009 Change Change
      US$000 US$000 US$000 %
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash     158,200 123,148 35,052 28.5
All other current assets     58,263 45,663 12,600 27.6
Total current assets     216,463 168,811 47,652 28.2
Property, plant and equipment, net     14,249 9,807 4,442 45.3
Intangible assets     10,727 5,005 5,722 114.3
All other non-current assets     1,111 1,174 (63) (5.4)
Deferred tax assets     10,829 7,514 3,315 44.1
Total non-current assets     36,916 23,500 13,416 57.1
Total assets     253,379 192,311 61,068 31.8
Liabilities and Shareholders’ equity
Current liabilities     47,218 34,380 12,838 37.3
Non-current liabilities     889 952 (63) (6.6)
Net Shareholders’ equity     205,272 156,979 48,293 30.8
Total liabilities and Shareholders’ equity     253,379 192,311 61,068 31.8 26  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Section 2 | Business review
Risks and their management
The market
The market in which we compete is intensely 
competitive and highly cyclical, and is 
characterised by continuous development and 
technological improvement. Our future success 
depends on our ability to anticipate and respond 
to new market trends, to implement new designs 
rapidly to meet customers’ needs, and to keep 
abreast of the technological changes. As a 
result, we invest in research and development 
to enable us to create innovative designs and 
products on a cost-effective, timely basis.
Revenue and profitability
We returned to profitability in 2008 after 
having not been profitable for the prior seven 
financial years, and cannot guarantee that we 
will remain profitable in the future. But we 
constantly seek to improve profitability by 
launching new products and acquiring new 
customers. Since we continue to rely on a 
relatively small number of customers for a 
substantial proportion of our revenue, the loss 
of one or more of these customers would be 
likely to have a material effect. Our goal is to 
spread this risk by acquiring more customers. 
We are attempting to reduce the risk of our 
revenues, profitability and growth being affected 
by a slowdown in the wireless communications 
market by winning customers in other sectors.
Third-party costs and supplier risk
During 2007, we outsourced our 
manufacturing and testing to lower-cost 
environments, where there is excellent capacity, 
to overcome the potential problem of an 
inability to access manufacturing capacity 
which would result in increased costs and, 
therefore, decreased revenue. The tightness  
in the industry supply chain that we have 
experienced during most of 2010 has impacted 
our ability to extract price reductions from our 
suppliers. Semiconductor supplies have been 
on allocation for the greater part of 2010 and 
we expect this to continue into 2011. Whilst 
most of our large and strategic suppliers have 
invested in increased capacities during 2010, 
these will not have a material impact on the 
overall supply before the second half of 2011. 
In the meantime, manufacturing lead-time 
remains well above those of 2009. We remain 
confident that we will continue to meet our 
revenue plans but ongoing industry capacity 
constraints will continue to limit our ability  
to take advantage of short upside demand.
If any of the Company’s suppliers were to 
become insolvent, there could be a risk of  
the Company’s production being interrupted. 
For this reason, the Company tries to source  
its components from at least two different 
suppliers and from different sites. In addition, 
the Company takes the precautions for supplier 
insolvency with its risk management system in 
which information on the creditworthiness of 
suppliers is kept. This seeks to identify suppliers 
at risk at an early stage.
Intellectual property
We seek to protect our intellectual property 
from being copied or used by others  
by appropriate use of patents, copyrights  
and trademarks.
Interest rate risk
The Group earns interest from bank deposits 
and uses money market deposits with highly 
rated financial institutions. During the year, the 
Group has held cash on deposit with a range  
of maturities from one week to three months. 
This can vary in view of changes in the 
underlying currency’s interest rates and the 
Group’s cash requirements. The Group has no 
long-term debt and no amounts outstanding 
under short-term credit facilities as at  
31 December 2010 (2009: US$nil). The Group’s 
policy is to manage its interest income using  
a mix of fixed and variable interest rate debts. 
In order to achieve this policy, the Group invests 
in highly liquid funds having a matching 
investment strategy. Once the operating 
business has been financed, short-term  
excess funds are invested with reputable 
financial institutions.
Currency risk
The Company’s functional – and presentational 
– currency is the US dollar, and the majority of 
its revenue and expenses are in that currency. 
There are, however, foreign exchange risks 
associated with transactions, and recognised 
assets and liabilities in other currencies, 
primarily the euro and the pound sterling. 
Transaction currency exposures arise from  
sales or purchases in currencies other than  
the US dollar. We use forward currency 
contracts to eliminate our exposure associated 
with the payment of salaries and wages in 
other currencies. We maximise the effectiveness 
of our hedge derivatives by matching the terms 
and conditions of the hedge to those of the 
underlying obligation. (See note 24 on page  
80 for further information.)
Credit risk
The Company is exposed to credit risk from its 
operating activities and certain of its financing 
activities. We ensure that our exposure to bad 
debt is minimised by monitoring all customers 
who trade on credit terms, and receivable 
balances. In August 2007, we entered into  
a factoring agreement with a reputable 
financial institution to finance our growth.  
The maximum amount of cash that can be 
received under this factoring agreement is  
US$25 million (2009: US$30 million). Since the 
financial institution assumes all risks associated 
with the collection of receivables from selected 
customers, the agreement significantly reduces 
our risks associated with their collection.  
We, in turn, had pledged US$3.0 million of 
cash to the financial institution concerned.  
The institution would draw down on these  
only if a commercial action by Dialog were  
to invalidate – partly or completely – the claim  
on a receivable financed by the factoring 
programme. In Q4 2010, the factoring bank 
relinquished the pledge. Consequently, no 
restricted cash is shown at 31 December 2010.
Liquidity risk
We monitor our liquidity on a quarterly basis 
with the objective of avoiding interest on 
short-term bank liabilities or overdrafts. Our 
policy is to structure the maturity of our current 
financial assets in the Group to meet 100%  
of the respective maturities and liabilities.  
An international equity offering was launched 
in Q3 2009, with the subscription being 
approximately three times oversubscribed. 
Twelve million new ordinary shares were priced 
at €3.65, representing a premium of 4% to  
the price on the offer announcement date.  
The shares were placed with a number of  
Tier 1 institutional investors to raise gross 
proceeds of €43.8 million (US$ 64.3 million). 
Net proceeds (after deduction of offering 
expenses of US$4.7 million) were US$59.7 
million. The proceeds from the offering are 
being used to increase our working capital 
resources to fund future growth, to acquire 
complementary technology and intellectual 
property and expand our design and technical 
support teams, particularly in the US and Asia. Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  27
Corporate social responsibility
Section 2 | Business review
Dialog considers that the social challenges  
of corporate responsibility should be based  
on fair wages, healthy and safe working 
conditions, respect for human rights, honest 
relationships and commitment to community 
development. With regard to these challenges, 
Dialog is committed to the adoption of the 
Electronics Industry Code of Conduct (EICC) 
standard as the model for ensuring that 
working conditions for internal and external 
suppliers are safe and that all workers are 
treated with respect and dignity. This 
commitment is reflected in Dialog’s own  
“Code of Conduct”, which addresses all the 
key areas defined in the EICC standard along 
with recognised standards such as International 
Labour Organization Standards (ILO), Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), Social 
Accountability International (SAI) and the 
Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI). In addition,  
the Company complies with the worldwide  
ISO 14001 Environmental Standard – and 
expects its suppliers to do the same – in order 
to ensure that all manufacturing processes  
are environmentally compliant.
Human rights and code of conduct
Dialog’s philosophy is that all its suppliers  
must demonstrate a commitment to upholding 
workers’ human rights and to treating them 
with dignity and respect. Standards such as  
the UDHR, SAI and the ETI have been used  
as a basis for these requirements. All labour 
must be given voluntarily and workers must be 
free to leave their employment on reasonable 
notice. Child labour must not be used at any 
stage of manufacturing. Working hours must 
not exceed the maximum set by local laws and 
wages must comply with all applicable laws. 
Dialog and its suppliers must ensure that 
workers are not threatened or subjected to 
inhumane or harsh treatment, harassment  
or any form of unlawful discrimination.  
Open communication and direct engagement 
between workers and management is 
encouraged, even in those countries where 
there is no meaningful legal protection.  
In order to promote its philosophy several  
new initiatives have been introduced to all of 
Dialog’s manufacturing partners during 2010, 
including a detailed code of conduct for them 
to review and implement. Detailed self-audits 
have been performed by all our suppliers in 
order to verify the implementation of this code 
of conduct and on-site audits and inspections 
are performed regularly by Dialog to verify its 
continuing maintenance. 
Health and safety
Dialog considers a safe and healthy working 
environment to be essential in the maintenance 
of employees’ morale and in the production  
of high-quality and innovative products. As a 
result, we require our major suppliers also to  
be committed to ensuring the creation of 
healthy and safe working conditions. We 
expect them to provide evidence of suitable 
controls, safe working procedures, preventative 
maintenance and general protective measures 
in their working environments. When hazards 
cannot be adequately controlled by these 
means alone, suitable protective clothing  
or equipment is supplied, and evacuation 
procedures and facilities are in place at  
Dialog’s and suppliers’ premises.
Connecting with employees
Dialog aims to attract and retain the best 
people by ensuring that all employees receive 
comprehensive on-the-job formal training, 
coaching and mentoring. Clear and regular 
communication is achieved through regular 
Company-wide information sessions, led  
by the CEO, and every effort is made to keep 
employees fully aware of Company matters 
that affect them. We encourage employee 
feedback at all levels for new ideas to improve 
business efficiency and performance. 
In order to reinforce Dialog’s commitment  
to Corporate Social Responsibility, corporate 
contributions to charitable organisations are 
made on an ongoing basis. As many of our 
employees across all Dialog sites partake in 
charitable events personally, Dialog provides  
a comparable donation to that raised  
by individual employees as a result of  
these events. 
This initiative gives Dialog the opportunity  
to make a contribution to local communities, 
communities where we do business and charities 
which employees are passionate about. 
Donations in 2010 included Children in Need  
in the UK, a charity for children with mental 
and physical handicap in Dettingen U-Teck,  
Germany and to a leading charity dedicated  
to beating cancer through research. 
In addition, to foster and support our next 
generation of engineers, Dialog through  
the National Microelectronics Institute offer 
engineering sponsorship in the UK and sponsor 
engineering scholarships at the University  
of Edinburgh.
Ethics
Dialog believes that continued success in  
the semiconductor market can be achieved  
only by adopting high standards of ethical 
behaviour when dealing with customers, 
suppliers and workers.
It is particularly important to protect Intellectual 
Property (“IP”), which is the key to ensuring the 
development of innovative solutions to complex 
problems. Any transfer of technology or 
know-how is always done in a manner that 
protects IP rights; effective protection also 
means that products can be discussed openly 
with our business partners. The disclosure  
of information which is related to business 
activities, structure, our financial situation  
and performance is always carried out in 
accordance with applicable regulations and 
prevailing industry practices. We expect the 
highest standards of integrity from all Dialog 
stakeholders; any malpractice is strictly 
prohibited and may result in immediate 
termination and legal action.
Neither we nor our suppliers offer or accept 
inducements or any other means of obtaining 
undue or improper advantage. We have a 
“whistle-blower” policy in place to protect 
employees’ confidentiality and encourage our 
suppliers to do the same. Dialog’s management 
system complies with the EICC code. It is 
certified to the ISO 9001 international standard 
as a formal implementation of the code and  
is committed to implementing and facilitating 
continuous improvements, and to mitigating 
operations-related risks. To enable us to comply 
with all applicable laws, regulations and 
customer requirements, as required by the 
code, we also ensure that all our major 
supply-chain partners are accredited to at  
least the same standard. To ensure that we 
constantly improve our management systems 
we regularly review and audit internal and 
supply-chain management systems.
The environment and  
environmental protection
The environmental agenda at Dialog  
considers climate change environmental 
protection aspects (air, land and water quality), 
effective resource management (eco-efficiency) 
and sustainability. Our commitment to the 
environment is evidenced by our ISO 14001 
certification. Since we firmly believe that 
sustainable development can be secured only  
if we safeguard our valuable resources, we  
deal only with suppliers that have similar  28  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Section 2 | Business review
Corporate social responsibility continued
environmental goals and are also accredited  
to the ISO 14001 standard. Within our supply 
chain, we continually emphasise that 
environmental issues should be an instinctive 
part of any decision-making process, and that 
suppliers should use environmentally friendly 
technology to:
 ● Reduce and eliminate emissions of 
ozone-depleting and other volatile organic 
chemicals (VOC);
 ● Design and manufacture only 
environmentally friendly products;
 ● Manage, reduce and dispose of hazardous 
substances safely;
 ● Monitor and control waste water and solid 
waste emissions;
 ● Reduce and eliminate all types of waste, 
including water and energy;
 ● Reduce waste by maximising product  
yields; and
 ● Ensure all environmental permits are 
obtained, maintained and kept current.
As a fabless semiconductor company,  
it is important to Dialog that all of its 
manufacturing partners also follow their 
requirement to respect the environment.
To this end every supplier is required to 
complete a self-audit questionnaire to identify 
and document compliance to Dialog’s 
environmental requirements.
Also, evidence of compliance with requirements 
is checked during regular supplier on-site audits.
As part of Dialog’s continuing Corporate Social Responsibility, Dialog sponsored a tree planting 
programme for the students at Loyola School, Los Altos School District in California, USA. In 2010  
Mark Tyndall, VP Business Development, presented Dialog’s donation to Kimberly Attell, Principal  
at Loyola School. The aim of the programme is to build continued awareness with children of the 
importance and protection of our environment. Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  29
8 Martin Powell
Vice President, Human Resources
Martin joined the Company in 2010 and is responsible 
for developing and driving people strategies in support 
of Dialog’s business goals and initiatives worldwide, 
including fostering an environment where Dialog’s 
teams can thrive. Prior to Dialog Martin has held a variety 
of senior and executive HR roles with Medtronic Inc, 
General Electric (GE) and the Dell Corporation, and 
most recently was a member of the executive team  
at C-MAC MicroTechnology, a private equity backed 
leader in the high reliability electronics sector. During 
his career Martin has been located in Asia, continental 
Europe as well as the United Kingdom.
9 Jean-Michel Richard
CFO, Vice President Finance
Jean-Michel joined the Company in September 2006 
to head up its finance department. He was previously 
Finance Director for the Global Manufacturing and 
Technology Division of ON Semiconductor, in Phoenix, 
Arizona, and before that held senior finance and 
treasury positions at ON and Motorola, in Europe  
and the US. Jean-Michel holds a Masters in Economics 
from the University of Geneva, Switzerland.
10 Mark Tyndall
Vice President, Business Development  
and Corporate Strategy
Mark Tyndall joined Dialog Semiconductor as Vice 
President of Business Development and Corporate 
Strategy in September 2008. Prior to Dialog, Mark 
was Vice President of Business Development and 
Corporate Relations at MIPS Technologies. From  
1999 to 2006, he held the position of Vice President 
of Business Development at Infineon and has also 
served as a Board Director of a number of start-up 
companies, several of which were successfully 
acquired. Earlier in his career, Mark held management 
positions in marketing at Fujitsu Microelectronics and 
in design at Philips Semiconductors.
1 Dr Jalal Bagherli
Chief Executive Officer
Jalal joined Dialog, as CEO, in September 2005.  
He was previously Vice President and General 
Manager of the Mobile Multimedia business unit for 
Broadcom Corporation and the CEO of Alphamosaic. 
He has extensive experience of the semiconductor 
industry through his previous professional and 
executive positions at Texas Instruments and Sony,  
and a wealth of knowledge about the Far Eastern, 
European and North American markets. He is a 
non-executive Director of Lime Microsystems Ltd.
2 Andrew Austin
Vice President, Sales 
Andrew joined Dialog in April 2009. He was previously 
a Sales and Marketing consultant specialising in the 
semiconductor and high performance sports industries. 
He has extensive experience of the semiconductor 
industry through his previous professional positions  
at Texas Instruments and Raytheon Systems. Andrew 
holds a degree in Electrical and Electronics from 
Hertford University. 
3 Mohamed Djadoudi
Vice President, Global Manufacturing Operations 
and Quality
Mohamed joined Dialog in March 2007 and is 
responsible for product engineering, test and  
assembly development, data automation, software 
support, offshore manufacturing operations and 
quality. Mohamed has more than 25 years’ experience 
in the field of semiconductor manufacturing 
operations, starting initially with IBM in France and  
the US. He was previously Senior Vice President and 
Chief Technology Officer of the Unisem group, an 
assembly and test subcontractor based in Malaysia 
and China. He also held the position of Vice President 
of Test Operations at ASAT based in Hong Kong 
before becoming one of the original members  
of the management buy-out team of ASAT UK  
(Atlantis Technology UK), where he served as the 
Technical Director. Mohamed holds an Electronic  
and Electrotechnic degree from the Paris University  
of Technology.
4 Gary Duncan
Vice President, Engineering
Gary, who joined the Company in 1987, is responsible 
for the design and development of our semiconductor 
products. Before joining Dialog, he held senior 
engineering and management roles at Plessey  
and ES2.
5 Jürgen Friedel
Vice President, General Manager Automotive 
and Industrial Business Unit 
Jürgen joined Dialog in 1999 and is responsible for the 
Automotive and Industrial Business Unit. He previously 
held senior management positions at SEL/ITT and 
National Semiconductor, in Germany. Jürgen holds  
a diploma in communications engineering from the 
University for Applied Sciences, Esslingen.
6 Peter Hall
Vice President, Supply Operations and Facilities
Peter joined Dialog in 1987 and is responsible for supply 
operations, procurement and facilities. He also reports 
directly to the Audit Committee in his role as Internal 
Audit Manager. His previous experience includes 
management and engineering positions at STC 
Semiconductors and MEM in Switzerland. Peter holds 
a BSc in electrical and electronic engineering from 
Newcastle University and an MSc in digital design 
techniques from Herriot Watt University, Edinburgh, 
and an MBA from the Open University, United Kingdom.
7 Udo Kratz
Vice President, General Manager Audio  
and Power Management Business Unit
Udo joined Dialog in May 2006. He is responsible  
for the Audio and Power Management Business Unit, 
which makes products for the mobile phone and 
portable consumer markets. His 20+ years’ experience 
in the semiconductor industry was gained in general 
management, senior marketing and engineering  
at Robert Bosch GmbH, Sony Semiconductor and 
Infineon Technologies. Udo holds an electronic 
engineering degree from the University for Applied 
Sciences, Mannheim.
Section 3 | Management and governance
Executive management
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 Section 3 | Management and governance
30  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
7 Peter Tan
Non-executive Director
Peter joined the Board in July 2006. He has held senior 
management roles across a wide range of technology 
companies, including National Semiconductors Pte 
Ltd, Molex Singapore Pte Ltd, Apple Computer Inc. 
and Flextronics International Inc. He is presently 
Managing Partner of JP Asia Capital Partners Pte Ltd, 
and also sits on the board of Vacuumschmelze (VAC) 
Luxembourg S.a.r.l., VariOptic SA, Innotek Limited  
and SMRT Corporation Ltd. Besides his Board role, 
Peter has an advisory function in the National 
University of Singapore BTech Program and is a 
member of the International Evaluation Panel for the 
Singapore National Research Foundation. Peter holds 
a Diploma in Management Studies from the University 
of Chicago and an Executive MBA Degree from the 
Golden Gate University, San Francisco. 
8 Peter Weber
Non-executive Director
Peter joined Dialog on 1 February 2006. He brought 
with him 35 years’ experience, gained at a broad 
range of companies in the semiconductor sector, 
including Texas Instruments, Intel, Siliconix, the Temic 
Group and Netro Corporation. Since 1998 he has 
been an investor and management consultant, and  
is a director of a number of companies in Europe  
and the US. Peter holds an MSEE degree in 
communications engineering.
1 Gregorio Reyes
Chairman
Gregorio joined the Board in December 2003.  
His experience is primarily in data storage and 
magnetic recording, semiconductors, and 
telecommunications. He was President and CEO  
of National Micronetics from 1981 to 1984, and 
Chairman and CEO of American Semiconductor 
Equipment Technologies from 1986 to 1990.  
He co-founded Sunward Technologies in 1985  
and was Chairman and CEO until 1994. He is  
currently non-executive Chairman of LSI Logic and  
a non-executive director of Seagate Technology.
2 Dr Jalal Bagherli
Chief Executive Officer
Jalal joined Dialog, as CEO, in September 2005.  
He was previously Vice President & General Manager 
of the Mobile Multimedia business unit for Broadcom 
Corporation and the CEO of Alphamosaic. He has 
extensive experience of the semiconductor industry, 
through his previous professional and executive 
positions at Texas Instruments and Sony, and a wealth 
of knowledge about the Far Eastern, European and 
North American markets. He is a non-executive 
director of Lime Microsystems Ltd.
3 Chris Burke
Non-executive Director
Chris joined the Board in July 2006. Until the end of 
2004, he was CTO at Vodafone UK Limited and was 
previously CTO at Energis, after spending 15 years  
in Research & Development at Northern Telecom.  
He holds appointments at Connectivity Ltd (an Esprit, 
and 3i Portfolio Company) and OneAccess. He invests 
from his own fund and provides strategic advice to  
a wide range of investors and technology companies, 
including HP Communications & Media, Juniper 
Networks and a variety of venture capital funds.
4 Aidan Hughes
Non-executive Director, Chair of Audit Committee
Aidan joined the Board in October 2004. He qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse in 
the 1980s before taking senior accountant roles at  
Lex Service Plc and Carlton Communications Plc.  
He was Finance Director of the Sage Group plc from 
1993 until 2000 and, from December 2001 to August 
2004, was a director of Communisis Plc. He is a 
director of, and investor in, a number of UK private 
technology companies.
5 John McMonigall
Non-executive Director
John joined the Board in March 1998. He has been  
a director at Apax Partners since 1990 and, between 
1986 and 1990, held a variety of senior positions  
at British Telecommunications plc and was also a 
member of the management board. He is currently  
on the board of several other public and private 
companies, including Autonomy Plc.  
 6 Russ Shaw
Non-executive Director, Chair of Remuneration  
and Nomination Committee
Russ joined the Board in July 2006. He is currently  
the Vice President & General Manager for Skype  
with responsibilities for its Mobile Division as well  
as Europe, Middle East and Africa. Previously, he was  
at Telefonica where he was the Global Director of 
Innovation. Before joining Telefonica, he was the 
Innovation Director at O2, which he joined as 
Marketing Director in 2005. The strong brand and 
product range he established resulted in significant 
customer growth. His more-than 20 years’ senior 
marketing and brand management experience in the 
telecoms and financial services area has enabled him 
to bring an excellent level of knowledge to Dialog.
Board of Directors
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 Section 3 | Management and governance
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  31
The Directors of Dialog Semiconductor Plc 
(“Dialog” or “the Company”) present their 
annual report and audited financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2010.  
These accounts have been prepared under  
IFRS for UK reporting purposes and are 
available on the Company’s Website:  
www.dialog-semiconductor.com.
Principal activities and review  
of the business
Dialog Semiconductor creates some of the 
world’s most energy-efficient, highly integrated, 
mixed-signal integrated circuits. These are 
optimised for personal mobile, industrial  
and automotive applications. The Company 
provides flexible and dynamic support, 
world-class innovation, and the assurance of 
dealing with an established business partner. 
Customers with a significant contribution to 
revenue include Sony Ericsson, Apple, RIM, 
Bosch and Tridonic Atco. With its focus and 
expertise in system Power Management,  
Dialog brings decades of experience to the 
rapid development of integrated circuits for 
power and motor control, audio and display 
processing. Dialog’s processor companion  
chips are essential for enhancing both the 
performance of hand-held products and  
the consumers’ multimedia experience. 
Automotive applications include intelligent 
motor control for comfort and safety systems. 
With world-class manufacturing partners, 
Dialog operates a fabless business model.  
Dialog Semiconductor Plc is headquartered 
near Stuttgart, Germany, with operations  
in Austria, China, Germany, Japan, Korea, 
Taiwan, the UK and the USA. At 31 December 
2010 the Company employed 398 worldwide 
and is listed on the Frankfurt (FWB: DLG)  
stock exchange. 
More information about the business is set  
out in the Chairman’s statement, on page 6, 
and in the Business review, on page 12.
Future developments
The Group’s stated objective is to be the 
leading global supplier of lowest-power, 
highest-quality mixed-signal components  
and system level solutions to the wireless and 
automotive markets. The Company is currently 
leveraging its expertise to expand its stand-
alone audio product portfolio, capitalising on 
the success of its newly introduced low-power 
and high-quality Audio IC, and to add 
innovative ultra low-power display technologies 
such as PM-OLED.
We continue to execute our strategy successfully, 
both to further strengthen our technology 
leadership and to expand our addressable market. 
Pursuant to this strategy, we have acquired SiTel 
Semiconductor B.V., a leader in short-range 
wireless, digital cordless and VoIP technology. 
SiTel’s technology and platform represent a 
complementary and exciting opportunity to 
address these adjacent portable device markets, 
both in order to develop new products as well as 
to cross-sell Dialog’ s existing Power Management 
technology to SiTel’s customer base.
Research and development (R&D)
The Group believes that its future competitive 
position will depend on its ability to respond  
to the rapidly changing needs of its customers 
by developing new designs in a timely and  
cost-effective manner. To this end, the 
Company’s management is committed to 
investing in researching and developing new 
products and customising existing products. 
To date, R&D projects have been in response  
to key customers’ requests to assist in the 
development of new products, and for the 
development of application-specific standard 
products (ASSPs). The Company does not 
expect any material change to this approach  
in the foreseeable future.
Going concern
After reviewing the 2011 budget and 
longer-term plans, the Directors are satisfied 
that, at the time of approving the financial 
statements, it is appropriate to adopt the 
going-concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements of the Company.
Dividends
The Directors do not recommend the payment 
of a dividend (2009: nil). They are committed  
to reinvesting all profits into the business and 
believe that this policy is in the best interests  
of its Shareholders.
Purchase of own shares
The Company operates an Employee Benefit 
Trust which purchases shares in the Company for 
the benefit of employees under the Company’s 
share option scheme. Since the Company has 
de facto control of the assets and liabilities of 
the Trust, they are included in the Company 
and Group balance sheets. At 31 December 
2010, the Trust held 3,995,031 shares, which 
represented 6.14% of the total called-up share 
capital, at a nominal value of £399,503 (2009: 
2,663,318 or 4.3% of total called-up share 
capital, at a total value of £266,332).
Share capital
Details of the share capital are set out in note 
18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Substantial shareholdings
Details of substantial shareholdings are on page 
9 of this annual report.
Directors
The Directors, together with their biographies, 
are listed on page 30 of this report.
Directors’ remuneration and interests
Directors’ remuneration and interests are 
detailed in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 35 to 37 of this annual report.  
No Director had a material interest during the 
year ended 31 December 2010 in any contract 
of significance with any Group company.
Directors’ third-party indemnity provisions
The Company has granted an indemnity to  
its Directors against proceedings brought 
against them by third parties, by reason of their 
being Directors of the Company, to the extent 
permitted by the Companies Act 2006.  
Such indemnity remains in force as at the  
date of approving the Directors’ report.
Election and re-election of Directors
In accordance with the Company’s Articles  
of Association, one-third of the non-executive 
Directors have to stand for re-election at the 
Annual General Meeting. The next Annual 
General Meeting will be held on 21 April  
2011 at 9am.
Corporate Governance
The Company’s Corporate Governance 
statement is set out on pages 33 and 34  
of this report.
Supplier payment policy
It is the Group’s policy to pay creditors in 
accordance with the terms and conditions 
agreed with them, and in accordance with 
contractual and other legal obligations.  
Days payable outstanding for the Group  
at 31 December 2010 was 65 days  
(2009: 52 days).
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management and 
policies, and exposure to risks, are set out  
on page 26.
Directors’ report Section 3 | Management and governance
32  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face.
Annual General Meeting
The notice convening the Annual General 
Meeting will be published separately and 
posted on the Company’s Website.
The meeting will be held at Tower Bridge 
House, St Katherine’s Way, London E1W 1AA 
on 21 April 2011 at 9am.
Auditors
In accordance with Section 384 of the 
Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the 
reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as 
auditors of the Company is to be proposed  
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Important events affecting the Company 
and its subsidiary undertakings occurring 
after year end
On 10 February 2011, Dialog Semiconductor 
plc acquired 100% of the voting shares of  
SiTel Semiconductor B.V. (“SiTel”), an unlisted 
company headquartered and incorporated in 
The Netherlands and a leader in short-range 
wireless, digital cordless and VoIP technology.  
In the year ended 31 December 2010, SiTel 
generated unaudited revenues of approximately 
US$116.9 million. Dialog has acquired SiTel in 
order to expand its product portfolio with 
short-range wireless and VoIP-based internet 
connectivity products. This will allow Dialog to 
develop new products for these new markets 
as well as to cross-sell Dialog’s existing Power 
Management technology to SiTel’s customer 
base. The acquisition significantly expands 
Dialog’s addressable market targeting 
high-growth wireless personal portable devices. 
Dialog acquired SiTel for an enterprise value  
of US$86.5 million¹.
Given the timing of the transaction, it has not 
been possible to provide all disclosures required 
by IFRS3 (Revised) as the acquisition accounting 
is still to be performed.
There are no other known events after the date 
of the Statement of Financial Position that 
require disclosure.
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Director
10 February 2011
Political and charitable contributions
The Group made no political contributions 
during the period. We made charitable 
contributions of US$16,875 to local  
community projects (2009: US$6,542).
Employee policies
It is our policy to support our people through 
training, career development and opportunities 
for promotion. We operate an open 
management approach and consult with our 
staff on matters which are of concern to them. 
We share information with employees on the 
performance of the Company which, together 
with profit-related bonuses and stock option 
awards, encourage staff involvement.
Disabled persons
Our policy provides for disabled persons, 
whether registered or not, to be considered for 
employment, training and career development 
in accordance with their aptitudes and abilities.
Statement on disclosure of information  
to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board 
at the time of approving the Directors’ report 
are listed on page 30. Having made enquiries 
of fellow Directors and of the Company’s 
auditors, each of the Directors affirms that: 
 ● to the best of their knowledge and belief, 
there is no information relevant to the 
preparation of their report of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and 
 ● they have taken all reasonable steps to be 
aware of relevant audit information and  
to establish that the Company’s auditors  
are aware of that information.
Responsibility statement under the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors listed on page 30 confirm 
that to the best of their knowledge:
 ● the financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union, give a true and fair view  
of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
 ● the Directors’ report and the Group 
operating and financial review include  
a fair review of the development and  
the performance of the business and  
Directors’ report continued
1) Net cash paid of US$84.5 million. Section 3 | Management and governance
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  33
Governance standards
Dialog Semiconductor Plc is committed to 
implementing high levels of governance. 
Accordingly, Dialog (as a foreign company listed 
on the German stock exchange) has established 
and published its own Corporate Governance 
principles corresponding in substance to the 
provision of the “German Declaration on 
Corporate Governance”. 
Dialog’s Corporate Governance principles are 
published on its Website (www.dialog-
semiconductor.com). The Website also contains 
a full version of the Company’s Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics. This details 
Dialog’s expectations regarding the ethical 
standards that each Director, officer and 
employee should follow while acting on the 
Company’s behalf.
Corporate Governance information relating  
to the past financial year is set out below.
Shareholders and the Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”)
The AGM, at which the annual financial 
statements and audit reports are presented,  
is the main forum for Shareholders to exercise 
their voting rights. Directors appointed by the 
Board during any given year are subject to 
Shareholder approval at the AGM. 
In addition, one-third of the Directors must 
resign each year and may put themselves 
forward for re-election. Changes to the 
constitution of the Company are decided by 
Shareholders’ resolution. Similarly, the AGM is 
the forum at which Shareholders can authorise 
the Directors to issue new shares. 
Dialog does not have any shares in issue which 
have multiple voting rights, preferential voting 
rights or maximum voting rights.
Board of Directors
The Board is responsible for determining 
Dialog’s business strategy and ensuring that  
an executive is appointed to implement it. 
It is also responsible for overseeing the financial 
aspects of the business. 
The Board, which met five times during the 
year, currently consists of seven non-executive 
Directors and one executive Director. The 
compensation provided to each Director is 
detailed in the Directors’ remuneration report 
on pages 35 to 37. The executive Director’s 
remuneration is largely performance related 
and is connected to a set of goals and  
Dialog’s profitability.
Audit Committee, and Remuneration  
and Nomination Committee
Dialog’s Audit Committee comprises the 
following Directors: Aidan Hughes (Chairman), 
John McMonigall and Peter Tan. The Committee 
is responsible for monitoring financial statements 
and reviewing the performance of the external 
auditors. It also assesses the efficiency of the 
audit process and (among other things) considers 
compliance with accounting standards. The 
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, 
the Company Secretary and representatives  
of the external auditors usually attend Audit 
Committee meetings. 
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee 
is chaired by Russ Shaw who is assisted by Chris 
Burke and Peter Weber. The responsibility of 
the Committee, among other things, is to 
determine, subject to Board approval, the salaries 
and incentives of Dialog’s senior executives  
and decide on the size and composition of  
the Board. Corporate Governance is monitored 
at Board level – a reflection of the importance  
it is given by the Board. 
During the year, the Audit, and Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees met five times  
to analyse issues under their jurisdiction,  
usually on the day of, or the day before,  
each Board meeting.
Transparency
Under UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules, 
significant Shareholders are required to notify 
Dialog of a shareholding of 3% or more or 5% 
or more in the case of shares held by investment 
managers (on behalf of clients), scheme 
operators and ICVCs. Dialog then makes this 
information public and notifies BaFin and the 
Stock Exchange. Transactions in the Company’s 
shares carried out by members of the  
Board of Directors and their family members 
are reported and published under s15a  
of the German Securities Trading Act 
(Wertpapierhandelsgesetz) and DTR3. 
The Company operates a Code of Dealing  
in its shares which is designed to prevent 
insider trading and the abuse of price  
sensitive information. 
The Board appreciates the value of keeping 
Shareholders informed of Dialog’s performance 
throughout the year. As a result, it publishes 
quarterly financial reports, together with key 
information on the AGM, on its Website.
Takeovers directive
At 31 December 2010, the Company’s issued 
share capital comprised a single class of shares 
referred to as ordinary shares. Details of the 
share capital can be found in note 18 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
On a show of hands at a general meeting of 
the Company every holder of shares present in 
person and entitled to vote shall have one vote 
and on a poll, every member present in person 
or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one 
vote for every ordinary share held. The notice 
of the general meeting specifies deadlines for 
exercising voting rights either by proxy notice 
or by presence in person or by proxy in relation 
to resolutions to be passed at general meeting. 
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers 
for, against or withheld in relation to each 
resolution are announced at the annual general 
meeting and published on the Company’s 
Website after the meeting. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of 
ordinary shares in the Company other than:
 ● certain restrictions may from time to time  
be imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example, insider trading laws);
 ● employees of the Company are not allowed 
to trade in shares or exercise options in 
certain close periods (such close periods 
normally start two weeks before the end  
of each quarter and end 48 hours after  
the release of the financial results).
On 4 February 2010, an offering of 3,500,000 
previously unissued ordinary shares at 10 pence 
each to its Employee Benefit Trust was made.
Details of changes in share capital can be  
found in note 18 to the consolidated financial 
statements. Besides that, the Company did  
not purchase its own shares and the Company 
holds no shares in treasury. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between Shareholders that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities  
and/or voting rights. 
Dialog has an Employee Benefit Trust which 
holds Dialog shares for the benefit of employees, 
Corporate Governance Section 3 | Management and governance
34  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
including for the purpose of satisfying awards 
made under the various employee share plans. 
The trustee may vote the shares as it sees fit, 
and if there is an offer for the shares the 
trustee is not obliged to accept or reject the 
offer but will have regard to the interests of  
the employees, may consult them to obtain 
their views on the offer and may otherwise 
take the action with respect to the offer it 
thinks fair.
There are no agreements between the Company 
and its Directors or employees providing for 
compensation for loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported 
redundancy or otherwise) that occur because  
of a takeover bid. The agreements between the 
Company and its Directors for compensation 
for loss of office are given in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on pages 35 to 37.
The Company’s Articles of Association may only 
be amended by a special resolution at a general 
meeting of Shareholders.
Internal control
Dialog’s Board of Directors and Audit 
Committee acknowledge that they are 
responsible for the Company’s processes  
of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. Such processes are designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives, and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks it faces. This process is reviewed 
in accordance with the EU Transparency Directive. 
The process was in place during 2010 and  
up to the date of the approval of the 2010 
annual report and financial statements.
The Company’s Board and Audit Committee 
can confirm that necessary actions have been 
taken to remedy any significant failings or 
weaknesses identified from these process reviews.
Business conduct and ethics
Dialog seeks to comply with all laws and 
regulations that have an impact on its business. 
In addition, the Company expects its employees 
and Directors to act with honesty, integrity and 
fairness in the conduct of its business. Dialog’s 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is 
published on the Company’s Website.
Dialog is committed to taking account of interests 
outside the Company, including those of 
employees, business partners, the environment 
and the local communities on which it has an 
impact. The Board values, and has developed,  
a culture of corporate social responsibility that 
takes the above factors into consideration.
Audit and auditors
The consolidated financial statements have 
been audited by Dialog’s auditors, Ernst and 
Young (“E&Y”). E&Y were appointed in 
October 2006 following a tender process.
The remuneration given to the auditors over 
the past two financial years is detailed in  
note 3 to the consolidated financial statements 
on page 59 and note 30 to the Company 
financial statements on page 89.
The Company’s audited financial statements  
for the year ended 31 December 2009, and  
the reports from the Directors and auditors 
thereon, were presented to, and approved by, 
the Shareholders at the AGM of the Company 
held on 5 May 2010. E&Y, the Company’s 
independent auditors, were reappointed until 
the following AGM.
Given the acquisition of SiTel Semiconductor 
B.V. (“SiTel”) on 10 February 2011, the Board 
has requested that Kevin Harkin, the Senior 
Statutory Auditor, extend his period of service 
from five years to seven years (to end with 
audit of the 31 December 2012 annual report). 
The Board believes that this will give the  
Group greater stability and more comfort over 
audit quality over the next two years as SiTel  
is integrated into the Group. After due 
consideration, Kevin Harkin and Ernst & Young 
LLP have accepted this request and have 
advised that they will implement additional 
review procedures in order to mitigate any 
potential risk of familiarity impairing their 
independence.
Declaration of conformity with regard to 
the German Corporate Governance Code
Dialog Semiconductor Plc has established  
and published its own Corporate Governance 
principles corresponding in substance  
to the provisions of the German “Corporate 
Governance Code” as amended on 14 June 
2007 thereby adopting in substance the 
recommendations of the Government 
Commission on the German Corporate 
Governance Code. This declaration is  
available on the internet at:  
www.dialog-semiconductor.com.
Gregorio Reyes
Chairman
10 February 2011
Corporate Governance continued Section 3 | Management and governance
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  35
Directors’ remuneration report
Policy on Directors’ remuneration
The Board is responsible for setting the 
Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration; 
and the remuneration of each executive 
Director, following recommendations from the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
The primary objectives of the Company’s policy 
on executive Directors’ remuneration are, first, 
that it should be structured so as to attract and 
retain executives of a high calibre, with the 
skills and experience necessary to develop the 
Company successfully and, second, to reward 
them in a way which encourages the creation 
of value for the Company’s Shareholders.
The performance measurement of each executive 
Director and the determination of his annual 
remuneration package are undertaken by the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
No Director is involved in deciding his or her 
own remuneration. The Remuneration and 
Nomination Committee comprises non-
executive Directors and its role is, inter alia,  
to apply the Board’s policy on remuneration. 
The current members of the Committee  
are Russ Shaw (Chairman), Chris Burke  
and Peter Weber.
The Company has one executive Director,  
Dr Jalal Bagherli, who was appointed on  
12 September 2005. The executive Director’s 
remuneration consists of three components:
1.  Salary – reflects the executive’s experience, 
responsibilities and market value;
2.  Bonus – as part of his remuneration  
Dr Bagherli receives bonuses based on 
objectives set by the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committee relative to the 
performance of the Group, as an incentive  
to Dr Bagherli to achieve relevant and 
demanding targets; and
3.  Share options – details are set out in note 
20 to the consolidated financial statements.
Compensation of non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors are paid quarterly for 
their roles as Directors. Additional fees are paid 
to the Chairman of the Company’s Board 
committees, the Audit Committee, and the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
Our Directors and the Chairman are all 
reimbursed for any reasonable travel expenses 
incurred in connection with their attendance  
at Board meetings or Board committees.
There is no contractually agreed termination 
benefit for non-executive Directors.
Directors’ contracts
The service agreement with Dr Jalal Bagherli, 
executive Director, dated 19 July 2005, is of 
unlimited duration. The agreement may be 
terminated by either party on six months’ 
notice, but increasing to 12 months on a 
change of control of the Company.
Performance graph
Details are set out on pages 7 and 8 of this report.
Share options
Details are set out in note 20 to the 
consolidated financial statements, on pages  
71 to 73.
Directors’ share interests
Directors’ beneficial interests (as defined by the 
Companies Act 2006) in 10 pence ordinary 
shares of the Company are set out in note 20a, 
on page 71, in the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements. Section 3 | Management and governance
36  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Directors’ pension arrangements
The Company contributes 9% of the executive 
Director’s basic salary to a defined contribution 
pension scheme. There are no pension 
arrangements for non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors’ terms
Non-executive Directors have formal letters of 
appointment. All non-executive Directors are 
initially appointed for up to three years by  
the Board of Directors, subject to any earlier 
requirements to stand for re-election as 
required by the Articles of Association 
(one-third of the Directors must stand for 
re-election at each AGM). If a non-executive 
Director is not invited to serve any additional 
period or is not re-elected at the Company’s 
AGM, their appointment is terminated with 
immediate effect. The letters of appointment 
do not contain any other notice provisions.
The compensation of the members of the 
Board of Directors is as follows:
  Directors’ holdings  
  at 31 December 2010
  Base  Pensions  2010 2009 
  salary Bonus contribution Other Total Total  
Name and position US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ Shares Options 
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Executive Director and CEO 361,306 463,213 29,761 25,198 879,479 576,829 400,576 875,002
Chris Burke
Non-executive Director 66,809 – – – 66,809 39,136 15,593 23,757
Aidan Hughes
Non-executive Director and  
Chairman of the Audit Committee 79,627 – – – 79,627 46,963 25,000 44,168
John McMonigall
Non-executive Director 66,809 – – – 66,809 39,136 100,000 8,550
Gregorio Reyes
Non-executive Chairman 94,770 – – – 94,770 46,963 70,000 23,340
Russ Shaw
Non-executive Director and Chairman  
of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee 79,627 – – – 79,627 46,963 19,891 65,210
Peter Tan
Non-executive Director 66,809 – – – 66,809 39,136 40,000 –
Peter Weber
Non-executive Director 66,809 – – – 66,809 39,136 52,000 –
  882,566 463,213 29,761 25,198 1,400,739 883,891 723,060 1,040,027
Share options granted to the  
executive Director 
As of 31 December 2010, Jalal Bagherli,  
executive Director, held 875,002 options over  
ordinary shares which entitle him to acquire  
the same amount of shares.  
         Market price Gain on  
         of exercised the exercise
     31 December   31 December options
1
 of options
Exercise price Date of grant Expiry date Vesting period 2009 Granted Exercised 2010 € €
€1.52 13.05.2009 12.05.2016 1-44 months 102,624 – (26,912) 75,712 10.57 242,919.04
£0.10 21.02.2010 20.02.2015 Immediately – 266,430 (266,430) – 11.60 3,056,785.58
£0.10 21.02.2010 20.02.2015 12 months – 799,290 – 799,290 – –
     102,624 1,065,720 (293,342) 875,002 – 3,299,704.62
1) The market price is a weighted average price. Section 3 | Management and governance
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  37
 
           Market price Gain on  
  Exercise         of exercised the exercise
   price   Vesting 31 December    31 December options
1
 of options
Director € Date of grant Expiry date period 2009 Forfeited Granted Exercised 2010 € €
Chris Burke  1.40 12.07.2006 11.07.2013 48 months 9,378 – – (4,168) 5,210 11.98 43,160
   1.80 10.05.2007 09.05.2014 12 months 20,000 – – (20,000) – – –
   1.35 30.04.2008 29.04.2015 12 months 20,000 – – (20,000) – – –
   1.17 22.04.2009 21.04.2016 12 months 20,000 – – (1,453) 18,547 11.98 15,707
Aidan Hughes  1.27 19.06.2006 18.06.2013 48 months 50,000 – – (45,832) 4,168 11.60 472,657
  1.80 10.05.2007 09.05.2014 12 months 20,000 – – (20,000) – 11.60 195,906
  1.35 30.04.2008 29.04.2015 12 months 20,000 – – – 20,000 – –
  1.17 22.04.2009 21.04.2016 12 months 20,000 – – – 20,000 – –
John McMonigall 1.27 19.06.2006 18.06.2013 48 months 50,000 – – (44,790) 5,210 11.60 461,588
  1.80 10.05.2007 09.05.2014 12 months 20,000 – – (20,000) – 11.60 195,906
  1.35 30.04.2008 29.04.2015 12 months 20,000 – – (20,000) – 11.60 204,906
  1.17 22.04.2009 21.04.2016 12 months 20,000 – – (16,660) 3,340 11.60 173,685
Gregorio Reyes  1.27 19.06.2006 18.06.2013 48 months 8,336 – – (2,084) 6,252 12.00 22,361
  1.80 10.05.2007 09.05.2014 12 months 10,004 – – (10,004) – 12.00 102,041
  1.35 30.04.2008 29.04.2015 12 months 20,000 – – (20,000) – 11.13 195,593
  1.17 22.04.2009 21.04.2016 12 months 20,000 – – (2,912) 17,088 10.56 27,344
Russ Shaw 1.40 12.07.2006 11.07.2013 48 months 50,000 – – (44,790) 5,210 11.60 456,258
  1.80 10.05.2007 09.05.2014 12 months 20,000 – – – 20,000 – –
  1.35 30.04.2008 29.04.2015 12 months 20,000 – – – 20,000 – –
  1.17 22.04.2009 21.04.2016 12 months 20,000 – – – 20,000 – –
Peter Tan 1.40 12.07.2006 11.07.2013 48 months 50,000 – – (50,000) – 9.04 381,680
  1.17 22.04.2009 21.04.2016 12 months 20,000 – – (20,000) – 8.81 152,720
Peter Weber  1.27 19.06.2006 18.06.2013 48 months 7,294 – – (7,294) – 10.07 64,187
  1.35 30.04.2008 29.04.2015 12 months 2,534 – – (2,534) – 10.07 22,096
  1.17 22.04.2009 21.04.2016 12 months 20,000 – – (20,000) – 10.17 179,692
Total     557,546 – – (392,521) 165,025  3,367,488
1) The market price is a weighted average price.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Tim Anderson
Secretary
10 February 2011
Share options granted to the  
non-executive Directors
Each non-executive Director was entitled to an 
initial grant of 50,000 options vesting monthly 
in 48 equal tranches. At each AGM (ending 
with the 2009 AGM), non-executive Directors 
received a further 20,000 options vesting over 
12 months. Options may be exercised at the 
market price prevailing at the date of grant. 
The non-executive Directors are not subject  
to performance criteria related to their 
remuneration. The stock options granted to 
non-executive Directors are not, therefore, 
subject to the achievement of performance 
targets. At the 2010 Annual General Meeting 
the Shareholders voted against the continuance 
of this share option plan. Consequently,  
no share options were granted to the 
non-executive Directors in 2010. 
The share option grants to non-executive 
Directors are as follows: Section 3 | Management and governance
38  Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
IFRS report and accounts 2010 and the Group 
and parent company financial statements in 
accordance with the applicable law and 
regulations. Company law requires the Directors 
to prepare Group and parent company financial 
statements for each financial year. Under the 
law the Directors are required to prepare the 
Group financial statements in accordance with 
IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected  
to prepare the parent company financial 
statements on the same basis.
The Group and parent company financial 
statements are required by law and IFRS as 
adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial 
position of the Group and the parent company 
and the performance for that period; the 
Companies Act 2006 provides in relation to  
such financial statements that references in the 
relevant part of the Act to financial statements 
giving a true and fair view are references to 
their achieving a fair presentation. 
In preparing each of the Group and parent 
company financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
 ● select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently;
 ● make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
 ● state whether they have been prepared  
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by  
the EU; and
 ● prepare the financial statements on the 
going-concern basis unless it is inappropriate 
to presume that the Group and the parent 
company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
proper accounting records that disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the parent company and enable 
them to ensure that its financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have a general responsibility for  
taking such steps as are reasonably open to 
them to safeguard the assets of the Group  
and to prevent and detect fraud and other 
irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the 
Directors are also responsible for preparing a 
Directors’ report and Directors’ remuneration 
report that comply with that law and  
those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate  
and financial information included on the 
Company’s Website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination  
of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
 Responsibility statement
To the best of our knowledge, and in 
accordance with the applicable reporting 
principles, the consolidated financial statements 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit and loss of the 
Group, and the Group management report 
includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position 
of the Group, together with a description of 
the principal opportunities and risks associated 
with the expected development of the Group.
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Michel Richard
CFO, Vice President Finance
10 February 2011 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  39
We have audited the financial statements of Dialog Semiconductor Plc for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise the Group and Parent 
Company Statements of Financial Position, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flow, 
the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 33. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards 
the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 38, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	 	 The	financial 	statements	give	a	true	and 	fair 	 view 	of 	the	state	of	the	Gr oup’ s	and	of	the	par ent 	company’ s	af fairs	as	at	31	December	2010 	and	of	
the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
•	 	 The	Gr oup 	financial 	statements	have	 been	pr operly	pr epar ed 	in	accor dance	with	IFRSs	as	adopted	by	the	Eur opean 	Union;	
•	 	 The	par ent	company	financial 	statements	have	been 	pr operly	pr epar ed	 in 	accor dance 	with	IFRSs	as	adopted	by	the	Eur opean 	Union	and	as	applied	
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
•	 	 The	financial 	statements	have	been 	pr epar ed	in	accor dance 	with	the	r equir ements 	of	the	Companies	Act	2006	and,	as	r egar ds 	the	Gr oup	financial 	
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 	 The	part	of	the	Dir ectors’	Remuneration	 Report	to	be	audited 	has 	been	pr operly	pr epar ed 	in	accor dance	with	the	Companies 	Act	2006;	
•	 	 The	information	given	in	the	Dir ectors’	Report 	for	the	financial 	year	for	which	the	financial 	statements	ar e	pr epar ed 	is	consistent	with	the	 
financial statements; and
•	 	 The	information	given	in	the	Corporate 	Gover nance	Statement	set	out	on	pages	33 	to	34	and	the	web	addr ess 	(www .dialog-semiconductor .com) 	
with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 	 Adequate 	accounting 	r ecor ds 	have	 not	been	kept	by	the	par ent	company ,	or	r etur ns	adequate	for	our	audit	have	not 	been	r eceived	fr om 	branches	
not visited by us; or
•	 	 The	par ent	company	financial 	statements	and 	the	part	of 	the	Dir ectors’ 	Remuneration	Report	to	be	audited	ar e	not	in	 agr eement	with	the	
accounting records and returns; or
•	 	 Certain	disclosur es	of	Dir ectors’	r emuneration	specified 	by	law	ar e	not	made;	or
•	 	 W e	have	 not	r eceived 	all	the	 information	and	explanations	we	 r equir e	for	our	audit;	or
•	 	 A	Corporate	Gover nance	Statement	 has	not	been	pr epar ed	by	the	Company .
Kevin Harkin (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor  
Reading 
10 February 2010
Independent Auditors’ report to the members  
of Dialog Semiconductor Plc
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes  
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 40     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
    
 
Notes
 At 31 December 
2010 
US$000 
At 31 December 
2009 
US$000 
Assets    
Cash and cash equivalents 5 158,200 120,148 
Restricted cash 5, 24 – 3,000 
Trade accounts receivable and other receivables 6 12,556 17,486 
Inventories 7 40,733 26,193 
Income tax receivables 4 60 69 
Other financial assets 8 836 – 
Other current assets 9 4,078 1,915 
Total current assets  216,463 168,811 
Property, plant and equipment 10 14,249 9,807 
Intangible assets 11 10,727 5,005 
Deposits  741 804 
Income tax receivables 4 370 370 
Deferred tax assets 4 10,829 7,514 
Total non-current assets  36,916 23,500 
Total assets  253,379 192,311 
Liabilities and Shareholders' equity    
Trade and other payables 13 28,413 17,304 
Other financial liabilities 14 845 679 
Provisions 15 877 1,784 
Income taxes payable  1,208 3,305 
Other current liabilities 16 15,875 11,308 
Total current liabilities  47,218 34,380 
Provisions 15 428 252 
Other non-current financial liabilities 17 461 700 
Total non-current liabilities  889 952 
Ordinary shares  12,380 11,825 
Additional paid-in capital  202,416 283,733 
Accumulated deficit  (3,961) (135,667) 
Other reserves  (1,648) (2,102) 
Employee stock purchase plan shares  (3,915) (810) 
Net Shareholders´ equity 18 205,272 156,979 
Total liabilities and Shareholders´ equity  253,379 192,311 
    
 
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 February 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: 
Dr Jalal Bagherli 
Director 
 
   
Consolidated statement of financial position 
As at 31 December 2010   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  41 
   
     
 
Notes
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Revenue 3, 23, 26 296,597 217,613 
Cost of sales  (159,334) (119,886) 
Gross profit  137,263 97,727 
Selling and marketing expenses  (17,391) (14,183) 
General and administrative expenses  (17,471) (12,584) 
Research and development expenses 23 (56,465) (42,621) 
Other operating income 3, 26 – 333 
Restructuring expenses  (595) – 
Operating profit 3 45,341 28,672 
Interest income 3 1,130 203 
Interest expense 3 (120) (212) 
Foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net  (2,088) 162 
Result before income taxes  44,263 28,825 
Income tax benefit (expense) 4 (1,784) 3,902 
Net profit  42,479 32,727 
    
  2010 2009 
Earnings per share (in US$)    
Basic  0.70 0.67 
Diluted  0.66 0.60 
Weighted average number of shares (in thousands) 2   
Basic  60,313 48,868 
Diluted  64,841 54,464 
    
 
 
Consolidated income statement 
For the year ended 31 December 2010   
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 42     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
   
 2010 2009 
 US$000 US$000 
Net profit 42,479 32,727 
Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 188 (113) 
Cash flow hedges 441 (179) 
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (175) 421 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 454 129 
Total comprehensive income for the year 42,933 32,856 
   
 
Statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2010   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  43 
   
  
2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Cash flows from operating activities:    
Net profit  42,479 32,727 
Adjustments to reconcile net profit to net cash provided by operating activities:    
Interest expense (income), net 3 (1,010) 9 
Income tax expense (benefit) 4 1,784 (3,902) 
Impairment of inventories  1,121 973 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 4,880 4,473 
Amortization of intangible assets 11 2,678 2,146 
Losses on disposals of fixed assets and impairment of fixed and financial assets  240 723 
Expense related to share-based payments 20 4,227 1,364 
Changes in working capital:    
Trade accounts receivable, other receivables and factoring 6 4,930 (10,013) 
Inventories  (15,661) (7,228) 
Prepaid expenses  (1,475) (337) 
Trade accounts payable  11,157 4,196 
Provisions  (665) 416 
Other assets and liabilities  3,641 7,573 
Cash generated from operations 
 58,326 33,120 
Interest paid  (3) (109) 
Interest received  1,005 219 
Income taxes paid  (7,378) (46) 
Cash flow from operating activities  51,950 33,184 
Cash flows from investing activities:    
Cash transferred from (to) restricted cash 24 3,000 (3,000) 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 10 (9,768) (5,925) 
Purchase of intangible assets 11 (5,883) (1,828) 
Payments for capitalized development costs 11 (2,823) (972) 
Deposits made  – (530) 
Cash flow used for investing activities  (15,474) (12,255) 
Cash flows from financing activities:    
Cash flow from (used for) capital increase  (36) 59,617 
Purchase of employee stock purchase plan shares  (2,844) – 
Sale of employee stock purchase plan shares  4,013 2,937 
Cash flow from financing activities  1,133 62,554 
Cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities  37,609 83,483 
Net foreign exchange difference  443 (250) 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  38,052 83,233 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  120,148 36,915 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period  158,200 120,148 
    
 
Consolidated statements of cash flows 
For the year ended 31 December 2010  
Notes  
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 44     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
        
    Other reserves 
 
Ordinary Shares 
US$000 
Additional paid-in 
capital 
US$000 
Accumulated 
deficit 
US$000 
Currency 
translation 
adjustment 
US$000 
Cash flow hedges 
000US$ 
Employee stock 
purchase plan 
shares 
US$000 
Total 
US$000 
Balance at 1 January 2009 9,328 223,005 (169,758) (2,038) (193) (139) 60,205 
Total comprehensive income (loss) – – 32,727 308 (179) – 32,856 
Capital increase public offering (gross 
proceeds) 1,922 62,421 – – – – 64,343 
Transaction costs of capital increase - 
public offering – (4,685) – – – – (4,685) 
Capital increase for employee share 
option plan (gross proceeds) 575 473 – – – (1,048) – 
Transaction costs of capital increase - 
employee share option plan – (41) – – – – (41) 
Sale of employee stock purchase plan 
shares – 2,560 – – – 377 2,937 
Equity settled transactions, net of tax – – 1,364 – – – 1,364 
Changes in Equity total 
2,497 60,728 34,091 308 (179) (671) 96,774 
Balance at 31 December 2009 /       
1 January 2010 11,825 283,733 (135,667) (1,730) (372) (810) 156,979 
Total comprehensive income – – 42,479 13 441 – 42,933 
Reduction of additional paid-in capital – (85,000) 85,000 – – – – 
Capital increase for employee share 
option plan (gross proceeds) 555 414 – – – (969) – 
Transaction costs of capital increase - 
employee share option plan – (36) – – – – (36) 
Purchase of employee stock purchase 
plan shares – – – – – (2,844) (2,844) 
Sale of employee stock purchase plan 
shares – 3,305 – – – 708 4,013 
Equity settled transactions, net of tax – – 4,227 – – – 4,227 
Changes in Equity total 
555 (81,317) 131,706 13 441 (3,105) 48,293 
Balance at 31 December 2010 12,380 202,416 (3,961) (1,717) 69 (3,915) 205,272 
For further details, please refer to note 18. 
 
  
Consolidated statement of changes in Shareholders´ equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2010   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  45 
   
1. General 
The consolidated financial statements of Dialog Semiconductor Plc (“Dialog or the Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2010 were authorised for 
issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 10 February 2011. Dialog Semiconductor Plc is a company incorporated in the UK, whose 
shares are publicly traded. The principal activities of the Group are set out in the segment reporting (note 23). 
Company name and registered office 
Dialog Semiconductor Plc 
Tower Bridge House  
St Katharine’s Way 
London E1W 1AA 
United Kingdom 
Basis of presentation 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value. 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars (“US$”) and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (US$000) except when 
otherwise stated.  
Statement of compliance 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the recognition and measurement requirements of Interna-
tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and its interpretation as adopted by the EU. Based on these standards, management has applied the ac-
counting policies as provided in note 2. 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies 
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures 
The accounting policies are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the changes resulting from the adoption of the following 
revised and new Standards and new IFRIC interpretations during the year: 
IFRS 2 Share-based payment (amended) 
The amended IFRS 2 Share-based Payment was issued in June 2009 and is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010. The amended 
standard clarifies the accounting for group cash-settled share-based payment transactions in the financial statements of an individual subsidiary in a 
group as well as the interaction of IFRS 2 and other standards. The amendments to IFRS 2 also incorporate guidance previously included in IFRIC 8 
Scope of IFRS 2 and IFRIC 11 IFRS 2—Group and Treasury Share Transactions. As a result, the IASB has withdrawn IFRIC 8 and IFRIC 11. The amended 
standard did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of Dialog. 
IFRS 3 Business Combinations (revised) and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (amended) 
The revised IFRS 3 and the amended IAS 27 were issued in January 2008 and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. 
IFRS 3 (revised) introduces significant changes in the accounting for business combinations occurring after becoming effective. Changes affect the 
valuation of non-controlling interest, the accounting for transaction costs, the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of a contingent consid-
eration and business combinations achieved in stages. These changes will impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period 
that an acquisition occurs and future reported results. 
IAS 27 (amended) requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary (without loss of control) is accounted for as a transaction with equity 
holders in their capacity as owners. Therefore, such transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill, nor will it give rise to a gain or loss. Furthermore, 
the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by the subsidiary as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary. The changes by IFRS 3 
(revised) and IAS 27 (amended) affect acquisitions or loss of control of subsidiaries and transactions with non-controlling interests after 1 January 2010. 
The change in accounting policy is applied prospectively and had no impact on earnings per share. 
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 
The amended IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement was issued in July 2008 and is effective for periods beginning on or after    
1 July 2009. The amended standard clarifies how the existing principles underlying hedge accounting should be applied in two particular situations. 
Dialog has concluded that the amendment will have no impact on the financial position or performance of Dialog, as Dialog has not entered into any 
such hedges. 
  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 46     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Improvements to IFRSs – a collection of amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards (annual improvements project) 
The IASB has also issued a collection of amendments to various IFRSs (“Improvements to IFRSs”) in May 2008 and April 2009. This includes amend-
ments to various existing IFRSs. There are separate transitional provisions for each standard. The adoption of the following amendments resulted in 
changes to accounting policies but did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. 
Issued in May 2008 
 IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations: clarifies that when a subsidiary is classified as held for sale, all its assets and 
liabilities are classified as held for sale, even though the entity retains a non-controlling interest after the sale transaction. The amendment is ap-
plied prospectively and has no impact on the financial position nor financial performance of Dialog. 
Issued in April 2009 
 IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations: clarifies that the disclosures required in respect of non-current assets and 
disposal groups classified as held for sale or discontinued operations are only those set out in IFRS 5. The disclosure requirements of other IFRSs 
only apply if specifically required for such non-current assets or discontinued operations. The amendment is applied prospectively and has no im-
pact on the financial position nor financial performance of Dialog. 
 IFRS 8 Operating Segments: clarifies that segment assets and liabilities need only be reported when those assets and liabilities are included in 
measures that are used by the chief operating decision maker. As Dialog’s chief operating decision maker does only review segment inventories 
and not assets and liabilities, Dialog has changed its presentation accordingly.  For further information see Note 23.  
 IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: States that only expenditure that results in recognising an asset can be classified as a cash flow from investing 
activities. The amendment is applied prospectively and has no impact on the cash flow statement of Dialog.  
 IAS 36 Impairment of Assets: The amendment clarifies that the largest unit permitted for allocating goodwill, acquired in a business combination,  
is the operating segment as defined in IFRS 8 before aggregation for reporting purposes. The amendment has no impact on Dialog. 
All other amended, revised or new standards and interpretations did not result in changes to the accounting policies or did not have a material effect 
on the financial statements: 
Interpretation/ Standard  Title Effective date 
IFRS 1 Restructured version of IFRS 1 First-time-Adoption of International Reporting Standards 1 July 2009 
IFRS 1 Limited exemptions 1 January 2010 
IAS 39 Financial Instruments and IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives  30 June 2009 
IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners 1 July 2009 
IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers 1 July 2009 
 
Recently issued accounting standards not yet adopted (Standards and Interpretations are endorsed by the EU except as noted otherwise) 
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (amended) 
The amendment was issued in October 2010 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011. The amendments will allow users of 
financial statements to improve their understanding of transfer transactions of financial assets (for example, securitisations), including understanding 
the possible effects of any risks that may remain with the entity that transferred the assets. The amendments also require additional disclosures if a 
disproportionate amount of transfer transactions are undertaken around the end of a reporting period. The revised standard has not yet been en-
dorsed by the EU. 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
The new IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. The new standard for financial instru-
ments sets out provisions for the classification and measurement of financial assets. IFRS 9 uses a single approach to determine whether a financial asset 
is measured at amortised cost or fair value, replacing the many different rules in IAS 39. The approach in IFRS 9 is based on how an entity manages its  
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  47 
   
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
financial instruments (its business model) and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets. The new standard also requires a single 
impairment method to be used, replacing the many different impairment methods in IAS 39. The revised standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU. 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (additions) 
The additions to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments were issued in October 2010 and are effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. The 
additions outline the requirements on the accounting for financial liabilities. The new requirements address the problem of volatility in profit or loss 
(P&L) arising from an issuer choosing to measure its own debt at fair value (often referred to as the ‘own credit’ problem). The IASB decided to main-
tain the existing amortised cost measurement for most liabilities, limiting change to that required to address the own credit problem. With the new 
requirements, an entity choosing to measure a liability at fair value will present the portion of the change in its fair value due to changes in the entity’s 
own credit risk in the other comprehensive income (OCI) section of the income statement, rather than within profit or loss. The revised standard has 
not yet been endorsed by the EU. 
The impact will be further analysed in the future and cannot be measured at the moment. 
IAS 12 Income taxes 
The amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes were issued in December 2010 and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. 
IAS 12 requires an entity to measure the deferred tax relating to an asset depending on whether the entity expects to recover the carrying amount of 
the asset through use or sale. It can be difficult and subjective to assess whether recovery will be through use or through sale when the asset is meas-
ured using the fair value model in IAS 40 Investment Property. The amendment provides a practical solution to the problem by introducing a presump-
tion that recovery of the carrying amount will, normally be , be through sale. As a result of the amendments, SIC-21 Income Taxes—Recovery of Reval-
ued Non-Depreciable Assets would no longer apply to investment properties carried at fair value. The amendments also incorporate into IAS 12 the 
remaining guidance previously contained in SIC-21, which is accordingly withdrawn. The amended standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU. 
The impact will be further analysed in the future and cannot be measured at the moment. 
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (revised) 
The revised IAS 24 was issued in November 2009 and is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. The changes to IAS 24 simplify the 
disclosure requirements for government-related entities and clarify the definition of a related party. 
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation (amended) 
The amended IAS 32 was issued in October 2009 and is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010. The amendment addresses the 
accounting for rights issues (rights, options or warrants) that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer. Previously 
such rights issues were accounted for as derivative liabilities. However, the amendment requires that, provided certain conditions are met, such rights 
issues are classified as equity regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated. 
Improvements to IFRSs – a collection of amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards (annual improvements project) 
The IASB has also issued a collection of amendments to various IFRSs (“Improvements to IFRSs”) in May 2010. This includes amendments to various 
existing IFRSs. 
In addition, the following interpretations and amendments to interpretations have been issued: 
   
Interpretation  Title Effective date 
IFRIC 14 Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement  1 January 2011 
IFRIC 19  Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments 1 July 2010 
   
The above listed interpretations and amendments to interpretations will not have an effect on the financial statements as they currently do not apply 
to the Group.  
The Group does not intend to make early application of the amended or revised Standards and Interpretation listed above. 
The amended standards did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of Dialog. 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 48     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Principles of consolidation and investments in affiliated companies 
As in 2009, the consolidated financial statements include Dialog Semiconductor Plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year: 
   
Name Registered office Participation 
Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Kirchheim/Teck, Germany 100% 
Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Limited  Swindon, UK 100% 
Dialog Semiconductor, Inc. Wilmington, Delaware, USA 100% 
Dialog Semiconductor KK Tokyo, Japan 100% 
   
 
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which Dialog obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until 
the date such control ceases. 
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. 
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated 
until the date when such control ceases. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, 
using consistent accounting policies. All intra-group balances, transactions, unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions and 
dividends are eliminated in full. 
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction for changes incurred since 1 
January 2010. However, no changes in ownership interest of a subsidiary incurred prior to 2010. If Dialog loses control over a subsidiary, it: 
 Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary 
 Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest 
 Derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity 
 Recognises the fair value of the consideration received 
 Recognises the fair value of any investment retained 
 Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss 
 Reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as  
appropriate. 
The above-mentioned requirements were applied on a prospective basis. The following difference, however, is carried forward from the previous basis 
of consolidation.  Upon loss of control, Dialog accounted for the investment retained at its proportionate share of net asset value at the date control 
was lost. The carrying value of such investments at 1 January 2010 have not been restated. 
Business combinations 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. For each business combination, the 
Group measures the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. 
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses. 
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance 
with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded 
derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree. 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  49 
   
2.  Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-
measured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss. Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised 
at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability 
will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is 
classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity. 
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling 
interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the sub-
sidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill ac-
quired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from 
the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-
generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the 
carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is meas-
ured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained. 
Foreign exchange 
The functional currency for the Group entities is generally the currency in which they primarily generate and expend cash. Each entity in the Group 
determines its own functional currency. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of companies whose functional currency is other than the US dollar are 
included in the consolidation by translating the assets and liabilities into the presentation currency (US$) at the exchange rates applicable at the end of 
the reporting period. Equity accounts are measured at historical rates. The statements of income and cash flows are translated at the average ex-
change rates during the year. The exchange differences arising on the translation are directly recognised in equity (other reserves). 
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabili-
ties denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date. All differences are 
taken to profit and loss with the exception of differences on monetary items that form part of a net investment in a foreign operation as well as differ-
ences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity. These are taken directly to equity until the 
disposal of the net investment at which time they are recognised in profit or loss. Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those 
monetary items and borrowings are also dealt with in equity. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency 
are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transaction. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are disclosed sepa-
rately in the income statement, at each reporting period. Key exchange rates against US dollars used in preparing the consolidated financial statements 
were: 
      
 Exchange rate at   Annual average exchange rate  
 31 December 2010 31 December 2009  2010 2009 
Currency US$1 = US$1 =  US$1 = US$1 = 
Great Britain 0.64 0.62  0.65 0.64 
Japan 81.29 92,41  87.69 93.15 
Euro 0.75 0,69  0.76 0.71 
      
 
Financial instruments 
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset in one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument in another. Financial 
assets include, in particular, cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and other loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and derivative 
and non-derivative financial assets accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, as well as investments available for sale.  
Financial liabilities generally substantiate claims for repayment in cash or another financial asset. In particular, this includes trade payables, liabilities to 
banks and derivative financial liabilities.  
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the entity currently has a   
legal right to set off the recognised amounts and intends to settle on a net basis. 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 50     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Financial assets 
Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as being at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity investments, loans and receiv-
ables or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. When financial assets are first recognised, they are measured at fair value, plus, in case of 
investments not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.  
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets on first recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at 
each financial year end.  
All regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the settlement date, which is the date that the Group receives the asset. Regular 
purchases or sales are classified as purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the period generally established by regula-
tion or convention of the market place.  
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition at fair 
value through profit or loss. Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near 
term. This category includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge rela-
tionships as defined by IAS 39. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated 
as effective hedging instruments. Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value with 
changes in fair value recognised in finance income or finance costs in the income statement. 
Derivatives embedded in host contracts are accounted for as separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic characteristics and risks 
are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not held for trading or designated at fair value though profit or loss. 
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. Reassessment only occurs if 
there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be required. 
The Group has not entered into trading actions nor designated financial asset as financial asset through profit or loss in 2010 and 2009. 
Financial assets held to maturity 
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities are classified as held to maturity when the Group has the 
positive intention and ability to do so. After initial measurement, held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. The effective interest method takes into account any premium or discount on acquisition and includes transaction costs and fees that 
are an integral part of the effective interest rate. 
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the investments are de-recognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. The 
carrying amount of financial assets held-to-maturity are tested at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective, material evidence of 
impairment as outlined in IAS 39.59. Any impairment losses caused by the fair value being lower than the carrying amount are recognised in profit or 
loss. The Group does not use allowance accounts in order to record the impairment in the statement of financial position but credits the impairment 
loss directly against the book value of the financial assets.  
If in a subsequent period the fair value increases and this increase can be related objectively to events occurring after the impairment was recognised, 
the impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date. The fair value 
which is required for impairment testing corresponds to the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted using the original effective 
interest rate. 
The Group has not entered into trading actions nor designated financial asset as financial asset held to maturity in 2010 and 2009. 
Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market, such as trade 
account receivables. Loans and receivables are recorded initially at fair value and do not bear interest. As of 31 December 2010 as well as 31 December  
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  51 
   
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
2009, loans and receivables of the Group comprise trade accounts receivables from customers, classified cash, cash equivalents (except for deposits 
designated as hedging instruments) and restricted cash. After initial recognition, loans and receivables are subsequently carried at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method, less any allowance for impairment, if necessary. 
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are de-recognised or impaired. Interest income and expense 
on the application of the effective interest method are also recognised in profit or loss.  
The Group continuously reviews its allowance for doubtful accounts. Management considers the collectability of a trade account receivable to be 
impaired when it is probable that the Group will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the sales terms, based on current information and 
events regarding the customers’ ability to meet their obligations. The amount of the impairment loss on loans and receivables is measured as the 
difference between the carrying amount of the asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest 
rate of the financial asset. The amount of the impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss. 
If, in a subsequent reporting period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can objectively be related to an event occurring 
after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed and recognised in profit or loss. 
When a trade receivable is considered to be impaired, any credit losses are included in the allowance for doubtful accounts through a charge to bad 
debt expenses. Account balances are set off against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is 
considered remote. Recoveries of trade receivables previously written-off are recorded as other income when received. Reversals of impairment losses 
are recognised in profit and loss. The Group does not have any off-balance sheet credit exposure related to its customers. 
Receivables from work in process for customer specific development projects according to IAS 11 are recorded in the balance sheet line “trade account 
receivables and other receivables” and are disclosed in the notes respectively. 
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified as loans and 
receivables, held-to-maturity investments or as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.  
After initial measurement available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value. Unrealised gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, on 
available-for-sale financial assets are excluded from earnings and are reported as a component of other reserves until realised, or the investment is 
determined as being impaired. 
At each reporting date, the carrying amounts of available-for-sale assets are assessed to determine whether there is objective, significant evidence of 
impairment as outlined in IAS 39.59. Any impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are charged to earnings. The Group does not use 
allowance accounts in order to record the impairment in the statement of financial position but credits the impairment loss directly against the book 
value of the financial assets. If this impairment relates to losses previously recognised in equity then the impairment loss is transferred from equity to 
the income statement. Reversals of impairment losses in respect of equity instruments or investment funds that are classified as available-for-sale are 
not recognised in profit or loss. Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through profit or loss if the increase in fair value of the 
instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss. 
The fair value of available-for-sale financial assets actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices 
at the close of business on the reporting date. 
For investments in which there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques, including recent arm’s length market transac-
tions; reference to the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same; discounted cash flow analysis; or other valuation 
models. If the fair value of unquoted equity instruments cannot be measured with sufficient reliability, these instruments are measured at cost (less any 
impairment losses, if applicable). 
The Group has not entered into trading actions nor designated financial asset as available-for-sale financial asset in 2010 and 2009. 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 52     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
Derecognition of financial assets 
A financial asset is derecognised when: 
 the right to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; 
 the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third 
party under a “pass through agreement”; or 
 the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset. 
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in it. 
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities primarily include trade accounts payable, liabilities due to banks, derivative financial liabilities and other liabilities. 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised costs 
After initial recognition at fair value, less directly attributable transaction costs, financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method. 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at 
fair value through profit or loss. Gains and losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in profit or loss. 
During the financial years 2010 and 2009 the Group did not classify any financial liabilities as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. 
Derecognition of financial liabilities 
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. 
Hedging instruments and hedge accounting 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward contracts, mainly for the purposes of hedging currency risks that arise from its operat-
ing activities. Beside the derivative financial instruments the Group designates certain deposits as hedging instruments in order to hedge foreign cur-
rency risks as well. Such derivative financial instruments and deposits are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is 
entered into or the cash deposit is designated as a hedging instrument and is subsequently remeasured at fair value on each subsequent reporting 
date. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
Any gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value on derivatives and the deposits during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
taken directly to profit or loss. 
The fair value of derivatives is equal to their positive or negative market value. The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to 
current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. The fair value of the deposits is measured based on foreign currency market 
rates at each reporting date. 
If the requirements for hedge accounting set out in IAS 39 are met, the Group designates and documents the hedge relationship from the date a 
derivative contract is entered into or the cash deposit is designated as a hedging instrument, either as a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge. 
The Group did not enter into fair value hedges in 2010 and 2009. 
In a cash flow hedge, the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, 
or a firm commitment (in case of currency risks) is hedged. To hedge a currency risk of an unrecognised firm commitment, the Group makes use of the 
option to recognise this as a cash flow hedge. The documentation of the hedge relationship includes identification of the hedging instrument, the  
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  53 
   
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the 
exposure to changes in the hedged cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting 
changes in cash flows, and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial re-
porting periods for which they were designated. 
For cash flow hedges, fair value changes of the effective portion of the hedging instrument are recognised in other reserves, net of applicable taxes, 
while any ineffective portion of the fair value changes are recognised immediately in profit or loss. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the 
income statement when the hedged transaction affects the income statement, such as when the forecast or committed expenses occur. If the forecast 
transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss. 
If the hedging instrument does not, or no longer, qualifies for hedge accounting because the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting are not, or are 
no longer met, the derivative financial instruments are classified as held for trading and the deposits are classified as loans and receivables. Amounts 
previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss. 
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, 
amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or the firm commitment occurs. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with original maturity dates of three months or less and are subject to an insignificant risk 
of changes in value. The financial position cash and cash equivalents also include deposits designated as hedging instruments. 
Inventories 
Inventories include assets held for sale in the ordinary course of business (finished goods), in the process of production (work in process) or in the form 
of materials to be consumed in the production process (raw materials). Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost, which 
includes direct materials, labour and overhead, plus indirect overhead, is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Net realisable value is 
the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and estimated costs to make the sale. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. These include the cost of replac-
ing part of the plant and equipment when that cost is incurred, if the recognition criteria are met. Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: 
  
Equipment Useful life 
Test equipment Three to eight years 
Leasehold improvements Shorter of useful life or lease term 
Office and other equipment 18 months to 13 years 
  
 
The asset’s residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end. 
Intangible assets 
Purchased intangible assets with definite useful lives primarily consist of licences, software and patents, and are recorded at acquisition cost less accu-
mulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 
three to five years. For a particular software licence a useful life of ten years was estimated. Amortisation expenses are allocated to the cost of goods 
sold, selling expenses, research and development expenses, or general administration expenses. The Group has no intangible assets with an indefinite 
useful life. 
Self-developed intangible assets are recorded on a cost basis. They are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated usefulness of 12-60 
months. The costs of internally generated intangible assets comprise all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce and prepare the asset to 
be capable of operating in a manner intended by management, e.g. costs of materials and services used or consumed in generating the intangible 
asset, costs of employee benefits or fees to register a legal right. Reference is also made to the accounting policy regarding research and development 
costs in this section. 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 54     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
Patents have been granted by the relevant government agency for a certain period, depending on the specific country, with the option of renewal at 
the end of this period. In most cases the maximum lifetime of the patents is 20 years. They are amortised over the shorter period of expected future 
benefit, which is principally ten years. Acquisition costs for patents are based on the cost of patent registration. 
Impairment of non-monetary assets 
In accordance with IAS 36, at each reporting date an assessment is made as to whether there is an indication that a non-monetary asset, such as 
property, plant and equipment or purchased intangibles, may be impaired. If any such indication exists, an estimate is made of the asset’s recoverable 
amount: the higher of an asset’s fair value, less cost to sell and its value in use. Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, 
the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are dis-
counted to their present value, using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific 
to the asset. In determining the fair value less costs to sell, an appropriate valuation model is used. For assets, an assessment is made at each reporting 
date as to whether any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, an 
estimation of the recoverable amount is made. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates 
used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is 
increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount, however, cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of 
depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss. 
Leases 
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date of whether the 
fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. 
Where the Group is lessee, finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased 
item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. 
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are reflected in profit and loss.  
A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that Dialog will obtain ownership by the end 
of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term. 
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes or duty. The 
Group assesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or agent. The Group has concluded 
that it is acting as a principal in all of its revenue arrangements. The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recog-
nised: 
Sale of goods 
Revenue from the sale of goods is derived from the sale of products, application specific integrated circuit (“ASIC”) and application specific standard 
product (“ASSP”) to end customers. These products are manufactured and tested in accordance with customers’ technical specifications prior to delivery.  
Revenue is recognised when title passes, the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, the fee is fixed or determinable, 
and collection of the related receivable is probable. Revenues are recorded net of sales taxes and customer discounts, if any. 
The Group has insurance for product claims and also records a provision for warranty costs as a charge in cost of sales, based on historical trends of 
warranty costs incurred as a percentage of sales, which management has determined to be a reasonable estimate of the probable costs to be incurred 
for warranty claims in a period.  
Customer returns are permitted only for quality-related reasons within the applicable warranty period and any potential warranty claims are subject to 
the Group’s determination that it is at fault for damages. Such claims must usually be submitted within a short period of the date of sale. 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  55 
   
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
Research and development 
Revenue from customer-specific research and development contracts involving the development of new customer-specific technology is recognised on 
the percentage of completion basis when the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably. A contract’s outcome can be estimated reliably when 
total contract revenue can equally be estimated, it is probable that economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the Group, and the 
stage of contract completion can be measured reliably. When the Group is not able to meet those conditions, the policy is to recognise revenues only 
to the extent the expenses incurred are eligible to be recovered. Completion is measured by reference to costs incurred to date as a percentage of 
estimated total project costs. The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total expected contract revenue and costs, as well as the 
dependable measurement of the progress made towards completing the particular project. Losses on projects in progress are recognised in the period 
they become likely and can be estimated. 
 
Government grants 
Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied 
with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the 
costs that it is intended to compensate. Grants are deducted in reporting the related expense. The Group does not receive grants that relate to assets.  
Cost of sales 
Cost of sales consists of the costs of outsourced production, assembly and test, personnel costs and applicable overheads and depreciation of equip-
ment. Provisions for estimated product warranties are recorded in cost of sales at the time the related sale is recognised. 
Sales and marketing expenses 
Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, travel expenses, sales commissions, bad debt expenses and costs associated with advertising 
and other marketing activities. 
General and administrative expenses 
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and support costs for finance, human resources, ERP system and other manage-
ment departments which are not attributable to development, production or sales functions.  
Research and development costs 
Costs identified as research costs are expensed as incurred, whereas development costs on an individual project are capitalised as an intangible asset 
and amortised over the period of expected future benefit if the Group can demonstrate the following: 
 
 The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale; 
 Its intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; 
 Its ability to use or sell the intangible asset; 
 How the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits. Among other things, the Group can demonstrate the existence of a 
market for the output of the intangible asset or the intangible asset itself or, if it is to be used internally, the usefulness of the intangible asset; 
 The availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and use or sell the intangible asset; and 
 Its ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development. 
 
Interest income/expense 
Interest income is recognised as interest accrues. Interest income includes interest income from investments in securities, cash and cash equivalents. 
Income and expense resulting from the allocation of premiums and discounts is also included. Interest expense is generally expensed as incurred. 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get 
ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they  
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 56     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. The Group capitalises bor-
rowing costs for all eligible assets where construction was commenced on or after 1 January 2009.  
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses 
The foreign currency exchange gains and losses mainly result from foreign currency cash transactions and period end revaluation of foreign currency 
denominated cash into US dollars. It is the Group’s view that these gains and losses are driven by the financing activities of the Group and are there-
fore shown as non-operating results.  
Employee benefits – defined contribution plans 
Contributions to defined contribution and state-funded pension plans are recognised in the income statement as incurred. 
Income taxes 
Current income taxes for current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The 
tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are accounted for using the liability method and are recognised for the future tax consequences attributable to differ-
ences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, and their respective tax bases, as well as on the carry-forward of 
unused tax losses that can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates that have been enacted, or substantially enacted, by the reporting date and which are 
expected to apply to taxable income in the years, in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of a change 
in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognised in income in the period that includes the enactment date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differ-
ences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are 
reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent, that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax 
asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets being reduced in the past are presented in the notes gross less respective provisions. If in future periods it 
becomes probable that taxable profits will be available against which the unused tax losses can be utilized, it is assumed that tax losses incurred first 
will be utilized first and the respective provision will be reversed. 
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to 
the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. 
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists, to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. 
Sales tax 
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax, except: 
 Where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recog-
nised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable. 
 Receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of sales tax included.  
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the statement of 
financial position. 
Share-based payments 
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date, reflects the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and the best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The income statement charge or credit for a 
period represents the movement in cumulative expense in the period. 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  57 
   
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Stock options 
The Group has established an equity-settled share option scheme under which employees and Directors may be granted stock options to acquire 
shares of Dialog. 
The fair value of options granted is recognised as a compensation expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant 
date and spread over the service period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. 
The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions on which 
the options were granted. Expectations of early exercise are accounted for within the average life of the options. The Group applies IFRS 2 to all op-
tions granted after 7 November 2002 that had not been vested as of 1 January 2005. 
Executives’ Long Term Incentive Plan 
The Group operates an equity settled Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). Under this plan, key executives are eligible to share in a percentage of the value 
created for Shareholders in excess of an annual return hurdle measured over a four year performance period.  
Each participant in the LTIP is awarded a number of units which convert into Company shares according to the level of outperformance of the Com-
pany’s share price over the annual return hurdle. If this hurdle is not reached no units convert into Company shares.  
The fair value of the awards is recognised as a compensation expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date, 
using a Monte Carlo Model, taking into account the terms and conditions on which awards are granted and is spread over the service period during 
which the key executives become unconditionally entitled to the awards.  
Employee benefit trust – Treasury shares 
The Group has established an employee benefit trust. The employee benefit trust is separately administrated and is funded by the Group, which con-
solidates the assets, liabilities, income and expenses in its own accounts. The shares held by the trust are recorded at cost and are shown under “Em-
ployee stock purchase plan shares” in the statement of changes in Shareholders’ equity. 
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit (loss) for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of Dialog by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. 
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of Dialog by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued if all the securities 
or other contracts to issue ordinary shares were exercised. 
The weighted average number of shares outstanding is as follows: 
   
 2010 
000 
2009 
000 
Basic number of shares 60,313 48,868 
Effect of dilutive options outstanding 4,528 5,596 
Dilutive number of shares 64,841 54,464 
   
 
The number of anti-dilutive share options outstanding was 288,114 (2009: 650,800). 
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of 
assets and liabilities, as well as disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of reve-
nues and expenses during the reporting period. 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 58     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
The significant accounting estimates and assumptions are outlined below: 
Impairment of non-financial assets 
The Group assesses whether there are any indicators of impairment for all non-financial assets at each reporting date. In case of such an indicator, an 
impairment test is made. This requires the determination of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell respectively of the assets. Estimating the 
value in use requires management to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the asset and also to choose a suitable discount rate in 
order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The carrying amount of such assets at 31 December 2010 was US$65,709,000 (2009: 
US$41,005,000). 
Deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses 
can be utilised.  
 
Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing of 
future taxable profits, together with future tax planning strategies. At year end 2010, net deferred tax assets amounting to US$10,829,000 were 
recognised (2009: US$7,514,000). Impaired deferred tax assets at 31 December 2010 were US$2,079,000 (2009: US$12,629,000). 
Further information regarding the assessment of future taxable income is disclosed in note 4. 
Share-based employee compensation awards 
Stock options 
Share-based payment transactions for stock options are measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted. The fair value 
of share-based payments is determined using the Black-Scholes model, which involves making assumptions about interest rates, volatilities, market 
conditions, dividend yield, expected life and fluctuation. Due to the nature of these assumptions, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. 
In 2010, the expense related to stock options was US$2,823,000 (2009: US$851,000). For further information on stock options please refer to note 
20a and 20c. 
Executives’ Long Term Incentive Plan 
The fair value of the awards is recognised as a compensation expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date, 
using a Monte Carlo Model, based on standard inputs such as the Company’s share price, interest rate, volatility of the Company’s share price, divi-
dend yield and expected life. Due to the nature of these assumptions, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. 
In 2010 an expense of US$1,404,000 was booked (2009: US$514,000). Further information regarding LTIP is provided in note 20b and 20c. 
Customer-specific research and development 
For the determination of revenue and costs for customer-specific research and development contracts, management judgement is required. It is, there-
fore, necessary to determine the stage of completion based on the progress made towards completing the particular project, as well as the contract 
revenue and the contract costs. Besides an advance payment received from one customer, at 31 December 2010 no receivables or liabilities from 
constructions contracts were outstanding (2009: US$nil). 
Self-developed intangible assets 
Development costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy mentioned above, i.e. they are recorded on a cost basis. However, initial 
capitalisation of costs is based on management’s judgement that technological and economical feasibility is confirmed, usually when a product devel-
opment project has reached a defined milestone according to an established project management model. In determining the probable future eco-
nomic benefits of the self-developed intangible asset, management makes assumptions regarding the expected future cash generation of the assets, 
discount rates to be applied and the expected period of benefits. At 31 December 2010, the carrying amount of capitalised development costs was 
US$3,235,000 (2009: US$1,305,000). 
Actual results may differ from all of the above judgements and estimates.   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  59 
   
3. Other disclosures to the income statement 
a) Operating expenses and revenues 
The operating result before income taxes is stated after charging: 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Auditors' remuneration
1)
   
for the audit (226) (301) 
for other audit related services (86) (142) 
for other services (238) – 
   
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (4,880) (4,473) 
Amortization of intangible assets   
thereof included in cost of sales (1,395) (1,306) 
thereof included in selling and marketing expenses (75) (50) 
thereof included in general and administrative expenses (156) (85) 
thereof included in research and development expenses (1,052) (705) 
   
Personnel costs   
Wages and salaries (43,634) (36,771) 
Social and security costs (10,259) (4,811) 
Share-based payment (4,227) (1,364) 
Pension costs from defined contribution plans
2)
 (3,000) (2,568) 
 (61,125) (45,515) 
Included in revenues   
Revenue from the sale of goods 293,727 211,912 
Revenue from customer specific research and development contracts 2,870 5,701 
Included in revenue from sale of goods income attributable to prior periods  
from BenQ cash settlement (see note 26) – 1,961 
Included in cost of sales:   
Costs in relation to customer specific research and development contracts (2,870) (5,701) 
Amount of inventory recognized as expense (140,733) (98,947) 
Impairment of inventories recognized as an expense (1,121) (973) 
Included in other operating income   
Income from recoveries on trade accounts receivable impaired in prior periods 106 349 
   
[1]  In addition to the auditor’s remuneration included in the operating result, in 2009 US$287,000 were paid to the auditors in relation to the capital increase. These costs were deducted from the equity 
      (see note 18 for further information) 
[2]  The pension costs from defined contribution plans include costs for the state funded pension plan in Germany of US$1,640,000 (2009: US$1,339,000).    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 60     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
3. Other disclosures to the income statement continued 
b) Directors’ remuneration 
   
 
2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Aggregate remuneration in respect of qualifying services 1,401 884 
 
  
 
2010 
No. 
2009 
No. 
Number of directors who received shares in respect of qualifying services 1 8 
Number of directors who exercised share options 8 6 
 
  
 
2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
In respect of the highest paid director:   
Aggregate remuneration 879 577 
Of which pension contribution for the year 30 28 
   
The highest paid director exercised 293,342 (2009: 115,859) share options during the year. 
c) Interest income and interest expense 
Interest income and expenses comprise the following items: 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Interest income 1,130 203 
Interest expense (120) (212) 
 1,010 (9) 
Of which: from financial instruments relating to categories in accordance with IAS 39   
Loans and receivables 905 94 
Financial liabilities measured at amortized costs (105) (103) 
 1,010 (9) 
   
d) Government grants 
The Group receives government grants for research and development activities of its Edinburgh design centre. Under the condition that Dialog remains 
located in Scotland and employs an agreed amount of employees in Scotland until 29 January 2011, the total grant that can be received is US$2.0 
million (£1.3 million). In 2010 the Group received grants in the amount of US$557,000 (2009: US$879,000). In the profit and loss account the grants 
received were deducted from research and development expenses. The total amount receivable under this grant has been received by Q4-2010, there-
fore no further payment will be made under this scheme. 
e) Headcount 
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including the Executive Director) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: 
   
 2010 2009 
Research and Development 234 191 
Production 52 46 
Sales and Marketing 45 39 
Admin 25 24 
IT 13 10 
 369 310 
   
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  61 
   
4. Income taxes  
Income (loss) before income taxes consists of the following: 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Germany 52,470 31,490 
Foreign (8,207) (2,665) 
 44,263 28,825 
   
 
Income tax income (expense) is comprised of the following components: 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Current taxes:   
Germany (4,880) (3,069) 
Foreign (372) (122) 
Deferred taxes:   
Germany 3,036 7,514 
Foreign 432 (421) 
Income tax benefit (expense) (1,784) 3,902 
   
 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Current taxes:   
Current income tax charge (5,252) (3,191) 
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous year – – 
Deferred taxes:   
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (7,082) (421) 
Relating to a reversal of a previous write-down of a deferred tax asset 10,550 7,514 
Income tax benefit (expense) (1,784) 3,902 
   
Although Dialog is a UK company, its principal operations are located in Germany and its operating subsidiaries are all owned by its German subsidiary. 
Accordingly, the following information is based on German corporate tax law. 
The tax rate for its German subsidiary is 15%; considering the impact of the solidarity surcharge of 5.5%, the federal corporate tax rate amounts to 
15.825%. Combining the federal corporate tax rate with the trade tax rate of 12.551%, the combined statutory tax rate of the German subsidiary is 
28.376%.  
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 62     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
4. Income taxes continued 
A reconciliation of income taxes determined using the combined German income tax rate of 28.376% (2009: 28.376%), is as follows: 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Expected income tax expense (12,560) (8,179) 
Tax rate differential (69) 2 
Non-deductible portion of share based payments (1,216) (697) 
Tax benefit from share based payments 13,564 873 
Tax free income (non-deductible expenses) (746) (109) 
Recognized deferred tax assets relating to a reversal of a previous write-down of a deferred tax asset 10,550 7,514 
Benefit from previously unrecognized deferred tax assets that is used to reduce current tax expense 3,308 5,793 
Additional losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognized (14,482) (1,545) 
Adjustments recognized for tax of prior periods 134 (88) 
Temporary differences arising from differences between functional currency and tax currency (276) 342 
Other 9 (4) 
Actual income tax benefit (expense) (1,784) 3,902 
   
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are summarised as follows: 
   
 At 31 December 2010 
US$000 
At 31 December 2009 
US$000 
Temporary differences (266) 2,701 
Deferred taxes in relation to tax credits 1,156 1,250 
Net operating loss carryforwards 12,018 16,193 
Total deferred tax assets 12,908 20,143 
Impaired deferred tax assets
1)
 2,079 12,629 
Recognized net deferred tax assets 10,829 7,514 
   
[1] Impaired in FY 2005. In 2010 an impairment of US$10,550,000 was reversed 
Tax loss carryforwards, temporary differences and net deferred tax assets are summarised as follows: 
         
 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 
 
Tax loss 
carryforwards 
US$000 
Temporary 
Differences 
US$000 
Tax credits 
US$000 
Net deferred tax 
assets 
US$000 
Tax loss 
carryforwards 
US$000 
Temporary 
Differences 
US$000 
Tax credits 
US$000 
Net deferred tax 
assets 
US$000 
Germany 106,825 (3,203) – 11,473 149,554 8,476 – 18,893 
UK 33,419 46,975 4,280 1,156 11,974 11,160 4,465 1,250 
US
1)
 4,317 – – – 4,580 – – – 
Other 33 661 – 279 28 222 – – 
Total 144,594 44,433 4,280 12,908
2)
 166,136 19,858 4,465 20,143
2)
 
         
[1] Including an amount of US$3,126,000 (2009: US$3,764,000) for state tax loss carryforwards 
[2] The amount consists of US$10,829,000 (2009: US$7,514,000) recognized deferred tax assets and US$2,079,000 (2009: US$12,629,000) deferred tax assets (impaired in 2005) 
The amount of deductible temporary differences and unsused tax loss carryforwards for which no deferred tax asset is recognized in the balance sheet 
is US$155,434,000 (2009: US$163,979,000). 
In assessing whether the deferred tax assets can be used, management considers the probability that some, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be 
realised. The utilisation of deferred tax assets depends upon generating taxable profit during the periods in which those temporary differences become  
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  63 
   
4. Income taxes continued 
deductible or tax-loss carryforwards can be utilised. Management considers the reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, 
benefits that could be realised from available tax planning strategies and other positive and negative factors in making this assessment. 
The Group recorded the third consecutive year of positive net income in 2010. Therefore, based on the expected positive net result for the near future, 
the management concluded to recognise deferred tax assets in an amount of US$10,829,000 (2009: US$7,514,000). The assessment was based on 
the business plan for 2011 and beyond.  
The utilization of further tax loss carryforwards and temporary differences is subject to the achievement of positive income in periods which are be-
yond the company’s current business plan and therefore this utilization is uncertain. Consequently no deferred tax assets were recognized for these 
losses and temporary differences.  
The state tax loss carryforwards in the US will expire between 2011 and 2024; other tax loss carryforwards have no expiration date. 
Included in impaired deferred tax assets is an amount of US$1,156,000 (2009: US$1,250,000) (the decrease results from foreign currency adjustments 
and the change of the corporation tax rate in the UK) in relation to tax credits in the UK. This asset may be recovered against future taxable profits 
derived from certain overseas dividends for the company concerned. 
The amount shown under “income tax receivables” in the statement of financial position includes a corporation tax refund claim of the Group’s Ger-
man subsidiary. The total amount the German subsidiary is entitled to receive amounts to EUR 414,000 to be paid out in ten equal amounts during 
2008 to 2017. The amount shown within the non-current assets represents the discounted part of the claim that is due after 2011. The amount that 
will be paid in 2011 is shown within the current assets. 
5. Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Cash at bank 80,398 40,552 
Short-term deposits 70,172 33,050 
Deposits designated as a hedging instrument 7,630 46,546 
Cash & cash equivalents 158,200 120,148 
Restricted Cash – 3,000 
Cash & cash equivalents and restricted cash 158,200 123,148 
   
 
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the 
Group. Deposits designated as a hedging instrument are classified as cash flow hedges to cover firm commitments and forecast transactions in Euros 
and Pound Sterling. 
Funds classified as Restricted Cash served in 2009 as collateral for the Group’s factoring agreement. The institution would draw down on these only if 
a commercial action by Dialog were to invalidate – partly or completely – the claim on a receivable financed by the factoring programme. In the fourth 
quarter of 2010, the factoring bank relinquished the pledge, consequently, no restricted cash is shown at 31 December 2010.  
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 64     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
6. Trade accounts receivable and other receivables 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Trade accounts receivables 8,424 15,365 
Receivables from factoring agreement 4,132 2,121 
 12,556 17,486 
   
 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-60-day terms. 
As described in note 24, in 2007 the Group entered into a selective factoring agreement. The amount shown as receivables from the factoring agree-
ment represents a 15% retainer kept by the factoring bank against sold receivables. The retainer is released only once the receivable is fully paid by the 
customer, at the latest, 120 days after the receivable becomes due or if the insurance event occurs. The amounts are non-interest bearing and are 
generally on 30-60-day terms. 
The recorded trade accounts receivable for which an impairment has been recognised, was US$1,410,000 and US$1,406,000 at 31 December 2010 
and 2009, respectively. The related allowance for doubtful accounts was US$1,410,000 and US$1,406,000 at 31 December 2010 and 2009, respec-
tively. 
The allowance for doubtful accounts developed as follows: 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Allowance for doubtful accounts at beginning of year 1,406 1,656 
Additions charged to bad debt expense – 163 
Reductions credited to income (106) (349) 
Effect of movements in foreign currency 110 (64) 
Allowance for doubtful accounts at end of year 1,410 1,406 
   
 
As at 31 December 2010 and 2009, the aging analysis of trade account receivables is as follows: 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Receivables neither past due nor impaired 7,310 13,924 
Receivables past due, not impaired individually – – 
Less than 30 days 1,114 1,440 
30 to 59 days – – 
60 to 89 days – 1 
Total 8,424 15,365 
   
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  65 
   
7. Inventories 
Inventories are comprised of the following: 
   
 At 31 December 2010 
US$000 
At 31 December 2009 
US$000 
Raw materials 8,298 4,260 
Work-in-process 7,238 5,528 
Finished goods 25,197 16,405 
 40,733 26,193 
   
8. Other financial assets 
Other financial assets comprise: 
   
 At 31 December 2010 
US$000 
At 31 December 2009 
US$000 
Deposits for hedging contracts 395 – 
Hedging instruments 441 – 
 836 – 
   
The deposits for hedging contracts are an advance settlement for hedging instruments with a negative fair value. The deposits are interest bearing 
with 1% below the current base rate and are offset with amounts due when the hedge is settled.  
The amount shown under hedging instruments includes the fair value of derivative financial instruments used for cash flow hedges. The Group is 
exposed to currency risks in the course of its operating activities. These risks are reduced by the use of forward currency exchange contracts. 
The Group has clear guidelines as to the use of those derivatives, and compliance is constantly monitored. For further information on the Group’s 
hedging policy please see note 24. 
9. Other current assets  
Other current assets comprise: 
   
 At 31 December 2010 
US$000 
At 31 December 2009 
US$000 
Prepaid expenses 2,650 1,165 
Other tax receivables 1,014 448 
Other 414 302 
 4,078 1,915 
   
 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 66     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
10. Property, plant and equipment, net 
A summary of activity for property, plant and equipment for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 is as follows: 
      
 
Test equipment 
US$000 
Leasehold 
improvements 
US$000 
Office and other 
equipment 
US$000 
Construction in 
progress 
US$000 
Total 
US$000 
Cost      
Balance at 1 January 2009 71,995 1,112 20,091 40 93,238 
Effect of movements in foreign currency 19 118 253 5 395 
Additions 2,302 1,205 2,915 346 6,768 
Reclassifications – 40 – (40) – 
Disposals (127) (781) (1,937) (2) (2,847) 
Balance at 31 December 2009 / 1 January 2010 74,189 1,694 21,322 349 97,554 
Effect of movements in foreign currency 3 (11) (17) (1) (26) 
Additions 3,538 834 5,009 207 9,588 
Reclassifications 215 – 156 (371) – 
Disposals (13) (30) (2,667) – (2,710) 
Balance at 31 December 2010 77,932 2,487 23,777 210 104,406 
Depreciation and impairment losses      
Balance at 1 January 2009 (67,700) (899) (16,905) – (85,504) 
Effect of movements in foreign currency (18) (80) (205) – (303) 
Depreciation charge for the year (2,221) (172) (2,080) – (4,473) 
Disposals 126 759 1,648 – 2,533 
Balance at 31 December 2009 / 1 January 2010 (69,813) (392) (17,542) – (87,747) 
Effect of movements in foreign currency (3) (4) 7 – – 
Depreciation charge for the year (2,192) (178) (2,510) – (4,880) 
Disposals 11 3 2,456  2,470 
Balance at 31 December 2010 (71,997) (571) (17,589) – (90,157) 
Net book value      
At 1 January 2009 4,295 213 3,186 40 7,734 
At 31 December 2009 / 1 January 2010 4,376 1,302 3,780 349 9,807 
At 31 December 2010 5,935 1,916 6,188 210 14,249 
      
 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  67 
   
10.   Property, plant and equipment, net continued 
Finance leases 
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases at 31 December 2010 was US$956,000 (31 December 2009: 
US$1,005,000). Additions during the year were US$299,000 (2009: US$940,000). As of the reporting date future minimum lease payments under 
those finance lease contracts were US$880,000 (2009: US$1,107,000). The present value of the net minimum lease payments was US$794,000 (2009: 
US$974,000). 
11. Intangible assets 
A summary of activity for intangible assets for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 is as follows: 
     
 Purchased software, 
licenses and other 
US$000 
Patents 
US$000 
Intangible assets from 
internal development 
US$000 
Total 
US$000 
Cost     
Balance at 1 January 2009 15,550 364 2,155 18,069 
Effect of movements in foreign currency 124 – – 124 
Additions 1,526 404 972 2,902 
Disposals (937) – – (937) 
Balance at 31 December 2009 / 1 January 2010 16,263 768 3,127 20,158 
Effect of movements in foreign currency (6) 2 1 (3) 
Additions 5,068 541 2,823 8,432 
Reclassifications – – – – 
Disposals (176) (2) – (178) 
Balance at 31 December 2010 21,149 1,309 5,951 28,409 
Amortization and impairment losses    – 
Balance at 1 January 2009 (12,532) (13) (884) (13,429) 
Effect of movements in foreign currency (102) – – (102) 
Amortization charge for the year (1,149) (59) (938) (2,146) 
Impairment charges (343) – – (343) 
Disposals 867 – – 867 
Balance at 31 December 2009 / 1 January 2010 (13,259) (72) (1,822) (15,153) 
Effect of movements in foreign currency 3 (2) (1) – 
Amortization charge for the year (1,676) (109) (893) (2,678) 
Impairment charges – – – – 
Disposals 149 – – 149 
Balance at 31 December 2010 
(14,783) (183) (2,716) (17,682) 
Net book value     
At 1 January 2009 3,018 351 1,271 4,640 
At December 31, 2009 / 1 January 2010 3,004 696 1,305 5,005 
At 31 December 2010 6,366 1,126 3,235 10,727 
     
 
The impairment charges in 2009 relate to a licence that is no longer in use. In the income statement those impairment charges were recognised in the 
line item “research and development expenses” and are allocated to the automotive and industrial segment. 
A key element of the additions in 2010 was the purchase of power management technology through an asset transaction from Diodes Zetex GmbH. 
As part of this transaction, Dialog has acquired specific Diodes intellectual property rights. The expected weighted average useful life of the acquired 
intangible assets is four years.   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 68     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
11.   Intangible assets continued 
Hire purchase 
The carrying value of intangible assets held under hire purchase leases at 31 December 2010 was US$195,000 (31 December 2009: US$441,000). 
Additions during the year were US$ nil (2009: US$244,000). As of the reporting date future minimum payments under those hire purchase contracts 
were US$67,000 (2009: US$504,000). The present value of the net minimum payments was US$63,000 (2009: US$405,000). 
12. Investments 
The Group holds a 7.62% interest in Digital Imaging Systems GmbH (DIS), a private entity incorporated in Germany that is not listed on a public stock 
exchange. As the fair value cannot be reliably determined, the investment in DIS is accounted for at acquisition cost less accumulated impairment 
charges. The total investment in DIS was US$2,662,000. In 2007, based on business and cash flow projections, the Group recognised a 100% impair-
ment loss. Accordingly the book value for DIS at 31 December 2010 and 2009 was nil. 
13. Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables comprise: 
   
 At 31 December 2010 
US$000 
At 31 December 2009 
US$000 
Trade accounts payable 24,984 15,074 
Other payables 3,429 2,230 
 28,413 17,304 
   
Terms and conditions of the above other current liabilities: 
 trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-60-day terms; and 
 other payables are non-interest bearing and have an term of less than three months. 
 
14. Other financial liabilities 
Other financial liabilities comprise: 
   
 At 31 December 2010 
US$000 
At 31 December 2009 
US$000 
Hire purchase agreements and finance lease obligations 396 679 
Fair value of derivative financial instruments 449 – 
 845 679 
   
The Group is exposed to currency risks in the course of its operating activities. These risks are reduced by the use of forward currency exchange con-
tracts.    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  69 
   
15. Provisions 
The Group issues various types of contractual product warranties under which it guarantees the performance of products delivered for a certain period 
or term. The estimated provision is based on historical warranty data. The provision for dilapidation includes costs of dismantling and restoring the 
offices of the Group to their original condition at end the end of the lease terms. The provision for rental obligations relates to an office that the 
Group vacated in 2009 as it relocated to larger premises. The office was vacated before the end of the contractual lease term. As the likelihood of the 
Group being able to sublet this office was low the Group has accounted for the rental obligations for the period the building is not used. The changes 
in the provision are summarised as follows: 
        
 Balance at 1 
January 2010 
US$000 
Currency change 
US$000 
Discount 
000US$ 
Additions 
US$000 
Used 
US$000 
Released 
US$000 
At 31 December 
2010 
US$000 
Obligations for product warranties 769 – – 437 (85) (684) 437 
Dilapidation 252 (8) – 80 (205) (9) 110 
Rental obligations 428 (17) – – (375) (36) – 
Pending legal claims 335 (24) – – – – 311 
Other – 4 – 15 – – 19 
Total current 1,784 (45) – 532 (665) (729) 877 
Dilapidation 252 (14) 11 179 – – 428 
Total non-current 252 (14) 11 179 – – 428 
Total 2,036 (59) 11 711 (665) (729) 1,305 
        
16. Other current liabilities 
Other current liabilities comprise: 
   
 At 31 December 2010 
US$000 
At 31 December 2009 
US$000 
Obligations for personnel and social expenses 12,400 7,836 
Advances received in relation to customer specific research and development contracts 742 939 
Other 2,733 2,533 
 15,875 11,308 
   
Terms and conditions of the above other current liabilities: 
 obligations for personnel and social expenses have an average term of three months (2009: three months); and 
 other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms. 
17. Other non-current financial liabilities 
Other non-current financial liabilities include hire purchase agreements and finance lease obligations. 
18. Shareholders’ equity and other reserves 
Capital increase 
On 25 September 2009 the shareholders of the Company approved an offering of 12 million new ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of 
the Company (the “New Shares”) with new and existing institutional investors at a price of EUR 3.65 per share to raise gross proceeds of €43.8 million 
(US$64.3 million); net proceeds (after deduction of offering expenses of US$4.7 million) were US$59.7 million. The trading of the New Shares com-
menced on the Regulated Market (Regulierter Markt) of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange on 30 September 2009.  
On 20 October 2009, the Company completed an offering of 3,500,000 previously unissued ordinary shares at £0.10 per share to its employee benefit 
trust (“Trust”) at a price of EUR 0,20 per share, to make such shares available for the exercise of stock option rights that had previously been granted 
to employees.  
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 70     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
18.   Shareholders’ equity and other reserves continued 
On 4 February 2010, the Company completed an offering of 3,500,000 previously unissued ordinary shares at £0.10 per share to its employee benefit 
trust (“Trust”) at a price of EUR 0,20 per share, to make such shares available for the exercise of stock option rights that had previously been granted 
to employees.  
Ordinary shares 
At 31 December 2010, Dialog had authorised 104,311,860 (2009: 104,311,860) ordinary shares with a par value of £0.10 per share, of which 
65,068,930 (2009: 61,568,930) shares were issued and outstanding. 
   
 Amount of shares US$000 
At 1 January 2009 46,068,930 9,328 
Issued on 25 September 2009 12,000,000 1,922 
Issued on 20 October 2009 3,500,000 575 
At 31 December 2009 61,568,930 11,825 
Issued on 4 February 2010 3,500,000 555 
At 31 December 2010 65,068,930 12,380 
   
Dialog’s stock was previously issued in the form of bearer shares. On 16 November 2009, all shares were converted to registered shares. All shares are 
fully paid. 
Additional paid-in capital 
The account comprises additional paid-in capital in connection with the issue of shares. 
Accumulated deficit 
The accumulated deficit comprises losses and non-distributed earnings of consolidated Group companies. Because of the accumulated deficit, the 
Group cannot pay a dividend and does not plan to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. 
In order to reduce the Company’s accumulated deficit, on 5 May 2010 the board of Directors of Dialog Semiconductor Plc decided to reduce the 
Company’s share premium account in an amount of US$85,000,000 effective 2 June 2010. The reduction of the share premium account was 
registered with the UK Companies House on 2 June 2010. The amount was then netted with the accumulated deficit. 
Other reserves 
Currency translation reserve 
The currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries whose 
functional currency is not the US$. At 31 December 2010 and 2009, the currency translation reserve was US$-1,717,000 and US$-1,730,000 respec-
tively. 
Cash flow hedge reserve 
The cash flow hedge reserve is used to record the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument that is determined to be a highly effective cash 
flow hedge. At 31 December 2010 and 2009, the cash flow hedge reserve was US$69,000 and US$-372,000 respectively. 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  71 
   
18.   Shareholders’ equity and other reserves continued 
The related tax effects allocated to each component of other reserves for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 are as follows: 
       
 2010 2009 
 
Pre-tax 
US$000 
Tax effect 
US$000 
Net 
US$000 
Pre-tax 
US$000 
Tax effect 
US$000 
Net 
US$000 
Currency translation adjustment 188 (175) 13 (113) 421 308 
Hedges 441 – 441 (179) – (179) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) 629 (175) 454 (292) 421 129 
       
Employee stock purchase plan shares 
The employee stock purchase plan shares contain the acquisition cost of the shares held by the employee benefit trust (the “Trust”). Please refer to 
note 20. At 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, the Trust held 3,995,031 and 2,663,318 shares respectively. These shares are legally issued 
and outstanding for accounting purposes and accordingly have been reported in the caption “employee stock purchase plan shares” as a reduction of 
shareholders’ equity. 
19. Pension scheme 
The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes. The pension cost charge for the year represents contributions payable by the Group to the 
funds and amounted to US$1,360,000 (2009: US$1,229,000). At 31 December 2010, contributions amounting to US$52,000 (2009: US$150,000) 
were payable to the funds and are included in other current liabilities. Pension costs also include payments to the state funded pension plan in Ger-
many in the amount of US$1,640,000 (2009: US$1,339,000). 
20. Share-based payments 
a) Stock option plans 
On 7 August 1998, the Group adopted a stock option plan (the “Plan”) under which employees, the executive management and the Executive Direc-
tors may be granted from time to time, at the discretion of the Board, stock options to acquire up to 3,840,990 shares of the Group’s authorised but 
unissued ordinary shares. On 16 May 2002 the Shareholders of the Group approved a resolution increasing the maximum amount of unexercised stock 
options which may be granted by the Group at any time, to 15% of Dialog’s issued share capital, from time to time on a diluted basis. At 31 Decem-
ber 2010, 11,482,752 shares could be issued. 
Unless otherwise determined by the board, stock options granted to employees are granted with an exercise price not less than the quoted price at the 
date of grant, and vest during the service period of the employee without any further vesting conditions. Stock options granted before 31 October 
2006 have terms of ten years and vest over periods of one or five years from the grant date. On 19 June 2006 the Board amended the stock option 
plan under which stock options now have a seven-year life and vest monthly over a period of one to 48 months. The new stock options may not be 
exercised until they have been held for one calendar year from the grant date. The new rules were implemented on grants made on or after 31 Octo-
ber 2006. The stock option plan was extended by the Board in 2008 to expire 6 August 2018.  
At the 2006 Annual General Meeting, Shareholders approved a stock option plan for Non-executive Directors. Each Non-executive Director is entitled 
to an initial grant of 50,000 options vesting over four years and each year thereafter, soon after each Annual Shareholder Meeting, a further 20,000 
options vesting over 12 months are granted. Options are exercisable at the market price prevailing at the date of grant. At the 2010 Annual General 
Meeting the Shareholders voted against the continuance of this share option plan. Consequently, no share options were granted to the Non-executive 
Directors in 2010.  
On 22 April 2009 the Board of Directors of the Company decided to offer the employees an option replacement programme for options which had an 
exercise price which was above the current market price (underwater options). Under this option replacement programme option holders were offered 
to replace their underwater options against a reduced number of replacement options with an exercise price set at the market price of the Company´s  
shares at the replacement date. The total value of the replacement options was equal to the total value of the underwater options. The options value 
was derived from a Black-Scholes valuation model as at the date of conversion. 107 employees decided to replace in total 1,098,952 underwater 
options for 534,192 replacement options. 
The fair value of all grants in the two-year period ended 31 December 2010 was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Expectations 
of early exercise are considered in the determination of the expected life of the options. The Group does not have adequate historical development of 
the share price, particularly as a result of material unusual effects in the stock market in recent years. Furthermore, implicit volatility cannot be  
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 72     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
20.   Share-based payments continued 
determined since none of the Group’s options are actively traded. The Group has therefore based its calculation of expected volatility on an average of 
its own volatility and the historical development of other companies in its business segment. 
In contrast to former reports, the management decided to present the information regarding stock based compensation in Euro as the options and 
shares are denominated in Euro. Management is of the opinion that the presentation in Euro is providing better transparency. The 2009 comparatives 
have been restated in Euro. 
The following assumptions were used for stock option grants for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009: 
   
 2010 2009 
Expected dividend yield 0% 0% 
Expected volatility 41% - 49% 42%  –  54% 
Risk free interest rate 2.3% 4.3% 
Expected life (in years) 2.0 - 6.0 2.0  –  6.0 
Weighted average share price during the year (in €) 10.87 4.71 
Weighted average share price for Option grants (in €) 9.06 3.76 
Weighted average exercise price (in €) 9.06 3.76 
Weighted-average fair value (in €) 3.39 1.49 
   
 
b) Executives’ Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
The Group also operates the Dialog Semiconductor Plc Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which was approved by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting in April 2008. Under the LTIP , key executives are eligible to share in a percentage of the value created for shareholders in excess of an annual 
return hurdle measured over a four-year performance period (this was originally a three-year period, extended by one year at the Annual General 
Meeting in April 2009). This value is delivered to a participant in the form of a series of nil-cost options which can be exercised within five years of the 
date of grant. The first award under the LTIP was made on 8 May 2008. 
In 2010 new options under LTIP were awarded to selected new and existing members of the executive management. These grants are shown under 
“new grant” in the table below.  
The fair value of the LTIP , where the number of nil-cost options granted to an individual is contingent upon the returns to Shareholders, was calculated 
using a Monte Carlo simulation model. As a portion of each award is capable of vesting at three separate measurement dates each tranche has been 
valued separately in accordance with IFRS2. 
The fair values used in the calculations are as follows: 
       
 Existing Grant New Grant 
Inputs Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 LTIP extension Tranche 1 Tranche 2 
Share price at grant date €1.40 €1.40 €1.40 €4,077 €10.51 €10.51 
Exercise price £0.10 £0.10 £0.10 £0.10 £0.10 £0.10 
Expected life (years) 0.64 1.64 2.64 2.35 0.54 1.54 
Expected volatility 40% 40% 40% 42% 42% 42% 
Risk-free-interest-rate 4.8202% 4.8202% 4.8202% 1.4900% 0.4820% 0.7040% 
       
 
Expected volatility has been determined on the same basis as the input into the fair value calculation for share options granted during the year. 
Measurement date 31 January 2009 
The measurement share price at 31 January 2009 (average share price over the prior 30 days) was €0.63. As this price was below the return hurdle for 
January 2009 of €1.62 (initial price of €1.44+12.5%), no share options were granted in 2009. 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  73 
   
20.   Share-based payments continued 
Measurement date 31 January 2010 
The measurement share price at 31 January 2010 (average share price over the prior 30 days) was €9.8942. As this price was above the return hurdle 
for January 2010 of €1.82 (prior year return hurdle of €1.62+12.5%), 3,055,064 nil cost option grants were approved by the board on 4th February 
2010, with 25% exercisable from 22 February 2010 and the remaining 75% exercisable for 4 years from 21 February 2011.  
Measurement date 31 January 2011 (subsequent event) 
The measurement share price at 31 January 2011 (average share price over the prior 30 days) was €17.6632. As this price was above the return hurdle 
for January 2010 of €11.1310 (prior year measurement share price of €9.8942+12.5%), 1,575,327 nil cost option grants were approved by the board 
on 18 February 2011, all exercisable for 5 years from 18 February 2011. 
c) Development of plans 
Stock option plan activity (including stock options granted under the LTIP) for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 was as follows: 
     
 2010 2009 
 Options 
Weighted average 
exercise price 
€ Options 
Weighted average 
exercise price 
€ 
Outstanding at beginning of year 4,803,342 2.27 5,796,510 1.82 
Granted 3,979,392 2.49 1,244,901 4.72 
Exercised (2,364,603) 1.13 (1,558,152) 1.26 
Forfeited (319,938) 1.80 (109,309) 1.28 
Expired – – (5,848) 0.45 
Options replaced – – 534,192 1.52 
Options returned – – (1,098,952) 3.81 
Outstanding at end of year 6,098,193 2.88 4,803,342 2.27 
Options exercisable at year end 1,644,626 1.89 1,877,812 1.57 
     
 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of options was €13.61 and €7.47 in the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 respectively. 
Liabilities from share option exercises to employees were US$920,000 at 31 December 2010 (2009: US$614,000). 
The following table summarises information on stock options outstanding (including stock options granted under the LTIP) at 31 December 2010: 
      
 Options outstanding Options exercisable 
Range of Exercise Prices 
Number 
outstanding at 31 
December 2010 
Weighted average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(in years) 
Weighted average 
exercise price 
€ 
Number exercisable 
at 31 December 2010 
Weighted average 
exercise price 
€ 
€0.11 -  2.99 4,351,626 6.6 0.70 1,371,538 1.23 
€3.00 -  8.00 841,150 5.4 6.16 273,088 5.17 
€8.00 -  13.00 905,417 6.6 10.34 0 – 
€0.11 -  13.00 6,098,193 5.5 2.88 1,644,626 1.89 
      
 
d) Employee benefit trust 
The Group established an employee benefit trust (the “Trust”). The Trust purchases shares in the Group for the benefit of employees under the Group’s 
share option scheme. At 31 December 2010 the Trust held 3,995,031 shares (2009: 2,663,318). 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 74     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
21. Additional disclosures on financial instruments 
Amount categorised in accordance with IAS 39: 
        
  Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position according to IAS 39  
 
Category 
in accordance 
with IAS 39 
Carrying 
amount 
31 December 2010 
US$000 
Amortized cost 
US$000 
Cost 
US$000 
Fair value 
recognized 
in equity 
US$000 
Fair value 
recognized in 
profit or loss 
US$000 
Fair value 
 31 December 
2010 
US$000 
Assets        
Cash at bank and Short-term 
deposits LaR 150,570 150,570 – – – 150,570 
Restricted cash LaR – –    – 
Deposits designated as a 
hedging instrument n/a 7,630 – – 7,630 – 7,630 
Trade accounts receivable and 
other receivables LaR 12,556 12,556 – – – 12,556 
Other non-derivative financial 
assets        
Deposits for hedging contracts LaR 395 395 – – – 395 
Derivative financial assets        
Derivatives without hedging 
relationship n/a – – – – – – 
Derivatives with hedging 
relationship n/a 441 – – 441 – 441 
        
Liabilities        
Trade account payables FLAC 24,984 24,984 – – – 24,984 
Other payables FLAC 3,429 3,429 – – – 3,429 
Other financial liabilities FLAC 1,306 857 – 449 – 1,306 
Derivative financial liabilities        
Derivatives without hedging 
relationship n/a – – – – – – 
Derivatives with hedging 
relationship n/a – – – – – – 
        
Of which aggregated by category in accordance 
with IAS 39:       
Loans and receivables (LaR) 163,521 163,521 – – – 163,521 
Deposits designated as a hedging instrument 7,630 – – 7,630 – 7,630 
Held-to-maturity investments (HtM) – – – – – – 
Available-for-sale financial assets (AfS) – – – – – – 
Derivatives without hedging relationship – – – – – – 
Derivatives with hedging relationship 441 – – 441 – 441 
Financial liabilities at amortized cost (FLAC) (29,719) (29,270) – (449) – (29,719) 
        
 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  75 
   
21.   Additional disclosures on financial instruments continued 
        
  Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position according to IAS 39  
 
Category 
in accordance 
with IAS 39 
Carrying 
amount 
31 December 2009 
US$000 
Amortized cost 
US$000 
Cost 
US$000 
Fair value 
recognized 
in equity 
US$000 
Fair value 
recognized in 
profit or loss 
US$000 
Fair value 
 31 December 
2009 
US$000 
Assets        
Cash at bank and Short-term 
deposits LaR 73,602 73,602 – – – 73,602 
Restricted cash LaR 3,000 3,000    3,000 
Deposits designated as a 
hedging instrument n/a 46,546 – – 46,546 – 46,546 
Trade accounts receivable and 
other receivables LaR 17,486 17,486 – – – 17,486 
Other non-derivative financial 
assets        
Deposits for hedging contracts LaR – 292 – – – 292 
Derivative financial assets        
Derivatives without hedging 
relationship n/a – – – – – – 
Derivatives with hedging 
relationship n/a – – – – – – 
        
Liabilities        
Trade account payables FLAC 15,074 15,074 – – – 15,074 
Other payables FLAC 2,230 2,230 – – – 2,230 
Other financial liabilities FLAC 1,379 1,379 – – – 1,379 
Derivative financial liabilities        
Derivatives without hedging 
relationship n/a – – – – – – 
Derivatives with hedging 
relationship n/a – – – – – – 
        
Of which aggregated by category in accordance 
with IAS 39:       
Loans and receivables (LaR) 94,088 94,380 – – – 94,380 
Deposits designated as a hedging instrument 46,546 – – 46,546 – 46,546 
Held-to-maturity investments (HtM) – – – – – – 
Available-for-sale financial assets (AfS) – – – – – – 
Derivatives without hedging relationship – – – – – – 
Derivatives with hedging relationship – – – – – – 
Financial liabilities at amortized cost (FLAC) (18,683) (18,683) – – – (18,683) 
        
 
The fair value of derivatives has been determined with reference to available market information (Level 2). The carrying amounts of the loans and 
receivables and financial liabilities approximate their fair values due to short-term maturities. 
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 76     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
22. Commitments 
Operating lease, software and service commitments 
The Group leases all its office facilities and vehicles, and some of its office and test equipment, under operating leases. Future minimum lease pay-
ments under non-cancellable operating rental and lease agreements and payments for other commitments are as follows: 
     
 Operating leases and 
software 
commitments 
Other commitments Operating leases and 
software commitments 
Other commitments 
 
2010 
US$000 
2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Within one year 5,724 2,689 4,543 2,429 
Between one and two years 4,388 2,567 2,287 2,497 
Between two and three years 3,453 1,019 1,337 2,411 
Between three and four years 2,750 130 853 1,173 
Between four and five years 2,052 – 574 150 
Thereafter 11,934 – – – 
Total minimum payments 30,301 6,405 9,594 8,660 
     
Total payments for operating leases and software commitments, charged as an expense in the income statement, amounted to US$5,313,000 and 
US$4,689,000 for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009 respectively. 
Finance lease, hire purchase and software commitments 
The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for test and IT equipment and has software contracts. The leases have terms of renewal but 
no purchase options and escalation clauses. Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease. Future minimum payments under 
finance leases and hire purchase and software contracts together with the present value of the net minimum payments are as follows: 
 
   
 Minimum payments 
 
2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Within one year 445 793 
Between one and two years 397 364 
Between two and three years 105 341 
Between three and four years – 113 
Total minimum payments 947 1,611 
Less amounts representing finance charges (90) (232) 
Present value of minimum payments 857 1,379 
   
 
Capital commitments 
The Group has contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment in 2010 of US$2,485,000 (2009: US$2,484,000) and for 
the acquisition of intangible assets of US$3,110,000 (2009: US$614,000). 
In addition the company has a contingent liability of US$500,000 in connection with the purchase of intangible assets. This liability is contingent to 
certain milestones being met from which we expect to reach the first milestone in the fourth quarter of 2011. 
23. Segmental reporting 
Following the provisions of IFRS 8, reportable operating segments are identified based on the “management approach”. The management approach 
requires external segment reporting based on the Group’s internal organisational and management structure and on internal financial reporting to the 
chief operating decision maker, which considered the Group as being the Board of Management.   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  77 
   
23.   Segmental reporting continued 
The Group reports on three operating segments, which are independently managed by bodies responsible for the respective segments depending on 
the nature of products offered. The identification of Company components as business segments is based in particular on the existence of business 
unit managers who report directly to the CEO of Dialog and who are responsible for the performance of the segment under their charge. Following 
the change in IFRS 8.23, the Group does no longer report assets and liabilities as only inventories are reported to the chief operating decision maker. 
Prior-year figures have been adjusted accordingly. 
a) Operating segments 
The Group’s operating segments are: 
Audio and Power Management 
This segment includes our power management and audio chips especially designed to meet the needs of the wireless systems markets.  
Display Systems 
The products in this segment include a range of advanced driver technologies for low power display applications – from PMOLEDs, to electronic paper 
and MEMS displays. 
Automotive and Industrial  
In the automotive and industrial market our products address the safety, management and control of electronic systems in cars and for industrial 
applications. 
           
 
2010 2009 
 
Audio & Power 
Management 
US$000 
Display 
Systems 
3) 4)
 
US$000 
Automotive/ 
Industrial 
US$000 
Reconciliation 
US$000 
Total 
US$000 
Audio & Power 
Management 
US$000 
Display Systems 
3) 4)
 
US$000 
Automotive/ 
Industrial 
US$000 
Reconciliation 
US$000 
Total 
US$000 
Revenues 
1)
 245,364 1,866 50,326 (959) 296,597 176,569 5,987 33,531 1,526 217,613 
R&D expenses 40,711 5,121 8,510 2,123 56,465 24,289 8,312 9,513 507 42,621 
Operating profit 
(loss) 
2)
 59,078 (11,205) 6,987 (9,519) 45,341 47,048 (12,395) (3,636) (2,345) 28,672 
Depreciation/ 
amortization 4,878 1,227 1,453 – 7,558 3,535 1,490 1,594 – 6,619 
Inventory 
impairment and 
fixed asset disposal 
losses 856 36 469  1,361 1,076 179 441  1,696 
Investments 11,629 2,926 3,465 – 18,020 5,447 2,296 2,457 – 10,200 
 At 31 Dec 2010 At 31 Dec 2009 
Inventories 33,659 500 6,574 – 40,733 19,544 130 6,519 – 26,193 
           
[1] All revenues are from sales to external customers 
[2] Certain overhead costs are predominantly allocated based on sales and headcount. 
[3] Revenue is partially generated from funded research and development activity.  
[4] The operating loss reflects the investment in the emerging display technology. 
Revenues in the reconciliation column include sales discounts on early payment of US$959,000 (2009: US$435,0000) and additionally in 2009 the 
BenQ Cash settlement of US$1,961,000. R&D expenses in the reconciliation column predominantly include stock option expenses and expenses for 
the Management Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) of US$2,123,000 (2009: US$505,000).  
The operating losses recorded in the reconciliation column for the year ended 31 December 2010 of US$9,519,000 (2009: US$2,345,000) are primar-
ily resulting from stock option expenses, bonus payments for employees, expenses in relation to the Long Term Incentive Plan introduced in 2008, sales 
discounts for early payments and the costs of the holding company. Additionally in 2009 the BenQ cash settlement in the amount of US$2.3 million 
was included.  
Investments comprise additions to property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. 
In 2010 and 2009 the Group had no inter-segment sales, income, expenses, receivables, payables or provisions. 
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 78     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
23.   Segmental reporting continued 
There are no differences between the measurements of the reportable segments profits and losses, assets and liabilities and the entities profit and 
losses, assets and liabilities. 
b) Geographic information – Revenues by shipment destination 
 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Revenues   
Hungary 38,171 17,444 
United Kingdom 518 434 
Other European countries 24,328 20,600 
China 182,300 145,986 
Other Asian countries 26,472 23,047 
Other countries 24,808 10,102 
Total revenues 296,597 217,613 
   
Investments   
Germany 15,122 7,809 
Japan 147 350 
United Kingdom 2,615 2,022 
Other 136 19 
Total investments 18,020 10,200 
   
 
   
 At 31 December 2010 
US$000 
At 31 December 2009 
US$000 
Assets   
Germany 245,828 185,656 
Japan 1,455 854 
United Kingdom 5,503 5,577 
Other 593 224 
Total assets 253,379 192,311 
   
Revenues are allocated to countries based on the location of the shipment destination. Segmental investments and assets are allocated based on the 
geographic location of the asset. 
24. Financial risk management objectives and policies 
Vulnerability due to certain significant risk concentrations 
The Group’s future results of operations involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors that could affect the Group’s future operating results and 
cause actual results to vary materially from historical results include, but are not limited to, the highly cyclical nature of both the semiconductor and 
wireless communications industries, dependence on certain customers and the ability to obtain an adequate supply of sub-micron wafers. 
The Group's products are generally utilised in the wireless and automotive industries. The Group generates a substantial portion of its revenue from 
the wireless communications market, which accounted for 83% and 84% of its total revenue for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009, 
respectively. 
The Group’s revenue base is diversified by geographic region and by individual customer. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates influence the 
Group’s results of operations. The Group’s sales, purchases of raw materials and manufacturing services are primarily denominated in US$. The Group 
also has foreign currency exchange risks with respect to its net investments in foreign subsidiaries and branches in the United Kingdom, Japan, Taiwan, 
Hong Kong, Korea and Singapore. Fluctuations in these currencies could have a significant impact on the Group’s reported results from operations.   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  79 
   
24.   Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
The Group depends on a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of its revenues, and the loss of one or more of these customers 
may result in a significant decline in future revenue. During 2010, three customers individually accounted for more than 10% of the Group's revenues. 
Total revenues from these three customers were US$222,550,000. Net receivables from these three customers were US$7,051,000 at 31 December 
2010. The three customers are part of the Audio & Power Management Segment. 
During 2009, two customers individually accounted for more than 10% of the Group's revenues. Total revenues from these two customers were 
US$145,271,000 or 66.8%. Net receivables from these two customers were US$9,342,000 at 31 December 2009.  
The Group is performing ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition. 
Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term deposits. The main 
purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has other financial instruments which mainly comprise 
trade receivables and trade payables which arise directly from its operations. 
The Group also entered into derivative transactions (forward currency contracts). The purpose is to manage the currency risks arising from the Group’s 
operations. 
It is, and has been throughout 2010 and 2009, the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken. 
Exposure to currency, interest rate and credit risk arises in the normal course of the Group’s business. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees poli-
cies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below: 
Market risk 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market prices 
comprise three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such as equity risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk in-
clude loans and borrowings, deposits, available-for-sale investments, and derivative financial instruments. 
Interest risk 
The Group earns interest from deposits and uses money market deposits with highly rated financial institutions. During the year, the Group has held 
cash on deposit with a range of maturities from one week to one month. This can vary in view of changes in the underlying currency’s interest rates 
and the Group’s cash requirements. 
The Group pays interest on amounts received in connection with the factoring agreement as prescribed below. 
The Group has no long-term debt and no amounts outstanding under short-term credit facilities as at 31 December 2010 (2009: US$nil). 
The Group’s policy is to manage its interest income using a mix of fixed and variable interest rate debts. In order to achieve this policy, the Group 
invests in highly liquid funds having a matching investment strategy. Once the operating business has been financed, short-term excess funds are 
invested in floating interest rate securities. Only short-term deposits bear fixed interest rates.   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 80     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
24.   Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s 
profit before tax as well as the Group’s equity: 
    
 Increase/decrease in 
basis points 
Effect on profit 
US$000 
Effect on equity 
US$000 
2010    
 65 881 881 
 (65) (881) (881) 
2009    
 17 137 137 
 (17) (137) (137) 
    
Currency risk 
The Group uses forward currency contracts as well as certain deposits (together referred to as the “hedging instruments”) to eliminate the currency 
exposure of recurring expected payments, such as salaries, wages and office rents non-US$ denominated. The hedging instruments must be the same 
currency as the hedged item. 
It is the Group’s policy not to enter into forward contracts nor classify deposits as non-derivative hedging instruments until a firm commitment is in 
place and to maximise hedge effectiveness by negotiating the terms of hedge instruments to match the terms of the hedged item. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, 
of the Group’s profit before tax (resulting from changes in the fair value of monetary assets, excluding securities, and liabilities) and the Group’s equity 
(resulting from changes in the fair value of deposits designated as cash flow hedges). 
      
  Loans and receivables (LaR) 
1)
 Financial liabilities at amortized cost (FLAC) 
1)
 
 Increase/decrease 
against US$ 
Effect on profit 
US$000 
Effect on equity 
US$000 
Effect on profit 
US$000 
Effect on equity 
US$000 
2010      
Euro 7% 514 913 (145) (145) 
Pound Sterling 4% 4 4 (36) (36) 
Euro (7%) (514) (913) 145 145 
Pound Sterling (4%) (4) (4) 36 36 
2009      
Euro 7% 2,000 2,052 (110) (110) 
Pound Sterling 12% 1,175 1,200 (151) (151) 
Euro (7%) (2,000) (2,052) 110 110 
Pound Sterling (12%) (1,175) (1,200) 50 151 
      
[1] Categories according to IAS 39 
A risk analysis for the Group’s securities was done separately, based on the inherent historic volatility of the specific securities, see below. 
The main functional currency within the Group and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements is the US$. Accordingly, foreign 
exchange risks arise from transactions, and recognised assets and liabilities, the functional currency of which is not the US$. The currencies giving rise 
to these exposure risks are primarily the Euro and Pound Sterling. The majority of the Group’s revenue and material expenses are denominated in US$. 
The majority of other operating expenses are denominated in Euros and Pounds Sterling. The Group has transactional currency exposures. Such 
exposure arises from the sales or purchases by an operating unit in currencies other than the unit’s functional currency. In 2010 and 2009 nearly all the 
Group’s sales were denominated in US$. 
   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  81 
   
24.   Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Credit risk 
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities and certain financing activities. The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy 
third parties. It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, 
receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis, with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The maximum expo-
sure is the carrying amount as disclosed in note 6. Regarding the risk concentration please see above, “vulnerability due to certain significant consid-
erations”. 
In order to finance its growth, in August 2007 the Group entered into a factoring agreement with a reputable financial institution. The maximum 
amount of cash that can be received under this agreement is US$25.0 million (2009: US$30 million). The agreement, which comprises receivables from 
selective customers, significantly reduces the underlying credit risk because the financial institution assumes all credit risks associated with the collec-
tion of the receivables financed under the programme. 
As part of the factoring agreement, the Group had pledged US$3.0 million of cash to the factoring institution in the second quarter of 2009. The 
institution would draw down on these only if a commercial action by Dialog were to invalidate – partly or completely – the claim on a receivable fi-
nanced by the factoring program. In the fourth quarter 2010, the factoring bank relinquished the pledge. Consequently, no restricted cash is shown at 
31 December 2010. 
The Group’s exposure to credit risk arising from other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash, cash equivalents and restricted, would arise 
from default by a counterparty. The maximum exposure is equal to the carrying amount of the instruments. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group uses quarterly cash flow forecasts to monitor its liquidity risk. It takes financial investments and financial assets (e.g. trade accounts receiv-
ables and other financial assets) into consideration, as well as projected cash flows from operations. The Group’s objective is to minimise interest ex-
pense by avoiding the use of short-term bank liabilities or bank overdrafts within the Group. 
At 31 December 2010, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of US$158,200,000 (2009: cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash  of 
US$123,148,000). 
The Group’s policy is to structure its maturities of current financial assets within the Group to meet 100% of the respective maturities of the liabilities. 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2010, based on contractual undiscounted payments: 
     
 Less than 3 months 
US$000 
3 to 12 months 
US$000 
1 to 5 years 
US$000 
Total 
US$000 
Financial year ended 2010  
Trade accounts payable 24,984 – – 24,984 
Other payables 3,429 – – 3,429 
Other financial liabilities 248 597 461 1,306 
 28,661 597 461 29,719 
Financial year ended 2009   
Trade accounts payable 15,074 – – 15,074 
Other payables 2,230 – – 2,230 
Other financial liabilities 168 511 700 1,379 
 17,472 511 700 18,683 
     
At 31 December 2010, the Group had unused short-term credit lines of US$5 million (2009: US$14.2 million) and a multi-currency revolving credit line 
facility of £10 million (2009: nil) There were no amounts outstanding under these credit lines at 31 December 2010 (2009: nil).   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 82     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
24.   Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Capital management 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and 
strategies for growth. The company is considering its total equity as capital. 
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust its capital 
structure, the Group may generally issue new shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ending               
31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009. 
The Group monitors capital using an equity ratio (total equity divided by total assets). The equity ratio as of 31 December 2010 was 81.1% (2009: 
81.6%). Capital includes net Shareholders’ equity. The Group’s policy is to finance business development and growth if at all possible with equity 
rather than long-term liabilities. It is, therefore, also its policy to keep a strong equity ratio. This policy will be reconsidered as soon as sustainable 
profits are earned in order to achieve leverage. 
Hedging activities 
At 31 December 2010, the Group held deposits (referred to as the “hedging instruments”) designated as hedges of firm commitments and forecast 
transactions in Euros and Pounds Sterling. 
The hedging instruments are being used to hedge the foreign currency risk of contractual cash flows, principally resulting from wages and salaries, and 
rental payments with the aim of eliminating the currency risk by transforming these cash flows from Euros or Pounds Sterling into US dollars. The fair 
values of the forward exchange contracts which equal the book values are as follows: 
     
 At 31 Dec 2010 At 31 Dec 2009 
 
Assets 
US$000 
Liabilities 
US$000 
Assets 
US$000 
Liabilities 
US$000 
Fair values     
Forward exchange contracts 441 449 – – 
Deposits 7,630 – 46,546 – 
     
 
The critical terms of the deposits have been set to match the terms of the hedged cash flows. 
The cash flow hedges of the expected future cash flows in each month from January 2010 to December 2010 and January 2009 to December 2009 
respectively were assessed to be highly effective and, at 31 December 2010, a net unrealised gain of US$69,000 was included in equity in respect of 
these cash flows (2009: loss of US$372,000). During the financial year 2010 a loss of US$2,390,000 (2009: profit of US$197,000) was recognised in 
equity and a loss of US$2,831,000 (2009: profit of US$376,000) was removed from equity and recognised in profit and loss. The months of occur-
rence of the cash flows are the same as the month when the income statement is affected.   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  83 
   
24.   Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
The following tables show the contractual maturities of the payments for which deposits are used as hedging instruments, i.e., when the hedged item 
will be recognised in profit or loss. 
Hedging instruments for Euro commitments: 
     
Maturity Nominal amount €000 Forward rate Nominal amount €000 Spot rate 
 Derivatives Deposits 
2010     
January 2011 3,000 1.3443 1,667 1.3409 
February 2011 1,600 1.3500 1,667 1.3409 
March 2011 1,600 1.3497 1,667 1.3409 
April 2011 3,100 1.3097 700 1.2124 
May 2011 3,300 1.3106 – – 
June 2011 3,300 1.3104 – – 
July 2011 3,000 1.3300 – – 
August 2011 3,000 1.3297 – – 
September 2011 3,000 1.3293 – – 
October 2011 3,000 1.3289 – – 
November 2011 – – – – 
December 2011 – – – – 
2009     
January 2010 – – 1,725 1.4750  -  1.4765 
February 2010 – – 1,725 1.4750  -  1.4765 
March 2010 – – 2,325 1.4750  -  1.4765 
April 2010 – – 1,700 1.4750  -  1.4765 
May 2010 – – 1,700 1.4750  -  1.4765 
June 2010 – – 1,700 1.4750  -  1.4765 
July 2010 – – 1,700 1.4750  -  1.4765 
August 2010 – – 1,700 1.4750  -  1.4765 
September 2010 – – 1,700 1.4750  -  1.4765 
October 2010 – – 1,700 1.4750  -  1.4765 
November 2010 – – 1,700 1.4750  -  1.4765 
December 2010 – – 1,700 1.4750  -  1.4765 
     
    
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010 
 84     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
24.   Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 
Hedging instruments for Pound Sterling commitments: 
     
Maturity Nominal amount £000 Forward rate Nominal amount £000 Spot rate 
 Derivatives Deposits 
2010     
January 2011 1,550 1.5435 – – 
February 2011 2,050 1.5513 – – 
March 2011 2,350 1.5606 – – 
April 2011 1,450 1.5770 – – 
May 2011 1,750 1.5769 – – 
June 2011 1,750 1.5766 – – 
July 2011 1,600 1.5775 – – 
August 2011 1,700 1.5770 – – 
September 2011 1,700 1.5764 – – 
October 2011 1,500 1.5759 – – 
November 2011 1,700 1.5754 – – 
December 2011 – – – – 
2009     
January 2010 – – 833 1.5807 
February 2010 – – 833 1.5807 
March 2010 – – 1,283 1.5807 
April 2010 – – 783 1.5807 
May 2010 – – 783 1.5807 
June 2010 – – 783 1.5807 
July 2010 – – 783 1.5807 
August 2010 – – 783 1.5807 
September 2010 – – 783 1.5807 
October 2010 – – 783 1.5807 
November 2010 – – 783 1.5807 
December 2010 – – 783 1.5807 
     
   
 
 
 
   
 
Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  85 
   
25. Transactions with related parties 
For the relationship between the parent company, Dialog Semiconductor Plc, and its subsidiaries please see note 2. 
Related parties are comprised of seven (2009: eight) non-executive members of the Board of Directors and ten (2009: nine) members of the executive 
management which are named in the management and governance section. These are the only related parties of the Group. 
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 
For the composition of our key management please see management and governance beginning on page 29. Compensation of key management 
personnel of the Group is as follows: 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Short term employee benefits 4,319 3,499 
Post-employment benefits
1
 165 137 
Share based payments 1,439 635 
 5,923 4,272 
   
[1]) The amounts include payments for defined contribution plans. 
Compensation of Non-executive Directors  
The compensation of Non-executive Directors was US$521,000 (2009: US$307,000). As at 31 December 2010 the amount of US$ 23,000 for Board 
member fees was outstanding (2009: US$55,000). For further information please see the Directors’ remuneration report within the management and 
governance section on pages 35 to 37. 
Other related party transactions 
In 2010 and 2009 there were no other transactions with related parties. None of the related parties has a major influence in one of the Group’s major 
suppliers or customers.  
26. BenQ settlement 
In the second quarter 2009 the Company received an unexpected cash settlement of US$2.3 million. This cash settlement was against receivables 
which had previously been written down and revenues that had not been recognised in 2006 as a result of the insolvency of BenQ Mobile. The 
amount represents 35% of the original claim to BenQ Mobile. Of this amount US$2.0 million was classified as revenue and US$0.3 million was classi-
fied as other operating income. The amount shown as revenue represents prior period revenue. As one of the criteria for revenue recognition under 
IFRS was not met, for this amount the related revenue was not accounted for in 2006. The amount shown under other operating income was previ-
ously recognised as revenue in the periods preceding the insolvency but the underlying receivables were written down against other operating ex-
penses. 
27. Subsequent event 
On 10 February 2011, Dialog Semiconductor plc acquired 100% of the voting shares of SiTel Semiconductor B.V. (‘SiTel’), an unlisted company head-
quartered and incorporated in the Netherlands and a leader in short-range wireless, digital cordless and VoIP technology. In the year ended 31 Decem-
ber 2010, SiTel generated unaudited revenues of approximately $116.9 million. Dialog has acquired SiTel in order to expand its product portfolio with 
short range wireless and VoIP based internet connectivity products. This will allow Dialog to develop new products for these new markets as well as to 
cross-sell Dialog’s existing Power Management technology to SiTel’s customer base. The acquisition significantly expands Dialog’s addressable market 
targeting high growth wireless personal portable devices. Dialog acquired SiTel for an enterprise value of $86.5 million
1
.  
Given the timing of the transaction, it has not been possible to provide all disclosures required by IFRS3 (Revised) as the acquisition accounting is still to 
be performed. 
There are no other known events after the date of the Statement of Financial Position that require disclosure. 
                                                                 
1
 Net cash paid of $84.5 million   
 
   
 
Section 5 | Company financial statements and notes 
 
Company financial statements 
On the following pages information regarding the holding company Dialog Semiconductor Plc is given 
 86     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
 
    
 Notes At 31 December 2010 
US$000 
At 31 December 2009 
US$000 
Assets    
Cash and cash equivalents  80,307 71,924 
Amounts owed by group undertakings  30,580 44,542 
Prepaid expenses  91 67 
Other current assets  702 296 
Total current assets  111,680 116,829 
Investments 28 97,521 97,521 
Total non-current assets  97,521 97,521 
Total assets  209,201 214,350 
Trade and other payables  1,119 475 
Other payables  124 471 
Total current liabilities  1,243 946 
Ordinary Shares  12,380 11,825 
Share Premium  202,416 283,733 
Retained deficit  (2,992) (80,972) 
Other reserves  69 (372) 
Employee stock purchase plan shares  (3,915) (810) 
Total Shareholders´ equity 31 207,958 213,404 
Total liabilities and Shareholders´ equity  209,201 214,350 
    
 
Profit for the financial year 
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent company’s profit and loss account has not been included in these financial state-
ments. The parent company’s loss after taxation was US$7,030,000 (2009: profit of US$2,449,000 ). 
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 February 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: 
Dr Jalal Bagherli 
Director 
Company statement of financial position  
For the year ended 31 December 2010   
 
   
 
Section 5 | Company financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  87 
   
 
       
    Other reserves  
 
Ordinary Shares 
US$000 
Additional paid-in 
capital 
US$000 
Accumulated deficit 
US$000 
Hedges 
000US$ 
Employee stock 
purchase plan shares 
US$000 
Total 
US$000 
Balance at 1 January 2009 9,328 223,005 (78,523) – (139) 153,671 
Total comprehensive loss – – (2,449) (372) – (2,821) 
Capital increase public offering (gross 
proceeds) 1,922 62,421 – 
– 
– 64,343 
Transaction costs of capital increase - 
public offering – (4,685) – 
– 
(1,048) (5,733) 
Capital increase for employee share 
option plan (gross proceeds) 575 473 – 
– 
– 1,048 
Transaction costs of capital increase - 
employee share option plan – (41) – 
– 
– (41) 
Sale of employee stock purchase plan 
shares – 2,560 – 
– 
377 2,937 
Changes in Equity total 2,497 60,728 (2,449) (372) (671) 59,733 
Balance at 31 December 2009 /       
1 January 2010 11,825 283,733 (80,972) (372) (810) 213,404 
Total comprehensive income (loss) – – (7,030) 441 – (6,589) 
Reduction of additional paid-in capital – (85,000) 85,000 – – – 
Capital increase for employee share 
option plan (gross proceeds) 555 414 – 
– 
(969) – 
Transaction costs of capital increase - 
employee share option plan – (36) – 
– 
– (36) 
Purchase of employee stock purchase 
plan shares – – – 
– 
(2,844) (2,844) 
Sale of employee stock purchase plan 
shares – 3,305 – 
– 
708 4,013 
Equity settled transactions, net of tax – – 10 – – 10 
Changes in Equity total 555 (81,317) 77,980 441 (3,105) (5,446) 
Balance at 31 December 2010 12,380 202,416 (2.992) 69 (3,915) 207.958 
 
Company statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2010   
 
 
   
 
Section 5 | Company financial statements and notes 
 
Company financial statements 
 88     Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  
   
 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Cash flows from operating activities:   
Net loss (7,030) (2,449) 
Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by (used for) operating activities:   
Interest income, net (1,567) (713) 
Expense related to share-based payments 8 – 
Changes in working capital:   
Trade accounts payable 346 415 
Other assets and liabilities (402) (122) 
Cash used for operations 
(8,645) (2,869) 
Interest received 898 165 
Cash flow used for operating activities (7,747) (2,704) 
Cash flows from investing activities:   
Loans made to other group companies 14,547 (9,184) 
Cash flow from (used for) investing activities 14,547 (9,184) 
Cash flows from financing activities:   
Cash flow from (used for) capital increase (36) 59,617 
Purchase of employee stock purchase plan shares (2,844) – 
Sale of employee stock purchase plan shares 4,013 2,937 
Cash flow from financing activities 1,133 62,554 
Net foreign exchange difference 450 (372) 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 8,383 50,294 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 71,924 21,630 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 80,307 71,924 
  
Company statement of cash flows 
For the year ended 31 December 2010   
 
   
 
Section 5 | Company financial statements and notes 
 
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  89 
   
 
28. Investments 
This represents the investment of the Company in Dialog Semiconductor GmbH. Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provision for 
impairment in value.  
The aggregate amount of capital and reserves and the results of this undertaking were as follows: 
   
 2010 
US$000 
1
 
2009 
US$000 
Capital and reserves 70,583 23,309 
Profit for the year 48,455 25,641 
   
[1] Based on preliminary unaudited results. 
29. Deferred tax 
The utilization of tax loss carryforwards and temporary differences of the holding company is subject to the achievement of positive income in periods 
which are beyond the company’s current business plan and therefore this utilization is uncertain. Consequently no deferred tax assets were recognized 
for these losses and temporary differences.  
For further information on deferred taxes see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2010. 
30. Auditors’ remuneration 
   
 2010 
US$000 
2009 
US$000 
Auditors' remuneration   
for the audit 185 246 
for other audit related services 78 142 
for other services 230 – 
in relation to capital increase – 287 
 493 675 
   
 
31. Share capital and share options 
Details of the Company’s share capital and share options are set out in notes 18 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2010. 
32. Headcount and costs 
The Company does not have any employees. 
33. Events after the reporting period 
On 10 February 2011, Dialog Semiconductor plc acquired 100% of the voting shares of SiTel Semiconductor B.V. (‘SiTel’), an unlisted company head-
quartered and incorporated in the Netherlands and a leader in short-range wireless, digital cordless and VoIP technology. In the year ended 31 Decem-
ber 2010, SiTel generated unaudited revenues of approximately $116.9 million. Dialog has acquired SiTel in order to expand its product portfolio with 
short range wireless and VoIP based internet connectivity products. This will allow Dialog to develop new products for these new markets as well as to 
cross-sell Dialog’s existing Power Management technology to SiTel’s customer base. The acquisition significantly expands Dialog’s addressable market 
targeting high growth wireless personal portable devices. Dialog acquired SiTel for an enterprise value of $86.5 million
1
.  
Given the timing of the transaction, it has not been possible to provide all disclosures required by IFRS3 (Revised) as the acquisition accounting is still to 
be performed. 
There are no other known events after the date of the Statement of Financial Position that require disclosure. 
                                                                 
1
 Net cash paid of $84.5 million 
Notes to the Company financial statements 
For the year ended 31 December 2010  Section 6 | Additional information
90 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Glossary
Technical glossary
Analog A type of signal in an electronic circuit 
that takes on a continuous range of values 
rather than only a few discrete values.
ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit:  
an integrated chip, custom designed for a 
specific application.
ASSP Application Specific Standard Product:  
a semiconductor device integrated circuit (IC) 
dedicated to a specific application and sold  
to more than one user.
Audio CODEC The interface between 
analogue signals (such as the human voice)  
and the digital data processing inside a mobile 
phone, determining voice quality.
CAD Computer Aided Design: usually refers to 
a software tool used for designing electronics 
hardware or software systems.
CDMA Code Division Multiple Access: an 
alternative to GSM technology for mobile 
wireless networks.
Chips Electronic integrated circuits.
CMOS Complimentary Metal Oxide 
Semiconductor: the most popular class of 
semiconductor manufacturing technology.
DC-DC A DC-to-DC converter accepts a  
direct current input voltage and produces a 
direct current output voltage. The output is 
typically at a different voltage level than the 
input, and often the component provides 
power bus regulation.
Digital A type of signal used to transmit 
information that has only discrete levels  
of some parameter (usually voltage).
Fabless A company that designs and delivers 
semiconductors by outsourcing the fabrication 
(manufacturing) process.
Foundry A manufacturing plant where silicon 
wafers are produced.
HiFi High-Fidelity: the reproduction of sound 
with little or no distortion.
IC Integrated Circuit: an electronic device with 
numerous components on a single chip.
Imaging The capture and processing of  
images via an image sensor for use by an 
electronic device to send to a display for 
viewing by a user.
Liquid Crystal Display (LCD) A display 
technology found in many portable electronics 
products, including personal organisers, cellular 
handsets and notebook computers.
LDO Low Dropout voltage regulators are used 
in battery operated systems, where the output 
voltage is typically lower than the input voltage.
LED Light Emitting Diode: a semiconductor 
device that emits light when charged with 
electricity, often used for LCD display backlights.
Mixed signal A combination of analogue  
and digital signals being generated, controlled  
or modified on the same chip.
MP3 (MPEG-1 Audio Layer-3): a standard 
technology format for compression of sound 
sequences into very small files, while preserving 
the original level of sound quality.
OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer: a 
company that builds products or components that 
are used in products sold by another company.
OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode.
Passive Matrix OLED or PMOLED Passive 
Matrix OLED a display type formed by creating 
an array of OLED pixels which are driven by row 
and column (x-y) co-ordinates.
Power Management The management of  
the power requirements of various subsystems, 
important in hand-held and portable  
electronics equipment.
PMIC Power Management IC.
Semiconductor A base material halfway 
between a conductor and an insulator, which 
can be physically altered by mixing in certain 
atoms. Semiconductors form the basis for 
present-day electronics.
Silicon A semi-metallic element used to  
create a wafer, and the most common 
semiconductor material – in about 95%  
of all manufactured chips.
Smartphone A mobile phone offering 
advanced capabilities, often with pc-like 
functionality (PC-mobile handset convergence). 
A Smartphone runs complete operating system 
software providing a standardised interface  
and platform for application developers.
Smart Mirror™ A technology patented  
by Dialog Semiconductor which simplifies 
circuit design and provides very low current 
consumption in Power Management circuits.
SmartXtend™ A technology patented  
by Dialog Semiconductor that extends the  
life and reduces power consumption of 
high-resolution, passive matrix OLED displays.
Subcontractor A business that signs a contract 
to perform part or all of the obligations of 
another’s contract.
Tablet PC A Tablet PC refers to a slate-  
or tablet-shaped mobile computer device, 
equipped with a touchscreen or stylus.
TAM Total addressable market TAM measures 
the potential market for your product – and 
your product only – assuming you could reach 
100% of your customers.
USB Universal Serial Bus: a universal interface 
standard to connect different electronics 
devices.
Wafer A slice of silicon from a 4, 5, 6 or 8 inch 
diameter silicon bar and used as the foundation 
on which to build semiconductor products. Section 6 | Additional information
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  91
Financial glossary
AGM Annual General Meeting.
CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate:  
a method of assessing the average growth  
of a value over time.
Cash flow The primary purpose of a statement 
of cash flow is to provide relevant information 
about the cash receipts and cash payments  
of an enterprise during a period. It helps to 
assess the enterprise’s ability to generate 
positive future net cash flows. A statement  
of cash flows shall explain the change in cash 
and cash equivalents during the period by 
classifying cash receipts and payments 
according to whether they stem from 
operating, investing, or financing activities.
Cash flow from operating activities includes 
all transactions and other events that are not 
defined as investing or financing activities  
in paragraphs. Operating activities generally 
involve producing and delivering goods and 
providing services. Cash flows from operating 
activities are generally the cash effects of 
transactions and other events that enter  
into the determination of net income.
Comprehensive income The purpose of 
reporting comprehensive income is to report a 
measure of all changes in equity of an enterprise 
that result from recognised transactions and 
other economic events of the period other than 
transactions with owners such as capital increases 
or dividends. An example of items effecting 
comprehensive income is foreign currency 
translation adjustments resulting from the 
process of translating an entity’s financial 
statements in a foreign currency into the 
reporting currency.
Corporate Governance is the system by  
which business corporations are directed  
and controlled. The Corporate Governance 
structure specifies the distribution of rights  
and responsibilities among different 
participants in the corporation, such as the 
Board, managers, shareholders and other 
stakeholders, and spells out the rules and 
procedures for making decisions on corporate 
affairs. By doing this, it also provides the 
structure through which the company’s 
objectives are set, and the means of attaining 
those objectives and monitoring performance.
Deferred taxes Deferred tax assets or liabilities 
are temporary differences between the tax 
basis of an asset or liability and its reported 
amount in the financial statements that will 
result in taxable or deductible amounts  
in future years when the reported amount  
of the asset or liability is recovered or settled, 
respectively.
Derivative financial instruments A financial 
instrument that derives its value from the  
price or expected price of an underlying asset 
(e.g. a security, currency or bond).
Dividends are payments made by a company 
to its shareholders. When a company earns  
a profit, that money can be put to two uses:  
it can either be reinvested in the business 
(called retained earnings), or it can be paid to 
the shareholders of the company as a dividend.
DTR The United Kingdom Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules implementing the provisions 
of the Transparency Directive. 
EURIBOR (Euro Interbank Offered Rate) is  
the rate at which euro interbank term deposits 
within the euro zone are offered by one prime 
bank to another prime bank. 
Freefloat the proportion of an issuer’s share 
capital that is available for purchase in the 
public equity markets by investors.
Gross margin equals the difference between 
revenues and cost of sales as presented in the 
statement of operations.
Impairment is the condition that exists when 
the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds 
its fair value (the sum of the undiscounted cash 
flows expected to result from the use and 
eventual disposition of the asset).
IFRS (International Financial Reporting 
Standards) accounting standards generally  
to be used for financial years commencing on 
or after 1 January 2005 by all publicly-listed 
European Union companies in compliance  
with the European Parliament and Council 
Regulation adopted in July 2002.
Prime Standard The new segmentation of  
the equity market of the German Stock 
Exchange comprises a Prime Standard segment 
in addition to the General Standard segment 
that applies the statutory minimum requirements. 
The Prime Standard segment addresses 
companies that wish to target international 
investors. These companies are required to meet 
high international transparency criteria, over and 
above those set out by the General Standard.
Restructuring charges Costs associated with 
an exit or disposal activity, e.g. termination 
benefits provided to employees that are 
involuntarily terminated.
Securities Debt securities are instruments 
representing a creditor relationship with an 
enterprise and include government securities, 
corporate bonds, commercial paper, and all 
securitised debt instruments. Available-for-sale 
securities are debt securities not classified as 
held to maturity or trading securities.
Shareholders’ equity reflects the investment 
of shareholders in a company. Shareholders’ 
equity comprises ordinary shares, additional 
paid-in capital, retained earnings and 
accumulated other comprehensive income.
Stock option plans include all agreements  
by an entity to issue shares of stock or other 
equity instruments to employees. Stock option 
plans provide employees the opportunity  
to receive stock resulting in an additional 
compensation based on future share price 
performance. The purpose of stock option 
plans is to motivate employees to increase 
shareholder value on a long-term basis.
Total assets include all current and non-current 
assets. Total assets equal total liabilities and 
shareholders’ equity.
Working capital is represented by the excess 
of current assets over current liabilities and 
identifies the relatively liquid portion of total 
enterprise capital that constitutes a margin  
or buffer for meeting obligations within the 
ordinary operating cycle of the business. Section 6 | Additional information
92 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Advisers and corporate information
Public relations
FD   FD GmbH 
Holborn Gate Park Tower 
26 Southampton Buildings Bockenheimer Anlage 44 
London EC4R 9HA 60322 Frankfurt am Main 
UK   Germany
Legal adviser
Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP  
Tower Bridge House  
St Katharine’s Way  
London E1W 1AA  
UK 
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP 
Apax Plaza 
Reading 
Berkshire RG1 1YE 
UK
Principal banker 
Deutsche Bank AG  
Global Banking  
Am Hafenmarkt  
D-73728 Esslingen  
Germany 
Designated sponsor
Close Brothers Seydler 
Schillerstrasse 27-29 
D-60313 Frankfurt 
Germany
Shares
Information on the Company’s shares and on significant 
shareholdings can be found on page 9.
Registered office
Dialog Semiconductor Plc 
Tower Bridge House 
St Katharine’s Way 
London E1W 1AA 
UK
Website: www.dialog-semiconductor.com
Registered number
3505161
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting 21 April 2011 
Q1 2011 Results 4 May 2011 
Q2 2011 Results 25 July 2011 
Q3 2011 Results 25 October 2011 
Preliminary results for 2011  February 2012 Section 6 | Additional information
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010  93
Group directory
Germany
Dialog Semiconductor GmbH
Neue Strasse 95 
D-73230 Kirchheim/Teck-Nabern 
Germany 
Phone: (+49) 7021 805-0 
Fax: (+49) 7021 805-100 
Email: dialog.nabern@diasemi.com
United Kingdom
Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd
Delta 200 
Delta Business Park 
Welton Road 
Swindon, Wiltshire 
SN5 7XB, UK  
Phone: (+44) 1793 757700 
Fax: (+44) 1793 757800 
Email: dialog.swindon@diasemi.com
North America
Dialog North America
2560 Mission College Boulevard 
Santa Clara, California 95054 
USA 
Phone: (+1) 408 727 3200 
Fax: (+1) 408 727 3205 
Email: NA_sales_enquiries@diasemi.com
Japan
Dialog Semiconductor K.K.
Mita Kokusai Bldg 16F 
1-4-28, Mita, Minato-ku 
Tokyo, 108-0073 
Japan  
Phone: (+81) 3 3769 8123  
Fax: (+81) 3 3769 8124 
Email: dialog.tokyo@diasemi.com
Taiwan & Greater China
Dialog Semiconductor GmbH
Taiwan Branch
Chu-Nan 3rd Factory No. 118 
Chung-Hua Road 
Chu-Nan, Miao-Li 350 
Taiwan R.O.C. 
Phone: (+852) 9055 3888 
Phone: (+886) 22542 1579 
Email: dialog.taiwan@diasemi.com
Korea
Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd
Korea Branch
#501, Dongsung B/D,  
158-9, Samsung-Dong,  
Kangnam-Ku, Seoul 
Korea, 135-830 
Phone: (+82) 2 569 2301  
Fax: (+82) 2 569 2302 
Email: dialog.korea@diasemi.com
Designed and produced by 85FOUR www.85FOUR.com 
Sections 4 and 5 produced in-house with Fire.sys 
Printed in England by Cousin, environmentally accredited printers, ISO 14001. Dialog Semiconductor Plc
Tower Bridge House
St Katherine’s Way
London E1W 1AA
UK
www.dialog-semiconductor.com
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts 2010
