 Links 
Throughout this report there are links to pages, other sections  
and web addresses for additional information.
This is an example of how the links appear within this document.  
They are recognisable by the blue underline, simply click to go to 
the relevant page or web URL (www.dialog-semiconductor.com).
Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 
User Guide 
Welcome to the Dialog annual report and accounts 2010.  
This interactive pdf allows you to easily access the information 
that you want, whether printing, searching for a specific item or 
going directly to another page, section or website. The different 
features are detailed below.
Document controls 
Use the document controls located in the top margin to navigate 
through this report.
Interactive PDF
Section navigation 
Use the links on the Contents page to navigate to the  
start of a statement. Use the Contents button to return  
to the contents.
Search
Print
Contents
Previous page
Next page Annual report and accounts | 2012
The power to be...
...
...
...
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts | 2012  
P04-05 ›
04 05 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 1 | Overview
...
Consumers today want to be able to use exciting new entertainment 
apps on their smartphones and tablets and interact via high-speed,  
4G LTE networks. Video streaming, sharing and calls are becoming 
increasingly popular, alongside enhanced gaming, GPS, data and 
voice services.
...
“Dialog’s innovative technology  
increases the battery life that a 
smartphone or tablet can deliver, 
enabling consumers to multi-task and 
enjoy high-quality multimedia content 
on the go. Our power management 
chips can be programmed to enable 
each of the multicore processors to be 
powered in and out of sleep mode in 
specific sequences and meet the exact 
voltage and current requirements 
of each sub-system, including the 
application and baseband processors, 
display, audio, graphics, GPS and 
memory components.”
Udo Kratz
Senior Vice President, General Manager,  
Mobile Systems Business Group
P10-11 ›
P20-21 ›
20
...
Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
“The Internet of Things is dependent 
on having an ultra low energy wireless 
standard that has ceiling to cellar reach 
and beyond, sensors that can last  
a decade with a single AAA battery  
pack and the addition of voice control  
or telephony if required. Dialog has 
developed SmartPulse™ to deliver this 
smart home functionality and more.”
Sean McGrath
Vice President and General Manager 
Connectivity, Automotive and Industrial Group
 21
The Internet of Things is at last becoming a reality. Consumers’ desire  
for greater comfort, and convenience, to conserve energy in their homes 
and the advent of the always-on computing power of the smartphone  
and tablet is driving a new wave of innovation. We will start to  
see the emergence of wireless light switches and thermostats,  
smoke and gas detectors, home central locking systems and  
medical pendants for the elderly that can be controlled and  
monitored from a single smartphone or tablet app.
Section 4 | Consolidated financial 
statements and notes
54 Independent Auditors’ report to the 
members of Dialog Semiconductor Plc
55 Consolidated statement of 
financial position
56 Consolidated income statement
57 Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income
58 Consolidated statement of cash flows
59 Consolidated statement of changes 
in equity
60 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
Section 5 | Company financial statements 
and notes
113 Company statement of financial position
114 Company statement of changes in equity
115 Company statement of cash flows
116 Notes to the Company financial statements
Section 6 | Additional information
117 Glossary
119 Advisers and corporate information
120 Group directory
Section 1 | Overview
02 Dialog at a glance and our markets
06 Chairman’s statement
07 Dialog Semiconductor shares in 2012
Section 2 | Business review
12 Our business strategy and performance
14 Chief Executive’s review
16 Our products and key customers
22 Financial review
27 Risks and their management
30 Sustainability
Section 3 | Management and governance
34 Executive management
36 Board of Directors
38 Directors’ report
40 Corporate Governance
46 Directors’ remuneration report 
53 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
53 Responsibility statement
10 11 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 1 | Overview
“Consumer electronics manufacturers in personal, 
portable, connected markets build products based on 
standard application processor platforms. Dialog is a 
leader in forging strategic partnerships and supplying 
companion power management ICs with the world’s 
leading application processor providers to deliver its 
customers fully optimised solutions.”
Mark Tyndall
Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy
“Dialog’s customers increasingly use  
our audio CODECs to deliver natural, 
realistic audio with a wider sound field 
to the wireless and wired headphones 
and small form factor speakers that 
consumers increasingly want to use. 
We also apply our connectivity expertise 
to high-quality digital cordless phones 
and next generation wireless 
microphones and headsets.”
Andrew Austin
Vice President, Sales 
Dialog’s audio CODECs provide full-range, high fidelity audio  
capture and playback to a variety of portable devices and  
audio accessories. They feature programmable Digital Signal  
Processors (DSPs) that offload audio software from the  
host processor and include advanced echo cancellation  
technology to filter out extreme background noise.  
They are complemented by our amplifier technology  
to provide a rich, deep bass and clear high  
frequencies to wireless and wired headphones,  
speakers and handsets. 
...   
...
Dialog Semiconductor creates highly integrated, mixed signal 
integrated circuits (ICs), optimised for personal portable, short-
range wireless, lighting and automotive applications. The Company 
provides its customers with flexible and dynamic support, world-
class innovation and the assurance of dealing with an established 
business partner. 
With its focus and expertise in energy-efficient system power 
management, audio, low energy short-range wireless and VoIP 
technologies, Dialog brings decades of experience to the rapid 
development of ICs. 
Dialog’s power management processor companion chips enhance 
the performance of personal portable devices – including smartphones, 
tablets and Ultrabooks™ – by extending battery play time and 
supporting increasingly demanding multimedia applications. Our 
short-range wireless technology provides connectivity to wireless 
headsets, microphones and gaming consoles and is enabling the 
emergence of innovative new smart home applications. 
Dialog Semiconductor Plc is headquartered near Stuttgart,  
with a global sales, R&D and marketing organisation. In 2012, 
it had US$774 million in revenue and continues to be one of  
the fastest growing European public semiconductor companies.  
At 31 December 2012, the Company had 806 employees.  
With world-class manufacturing partners, Dialog operates  
a fabless business model.
The Company is listed on the Frankfurt (FWB: DLG) stock exchange 
and is a member of the German TecDAX index.  
Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 1 | Overview 02
Our markets
Mobile: 
 ■ Power management ICs and audio CODECs for smartphones, 
tablets and Ultrabooks™
Automotive and industrial: 
 ■ Custom motor control ICs for windscreen wipers and companion 
processor integrated power management and clock ICs for automotive 
infotainment systems
 ■ Electronic ballasts for fluorescent or high-intensity industrial lighting 
and energy-efficient retrofit bulb LED lighting solutions
Connectivity: 
 ■ Single chip transceivers for DECT-based wireless microphones, 
headsets and gaming consoles 
 ■ SmartPulse™ short-range wireless ICs, based on the Ultra Low 
Energy DECT standard, for smart home applications
 ■ Energy-efficient multicore Voice-over IP (VoIP) processors, audio codecs 
and amplifiers, interfacing with Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and DECT, to enable 
headset and handset connectivity
2012 financial highlights – a record year
 ■ US$774 million revenue in 2012, up 47% over 2011
 ■ Full-year 2012 net profit of US$62.5 million or 8.1% of sales, 
completing five years of successive profitable growth
 ■ Full year gross margin of 37.8%
 ■ Closing year cash balance of US$312 million
 ■ Basic and diluted 2012 IFRS earnings per share (EPS) of 0.97 cents  
and 0.93 cents respectively
2012 operational highlights
 ■ Sustained high demand for our power management technologies 
from leading smartphone and tablet customers
 ■ Momentum in our connectivity portfolio with the selection of our 
short-range wireless audio ICs, VoIP and DECT solutions by leading 
microphone, gaming and professional headset and cordless phone 
customers, including VTech and Jabra
 ■ Continued success in broadening our Processor Partner Programme 
with companies including Intel, NVIDIA and Freescale. This includes 
the selection of our Power Management ICs (PMICs) by Freescale 
for a reference board using its i.MX series of multicore application 
processors to enable the rapid development of tablets, infotainment 
systems, media hubs and other smart devices
 ■ Continuous innovation in our standard and custom product portfolios:
 – Our latest PMIC, featuring an innovative multiphase buck converter 
architecture to support the high currents increasingly required in 
multicore application processors for smartphones and tablets was 
sampled to key customers
 – Dialog continued partnering with TSMC on state-of-the-art 0.13 
micron bipolar-CMOS-DMOS (BCD) technology to integrate higher 
voltage components into a smaller form factor, single-chip power 
management IC to support next generation smartphones 
and tablets
– We licensed the ARM® Cortex™ M0 32-bit multicore processor for 
use in our next generation PMICs, targeting multicore smartphones, 
tablets and other embedded devices. The first of these PMICs was 
sampled in 2012
Dialog at a glance and our markets
800
600
400
200
0
08 09 10 11 12
Total revenue 
(US$m)
* Year-on-year growth 2011-12
+47%*
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
08 09 10 11 12
Net profit 
(US$m)
+9%*
100
80
60
40
20
0
08 09 10 11 12
Operating profit 
(US$m)
+48%*
1.00
0.75
0.50
0.25
0
08 09 10 11 12
Basic EPS 
(US$)
+6%*   
 
 03
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
12 13 14 15 16
World market for short-range 
wireless ICs (million units)
Source: GBI Research 2012
+2,000**
350
300
250
200
150
100
12 13 14 15 16
Media tablet market 
(million units)
Source: Gartner/Dialog 2012
+200**
1,500
1,300
1,100
900
700
500
12 13 14 15 16
Smartphone market 
(million units)
Source: IDC 2012
** Forecast unit growth 2012-2016
+750**
Q2 
Samsung selected Dialog’s power management and audio 
technology for a second smartphone platform – the  
Galaxy Pocket S5300 – and our audio technology for its ultra 
compact Pebble MP3 accessory that syncs with the Galaxy SIII 
smartphone to enable runners and sportspeople to enjoy music  
on the move. 
SmartPulse™ DECT ULE (Ultra Low Energy) was adopted by a 
European plug manufacturer for internet-enabled smart plugs, 
enabling home appliances to be controlled from a smartphone 
or tablet.
Q3 
Dialog introduced a new PMIC architecture for next generation 
application processors through our Processor Partner Programme 
to help drive and support innovation in the smartphone and 
tablet markets.
Q4 
Dialog’s PMIC was selected by a Processor Partner  
Programme member for a 4G LTE-based chipset platform  
for Asia-based customers. 
2012 saw Dialog achieve  
US$774 million in revenues.  
The customer base was further 
diversified with additional platform 
wins at Samsung. We laid the 
groundwork for our entry into the 
4G LTE market with sampling under 
way of standardised PMICs on  
a reference board for Asia-based 
customers. Dialog also opened its 
new Asian headquarters in Taipei 
to meet increasing demand for our 
products in Taiwan, China and 
Korea and issued a convertible  
bond offering for corporate 
funding purposes. 
Q1 
Dialog extended its Green VoIP IC family with the launch  
of the new SC14453, incorporating leading audio, security  
and graphics functionality. 04 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 1 | Overview
...
Consumers today want to be able to use exciting new entertainment 
apps on their smartphones and tablets and interact via high-speed,  
4G LTE networks. Video streaming, sharing and calls are becoming 
increasingly popular, alongside enhanced gaming, GPS, data and 
voice services.
...
“Dialog’s innovative technology  
increases the battery life that a 
smartphone or tablet can deliver, 
enabling consumers to multi-task and 
enjoy high-quality multimedia content 
on the go. Our power management 
chips can be programmed to enable 
each of the multicore processors to be 
powered in and out of sleep mode in 
specific sequences and meet the exact 
voltage and current requirements 
of each sub-system, including the 
application and baseband processors, 
display, audio, graphics, GPS and 
memory components.”
Udo Kratz
Senior Vice President, General Manager,  
Mobile Systems Business Group  05  
Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 1 | Overview 06
Dialog’s management team have aspirations 
to achieve a mid-term goal of over US$1 billion 
in annual revenues. Despite continued economic 
uncertainty Dialog continues to see strong 
demand for its technologies and is making  
good progress to this target.
The Company continues to put in place the 
necessary infrastructure to support high levels 
of growth on a global basis. In this context 
there is considerable competition for the top 
talent that Dialog needs to achieve these goals. 
Accordingly, ever mindful of its needs to be 
corporate governance compliant, Dialog has 
to be best-in-class in performance-driven 
remuneration schemes.
The Board recognises, with the increasing scale 
and value of the business, the importance of 
seeking to achieve best practice in corporate 
governance. This has seen a much greater focus 
for the Board in 2012 and will continue to be so 
in 2013. A review of the Corporate Governance 
statement and Directors’ remuneration report  
in this annual report, of themselves of greater 
detail and transparency over previous years,  
set out the enhanced focus in this area and  
the greater professionalism being brought  
to the subject.
Despite the troubled economic environment, 
I remain confident about the future growth 
prospects of the Company in 2013 and thank 
you for your continued support.
Greg Reyes
Chairman
2012 has been another great 
year for Dialog Semiconductor 
Plc, with revenue up 47% 
year-on-year to US$774 million.
The Company continues its strategy of 
deepening and broadening relationships with 
existing and new customers. Dialog is focusing 
on cross-selling a wider range of more complex 
power management, audio and wireless 
solutions into a broader range of portable 
computing devices. This includes high-end and 
low-end smartphones, tablets and, in the future, 
Ultrabooks™, which we view as one of the next 
growth markets for Dialog. 
People are doing more and more computing on 
the go using smartphones and tablets. Around 
700 million smartphones are believed to have 
been shipped in 2012, and this is forecast to rise 
to 1.5 billion by 2016; while tablet purchases 
are forecast to continue to snowball with unit 
shipments likely to be around 300 million 
by 2016 according to the analyst firm IDC. 
Dialog is well positioned to help its customers 
meet this market demand.
Dialog remains committed to outpacing its 
competitors – not only in terms of the level 
of innovation and quality control but also 
financially, where profitability has to be 
managed carefully, given the competing 
pressures of the price expectation of volume 
customers and supply constraints.
Chairman’s statement
From left: 
Dialog is focusing on cross-selling a wider range 
of more complex power management, audio and 
wireless solutions into a broader range of portable 
computing devices, including tablets. 
Dialog views Ultrabooks™ as one of the next 
growth markets for its technologies. 
Greg Reyes
Chairman   
 
 07
Dialog continues to expand 
its investor base, gaining the 
confidence of the market, both 
in Europe and the US, and 
attracting new long-term oriented 
institutional Shareholders.
Share price development
The following graphs chart the cumulative 
Shareholder return of the Company for the past 
12 months and for the past five years, compared 
with selected technical benchmark indices – 
Germany’s TecDAX index – which Dialog itself 
entered in September 2009 and the Philadelphia 
SE Semiconductor index (“SOX”).
In 2012, Dialog’s share price opened at €12.58 
and reached a high of €18.74 on 26 March. 
During the second half of 2012 the continuing 
macro concerns about fiscal consolidation and 
low growth in Europe and the US brought 
additional instability to the financial markets. 
The share price trended down, tracking some 
of our most immediate peers and closing the 
year at €13.30 on 31 December.
As can be seen from the graph below, which 
shows the percentage movement in share price 
during the year, in 2012 Dialog’s share price 
performance followed a similar trend to that of 
TecDAX and SOX for most of the year. The stock 
underperformed the TecDAX and its peer group 
during the last two months of the year, seeing 
some recovery in the first few days of the New 
Year 2013. In the last three years, 2010–2012, 
Dialog has continued to show remarkable 
growth, outperforming TecDAX and SOX by 
approximately 700%. During these years the 
share price grew by around 75%.
Dialog Semiconductor shares in 2012
2012 12-month Dialog Semiconductor share price performance (%)
Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 Apr 12 May 12 Jun 12 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12
Dialog Semicon. (XTRA: DLG) German TecDAX (Price Return) – Index Philadelphia SE Semiconductor Sector Index
50.00
40.00
30.00
20.00
10.00
0.00
-10.00
Note: Peer group Index constituents: Wolfson Microelectronics Plc, 
Texas Instruments Inc., STMicroelectronics NV, Skyworks Solutions Inc., 
Nordic Semiconductor ASA, Microsemi Corp., Micrel Inc., Melexis NV, 
MaxLinear, Inc., Maxim Integrated Products Inc., Linear Technology 
Corp., Intersil Corporation, Infineon Technologies, CSR plc, Cirrus 
Logic Inc., Broadcom Corp., austriamicrosystems AG, Aixtron SE.  
Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 1 | Overview 08
Share fundamentals for the financial year 2012
Total number of shares outstanding and registered as at 31 December 2012  68,068,930
Weighted average number of shares during 2012 (basic) 64,680,895
Weighted average number of shares during 2012 (diluted) 67,354,071
Type  Ordinary
Par value (in £)  0.1
Bloomberg Symbol DLG
Reuters Symbol  DLGS.DE
ISIN  GB0059822006
Key figures for the financial year 2012 based on weighted average number of shares (basic)
Revenue per share (in US$)  11.96
Operating profit per share (in US$)  1.41
Net profit per share (in US$) 0.97
Book value per share as at 31 December 2012 (in US$)  5.91
Accounting standards  IAS/IFRS
Market data 2012
Exchange segment Germany   Midcap, Prime All Share,  
Prime Technology,  
Technology All Share
Designated sponsor  Close Brothers  
Seydler 
Cheuvreux  
(as at 1.1.2013)
Market capitalisation as at 31 December 2012 (in millions of €) 905
Turnover of shares during 2012 530,815 shares/day
 
Dialog Semiconductor shares in 2012 continued
2008-2012 Dialog Semiconductor share price performance (%) 
Jul 2008 Jan 2009 Jul 2009 Jan 2010 Jul 2010 Jan 2011 Jul 2011 Jan 2012 Jul 2012 Jan 2013
Dialog Semicon. (XTRA: DLG) German TecDAX (Price Return) – Index Philadelphia SE Semiconductor Sector Index
-200
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200   
 
 09
Shares held by X-Fab Semiconductor AG,  
as per the share register on 31 December 2012, 
amounted to 1.8% of discretionary clients.
Since 31 December 2012 and as per the share 
register on 31 January 2013, there has been  
one material change to the shares held on 
behalf of discretionary clients.
Shares held on behalf of discretionary clients  
as per the share register on 31 January 2013.
The Bank of New York 
Mellon SA/NV  4,511,756 6.9% 
BNP Paribas  
Securities Services  4,347,913 6.6% 
State Street  3,888,040 5.9%
Citigroup  
Global Markets  3,658,365 5.6 % 
Clearstream  
Banking S.A.  3,453,092 5.3 %
CACEIS Bank  3,197,105 4.9 %
Chase Nominees Ltd  2,838,229 4.3 %
Disclosure of interests
The provisions of the DTR require that any 
person or fund acquiring a direct or indirect 
interest of 3% or more of a class of shares 
issued by the Company – with voting rights at 
the Company’s general meeting – must inform 
the Company of its interest within two working 
days. If the 3% interest is exceeded, the 
Shareholder must inform the Company of any 
increase or decrease of one percentage point 
in its interest.
In accordance with DTR 5.1.5 with respect  
to voting rights attached to shares held by 
investment managers (on behalf of clients), by 
scheme operators and ICVCs, the first threshold 
for disclosure is set at 5% with the next level 
set at 10% and every percentage above 10%.
Trading in Dialog shares
Dialog shares are traded in Germany on the 
XETRA and Frankfurt regulated official markets, 
and on all other German regional exchanges 
on the open market.
Dividend policy
Dialog participates in industries that are 
considered to be global growth engines and 
provides its services and products to major 
players in these industries. Dialog’s Board of 
Directors is committed to reinvesting all profits 
into laying the framework for future growth 
and continues to believe that this policy is  
in the best interests of all its Shareholders.
Investor relations
Dialog understands the importance of clear 
communication with investors and analysts, 
particularly during a period of global economic 
uncertainty. During 2012, the management 
team continued its efforts to ensure that the 
market was kept up to date with the effect the 
changing macroenvironment was having on  
its business, together with the important and 
exciting changes under way at the Company. 
Dialog’s shares are now followed by  
17 independent financial analysts, representing 
both European and US investment banks. 
During 2012, we issued trading updates and 
quarterly earnings reports, presented at several 
investor conferences and international road 
shows in Europe, the US and Asia, and kept  
in regular contact with our Shareholders and 
analysts. Dialog was named in second place in 
the “German Investor Relations Award 2012” 
for the TecDAX category by Thomson Reuters 
Extel (a division of Thomson Reuters), 
WirtschaftsWoche business magazine, and  
DIRK (the association for Investor Relations (IR) 
in Germany).
Information provided, including presentations, 
press releases and reports of the Company, 
as well as the recommendations of analysts 
covering the Company, can be downloaded 
from the corporate website: www.dialog-
semiconductor.com/investor-relations
TecDAX index
Dialog was granted entry to the TecDAX index 
during 2009. The TecDAX tracks the 30 largest 
and most actively traded companies from 
the various technology sectors of the Prime 
Standard segment, excluding those listed  
in the German DAX index. It is amongst the 
most important stock indices in Germany and 
membership is decided by a ranking, based  
on a company’s free-float market capitalisation 
and stock market trading volume.
Free-float
Dialog’s free-float is 65,389,162 or 96.1% 
of the outstanding shares. The free-float is 
calculated by excluding the 2,679,768 shares 
held in the Dialog Semiconductor Plc Employee 
Benefit Trust.
The free-float includes the following shares 
held on behalf of discretionary clients as per 
the share register on 31 December 2012.
State Street  6,140,555 9.4%
BNP Paribas  
Securities Services  4,618,079 7.1%
The Bank of New York  
Mellon SA/NV  4,438,659 6.8%
Citigroup Global Markets 3,974,595 6.1%
Clearstream Banking S.A. 3,488,399 5.3%
CACEIS Bank  3,391,493 5.2%
Chase Nominees Ltd  2,865,198 4.4%
Brown Brothers  
Harriman & Co  2,008,765 3.1% 10 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 1 | Overview
“Dialog’s customers increasingly use  
our audio CODECs to deliver natural, 
realistic audio with a wider sound field 
to the wireless and wired headphones 
and small form factor speakers that 
consumers increasingly want to use. 
We also apply our connectivity expertise 
to high-quality digital cordless phones 
and next generation wireless 
microphones and headsets.”
Andrew Austin
Vice President, Sales 
Dialog’s audio CODECs provide full-range, high fidelity audio  
capture and playback to a variety of portable devices and  
audio accessories. They feature programmable Digital Signal  
Processors (DSPs) that offload audio software from the  
host processor and include advanced echo cancellation  
technology to filter out extreme background noise.  
They are complemented by our amplifier technology  
to provide a rich, deep bass and clear high  
frequencies to wireless and wired headphones,  
speakers and handsets. 
...  11
“Consumer electronics manufacturers in personal, 
portable, connected markets build products based on 
standard application processor platforms. Dialog is a 
leader in forging strategic partnerships and supplying 
companion power management ICs with the world’s 
leading application processor providers to deliver its 
customers fully optimised solutions.”
Mark Tyndall
Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Strategy 12 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
Dialog delivered its sixth successive year of record revenue growth in 2012, 
further validating our strategy, and closed the year with a strong balance sheet.
Our strategy is built on four key pillars:
Our business strategy and performance
1. Extending our portfolio of highly 
integrated mixed signal, lower power 
products for portable platforms
Dialog offers custom Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs) 
for large, high volume customers and standard Application Specific 
Standardised Products (ASSPs), which offer high levels of 
configurability, to a wider customer base. In 2012, we:
 ■ Launched a fourth generation of configurable system power 
management ICs, designed for multicore application 
processor devices. 
 ■ Enhanced our audio technology portfolio, including an integrated 
DSP to enable echo cancellation and noise suppression using 
advanced algorithms. 
 ■ Continued to see increased design wins for our SmartPulse™ 
wireless sensor technology, based on DECT Ultra Low Energy. 
This includes OEMs that are using our chipset to develop  
internet-enabled plugs for home appliance energy monitoring  
and management applications via smartphone, tablet and  
PC apps.
2. Broadening and deepening our global 
customer base
Dialog continues to extend the range of power and audio 
management semiconductor content sold into the portable platforms 
of the world’s leading smartphone vendors and the number of 
smartphone, tablet, Ultrabook™, DECT and VoIP platforms and 
models we are able to address. In 2012, Dialog:
 ■ Secured more platform wins with Samsung. Our power 
management and audio technologies now feature in two Galaxy 
smartphone platforms and the Pebble MP3 player. This includes 
the S-5368 smartphone, which was launched in the Chinese 
TD-SCDMA market in 2012 and went into volume production 
for distribution by China Mobile, which aims to sell over 120 million 
TD-SCDMA devices in 2013 and it aims for 80% of these units to 
be smartphones.
 ■ Extended its Processor Partner Programme, developing companion 
PMICs with leading and emerging application processor vendors 
to address a broader customer base through their sales ecosystems. 
In 2012, Freescale included our power management technology 
in its reference design for quad-core smartphone devices and we 
had success with a key partner sampling our chipset for 4G LTE 
smartphones, designed for Asian-based customers.
 ■ Won several new short-range wireless customers, including VTech 
in the enterprise cordless phone market and Jabra in the professional 
headset market. We also see significant market interest in the 
microphone and console gaming products.
 ■ Opened our new Asian headquarters in Taipei to meet the needs 
of our growing customer base in the region.  
 13
3. Continuous innovation
Dialog has a strategy of continuous innovation, focusing on new 
power-saving solutions and design methodologies in the personal 
portable device market, while partnering with our foundries on 
advanced production processes. This year we have:
 ■ Developed new building blocks to drive much higher current than 
was ever possible before, supporting extended play time between 
battery charges, faster charging and batteries that do not discharge 
as quickly for a wider range of tablet and smartphone devices. 
 ■ This includes pioneering work on the use of a multiphase buck 
architecture, 0.13 micron BCD technology.
 ■ We also licensed the ARM® Cortex™ M0 processor to integrate 
a standard 32-bit processor into mixed signal PMICs for the first 
time in the industry.
These technological advances are helping us to provide superior digital 
processing capabilities and better power management functions that 
can be produced in exceptionally high volumes at competitive prices.
4. Select acquisitions and strategic 
co‑operations for access to innovative 
differentiating technologies
Dialog continues to evaluate select acquisition opportunities in 
segments that complement our existing core strengths and provide 
differentiation, building on the successful purchase of SiTel and 
integration of its wireless connectivity solutions into our business 
last year. We are also partnering with innovative start-ups on a 
range of new technologies. This year we have partnered with:
 ■ A pioneer in the use of MEMS-based silicon timing solutions that 
replace legacy quartz products to offer unsurpassed performance, 
reliability and flexibility with the lowest cost of ownership.
 ■ A start-up that is taking an innovative new approach to power 
conversion for multiple markets, including smartphones, tablets, 
Ultrabooks™ and data centres, based on switch capacitive 
techniques. The technology facilitates the use of smaller  
inductive components, resulting in increased efficiency and 
an overall higher power density factor over and above today’s 
competing technologies. 14 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
As such, innovation continues to be the 
lifeblood of our Company. Our power 
management IC, featuring a new multiphase 
buck converter for powering quad-core 
application processors, was sampled to key 
customers in 2012. It meets the more complex 
power management needs of next generation 
smartphones, tablets and Ultrabooks™. 
In due course, we believe there will be 
additional technical capabilities that Dialog must 
develop or acquire to ensure it maintains its 
strengths in the mixed signal semiconductor 
market for portable devices. This was one of the 
main reasons for our successful US$201 million 
convertible bond issue in March 2012.
Dialog is also keeping pace with technology  
and in 2013, together with our foundry 
partners, will start its transition to a smaller 
geometry, 130 nanometer manufacturing 
process that will yield more chips per wafer.  
As a fabless semiconductor company, we’ve 
forged close partnerships with a number of 
foundries to enable us to integrate more analog, 
digital and high voltage components, including 
Field Effect Transistors (FETs) into a smaller form 
factor, single chip power management solutions.  
This will help to increase the talk time of 
portable devices while meeting the consumers’ 
desire of faster charging. 
Dialog continues to seek the brightest and the 
best and has significantly increased its employee 
base to a total of 806 in Asia, the US and 
Europe; during the last quarter of 2012 we 
opened two new design centres in Turkey  
and Italy to attract further talent.
Dear Shareholders,
Dialog continued to perform very strongly in 
2012 with top-line growth of 47% year-on-year, 
against a backdrop of broadly flat global 
semiconductor industry revenue according to 
industry analysts. This is our fifth successive  
year of profitable and rapid growth. 
At the same time, in 2012, the Company has 
improved its gross operating margin quarter on 
quarter as a percentage of revenue to 37.8% over 
the last four quarters by focusing on product 
yield improvements, supply chain negotiations 
and material cost reductions. Continued margin 
improvement remains a key focus.
Dialog’s financial performance in 2012 was 
driven by success in the smartphone and  
tablet sectors. Beyond the boom in 
smartphones, tablets, e-books and media 
players, we expect to see the emergence of 
other portable devices, such as next generation 
convertible Ultrabooks™ that can be used as  
a tablet or laptop. Ultrabooks™ are closer in 
architecture to smartphones and tablets than 
PCs, in terms of their battery and energy 
requirements, creating opportunities for  
Dialog’s power management technologies.
We’re also expanding into new sectors. Using 
our DECT technology, Dialog is able to support 
reliable, interference-free wireless signals to 
cordless phones and headsets, microphones  
and gaming controllers in real time with no 
buffering, achieving ceiling to cellar reach. 
Additionally our Ultra Low Energy (ULE) DECT 
ICs are increasingly used in home automation 
applications that can also be controlled over  
the cloud from your smartphone or tablet. This 
expertise in short-range wireless connectivity is 
enabling us to develop new ICs for transmitting 
data between personal devices, smartphones 
and tablets, and we already have some exciting 
new products in development.
Chief Executive’s review
From left: 
Dialog has a strategy of continuous innovation, 
focusing on new power-saving solutions and design 
methodologies in the personal portable device 
market, while partnering with our foundries on 
advanced production processes.
Dr Jalal Bagherli, Dialog Semiconductor CEO, with 
Maria Marced, President of TSMC Europe, one of 
Dialog’s key partners with whom the Company 
is co-operating on state-of-the-art 0.13 micron 
bipolar-CMOS-DMIS (BCD) technology.
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Chief Executive Officer  
 15
We have also expanded our global footprint  
by establishing an Asian headquarters function 
in Taipei in April 2012. This complements our 
existing manufacturing engineering support 
presence in Taiwan, and is intended to facilitate 
engagement with major new customers  
locally and is a stepping stone for our future 
growth ambitions to address the fast-growing 
smartphone market in China, which we expect 
to nearly double to more than 450 million units 
in 2013.
Dialog should play its part as good corporate 
citizens. We operate with a conscious eye on 
minimising our impact on the environment and 
making a positive contribution to society. This 
not only reduces operating costs, by minimising 
energy and raw material wastage, but also helps 
us to make Dialog a great place to work. 
I look forward to the challenges of 2013, 
focusing in particular on the opportunities  
for our technologies in next generation 
smartphones, tablets and Ultrabooks™, 
together with the exciting growth opportunity 
to bring our technology into smartphones  
for China. I remain confident of Dialog’s 
prospects for continuing profitable growth  
as we pursue our aspirations to reach and 
surpass US$1 billion in annual revenues.
Dr Jalal Bagherli 
Chief Executive Officer
From left: 
SmartPulse is Dialog’s wireless sensor network 
connectivity solution, based on the Ultra Low Energy 
DECT standard for home automation applications.
Dialog opened its new Asian headquarters  
in Taipei in 2012 to meet the needs of our  
growing customer base in the region.
Above: 
Dialog replaces discrete power management 
components with highly integrated, single-chip 
solutions that provide design simplicity, reduce 
energy usage, save board space for other 
components and lower the overall bill of materials. 16 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
Our products and key customers
From left: 
In 2012, Dialog launched a new class of power 
management product – DA9063 – our fourth 
generation of advanced system power 
management integrated circuit (PMIC).
Dialog replaces discrete power management 
components with highly integrated, single chip 
solutions that provide design simplicity, reduce energy 
usage, save board space for other components  
and lower the overall bill of materials.
high-performance LDOs (low dropout voltage 
regulators), high-efficiency DC-DC voltage 
converters, intelligent battery charging circuits, 
software programmable LED drivers, sensor 
ADCs, USB interfaces, and multichannel 
audio capabilities.
In 2012, Dialog launched a new class of power 
management product – DA9063 – our fourth 
generation of advanced system PMIC and 
flagship product, targeting high-end multicore-
based applications. A second member of the 
family – DA9021 – addresses lower power 
cost-sensitive applications.
Our configurable PMICs enable late changes 
in board-level designs as additional functionality 
that is added into smartphone platforms during 
the R&D process. As a platform-based PMIC 
can support multiple phone designs, Dialog 
helps its customers reduce inventories and 
respond to the consumer market’s need for 
volume flexibility. 
Dialog’s Audio CODECs filter out extreme 
background noise and increase the fidelity of 
the sound through advanced echo cancellation 
and DSP (Digital Signal Processing) technology 
that delivers a rich, deep base and clear high 
frequencies even in noisy environments.  
This is complemented by amplifier technology 
to improve audio quality through the 
headphones and speakers.
Dialog focuses on three  
major sectors: mobile, 
connectivity and automotive 
and industrial.
Mobile solutions
Our power management, audio and display 
semiconductor solutions are designed for 
portable devices, including smartphones,  
tablets, Ultrabooks™, ebooks, MP3, MP4  
and other media players. 
Dialog replaces discrete power management 
components with highly integrated, single  
chip solutions that provide design simplicity, 
reduce energy usage, save board space for  
other components and lower the overall bill  
of materials. Dialog’s Power Management 
Integrated Circuits (PMICs) are fully configurable, 
which means they can be programmed to  
meet the exact voltage and current needs  
of every component. 
Effective power management in many portable  
devices presents an increasingly complex array 
of design challenges. Smartphones, tablets and 
Ultrabooks™ increasingly need to be able to  
run high definition video, games, GPS maps  
and audio content and connect via high speed 
4G LTE and legacy 3G networks, Wi-Fi and 
short-range wireless stands like Bluetooth.  
4G LTE, for example, requires a lot more 
processing power to decode far greater 
amounts of data in the wireless spectrum.  
At the same time consumers demand displays 
that are brighter, bigger and incorporate touch 
functionality and, in the future, haptic feedback. 
Each of these features is a major battery  
drain, creating a need for effective power 
management technologies. 
Multicore devices delegate simple tasks to one 
core, while directing more complex, power-
hungry tasks to the other core. Each of the 
quad- or octal-core application processors needs 
to be powered up and down into and out of 
sleep state in particular sequences. Dialog’s 
solutions excel at handling this power 
management complexity. Dialog’s charging 
solutions for lithium ion battery systems support 
faster charging, more safely and from a wider 
variety of sources.
With a long legacy of delivering different power 
management designs for world-leading mobile 
phone manufacturers and portable consumer 
OEMs, we seek to optimise all aspects of the 
design, including electrical, thermal and 
mechanical packaging considerations. These 
designs offer sophisticated integration with 
multiple power management and analog 
functions on the chip, including programmable   
 17
From left: 
Dialog’s DECT-based transceivers are designed  
for wireless gaming controllers, microphones  
and speakers and provide reliable, 
interference-free connectivity.
By using the DECT ULE (Ultra Low Energy) standard, 
Dialog is able to provide interference-free wireless 
connectivity with the widest reach throughout 
consumers’ homes and low deployment costs.
Dialog is one of the first companies to combine 
a fully configurable PMIC with a low power 
Audio CODEC that is monolithically integrated, 
or stacked, in a single package to deliver 
significant board space and cost savings to its 
customers. This can involve the integration of 
over 40 different high- and low-voltage circuits 
and analog functions on a single chip.
Connectivity and VoIP solutions
Dialog’s DECT-based transceivers are designed 
for wireless microphones, speakers, gaming 
controllers as well as professional headsets 
and cordless phones using this secure, reliable, 
interference-free short-range connectivity 
standard that offers ceiling to cellar reach and 
can also extend out into consumers’ gardens. 
DECT is optimised for the short-range wireless 
spectrum, giving audio priority in the home or 
office. It is also ideally suited to handling other 
types of signal that require a real-time response 
with no buffering. Use of DECT avoids the 
problems of co-channel interference when 
multiple Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, microwave and  
other proprietary signals compete, slowing 
response times and causing device drop-offs. 
For example, DECT ensures that microphones 
capturing voice are perfectly in sync with the 
backing tracks and musicians and consumers 
can enjoy reliable, real-time control when using 
their gaming consoles. 
Dialog has also developed SmartPulse™, based 
on DECT Ultra Low Energy, to enable consumers 
to wirelessly monitor and control electric plugs, 
solar panels, lighting switches, heating 
thermostats and other innovative smart home 
applications over the cloud using the always-on 
computing power of a smartphone or tablet.
By enabling voice and data to run over a single 
network Voice-over IP (VoIP) technology can 
enable businesses to increase bandwidth 
efficiencies and reduce costs and migrate away 
from traditional copper wire switched telephone 
systems. Dialog engages with the leading global 
VoIP phone manufacturers with our energy-
efficient Green VoIP solution to address the 
large enterprise, small to medium business 
(SMB) and hotel markets.
Dialog offers high-performance, energy-saving 
VoIP chipsets that integrate the building blocks 
for best-in-class audio, security and graphics 
functionality. They use acoustic echo cancellation 
and active noise reduction to deliver crystal clear 
conversations, with the option of video calling 
or phone number directories on a high resolution, 
colour touchscreen LCD, and banking-grade 
levels of security authentication. 
We are also developing DECT and VoIP 
technologies to provide voice control and 
telephony functionality in smart home 
appliances, for example medical pendants 
for the elderly. 18 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
Our products and key customers continued
From left: 
Dialog’s power management and clock companion 
ICs for the Intel Atom and Freescale i.MX series of 
processors provide an optimum solution for next 
generation infotainment systems. 
During 2012, Dialog invested US$127.5 million, 
or 16.5% of our revenue, in research 
and development.
Manufacture, assembly and testing
Dialog outsources its wafer production to select 
foundries, principally in Taiwan, Singapore and 
China, which provide high-quality products 
and have the ability to meet both our stringent 
qualification requirements and tight deadlines. 
The final assembly of our chips is outsourced 
to a number of qualified subcontractors in Asia. 
Our test programmes, based on our own and 
individual customers’ specifications, are 
developed by our test engineers in parallel with 
the design process. All test development is 
undertaken at our Nabern facility in Germany 
using the same type of test equipment and 
handling interfaces as our offshore test 
subcontractors to speed up the production 
transfer process and volume ramp. 
All production testing and warehousing of our 
final products is outsourced to our Asian test 
subcontract partners, enabling direct drop 
shipments to our end customers. We have also 
created a specialist offshore operations and 
a support centre in Taiwan. We have our own 
manufacturing and technical engineers close to 
foundries and assembly and test subcontractors 
in Asia. By being “on the spot” to resolve any 
potential engineering issues quickly, they can 
forestall potential delays in production.
Automotive and industrial
Dialog supplies motor control ASICs to a leading 
European automotive supplier who in turn 
delivers Dialog-based windscreen wiper motor 
products addressing mid- to high-end European 
cars. Additionally, our first product for a 
customer in Japan went into production 
in 2012. 
These devices capitalise on Dialog’s expertise 
and knowledge of technologies ranging from 
power management systems and mixed signal 
design, to high voltage circuits and embedded 
microprocessors on a single integrated circuit 
in an automotive-qualified CMOS process, 
including flash memory.
Dialog’s power management and clock 
companion ICs for the Intel Atom and Freescale 
i.MX series of processors provide an optimum 
solution for next generation infotainment 
systems. These help to deliver video, high fidelity 
audio and better GPS and other multimedia 
support that reacts in real time to the changing 
external environment.
For the industrial market, Dialog develops 
innovative control ASICs, both for conventional 
light sources, such as fluorescent or High-
Intensity Discharge (“HID”) lamps. Our future 
development focus is on energy-efficient retrofit 
bulb LED lighting solutions. These devices seek 
to deliver optimal control and regulation of 
light sources, while maximising their service life. 
Through intelligent control, using advanced 
digital signal processing, these devices help 
to minimise energy consumption. 
Design, development and production
We are justifiably proud of the quality and 
feature-rich functionality of our mixed  
signal integrated circuits, achieving high 
integration levels.
Innovation is vital to our continued success. 
During 2012, we invested US$127.9 million, 
or 16.5% of our revenue, in research and 
development. Our ability to develop mixed 
signal Application Specific Integrated Circuits 
(ASICs) and Application Specific Standard 
Products (ASSPs) designs rapidly enables us 
to respond to customers’ needs for new, higher 
performance solutions while reducing cost. 
Our strategy of modifying and reusing a wide 
set of specialised analog building blocks speeds 
up the design process. In addition, our use of 
industry standard design tools increases the level 
of automation and the quality of verification in 
our products. Our commitment to continuously 
deepen our expertise has resulted in increased 
levels of integration and product innovation  
in all business sectors.  
 19
From left: 
Dialog has an uncompromising approach to quality 
assurance in every area of our operations and goal 
of zero failures of our products in the field.
Given the rapidly evolving nature of the technology 
used in Dialog’s target markets, the Company 
strives to develop long-term relationships with its 
major customers and seeks to adopt a partnership 
approach for both standard products and 
custom solutions.
Quality and environment control
We have an uncompromising approach to 
quality assurance in every area of our operations 
and goal of zero failures of our products in the 
field. Active employee participation in error 
prevention approaches has enabled us to win 
the approval of our major customers and  
to beat their parts per million (ppm) failure  
rate expectations. The overall objective of our 
quality management system is to provide all 
our customers with the assurance that our 
products and services not only fulfil their 
current contractual requirements, but will 
also meet their future needs. 
We are committed to minimising our impact on 
the environment by developing and promoting 
environmentally compatible products, and 
operate in accordance with the ISO 14001 
international environmental quality standard. 
We continuously promote awareness and 
knowledge of environmental and social 
responsibility throughout the organisation to 
ensure that they become a natural part of the 
decision-making process. As we demand the 
same standards from our suppliers we only 
form supply partnerships with those who are 
accredited to the same international standards. 
For more detailed information on specific 
products, please see our website: 
www.dialog-semiconductor.com.
Principal customers
Many of Dialog’s principal customers are leading 
portable device digital cordless, automotive 
and industrial equipment manufacturers that 
purchase both ASIC and ASSP solutions. 
Customers with a significant contribution to 
revenue include (in order of contribution) Apple, 
Gigaset, Panasonic, Bosch and Samsung. These 
top five customers represented 91% of revenue 
in 2012. Samsung has also become increasingly 
important for a growing range of our products 
targeting smartphone and portable media 
player platforms.
Given the rapidly evolving nature of the 
technology used in Dialog’s target markets, 
the Company strives to develop long-term 
relationships with its major customers and 
seeks to adopt a partnership approach for 
both standard products and custom solutions. 
Customers look to Dialog for high integration, 
innovation and technical expertise, while close 
working relationships with customers provide 
Dialog with an opportunity to develop and 
refine market-leading products with recognised 
industry leaders. 20
...
Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
“The Internet of Things is dependent 
on having an Ultra Low Energy wireless 
standard that has ceiling to cellar reach 
and beyond, sensors that can last  
a decade with a single AAA battery  
pack and the addition of voice control  
or telephony if required. Dialog has 
developed SmartPulse™ to deliver this 
smart home functionality and more.”
Sean McGrath
Vice President and General Manager 
Connectivity, Automotive and Industrial 
Business Group
The Internet of Things is at last becoming a reality. Consumers’ desire  
for greater comfort, and convenience, to conserve energy in their homes 
and the advent of the always-on computing power of the smartphone  
and tablet is driving a new wave of innovation. We will start to  
see the emergence of wireless light switches and thermostats,  
smoke and gas detectors, home central locking systems and  
medical pendants for the elderly that can be controlled and  
monitored from a single smartphone or tablet app.  21 22 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
“Our rigorous focus on working capital together with sound financial 
practices rooted in operational excellence are helping Dialog build  
a scalable platform for sustainable profitable growth.”
Jean‑ Michel Richard
CFO, Vice President Finance
The following tables detail the historical 
consolidated statements of the operations of 
Dialog for the years ended 31 December 2011 
and 2012:
 2012 2011
1)
 Change
    US$000 % of revenues US$000 % of revenues %
Revenues
Mobile Systems   638,765 82.6 370,926 70.3 72.2
Automotive/Industrial   38,686 5.0 45,878 8.7 (15.7)
Connectivity   96,133 12.4 108,778 20.7 0.0
Corporate Sector   (1) 0.0 1,679 0.3 (100.1)
Revenues   773,583 100.0 527,261 100.0 46.7
Cost of sales    (480,971) (62.2) (319,073) (60.5) 50.7
Gross profit   292,612 37.8 208,188 39.5 40.6
Selling and marketing expenses   (38,669) (5.0) (32,370) (6.1) 19.5
General and administrative expenses  (33,476) (4.3) (24,442) (4.6) 37.0
Research and development expenses  (127,886) (16.5) (90,046) (17.1) 42.0
Restructuring expenses   (1,549) (0.2) – 0.0 –
Other operating income   – 0.0 303 0.1 0.0
Operating profit   91,032 11.8 61,633 11.7 47.7
Interest income and other financial income  1,360 0.2 376 0.1 261.7
Interest expense and other financial expense  (6,466) (0.8) (235) 0.0 2,651.5
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses, net  199 0.0 (352) (0.2) (156.5)
Result before income taxes   86,125 11.1 61,422 11.6 40.2
Income tax expense   (23,612) (3.1) (4,070) (0.8) 480.1
Net profit   62,513 8.1 57,352 10.9 9.0
1) 2011 numbers adjusted for purchase price allocation, please refer to note 4 to the consolidated financial statements 
Financial review
In line with previous years, the 
key performance indicators of 
the business continue to be 
revenue growth, profitability 
and liquidity. The performance 
against these and year-on-year 
comparison is detailed in the 
following section.
Results of operations
Segment reporting
Revenue in the Mobile Systems segment  
for the year ended 31 December 2012 was 
US$638.8 million (2011: US$370.9 million), 
representing 82.6% of our total revenue (2011: 
70.3%). The 72.2% increase in this sector is 
primarily driven by the continuous success of 
our growing range of highly integrated power 
management solutions for portable devices, 
including smartphones, tablets and portable 
media players. 
Operating profit in the Mobile Systems 
segment (see note 24 to the consolidated 
financial statements) grew to US$112.3 million 
from US$59.8 million achieved in 2011, an 
increase of 87.7%. This increased profitability 
was primarily driven by higher revenues and  
by leveraging operating expenses whilst 
continuing to improve product margins.
Revenues from our Automotive/Industrial 
Applications segment was US$38.7 million 
(2011: US$45.9 million), representing 5.0%  
of our total revenues (2011: 8.7%).
This decrease in revenues is mainly the result of 
lower sales volumes in the area of professional 
lighting applications, caused by the unfavourable 
economic climate in Europe and a decreased level 
of investment. Operating profit in the segment 
was US$8.1 million (2011: US$9.8 million). Despite 
lower revenues, operating profit as a percentage 
of revenues remained relatively constant  
(2012: 20.9% compared to 2011: 21.5%), 
demonstrating our abilities to control cost.  
 23
Selling and marketing expenses
Selling and marketing expenses consist primarily 
of salaries, sales commissions, travel expenses, 
advertising and other marketing costs. In line 
with our increased sales volume and continuous 
growth of our business, selling and marketing 
expenses increased from US$32.4 million in 
2011 to US$38.7 million in 2012. As a percentage 
of total revenue, selling and marketing expenses 
decreased from 6.1% of total revenue in 2011 
to 5.0% in 2012, demonstrating the Company’s 
ability to control cost. 
General and administrative expenses
General and administrative expenses consist 
primarily of personnel and support costs for our 
finance, human resources and other management 
departments and in 2011 the acquisition-related 
costs in connection with the purchase of SiTel. 
General and administrative expenses for 2012 
were up 37.0% at US$33.5 million (2011:  
US$24.4 million). General and administrative 
expenses as a percentage of total revenue 
decreased from 4.6% in 2011 to 4.3% in 2012. 
The Connectivity segment represents our 
subsidiary Dialog Semiconductor B.V. (Dialog 
B.V.), which we acquired on 10 February  
2011, therefore its results are consolidated  
from this date (see note 4 to the consolidated 
financial statements).
Revenue from our Connectivity segment in 2012 
was US$96.1 million (2011: US$108.8 million). 
In 2012, the Connectivity segment contributed 
an operating loss of US$13.1 million, compared 
to an operating profit of US$4.9 million for 2011. 
The decrease in revenue can be mainly attributed 
to the overall softening in the cordless DECT 
market, driven by unfavourable macroeconomics 
– especially in Europe – but also by the 
Company’s strategy to not take market share at 
low margin whilst it refocuses R&D investments 
to address new applications and markets.
Had the Connectivity business been consolidated 
from the beginning of 2011, the total revenue  
in 2011 would have been US$120.2 million, 
US$24.1 million above the US$96.1 million 
achieved in 2012. The operating profit would 
have been US$3.6 million, US$16.7 million above 
the operating loss of US$13.1 million in 2012. 
The revenue decrease translates into a reduction 
of the operating income of approximately 
US$9.5 million.
During 2012, further adverse effects impacted 
connectivity; inventory write-downs and 
revaluations of US$2.0 million (2011:  
US$0.2 million); a one-time expense of about 
US$0.9 million related to the transfer of certain 
legacy connectivity products to a new assembly 
site which will lead to further cost improvements 
once the transfer is completed in Q1 2013 (2011: 
nil), restructuring expenses of US$1.5 million 
(2011: nil) – please see explanation here below 
under “restructuring expenses” – increased 
outsourced R&D expenses of US$1.7 million 
compared to 2011 to accelerate the development 
of new products, government grants for R&D 
activities received were US$0.4 million lower 
than in 2011, capitalised R&D and overhead 
expenses reduced by US$1.0 million compared 
to 2011 and US$0.4 million of overhead cost 
associated with the Company’s share option 
programme were allocated to Connectivity 
(2011: nil) – this amount related mainly to 
National Insurance provisions for UK-based 
employees, associated to share options that  
had to be provided for by the Company.
On the other hand, during 2012, other favourable 
effects were recorded: the operating loss in 2012 
included an amortisation expense resulting from 
fair value adjustments in connection with the 
purchase price allocation of US$5.6 million 
(2011 US$6.0 million). 2012 also included 
US$0.6 million (2011: US$2.7 million) for the 
accelerated amortisation of intangible assets in 
relation to previously capitalised R&D expenses 
for close to end of life products (these products 
were fully amortised by the end of Q1 2012) and 
finally 2011 benefited from a first-time inventory 
overhead capitalisation of US$0.5 million to align 
the local accounting procedures to those of the 
Group. Furthermore, in 2012 the underlying
1)
 
operational loss in 2012 was US$6.3 million, 
compared to a profit of US$16.8 million in 2011
For further information please refer to notes 4 
and 24 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Revenues
Total revenues for 2012 were up 46.7% at 
US$773.6 million (2011: US$527.3 million. The 
increase in revenue is mainly a result of higher 
sales volumes in our Mobile Systems segment.
Cost of sales
Cost of sales consists of material costs, the  
costs of outsourced production and assembly, 
related personnel costs and applicable overhead 
and depreciation of test and other equipment. 
Cost of sales for the period ended 31 December 
2012 was up 50.7% at US$481.0 million  
(2011: US$319.1 million). The increase in cost  
of sales was mostly in line with the increase in 
production volume. 
As a percentage of revenue, cost of sales 
increased from 60.5% in 2011 to 62.2% in 
2012. This increase can largely be attributed to 
the product mix, which reflects higher volume 
customer contracts together with higher material 
costs against the backdrop of an ongoing 
constrained supply chain environment. 
Additionally, very high volume ramps of new 
products using new manufacturing processes, 
introduced early last year, continued to drive 
lower yields through 2012 although measurable 
improvements were already visible in the second 
half of 2012.
Gross profit
Our gross margin decreased from 39.5% of 
revenue in 2011 to 37.8% in 2012. This was 
due to higher cost of sales as a percentage  
of revenue, as described above. 
However, during the course of 2012, our gross 
margin improved quarter on quarter to peak  
at 38.5% of revenues in Q4 2012.
For the most part of 2012, gross margins 
remained under pressure due to the reasons 
described above and the continuous supply 
constraints, which inhibited expected cost 
reductions from suppliers.
800
600
400
200
0
2011 2012
Revenue 
(US$m)
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2011 2012
Cost of sales 
(as % of revenue) 24 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
Net profit
For the reasons described above, net profit in 
2012 reached US$62.5 million, compared to 
US$57.4 million in 2011, with basic earnings per 
share at US$0.97 (2011: US$0.91) and diluted 
earnings per share at US$0.93 (2011: US$0.86). 
Applying the 2012 effective tax rate of 27.4% 
to the 2011 diluted earnings per share would 
have reduced it by US$0.19 to US$0.67 – this 
better demonstrates the operational leverage 
that the Company achieved in 2012.
2011 included one-time M&A expenses in 
connection with the acquisition of Dialog B.V., 
totalling US$3.2 million. Excluding these one- 
time costs, general and administrative expenses 
in 2011 were US$21.2 million. Comparing the 
US$21.2 million with the amount in 2012 we 
saw an increase of US$12.3 million or 57.8% 
over 2011.
US$3.1 million of this increase was due to 
movements in the share price affecting the 
National Insurance cost associated with 
share-based payment charge. During 2012, 
Dialog’s share price increased from €12.36 at  
31 December 2011 to an average share price  
of €15.85 impacting the National Insurance 
associated with share options exercised in the 
year and new options granted during 2012 – 
please refer to note 21 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
The remaining increase related to higher costs, 
mainly personal costs for support functions, 
reflecting the growth of the Company. 
Underlying
1)
 general and administrative expenses 
in 2012 were US$29.2 million or 3.8% of 
revenue, compared to US$19.9 million or  
3.8% in 2011. Whilst the percentage remained 
flat year-on-year, general and administrative 
expenses as a percentage of revenues continue 
to remain amongst best in class in our industry.
Research and development expenses
Research and development expenses consist 
principally of design and engineering-related 
costs associated with the development of new 
Application Specific Integrated Circuits 
(“ASICs”) and Application Specific Standard 
Products (“ASSPs”). Research and development 
expenses (net of customer-funded projects)  
were US$127.9 million for 2012 (2011:  
US$90.0 million), an increase of 42.0%.  
The increase was primarily due to an increased 
headcount of our R&D personnel and 
investments in advanced silicon and packaging 
technologies in support of our ongoing growth 
strategy. As a percentage of total revenue, 
research and development expenses decreased 
from 17.1% in 2011 to 16.5% in 2012.
Restructuring expenses
In connection with the acquisition of SiTel in 
2011, as explained in note 4 to the consolidated 
financial statements, the Company carried out 
some reorganisation, resulting in restructuring 
costs of US$1.5 million.
Operating profit
We reported an operating profit of US$91.0 million 
for 2012. This compares to an operating profit 
of US$61.6 million in the previous year.
This increase of 47.7% primarily resulted from  
a wider revenue base in 2012, underpinned  
by our Mobile Systems segment. Underlying
1)
 
operating profit in 2012 was US$107.5 million or 
13.9% of revenue, compared to US$79.8 million 
or 15.1% of revenue in 2011.
Interest income and other financial income
Interest income and other financial income from 
the Company’s investments (primarily short-term 
deposits and securities) was US$1.4 million for 
2012, compared to US$0.4 million in 2011.  
The increase is associated with the placement  
of the proceeds of the convertible bond  
on interest-bearing accounts. For further 
information, please refer to note 18 to  
the consolidated financial statements. 
Interest expense and other 
financial expense
Interest expense and other financial expense 
consists primarily of expenses from capital leases, 
hire purchase agreements, the Group’s factoring 
arrangement and in 2012 also the interest 
expense in relation to the convertible bond. 
2012 interest and other financial expenses were 
US$6.5 million (2011: US$0.2 million). The amount 
in 2012 mainly included two components relating 
to the convertible bond: US$1.4 million relating 
to a 1% coupon payable on a semi-annual  
basis to the bondholders and US$4.0 million, 
representing the interest expense in connection 
with the measurement of financial liability from 
the bond using the effective interest method.
Income tax expense
For 2012, a net tax charge of US$23.6 million 
was recorded (2011: US$4.1 million), resulting 
in an effective tax rate of 27.4% (2011: 6.6%). 
The main reason for the increase of the effective 
tax rate was that in 2012, a lower amount  
of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 
was recognised. The amount in 2012 was 
US$4.0 million compared to US$14.6 million in 
2011. Excluding these tax benefits, the effective 
tax rate in 2012 would have been 32.1% 
compared to 30.4% in 2011. This increase 
relates to higher operational expenses in the  
UK, for which no tax benefit was recorded as  
a result of not recognising deferred tax assets in  
the UK. For further information, please refer to 
note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Financial review continued
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
2011 2012
Operating profit 
(US$m)
80
60
40
20
0
2011 2012
Net profit 
(US$m)  
 25
With an amount of US$164.6 million, long-term 
debt as of 31 December 2012 represents mainly 
the fair value of the liability from the convertible 
bond (31 December 2011: US$0), please refer to 
note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
If necessary, we have available for use a multi- 
currency three-year (2010–2013) revolving credit 
line facility of £10.0 million (US$16.2 million)  
at a rate of LIBOR +150bp and a three-year 
(2011–2014) revolving credit facility of  
US$35.0 million that bears interest at an average 
rate of LIBOR +140bp. At 31 December 2012 
and 2011, we had no amounts outstanding 
under these facilities. In addition, we have two 
factoring agreements which provide the Company 
with up to US$60.0 million of readily available 
cash (a US$30 million increase over 2011). 
Accordingly, we believe the funding available 
from these and other sources will be sufficient 
to satisfy our working capital requirements in 
the near- to medium-term if needed.
Liquidity and capital resources
Cash flows
Cash flows from operating activities were 
US$52.4 million for 2012 (2011: US$69.6 million). 
Cash inflows of US$139.7 million (2011: 
US$97.2 million) resulted from the Company’s 
net profit adjusted by depreciation, amortisation 
and other non-cash effective expenses. This cash 
inflow was partly offset by investments in the 
Company’s working capital of US$77.9 million 
(2011: US$24.8 million), mainly relating  
to investments in inventories in support of  
Q1 2013 backlog and business demand for the 
first half of 2013. In addition, tax payments of 
US$9.5 million (2011: US$3.1 million) reduced 
net cash generated from operating activities.
Cash used for investing activities was 
US$54.3 million for 2012 (2011:  
US$116.1 million). Cash used for investing 
activities in 2012 predominantly consisted  
of US$35.0 million (2011: US$21.2 million)  
for the purchase of advanced test equipment, 
tooling (masks), laboratory equipment, probe cards 
and load boards. US$7.7 million (2011: nil) were 
paid for a new licensing agreement, for further 
information please refer to note 12 to the 
consolidated financial statements. US$5.7 million 
(2011: US$5.4 million) relate to the purchase  
of other intangible assets. Payments related  
to capitalised development costs were  
US$6.0 million (2011: US$5.2 million).  
2011 cash used for investing activities included 
US$84.2 million relating to the acquisition  
of SiTel Semiconductor.
Liquidity
At 31 December 2012, we had cash and cash 
equivalents of US$312.4 million (31 December 
2011: US$113.6 million). The working capital 
(defined as current assets minus current liabilities) 
was US$420.9 million (31 December 2011: 
US$150.8 million).
Dialog Semiconductor’s underlying financial performance for 2012 and 2011 is summarised below:
  2012 2011
3)
US$000  IFRS Adjustments Underlying
1)
 IFRS Adjustments Underlying
1)
Revenues  773,583 – 773,583 527,261 – 527,261
Cost of sales   (480,971) (1,142) (479,829) (319,073) (3,051) (316,022)
Gross profit  292,612 (1,142) 293,754 208,188 (3,051) 211,239
Selling and marketing expenses  (38,669) (6,286) (32,383) (32,370) (6,543) (25,827)
General and administrative expenses (33,476) (4,296) (29,180) (24,442) (4,502) (19,940)
Research and development expenses (127,886) (4,716) (123,170) (90,046) (4,089) (85,957)
Restructuring expenses  (1,549) – (1,549) – – –
Other operating income  – – – 303 – 303
Operating profit  91,032 (16,440) 107,472 61,633 (18,185) 79,818
Interest income and other financial income 1,360 – 1,360 376 – 376
Interest expense and other financial expense (6,466) (4,668) (1,798) (235) – (235)
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses net 199 – 199 (352) – (352)
Result before income taxes  86,125 (21,108) 107,233 61,422 (18,185) 79,607
Income tax expense  (23,612) 3,659 (27,271) (4,070) 1,489 (5,559)
Net profit  62,513 (17,449) 79,962 57,352 (16,696) 74,048
Earnings per share (in US$)
Basic  0.97 (0.27) 1.24 0.91 (0.27) 1.18
Diluted  0.93 (0.26) 1.19 0.86 (0.25) 1.10
EBITDA
2)
  124,352 (10,162) 134,514 87,570 (9,526) 97,096
1)  Underlying results in 2012 net of tax effects are based on IFRS, adjusted to exclude share-based compensation charges and related charges for National Insurance of US$8.3 million, excluding  
US$4.7 million of amortisation of intangibles associated with the acquisition of Dialog B.V., excluding US$4.0 million non-cash effective interest expense in connection with the convertible bond  
and excluding US$0.5 million non-cash effective interest expense related to the new licensing agreement (please refer to note 12 to the consolidated financial statements).
  Underlying results in 2011 net of tax effects are based on IFRS, adjusted to exclude share-based compensation charges and related charges for National Insurance of US$6.2 million, excluding one-time 
transaction costs of US$3.2 million associated with the acquisition of Dialog B.V., excluding US$7.3 million of amortisation of intangibles associated with the acquisition of Dialog B.V.
  The term “underlying” is not defined in IFRS and therefore may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Underlying measures are not intended as a substitute  
for, or a superior measure to, IFRS measures.
2)  EBITDA is defined as operating profit excluding depreciation for property, plant and equipment (2012: US$12.7 million, 2011: US$8.8 million), amortisation for intangible assets (2012: US$19.6 million, 
2011: US$16.0 million) and losses on disposals and impairment of fixed assets (2012: US$1.0 million, 2011: US$1.1 million).
3) 2011 numbers adjusted for the purchase price allocation, please refer to note 4 to the 2012 interim consolidated financial statements. 26 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
Balance sheet total was US$708.1 million at  
31 December 2012 (31 December 2011: 
US$349.4 million). Cash and cash equivalents 
increased by US$198.8 million or 175.1%  
to US$312.4 million at 31 December 2012  
(31 December 2011: US$113.6 million). 
This increase was mainly caused by the net  
cash inflows from operating activities of  
US$52.4 million from the convertible bond  
in the amount of US$196.6 million and cash 
inflows from the sale of employee stock 
purchase plan shares in the amount of  
US$4.1 million. The cash inflows were partly 
offset by cash outflows for investing activities  
in the amount of US$54.3 million.
Other current assets increased from  
US$117.7 million at 31 December 2011  
by US$133.4 million to US$251.1 million at  
31 December 2012. The increase of 113.3%  
is mainly driven by higher inventory balances 
(+US$89.8 million) and higher trade receivables 
(+US$36.2 million).
Total non-current assets increased 22.5%  
to US$144.6 million; investments into tangible 
and intangible assets were US$68.6 million. 
These were partly offset by depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment charges in the 
amount of US$33.3 million. Deferred tax assets 
decreased by US$8.5 million due to the usage  
of net loss carry forwards. 
Statement of financial position
     At 31 December At 31 December 
    2012 2011 Change 
    US$000 US$000 US$000 %
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash   312,435 113,590 198,845 175.1
All other current assets    251,067 117,685 133,382 113.3
Total current assets    563,502 231,275 332,227 143.7
Property, plant and equipment, net    50,318 28,404 21,914 77.2
Goodwill    32,283 32,283 – –
Intangible assets    51,789 38,361 13,428 35.0
All other non-current assets    1,335 1,684 (349) (20.7)
Deferred tax assets    8,913 17,382 (8,469) (48.7)
Total non-current assets    144,638 118,114 26,524 22.5
Total assets    708,140 349,389 358,751 102.7
Liabilities and Shareholders’ equity
Current liabilities    142,650 80,440 62,210 77.3
Non-current liabilities    182,899 4,345 178,554 4,109.4
Net Shareholders’ equity    382,591 264,604 117,987 44.6
Total liabilities and Shareholders’ equity   708,140 349,389 358,751 102.7
Financial review continued
Current liabilities increased by net US$62.2 million 
of which US$55.8 million relate to increased 
trade and other payables, which mainly stand  
in relation to the increased inventory balance. 
Non-current liabilities increased by  
US$178.6 million. The amount at 31 December 
2012 mainly includes US$164.6 million  
(31 December 2011: nil), which represents  
the fair value of the convertible bond liability 
and US$11.8 million (31 December 2011: nil) 
financing costs relating to the new licence 
agreement. For further information, please  
refer to note 12 and note 18 to the consolidated 
financial statements respectively. 
Shareholders’ equity increased from  
US$264.6 million at 31 December 2011  
by US$118.0 million to US$382.6 million  
at 31 December 2012. US$36.6 million  
of this increase relates to the convertible  
bond. US$69.5 million relate to our net  
profit (adjusted by expenses for share-based 
payments). The equity ratio was 54.0%  
(31 December 2011: 75.7%).  
 27
Dialog’s risk management process follows a sequence of risk identification,  
assessment of probability and impact, and assigns an owner to manage  
mitigation activities, liaising with internal and external auditors.
Market environment
Dialog operates in the fast-moving, highly competitive consumer electronics market where manufacturers demand the best quality at lowest prices 
from their suppliers. Typical to our market are breakthrough innovations, fast rising leaders, hypes, mass production and global visibility. As a fabless 
semiconductor manufacturer, Dialog’s position in its segments of operation is maintained by a high degree of innovation and fast time-to-market. 
Risk Actions
Consumers 
Dialog is a market-leading provider of 
high-quality IC solutions to innovative 
consumer electronics companies. To maintain 
this position and grow our business, 
we need to convert trends into business 
opportunities through effective marketing. 
Dialog invests in research and development to anticipate and respond to new market trends, rapidly 
implement new designs to meet customers’ needs and keep abreast of technological changes.
Dialog invested US$127.9 million, or 16.5% of revenues, in R&D in 2012 across a range of highly 
targeted areas.
We also opened our Asian headquarters in Taiwan, complementing our existing manufacturing 
engineering support presence in the country, to be closer to our customer base in the region.
Economy
Our ambition is to sustain growth, but the 
slowdown in the semiconductor industry 
also affects the segments of our business.
Dialog is broadening its product portfolio and investing in new solution areas that target 
high-growth sectors. 
In 2012, Dialog raised US$201 million of funds to allow us to respond quickly to acquisition 
opportunities and expand our business.
Competition
Other parties in our industry may seek to 
yield benefits from our technical innovations 
by duplication of our products or parts.
We seek to protect our current business and our IP from being copied or used by others by 
appropriate use of patents, copyrights and trademarks on a global basis.
Dialog holds 305 patent families, including 47 additional patents filed in 2012.
Business relations
Dialog seeks to mitigate the cyclical volatility of its market by diversifying into new sectors and broadening its customer base to reduce exposure to the 
potential loss of any major customer. We need to seek partnerships that are flexible to the fluctuations in demand but able to ensure the continuity 
of production. By distributing our supply over multiple partners, we seek to prevent shortages in the event one of our suppliers faces capacity constraints, 
financial problems or natural disasters.
Risk Actions
Suppliers
Dialog outsources the capital intensive 
production of silicon wafers, packaging 
and testing of integrated circuits to leading 
suppliers, mainly in Asia. Capacity constraints 
and business interruption could lead to 
shortage of supply with various negative 
consequential effects, such as loss of 
revenue and adverse impact on Dialog’s 
relationship with its customers. 
Dialog has forged close partnerships with its foundries and they have responded by investing  
in capacity to meet demand from our expanding customers. 
Dialog maintains intense interaction to plan and manage capacity with its suppliers.
Dialog strives to have multiple backend and test sources to mitigate the risk of disruption  
to supply. For each supplier, manufacturing quality, continuity of supply and financial health  
are regularly monitored.
Dialog continued to work with a range of foundries in Taiwan, Singapore and China and test  
and assembly houses in Taiwan and Singapore to mitigate the risk of supply chain disruption 
and constraints.
Customers
Since Dialog relies on a relatively small 
number of customers for a substantial 
proportion of its revenue, the loss of one 
or more of these customers would be likely 
to have a material effect.
We are reducing the risk of our revenues, profitability and growth being affected by a slowdown  
in the wireless communications market by winning customers in other sectors.
Dialog continued to expand its customer base. This includes ongoing success in providing multiple 
Tier 1 customers with technologies for a growing number of portable device platforms and models 
and the broadening of our range of Application Specific Standardised Products. 
Risks and their management 28 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
Operational excellence
Dialog recognises that time-to-market is a critical factor for the success of our customers. The efficiency of our internal operation is a relevant factor 
to our performance. We run programmes to drive continuous improvement through all facets of the value chain from design to fulfilment. We also 
test and evaluate the quality of the supporting business functions.
Our business model is fuelled by the funds trusted to Dialog to run its operations. We realise that our financial transactions bring the risk of currency 
and interest rate fluctuations and bad debts. We seek to have enough free cash flow to invest in growing our business and select the right financial 
service providers and products. 
Risk Actions
Design capacity 
Dialog develops both Application Specific 
Integrated Circuits for individual customers 
as well as Application Specific Standard 
Products to address multiple customers in  
a market sector. Dialog respects that time- 
to-market is of critical importance to our 
customers’ success. With strong demand  
for new innovations and the limited capacity 
of design engineers, we must balance the 
allocation of our resources to both our 
business models.
Dialog has selected specialised outsourced agencies to support the rapid recruitment of highly 
skilled personnel. 
In-house we dedicate human resource managers to drive the further development of our 
personnel and benchmark our employment terms against top industry peers. 
In 2012, Dialog expanded its design capacity by 21%. We recruited engineers into our current 
design centres in the UK, Germany, Austria, Japan, the Netherlands and Greece and set up new 
design centres in Turkey and Italy.
Dialog continues to expand its Technical Ladder, a forum of our top engineers, to share 
knowledge, align design technologies and generate ideas for new products.
Supply chain
Dialog runs a fabless model and does not 
participate directly in the highly capital 
intensive production environment. The 
manufacturing of our products run over 
multiple stages of production with multiple 
suppliers. Each supplier must manage 
capacity to ensure a healthy financial return, 
leading to constraints in times of increasing 
demand. Long-term capacity planning and 
short-term fine-tuning are crucial to align 
production cycle time with order lead times 
for our customers.
Dialog carefully selects its suppliers and regularly audits their quality and performance. We keep  
a close relationship with our suppliers and have implemented automated feeds to ensure swift 
turnaround of production orders and to manage the transition of production stages over multiple 
manufacturing locations. 
We keep inventory buffers to respond to unplanned demand fluctuations, but seek to manage 
these to consume a minimum of working capital.
In 2012, we have rolled out state-of-the-art Supply Chain Network Planning software, based  
on SAP , which supports the automated scheduling of production work orders, taking into 
account the capacity constraints of our suppliers. 
Interest rates fluctuations
Interest earned from bank and money 
market deposits can vary according to 
market fluctuations and Dialog’s 
cash requirements.
Dialog manages its interest income using a matched investment strategy with a mix of fixed  
and variable interest rate facilities in highly liquid funds, which are offered by highly reputable 
and rated financial institutions. This includes investing excess funds, even over the short term, 
once the operating business has been financed. 
During the year, the Group has held cash on deposit with a range of maturities from one week 
to three months.
Risks and their management continued  
 29
Risk Actions
Liquidity levels
As a high growth company, we need to 
balance the need for liquidity with the 
avoidance of short-term overdrafts and 
bank charges. 
We structure the maturity of our current financial assets in the Group to meet 100% of the 
respective maturities and liabilities. We monitor our liquidity on a quarterly basis, with the  
objective of avoiding interest on short-term bank liabilities or overdrafts.
Dialog has no long-term debts except for those associated with the US$201 million convertible 
bond launched in March 2012 with a five-year conversion.
Over a short period in 2012, Dialog used US$10 million in credit facilities to temporary finance  
a peak in working capital. At the end of the year no overdraft was drawn.
Currency fluctuations
The majority of Dialog’s revenue, material 
costs and R&D expenses, to some extent are 
in US dollar currency. There are, however, 
foreign exchange risks associated with other 
expenses such as wages and building rent, 
recognised assets and liabilities in other 
currencies, primarily the euro, the pound 
sterling and Japanese yen.
We use forward-currency contracts to hedge our exposure associated with the payment  
of non-US dollar wages, office rent and other expenses. We maximise the effectiveness of our 
currency hedges by matching the terms and conditions of the hedge to those of the underlying 
obligation. We typically use forward-currency contracts up to a maximum of 12 months out. 
During 2012, Dialog continued to effectively hedge the majority of its currency exposure. 
Creditworthiness of customers
Dialog trades with selected customers  
on credit terms and receivable balances, 
which could create a risk of bad debts. 
We view all our customers as having high creditworthiness. However, we have factoring 
agreements with two reputable financial institutions who assume all risks associated with  
the collection of receivables from selected customers. 30 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
from waste and damaged products. We have 
increased the quantity of recovered gold by 
300% and recovered silver by 200%.
Dialog only uses packing material qualified as 
“green packing”, implementing a “non-wood 
packing” delivery policy in 2012. We believe 
that reusing and recycling packing material 
and waste (including the PET and glass bottles 
used in our work areas) can contribute to the 
effectiveness of our resource management and 
sustainability. Our five design locations currently 
recycle 92% of packing and waste. We are 
striving for 95% by 2013.
Suppliers and employees
As a fabless semiconductor company, it is 
important that all of Dialog’s manufacturing 
partners are equally committed to respecting 
the environment. Within our supply chain, 
we continually emphasis that environmental 
issues should be an instinctive part of any 
decision-making process, and suppliers should: 
 ■ Design and manufacture only 
environmentally friendly products;
 ■ Monitor, reduce and eliminate all types 
of waste. This includes waste water, solid 
waste, wasted energy, ozone-depleting 
CO
2
 emissions and other volatile organic 
chemicals (VOC). We work with suppliers 
relentlessly to maximise yields, minimising 
the number of chips that fail performance 
tests and need to be disposed of, alongside 
hazardous substances used during the 
production process;
Dialog’s commitment to global 
citizenship is woven into the 
fabric of the Company. Through 
innovative new technologies 
and environmental, employee 
or supplier policies, we strive to 
make a contribution to society 
and a difference in the world.
Environment
Dialog’s environmentally responsible approach 
to business underpins everything that we do. 
We aim to minimise our use of natural resources 
and reduce and eliminate all types of waste, 
following the principles of redesign, reduce 
and recycle. We are ISO 14001 certificated and 
require all our suppliers to be accredited to, 
and comply with, this environmental standard.
Redesign
Dialog offers a range of green IC solutions  
that minimise the number of components 
required within consumer electronic products, 
the energy they consume, and extend to their 
overall lifespan to reduce waste. In power 
management, our single chip solutions reduce 
the number of discrete components that need 
to be used within mobile devices, while 
delivering energy savings.
The Company also offers a range of low energy 
short-range wireless ICs for a range of smart 
home devices, including energy monitoring, 
metering and management applications. 
In 2012, Dialog began actively developing 
next generation, highly controllable LED 
(Light Emitting Diode) technologies to deliver 
better quality light within homes and offices, 
aiming to significantly reduce energy usage  
and enabling consumers to benefit from bulbs 
with an average lifespan of around ten years  
in comparison to just three to four years  
with Compact Fluorescent (CFL) bulbs.
Reduce
Dialog is working to systematically reduce 
CO
2
 emissions and minimise the carbon 
footprint of our business, focusing on the 
impact of our design centres. The Carbon 
Disclosure Project recognised Dialog as one 
of ten successful companies achieving the 
“Scope-2-Indirect CO
2
 Emission Reduction”, 
with a reduction of emissions of 34% in our 
design centres in 2012, despite the significant 
growth in our employee base, beating our 
target of 30% by 2014. In addition, we are 
actively reducing the quantity of hazardous 
substances used in our labs.
We take the scarcity of natural resources 
seriously and consider the conservation of raw 
materials, such as metals, to be a priority. Dialog 
continues to identify potential methods to 
improve existing technologies and substitute 
alternatives, such as copper for precious metals, 
to minimise our impact on the environment  
and reduced costs without sacrificing quality 
and performance. 
Recycle
We have also implemented a rigorous recycling 
of precious metals, such as gold and silver, 
Sustainability
From left: 
Dialog donated a “Rolfiets” (a wheelchair-bike 
with an electric motor) to a local school in Nabern, 
enabling teachers and caregivers to venture out 
on excursions into the countryside with kids 
with disabilities.
Dialog matched the funds raised by an employee 
who ran the London Marathon in 2012 for 
Parkinson’s UK.  
 31
 ■ Identify resource substitution and resource 
recovery processes and take steps to ensure 
that conflict minerals are not used in the 
manufacturing process;
 ■ Ensure all environmental permits are 
obtained, maintained and kept current.
Human rights and code of conduct
Dialog is committed to fair wages, healthy and 
safe working conditions, respect for human and 
labour rights, and honest relationships. We have 
adopted the Electronics Industry Code of 
Conduct (EICC) standard as the model for our 
own “Code of Conduct” to try to ensure that 
working conditions for both external suppliers 
and employees are safe and that all workers 
are treated with respect and dignity. This is 
in addition to adopting principles from the 
International Labour Organization Standards 
(ILO), Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
(UDHR), Social Accountability International (SAI), 
and the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI).
All labour must be given voluntarily and workers 
must be free to leave their employment on 
reasonable notice. Child labour must not be 
used at any stage of manufacturing. Working 
hours must not exceed the maximum set by local 
laws and wages must comply with all applicable 
laws. Dialog and its suppliers must ensure that 
workers are not threatened or subjected to 
inhumane or harsh treatment, harassment or 
any form of unlawful discrimination. Open 
communication and direct engagement between 
workers and management is encouraged, even 
in those countries where there is no meaningful 
legal protection.
From left: 
Dialog’s matched giving charity fundraising 
programme helped to raise money to buy books, 
pens, pencils, paints, crayons and toys for a school 
in Tanzania. 
Dialog offices across Europe worked together 
to support a charity cycle ride from London  
to DenBosch that raised €43,000 for KiKa  
(Children free from Cancer).
Dialog as one of ten successful companies 
achieving the “ CO
2
 Emission Reduction” ,  
with a reduction of emissions of 34%  
in our design centres in 2012. 32 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 2 | Business review
Dialog’s five design locations currently 
recycle 92% of packing and waste and 
the Company is on track to meet  
a target of 95% by 2013.
Continuous innovation and 
professional development
Dialog has a commitment to the training and 
development of all staff at all levels of the 
organisation. Our vision is to develop a positive 
learning culture which fully supports the 
development of the individual and the growth 
of the business.
The Company has a global learning and 
development strategy, which has been written 
in order to support both the development of 
the organisation and the individuals within it. 
The strategy supports the key aims of Dialog’s 
annual business plan. Everyone within the 
organisation has the opportunity to participate 
in a variety of training events, which feed into 
these key aims.
Dialog has clear career levels and paths for those 
wishing to pursue a technical career or to focus 
on leadership and management. For example, 
Dialog has created a Technical Ladder, which 
provides promotional opportunities for those 
who bring great value to the Company through 
their technical expertise and want to focus their 
careers on that know-how, rather than on 
management and leadership. Employees who 
are successful in gaining a place on the Ladder 
spend around 20% of their time researching 
Health and safety
Dialog considers a safe and healthy working 
environment to be essential in the maintenance 
of morale, productivity and the production of 
high-quality, innovative products within our own 
operations and those of our suppliers. We are 
committed to implementing and facilitating 
continuous improvements and to mitigating 
operations-related risks. We expect our suppliers 
to provide evidence of suitable controls, safe 
working procedures, preventative maintenance 
and general protective measures in their 
working environments. When hazards cannot 
be adequately controlled by these means alone, 
suitable protective clothing or equipment is 
supplied and evacuation procedures and 
facilities are in place at Dialog’s and 
suppliers’ premises.
Every supplier is required to complete a 
self-audit questionnaire to identify and 
document compliance. We also carry out regular 
on-site audits of all of our major suppliers. 
In addition, 96% of our major suppliers have 
their own documented corporate social 
responsibility policy, which we aim to increase 
to 100% by the end of 2013.
Ethics
Dialog believes that continued success in the 
semiconductor market can be achieved only 
by adopting high standards of ethical behaviour 
when dealing with customers, suppliers 
and workers.
It is particularly important to protect Intellectual 
Property (“IP”), which is the key to ensuring the 
development of innovative solutions to complex 
problems. Any transfer of technology or 
know-how is always done in a manner that 
protects IP rights, but also enables us to discuss 
products openly with our business partners. 
The disclosure of information which is related 
to business activities, structure, our financial 
situation and performance is always carried out 
in accordance with applicable regulations and 
prevailing industry practices. We expect the 
highest standards of integrity from all Dialog 
stakeholders. Any malpractice is strictly 
prohibited and may result in immediate employer 
or supplier termination and legal action.
Neither we, nor our suppliers, offer or accept 
inducements or any other means of obtaining 
undue or improper advantage. We have a 
“whistle-blower” policy in place to protect 
employees’ confidentiality and encourage  
our suppliers to do the same. 
Sustainability continued  
 33
From left: 
Dialog awards cash prizes at several universities  
for academic excellence, including a prize for the 
best electronics engineering project for second  
year students at Imperial College London. 
Dialog runners from Europe and Asia ran the 
“dam-to-dam” run in Amsterdam to raise money 
for Amnesty International.
We also give three “access bursaries” of 
£1,000 each at the University of Edinburgh  
to assist low-income engineering students and 
give cash prizes at several universities, such as 
£800 for best second year project at Imperial 
College London.
In September 2012, we sponsored a field trip 
for 20 electronic engineering students from the 
University of Twente in The Netherlands, who 
visited China to research the markets, Chinese 
universities, factories and businesses.
Dialog staff were also seconded to present to 
school-age children about the exciting world of 
the electronics industry, offer careers counselling 
and work experience placements for students, 
act as guest lecturers at leading universities 
to help ensure young people come into the 
industry with the skills they need to thrive. 
new innovation initiatives, developing our 
university partnership programmes, speaking at 
external and internal conferences, and delivering 
and participating in training opportunities.
Work environment and communications
Clear and consistent communication is achieved 
through regular all-hands meetings, led by 
Dialog’s CEO, to keep employees fully aware 
of Company matters that affect them. 
We encourage employee feedback at all levels 
for new ideas to improve business efficiency 
and performance.
Dialog has been implementing a programme 
of growth and investment in many of our 
locations, expanding facilities and work space. 
When we expand or refurbish a site, employee 
suggestions are incorporated to create an 
environment that both meets the Company’s 
business needs while also being a pleasant place 
in which to work, which can have a positive 
impact on productivity levels.
Dialog is committed to supporting the health 
of its employees. Employees and their families 
are eligible to participate in non-contributory 
medical plans where local culture and practice 
supports this. Additionally, Dialog currently 
offers a selection of “well-being” initiatives 
across a variety of locations, including a free, 
on-site flu vaccination programme, cycle to 
work schemes and an on-site gym.
Communities
Dialog increased corporate giving by over 
five-fold in 2012 to US$122,560. A plan has 
been put in place to continue to do more by 
setting a target of giving 1% of pre-tax profit 
to charity by 2015. We have a formal policy 
to match all employee contributions or funds 
raised for charitable causes that are important 
to our employees and the community.
University partnership programmes
Dialog runs a range of programmes throughout 
Europe to attract the brightest and best students 
of school and university age into the electronics 
industry and our Company. We sponsor  
ten students at leading UK and European 
universities, provide access bursaries,  
academic prizes, and also run a range  
of schools’ outreach programmes.
In 2012, Dialog sponsored five electronics 
engineering students from Imperial College, 
York, Bristol and Southampton through the UK 
Electronic Skills Foundation, an organisation that 
aims to encourage young people into electronics 
and develop sound links between universities 
and industry. We also provided industrial 
scholarships to students at Karlsruhe and Aaken 
universities in Germany, Edinburgh in the UK, 
and Twente in The Netherlands. Scholars receive 
a start-up bursary for books, an annual bursary, 
paid work placements, an opportunity for  
a summer job and an industrial mentor.  34 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance
of the management buy-out team of ASAT UK, 
where he served as the Technical Director. 
Mohamed holds an Electronic and Electrotechnic 
degree from the Paris University of Technology.
Gary Duncan
Vice President, Product Development
Gary, who joined the Company in October 
1987, is responsible for all IC design and 
development activities. He has over 30 years’ 
experience in the semiconductor industry and 
previously he held senior engineering and 
management roles at Plessey, Texas Instruments 
and ES2 with a particular specialism in process 
engineering, test and product engineering and 
yield improvement.
Christophe Chene
Vice President, Asia
Christophe joined Dialog in November 2011 
as Vice President, Asia and is based in Taiwan. 
He has over 20 years of experience in the 
semiconductor industry, focusing on building 
international businesses with a strong Asian 
footprint. Previously he served as Senior Vice 
President and General Manager of the TV 
Business Unit as well as Senior Vice President 
of worldwide sales for Trident Microsystems. 
Prior to that, Christophe served in various 
international executive and managerial 
positions at Texas Instruments, Sharp and Xilinx. 
Christophe holds an Electronics Engineering 
degree from INSA, Toulouse.
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Chief Executive Officer 
Jalal joined Dialog as CEO and an executive board 
director in September 2005. He was previously 
Vice President & General Manager of the Mobile 
Multimedia business unit for Broadcom Corporation. 
Prior to that Jalal was the CEO of Alphamosaic, 
a venture-funded silicon start-up company in 
Cambridge, focusing on video processing chips 
for the mobile applications. He has extensive 
experience of the semiconductor industry, through 
his previous professional and executive positions 
at Sony Semiconductor and Texas Instruments, 
managing semiconductor product businesses 
and working with customers in the Far East, 
Europe and North America.
Jalal is a non-executive director of Lime 
Microsystems Ltd since 2005 and the Chairman 
of Global Semiconductor Association Europe 
since 2011. He has a BSc (Hons) in Electronics 
Engineering from Essex University, and holds  
a PhD in Electronics from Kent University, UK.
Dr Karim Arabi
Vice President, Engineering Technology
Karim joined Dialog Semiconductor in September 
2012 and is responsible for driving overall 
technology leadership and advanced product 
development. He brings over 20 years of 
experience in various fields of semiconductor 
industry to Dialog. Prior to joining Dialog,  
Karim served as Vice President, Engineering  
at Qualcomm. Karim also held key technical 
leadership positions at PMC Sierra and Cirrus 
Logic and was co-founder of Opmaxx, acquired 
by Credence. Karim obtained his MSc and PhD 
degrees in Electronics from the Ecole Polytechnique 
de Montreal, Canada.
Andrew Austin
Vice President, Sales
Andrew joined Dialog in April 2009. He was 
previously a Sales and Marketing consultant 
specialising in the semiconductor and high-
performance sports industries. He has extensive 
experience of the semiconductor industry 
through his previous professional positions 
at Texas Instruments and Raytheon Systems. 
Andrew holds a degree in Electrical and 
Electronics from Hertford University. 
Mohamed Djadoudi
Vice President, Global Manufacturing 
Operations and Quality
Mohamed joined Dialog in March 2007 and 
is responsible for product engineering, test 
and assembly development, data automation, 
software support, offshore manufacturing 
operations and quality. Mohamed has more 
than 25 years’ experience in the field of 
semiconductor manufacturing operations, 
starting initially with IBM in France and the US. 
He was previously Senior Vice President and 
Chief Technology Officer of the Unisem group, 
an assembly and test subcontractor based in 
Malaysia and China. He also held the position 
of Vice President of Test Operations at ASAT 
(Atlantis Technology), based in Hong Kong, 
before becoming one of the original members 
Executive management  
 35
Mark Tyndall
Vice President, Business Development  
and Corporate Strategy
Mark joined Dialog Semiconductor 
in September 2008. Prior to this, Mark was 
Vice President of Business Development and 
Corporate Relations at MIPS Technologies. 
From 1999 to 2006, he held the position of 
Vice President of Business Development at 
Infineon and has also served as a Board Director 
of a number of start-up companies, several of 
which were successfully acquired. Earlier in his 
career, Mark held management positions in 
marketing at Fujitsu Microelectronics and  
in design at Philips Semiconductors.
Sean McGrath
Vice President and General Manager 
Connectivity, Automotive and  
Industrial Business Group
Sean joined Dialog in November 2012. Prior 
to this he was General Manager of the Smart 
Home & Energy group at NXP and General 
Manager of the RF Power and Base Stations 
business at NXP/Philips Semiconductors. 
He previously held senior roles at Philips 
Semiconductors and Mikron Austria GmbH, 
focusing on the RFID and connectivity markets. 
Sean holds an AB degree in Geophysics and 
Geology from Harvard University and an MBA 
with distinction from INSEAD. 
Udo Kratz
Senior Vice President, General Manager 
Mobile Systems Business Group
Udo joined Dialog in May 2006. He is 
responsible for the Audio and Power 
Management Business Unit, which makes 
products for the mobile phone and portable 
consumer markets. He has over 20 years’ 
experience in the semiconductor industry, 
gained in general management, senior 
marketing and engineering at Robert Bosch 
GmbH, Sony Semiconductor and Infineon 
Technologies. Udo holds an Electronic 
Engineering degree from the University 
for Applied Sciences, Mannheim. 
Martin Powell
Vice President, Human Resources
Martin joined the Company in July 2010 and 
is responsible for developing and driving people 
strategies in support of Dialog’s business goals 
and initiatives worldwide, including fostering 
an environment where Dialog’s teams can thrive. 
Prior to Dialog, Martin has held a variety of 
senior and executive HR roles with Medtronic 
Inc., General Electric (GE) and the Dell 
Corporation. Most recently he was a member of 
the executive team at C-MAC MicroTechnology, 
a private equity-backed leader in the high 
reliability electronics sector. During his career 
Martin has been located in Asia, continental 
Europe as well as the UK. 
Jean-Michel Richard
CFO, Vice President Finance
Jean-Michel joined the Company in September 
2006 to head up its finance department. He 
was previously Finance Director for the Global 
Manufacturing and Technology Division of ON 
Semiconductor, in Phoenix, Arizona, and before 
that held senior finance and treasury positions 
at ON and Motorola, in Europe and the US. 
Jean-Michel holds a Masters in Economics 
from the University of Geneva, Switzerland.  36 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance
Aidan Hughes
Non-executive Director, 
Chairman of Audit Committee
Aidan joined the Board in October 2004. 
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with 
Price Waterhouse in the 1980s before taking 
senior accountant roles at Lex Service Plc and 
Carlton Communications Plc. He was Finance 
Director of the Sage Group Plc from 1993 until 
2000 and, from December 2001 to August 
2004, was a director of Communisis Plc.  
He is a director of, and investor in, a number  
of UK private technology companies.
Gregorio Reyes
Chairman
Gregorio joined the Board in December 2003. 
He has been working the semiconductor, 
data storage, magnetic recording and 
telecommunications industry since 1962. 
Gregorio began his career with National 
Semiconductor, followed by executive positions 
with Motorola Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor 
Inc. He was President and CEO of National 
Micronetics from 1981 to 1984, and Chairman 
and CEO of American Semiconductor 
Equipment Technologies from 1986 to 1990. 
He co-founded Sunward Technologies in  
1985 and was Chairman and CEO until 1994. 
He is currently non-executive Chairman of  
LSI Corporation and a non-executive Director  
of Seagate Technology.
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Chief Executive Officer
Jalal joined Dialog as CEO and an executive 
board director in September 2005. He was 
previously Vice President & General Manager 
of the Mobile Multimedia business unit for 
Broadcom Corporation. Prior to that Jalal was 
the CEO of Alphamosaic, a venture-funded 
silicon start-up company in Cambridge,  
focusing on video processing chips for mobile 
applications. He has extensive experience 
of the semiconductor industry, through his 
previous professional and executive positions 
at Sony Semiconductor and Texas Instruments, 
managing semiconductor product businesses 
and working with customers in the Far East, 
Europe and North America.
Jalal is a non-executive director of Lime 
Microsystems Ltd since 2005 and the Chairman 
of Global Semiconductor Association Europe 
since 2011. He has a BSc (Hons) in Electronics 
Engineering from Essex University, and holds 
a PhD in Electronics from Kent University, UK. 
Chris Burke
Non-executive Director
Chris joined the Board in July 2006. He has a 
career of 30 years in Telecoms and Technology. 
Post his degree in Computer Science in 1982, 
he spent 15 years in Nortel Research and 
Development. Followed by Technology Business 
Leadership roles as Chief Technology Officer 
(CTO) in Energis Communications (at time of 
IPO into the London Stock Exchange), then CTO 
at Vodafone UK Ltd. Post-Vodafone Chris has 
made over 20 technology investments from his 
own investment fund, founded/co-founded 
a number of start-up companies, and provides 
a Strategy and Technology Advisory service for 
some of the biggest technology manufacturers 
in the industry as well both private and venture 
investors. Presently Chris serves on the public 
company boards of Kontron, Tranzeo Wireless, 
as well as the private company boards of Aicent, 
One Access, Navmii and Muzicall.
Board of Directors  
 37
John McMonigall
Non-executive Director,  
Senior Independent Director
John joined the Board in March 1998.  
He joined Apax Partners Worldwide LLP in  
1990 and was responsible for investments in 
telecommunications, electronics and software. 
He has served on the boards of a number 
of listed companies, including Autonomy 
Corporation until its sale in 2011, and currently 
serves on the boards of several private 
companies. In 2012, John was appointed 
the Senior Independent Director at Dialog.
Russ Shaw
Non-executive Director, Chair of 
Remuneration and Nomination Committee
Russ joined the Board in July 2006 and is 
currently a non-executive Director for Unwire 
A.p.S. and Cupid Plc. He was the previous 
Chairman of the Marketing Group of Great 
Britain, is senior adviser to Ariadne Capital and 
a member of London’s Tech City Advisory 
Group. Previously, Russ was the Vice President & 
General Manager for Skype, with responsibilities 
for its Mobile Division as well as Europe, Middle 
East and Africa. Previously, he was at Telefonica, 
where he was the Global Director of Innovation. 
Before joining Telefonica, he was the Innovation 
Director at O2, which he joined as Marketing 
Director in 2005. The strong brand and product 
range he established resulted in significant 
customer growth. His 20+ years’ senior 
marketing and brand management experience 
in the technology, telecoms and financial 
services areas has enabled him to bring an 
excellent level of knowledge to Dialog.
Peter Weber
Non-executive Director
Peter joined Dialog in February 2006. He brought 
with him 35 years’ experience, gained at a 
broad range of companies in the semiconductor 
and communication sectors, including Texas 
Instruments, Intel, Siliconix, the Temic Group 
and Netro Corporation. Since 1998 he has 
been an investor and management consultant, 
and is a director of a number of companies 
in Europe, the US and Asia. Peter holds an  
MSEE degree in communications engineering.
Dr Chang-Bun Yoon
Non-executive Director
Dr Chang-Bun Yoon joined Dialog in April 2012. 
Dr Yoon was Chairman, CEO and President 
of SK Broadband (formerly known as Hanaro 
Telecom). He was chosen as “CEO of the Year 
2004” by the Korea Management Association 
and he received a “Top Management Award” 
from the Korean Institute of Communication 
and Sciences in 2004. He was President of  
Korea Information Society Development 
Institute, a national strategy institute for the  
IT sector, and has been actively involved in  
policy recommendations for the ministries and 
government agencies in Korea. He was a 
non-executive member of the Board of Directors 
and a member of the Audit Committee for 
Korea Telecom, as well as a member of the 
Board of Directors for Seoul Broadcasting 
Systems Ltd. Chang-Bun Yoon has a 
comprehensive understanding of the global  
IT industry and telecommunications market  
and is recognised as a contributor to Korea’s  
IT and telecommunications development. 38 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance
Details of the share capital are set out  
in note 18 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
Substantial shareholdings
Details of substantial shareholdings are on 
page 9 of this annual report.
Directors
The Directors, together with their biographies, 
are listed on pages 36 and 37 of this 
annual report.
Powers of Directors
The Directors are authorised to issue the 
nominal amount of securities representing the 
aggregate of approximately one third of the 
issued share capital of the Company; of that one 
third they can issue 5% on a non-pre-emptive 
basis. The Directors have additional power to 
issue up to a further third of the issued share 
capital of the Company, provided it is only 
applied on the basis of a rights issue.
Directors’ remuneration and interests
Directors’ remuneration and interests are 
detailed in the Directors’ remuneration report  
on pages 46 to 52 of this annual report.  
No Director had a material interest during the 
year ended 31 December 2012 in any contract 
of significance with any Group Company.
Directors’ third-party indemnity provisions
The Company has granted an indemnity to its 
Directors against proceedings brought against 
them by third parties, by reason of their being 
Directors of the Company, to the extent 
permitted by the Companies Act 2006.  
Such indemnity remains in force as at the  
date of approving the Directors’ report. 
Election and re-election of Directors
In accordance with the Company’s Articles 
of Association, one-third of the Directors have 
to stand for re-election at the Annual General 
Meeting. The next Annual General Meeting will 
be held on 2 May 2013 at 9am.
Corporate Governance
The Company’s Corporate Governance 
statement is set out on pages 40 to 45 of this 
annual report.
Supplier payment policy
It is the Group’s policy to pay creditors in 
accordance with the terms and conditions agreed 
with them, and in accordance with contractual 
and other legal obligations. Days payable 
outstanding for the Group at 31 December 
2012 were 81 days (2011: 58 days).
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Company is exposed to a number of risks 
and uncertainties that could affect the 
performance of the Company and its prospects. 
The Board of Directors and Audit Committee  
The Directors of Dialog Semiconductor Plc 
(“Dialog” or “the Company”) present their 
annual report and audited financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
These accounts have been prepared under IFRS 
and are available on the Company’s website: 
www.dialog-semiconductor.com.
Principal activities and review 
of the business
Dialog Semiconductor creates highly integrated, 
mixed signal integrated circuits (ICs), optimised 
for personal portable, short-range wireless, lighting, 
display and automotive applications. The Company 
provides its customers with flexible and dynamic 
support, world-class innovation and the assurance 
of dealing with an established business partner. 
With its focus and expertise in energy-efficient 
system power management, audio, low energy 
short-range wireless and VoIP technologies, 
Dialog brings decades of experience to the  
rapid development of ICs. 
Dialog’ s power management processor companion 
chips enhance the performance of personal 
portable devices – including smartphones, tablets 
and Ultrabooks™ – by extending battery play 
time and supporting increasingly demanding 
multimedia applications. Our short-range 
wireless technology provides connectivity to 
wireless headsets, microphones and gaming 
consoles and is enabling the emergence of 
innovative new smart home applications. 
Dialog Semiconductor Plc is headquartered 
near Stuttgart, with a global sales, R&D and 
marketing organisation. In 2012, it had 
US$774 million in revenue and is one of the 
fastest growing European public semiconductor 
companies. At 31 December 2012, the 
Company had 806 employees. With world-class 
manufacturing partners, Dialog operates a 
fabless business model.
Please refer to “Our business strategy and 
performance” and “Our products and key 
customers” sections of this report for further 
information on the principal activities of the 
business and the factors affecting future 
developments. Information on treasury policies 
and objectives is included in note 25 to these 
financial statements.
The Company is listed on the Frankfurt 
(FWB: DLG) stock exchange and is a member 
of the German TecDAX index.
More information about the business is set out 
in the CEO’s statement, on pages 14 and 15, 
and in the Business review, on pages 12 and 13.
Future developments
The Group’s stated objective is to be the leading 
global supplier of integrated mixed signal and 
analog differentiated power-saving technologies 
addressing high-growth portable platforms.  
The Company is currently leveraging its expertise 
to expand its standalone audio product portfolio, 
capitalising on the success of its low power and 
high-quality audio ICs, and develop solutions 
based on new emerging short-range wireless 
standards and energy-efficient retrofit bulb LED 
lighting technology.
Research and development (R&D)
The Group believes that its future competitive 
position will depend on its ability to respond 
to the rapidly changing needs of its customers 
by developing new designs in a timely and 
cost-effective manner. To this end, the 
Company’s management is committed to 
investing in researching and developing new 
products and customising existing products. 
To date, R&D projects have been in response 
to key customers’ requests to assist in the 
development of new custom Application 
Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), and for the 
development of Application Specific Standard 
Products (ASSPs). The Company does not expect 
any material change to this approach in the 
foreseeable future.
Going concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed 
a judgement at the time of approving the financial 
statements that there is a reasonable expectation 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
for the foreseeable future. The Group holds 
US$312 million of cash at the year end (2011: 
US$114 million) and has continued access to a 
US$45 million borrowing facility. The Group has 
profitable forecasts and longer-term plans. For 
these reasons, the Directors have adopted the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Dividends
The Directors do not recommend the payment 
of a dividend (2011: nil). They are committed 
to re-investing all profits into the business and 
believe that this policy is in the best interests 
of its Shareholders.
Purchase of own shares
The Company operates an Employee Benefit 
Trust, which purchases shares in the Company 
for the benefit of employees under the 
Company’s share option scheme, Long Term 
Incentive Plan and Executive Incentive Plan. 
Since the Company has de facto control of 
the assets and liabilities of the Trust, they are 
included in the Company and Group balance 
sheets. At 31 December 2012, the trust held 
2,679,768 shares, which represented 3.94% 
of the total called-up share capital, at a nominal 
value of £267,977.
Share capital
The Company’s issued share capital comprised  
a single class of shares referred to as 
ordinary shares.
Directors’ report  39
Dialog has an Employee Benefit Trust which holds 
Dialog shares for the benefit of employees, 
including for the purpose of satisfying awards 
made under the various employee and executive 
share plans. The trustee may vote the shares as 
it sees fit, and if there is an offer for the shares 
the trustee is not obliged to accept or reject the 
offer but will have regard to the interests of the 
employees and may otherwise take action with 
respect to the offer it thinks fair.
In the case of a change of control of the Company, 
the CEO’s contract is extendable to 12 months’ 
notice. Ordinarily, the CEO’s contract provides 
for six months’ notice on either side during 
which only basic pay and benefits are payable 
and a bonus if he is employed at the year end. 
There is no acceleration of bonus on a change 
of control. The CEO has no entitlement to a 
bonus if his employment is terminated before 
the end of the bonus year unless his employment 
is terminated in lieu of notice after 1 October in 
any year. In this case he is entitled to a pro rata 
bonus for that year. Other factors impacted by  
a change in control, such as the redemption 
rights of bondholders and the impact on share 
options are disclosed in the relevant section to 
these financial statements.
There are no agreements between the Company 
and its Directors or employees providing for 
compensation for loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported 
redundancy or otherwise) that occur because  
of a takeover bid. The agreement between the 
Company and its Directors for compensation  
for loss of office are given in the Director’s 
remuneration report on page 46.
The Company’s Articles of Association may only 
be amended by a special resolution at a general 
meeting of Shareholders.
Annual General Meeting
The notice convening the Annual General 
Meeting will be published separately and posted 
on the Company’s website. The meeting will be 
held at Tower Bridge House, St Katharine’s Way, 
London E1W 1AA on 2 May 2013 at 9am.
Auditors
In accordance with Section 384 of the 
Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the 
reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as 
auditors of the Company is to be proposed 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Director
14 February 2013
are responsible for the Company’s process of 
internal control and risk management and for 
reviewing its continuing effectiveness. The Board 
ensures, to the extent possible, that the system 
of internal procedures and controls is appropriate 
to the nature and scale of the Company’s 
activities and that appropriate processes and 
controls are in place to effectively manage  
and mitigate strategic, operational, financial  
and other risks facing the Company. A detailed 
list of risks and their management are set out  
on pages 27 to 29.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management and 
policies, and exposure to risks, are set out on 
pages 27 to 29.
Political and charitable contributions
The Group made no political contributions 
during the period. We made charitable 
contributions of US$122,560 to local 
community projects (2011: US$23,813).
Employee policies
It is our policy to support our people through 
training, career development and opportunities 
for promotion. We operate an open 
management approach and consult with our 
staff on matters that are of concern to them. 
We share information with employees on the 
performance of the Company which, together 
with profit-related bonuses and stock option 
awards, encourage staff involvement.
Disabled persons
Our policy provides for disabled persons, 
whether registered or not, to be considered for 
employment, training and career development 
in accordance with their aptitudes and abilities.
Statement on disclosure of information 
to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board 
at the time of approving the Directors’ report 
are listed on pages 36 and 37. Having made 
enquiries of fellow Directors and of the 
Company’s auditors, each of the Directors 
affirms that: 
 ■ To the best of their knowledge and belief, 
there is no information relevant to the 
preparation of their report of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and 
 ■ They have taken all reasonable steps to 
be aware of relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.
Responsibility statement under the 
disclosure and transparency rules
Each of the Directors listed on pages 36 and 37 
confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
 ■ The financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
 ■ The Directors’ report and the Group operating 
and financial review include a fair review of 
the development and the performance of the 
business and the position of the Company  
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
Takeovers directive
At 31 December 2011, the Company’s issued 
share capital comprised a single class of shares 
referred to as ordinary shares. Details of the share 
capital can be found in note 18 to the consolidated 
financial statements. On a show of hands at a 
general meeting of the Company every holder 
of shares present in person and entitled to vote 
shall have one vote, and on a poll every member 
present in person or by proxy and entitled to 
vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share 
held. The notice of the general meeting specifies 
deadlines for exercising voting rights either by 
proxy notice or by presence in person or by proxy 
in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general 
meeting. All proxy votes are counted and the 
numbers for, against or withheld in relation  
to each resolution are announced at the AGM 
and published on the Company’s website after 
the meeting.
There are no securities carrying special rights, 
nor are there any restrictions on voting rights 
attached to the ordinary shares.
There are no restrictions on the transfer shares 
in the Company other than:
 ■ Certain restrictions may from time to time  
be imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example, insider trading laws); and
 ■ Employees of the Company are not allowed 
to trade in shares or exercise options in 
certain close periods (such close periods 
normally start two weeks before the end  
of each quarter and end 48 hours after  
the release of the financial results). 
Details of changes in share capital can be  
found in note 18 to the consolidated financial 
statements. Besides that, the Company did not 
purchase its own shares in treasury.
The Company is not aware of any agreements 
between Shareholders that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities and  
for voting rights. 40 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance
Board refreshment and renewal
The Board is committed to a policy of ongoing 
Board refreshment and renewal. The 
Remuneration and Nomination Committee 
continually reviews the composition and 
diversity of the Board, including gender diversity, 
and the skills and experience of each of the 
Directors. The relevant skills and experience 
of each Director are set out under individual 
biographies, which are detailed on pages 36 
and 37.
Subject to approval at the Annual General 
Meeting by Shareholders, Directors are 
appointed for a term of three years, except 
for John McMonigall who, given his length 
of tenure on the Board, is appointed for a 
one-year term and subject to annual re-election. 
The standard terms of the letter of appointment 
of non-executive Directors are available, 
on request, from the Company Secretary. 
The Board of Dialog Semiconductor is committed 
to maintaining high corporate governance 
standards to protect the interests of all 
stakeholders. Our principles, as set out on our 
corporate website, www.dialog-semiconductor.
com, that we have complied with in the year, 
reflect a range of guidelines that apply to the 
Company, given Dialog’s status as a UK 
incorporated, Frankfurt Stock Exchange  
listed company. In this context, the Company,  
to the extent that is practicable, given its UK 
incorporation but Frankfurt Stock Exchange 
listing, applies the main and supporting 
principles of the relevant governance codes.
Board of Directors – role and responsibilities
As Dialog is incorporated in the UK and uses  
the UK Corporate Governance Code as a basis 
for its corporate governance practice, it 
maintains a single board structure. The Board 
has overall responsibility for the leadership, 
control and oversight of the Company. The 
day-to-day responsibility for the management  
of the Company has been delegated by the 
Board to the Chief Executive Officer, who is 
accountable to the Board. The Chief Executive 
Officer executes this authority through an 
executive management team, outlined on  
pages 34 and 35 of this annual report. In 
addition, a number of responsibilities of the 
Board are delegated to sub-committees of  
the Board; details of which are set out below.
Matters reserved for the Board
While the Board has delegated day-to-day 
responsibility for the management of the Company 
to the Chief Executive Officer, certain matters 
are formally reserved for the Board. The Board 
has overall responsibility for Company 
objectives, strategy, annual budgets, risk 
management, acquisitions or major capital 
projects, remuneration policy and corporate 
governance. It defines the roles and 
responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive, 
other Directors and the Board sub-committees. 
In addition, the Board approves the quarterly 
financial statements and reviews the Company’s 
systems of internal control. It approves all 
resolutions and related documentation put 
before Shareholders at general meetings.
Chairman
Mr Gregorio Reyes is Chairman of the Board. 
The Chairman was determined by the Board 
to be independent on his appointment to the 
Board. The Chairman is responsible for the 
effective working of the Board while the Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO), together with the 
executive management team, is responsible 
for the day-to-day running of the Company. 
The functions of Chairman and CEO are not 
combined and both roles’ responsibilities are 
clearly divided. 
The Chairman, CEO and the Company Secretary 
work together in planning a forward 
programme of Board meetings and meeting 
agendas. As part of this process, the Chairman 
ensures that the Board is supplied, in a timely 
manner, with information in a form and of a 
quality to enable it to discharge its duties. The 
Chairman encourages openness, debate and 
challenge at Board meetings. The Chairman 
holds a number of other directorships and the 
Board considers that these do not interfere with 
the discharge of his duties to the Company. 
The Chairman is available to meet Shareholders 
on request.
Board composition
The Board currently comprises ten Directors.  
The Directors who served on the Board during 
the 2012 calendar year are listed below. 
Subsequent to the year end, Richard Beyer  
and Mike Cannon have been appointed to the 
Board as independent, non-executive Directors. 
Detail on their recruitment is set out below:
*  Note: Concurrent tenure means tenure on the Board concurrently with the Company’s CEO.
      Concurrent 
     Tenure tenure* 
Director Status Independent/non-independent  Years Years
Gregorio Reyes Current Independent (Chairman)  9 7
Dr Jalal Bagherli Current Non-independent (Executive)  7 N/A
Chris Burke Current Independent   6 6
Aidan Hughes Current Independent   8 7
John McMonigall Current Independent   15 7
Russ Shaw Current Independent   6 6
Peter Tan Retired Independent   N/A N/A
Peter Weber Current Independent   7 7
Chang-Bun Yoon Current Independent   1 1
 
The Board of Directors comprises a mix of the 
necessary skills, knowledge and experience 
required to provide leadership, control and 
oversight of the management of the Company 
and to contribute to the development and 
implementation of the Company’s strategy. 
In particular, the Board combines a Group of 
Directors with diverse backgrounds within the 
technology sector, in both public and private 
companies, which combine to provide the  
Board with a rich resource and expertise to  
drive the continuing development of Dialog and 
advance the Company’s commercial objectives. 
In addition, the geographic background of the 
Board is diverse and it includes Directors who 
reside, and have worked in, North America, 
Europe and Asia. Director biographies are set 
out on pages 36 and 37.
Corporate Governance  41
experience and contribution to the continuing 
development of Dialog is of significant benefit 
to the Board as a whole. 
While the Board is satisfied that Mr McMonigall 
is wholly independent, in line with the best  
practice principles, as he has been a member 
of the Board for in excess of nine years, he is 
subject to annual re-election by Shareholders.
Senior Independent Director
The Board has appointed John McMonigall 
as Senior Independent Director. He is available 
to Shareholders who have concerns for which 
contact through the normal channels of 
Chairman or Chief Executive Officer has 
failed to resolve or for which such contact 
is inappropriate. He is available to meet 
Shareholders on request. 
Aidan Hughes, Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, Russ Shaw, Chairman of the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committee 
and Chris Burke, Chairman of the Strategic 
Transaction & Technology Committee, are also 
available to Shareholders should they have 
specific concerns or issues relevant to their 
respective Committees.
Audit Committee financial expert
The Board has determined that Aidan Hughes, 
who chairs the Audit Committee, has recent 
and relevant financial experience and is the 
Audit Committee financial expert. He is a 
qualified chartered accountant, an associate 
member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in England and Wales and has 
significant experience as a senior accountant 
and Finance Director at a number of public 
companies. His biography is set out on page 36.
Company Secretary
All Directors have access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary, who is 
responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board 
procedures are complied with. The Company 
Secretary ensures that the Board members 
receive appropriate induction and ongoing 
training and development to enable them to 
discharge their duties. The Company Secretary 
is also responsible for advising the Board on all 
corporate governance matters. The appointment 
and removal of the Company Secretary is a 
matter for the Board. 
Directors seeking re-election are subject to  
a performance appraisal, which is overseen by 
the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
In accordance with its Articles of Association 
a third of Directors stand for re-election at each 
Annual General Meeting.
Consistent with a commitment to ongoing 
Board refreshment and renewal, Chang-Bun 
Yoon was appointed to the Board on 24 April 
2012. An external recruitment consultant  
was used in the process of recruitment of 
Chang-Bun Yoon to the Board. 
During the year, Peter Tan stepped down from 
the Board.
During 2012, the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committee engaged in a process to recruit two 
new independent non-executive Directors to  
the Board. The primary objective was to appoint 
Directors who would bring specific industry 
experience to the Board. An additional objective 
was to recruit Directors who had experience 
serving on the Boards of publicly listed 
companies. Candidates were identified through 
a variety of methods. The Remuneration and 
Nomination Committee engaged external  
search and recruitment agents, Russell Reynolds, 
to identify potential candidates and to assist  
in selecting and recommending candidates. 
Informal industry contacts were also used.  
The Committee, which is committed to 
achieving a greater level of gender diversity  
on the Board over time, made considerable 
effort to ensure that gender was a significant 
consideration factor in the identification  
of potential candidates in addition to relevant 
industry and public company board experience.
Following a thorough review process, candidates 
met with Remuneration and Nomination 
Committee members and the Chairman prior  
to appointment. Richard Beyer and Mike Cannon 
have been appointed to the Board on the strength 
of their experience and skills and the value they 
can bring to the Board of Directors as a whole 
for the benefit of all Dialog Shareholders.
At the Annual General Meeting, to be held  
on 2 May 2013, and as set out in the Notice  
of Meeting, Dr Jalal Bagherli, Chris Burke,  
John McMonigall and Peter Weber will stand  
for re-election to the Board. Richard Beyer and 
Mike Cannon will stand for election to the 
Board. Biographies for both of the new Directors 
are set out in the AGM Notice of Meeting.
Board size
At the end of 2012, the Board comprised  
eight Directors: one executive Director, and 
seven independent, non-executive Directors 
(including the Chairman). Following the 
appointment of Richard Beyer and Mike Cannon 
to the Board, the Board now comprises ten 
Directors. The Remuneration and Nomination 
Committee has reviewed the size and 
performance of the Board during the year and 
also considered the impact of the addition of 
two new independent Directors on the effective 
functioning of the Board. A Board of ten Directors, 
the maximum which is currently allowed under 
the Company’s Articles of Association, is a size 
that functions effectively, comprises the skills, 
knowledge and experience required by Dialog,  
is not so large as to be unwieldy and meets 
corporate governance best practice guidelines 
on independence. 
Board independence
Corporate Governance best practice states that 
at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, 
should comprise non-executive Directors 
determined by the Board to be independent. 
The Company has determined that Chris Burke, 
Richard Beyer, Mike Cannon, Aidan Hughes, 
John McMonigall, Russ Shaw, Peter Weber 
and Chang-Bun Yoon are independent. The 
Chairman, Gregorio Reyes, was independent  
on his appointment to the Board. The Company’s 
Chief Executive Officer, Dr Jalal Bagherli, is the 
only executive Director on the Board.
Excluding the Chairman, and following the 
appointment of Richard Beyer and Mike Cannon, 
the Board now comprises eight independent 
non-executive Directors and one executive 
Director and is compliant with the principle that 
at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, 
should comprise Directors determined by the 
Board to be independent.
As part of its annual review, the Board 
specifically considered the independence of 
Mr John McMonigall, given his tenure on the 
Board. When assessing the potential impact 
of tenure on any Director’s independence, 
the Board views the issue of concurrency with 
executive Directors as central to that process. 
The Board’s unanimous view is that Mr 
McMonigall’s independence and objectivity, 
as evidenced by his continuing valuable 
contribution at Board meetings, is in no way 
compromised by his length of tenure on the 
Board. The Board also believes that his industry  42 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance
and its Committees is undertaken annually. 
An annual, internal review commenced in 
December 2012 and follows a similar process 
which was undertaken in 2011. It is conducted 
anonymously and is co-ordinated by the 
Company Secretary. The findings of the review 
will be presented to the Board in 2013 for 
consideration and the implementation of 
related recommendations.
Independent advice
Non-executive Directors may seek independent 
professional advice, at the expense of the 
Company, in order for them to discharge 
their duties as a Director and obligations to 
Shareholders. No such professional advice 
was sought by any Director during the year.
External non-executive directorships
The Board believes that a broadening of the 
skills, knowledge and experience of non-
executive Directors is of benefit to the Company. 
The Company welcomes the participation 
of the non-executives on the Boards of other 
companies. To avoid potential conflicts of 
interest, non-executive Directors inform the 
Chairman before taking up any external 
appointments. Details of the non-executive 
positions of each Director are set out under 
individual biographies which are detailed 
on pages 36 and 37.
Directors’ fees
The annual fee for non-executive Directors 
is £80,000. The annual fee for the Chairman 
is £110,000. The Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committee receives an additional 
fee of £10,000 for their role on those Committees. 
From 2013 onwards, the Chairman of the 
Strategic Transaction and Technology Committee 
will also receive an additional fee of £10,000 for 
his role on that Committee. The other Committee 
members receive no additional fee for serving 
on those Committees. Details of the activity of 
these Committees during 2012 is set out on 
pages 44 and 45.
In 2012, non-executive Directors’ fees were paid 
as a combination of cash and shares. One third 
of each Director’s fee was paid by way of Dialog 
ordinary shares in the form of a nominal price 
option. The number of shares “paid” to each 
Director was calculated on the basis of one third 
of their total Director’s fee divided by the market 
value of one Dialog ordinary share, as a 30-day 
average, as at the date of the Annual 
General Meeting. 
Subject to Shareholder approval, non-executive 
Directors’ fees will be paid solely in cash from 
2013 onwards. Further details are set out in 
the remuneration report on page 46.
Board meetings
The Board holds at least five Board meetings 
each year. The Board may meet more frequently 
as required. The number of meetings of Board 
sub-committees each year varies by Committee.
There were five Board meetings in 2012. 
The attendance at Board and sub-committee 
meetings by the Directors who held office 
in 2012 is set out below. The Board places 
considerable importance on attendance at both 
scheduled Board and sub-committee meetings. 
During the year, no Director attended less than 
75% of scheduled Board or sub-committee 
meetings to which they were entitled to attend. 
At scheduled Board meetings, the Board also 
meets without the executive Director present.
Notes:
(1)  Peter Tan stepped down from the Board on 24 April 2012.
(2)  Chang-Bun Yoon was appointed to the Board on 24 April 2012 and attended all Board meetings since the date of his appointment. 
He has also attended all Audit Committee meetings since his appointment to that Committee.
      Strategic 
     Remuneration Transaction and  
2012 Board and sub-committees  Notes Board Audit and Nomination Technology
Number of meetings    5 5 5 5
Meetings attended      
Gregorio Reyes   5   
Dr Jalal Bagherli   5   
Chris Burke   5  5 5
Aidan Hughes   5 5  5
John McMonigall   5 5  
Russ Shaw   5  5 
Peter Tan  (1) 1 1  
Peter Weber   5  5 5
Chang-Bun Yoon  (2) 4 3  
 
 
 
 
Director induction and 
continuing development
Following appointment to the Board, new 
Directors are provided with induction materials 
and are briefed on the Company, its structure, 
strategy, technologies, operations, corporate 
governance practice, and their duties and 
responsibilities as a Director. 
Briefings for all non-executive Directors are 
held with the executive management at Board 
meetings. Throughout the year, Directors are 
also provided with detailed briefing materials 
on the performance of the Company and 
market analysis on the performance of, and 
prospects for, the business.
Director training and development
The Board is committed to a programme of 
periodic training and development of its 
Directors. As part of this process, one Board 
meeting is held at the location of one of the 
Company’s international offices each year. 
During 2012, a Board meeting was held in 
Taipei, Taiwan. The Board visited the Company’s 
local office to engage with employees and 
gain a greater depth of understanding of the 
international development of the business and 
its customer base. In addition, the Board also 
visited two significant suppliers to the business 
based in Taiwan.
The Company has also put in place biannual 
training sessions for Directors which are 
facilitated by a third party. Training sessions 
scheduled for 2013 include: “Developments  
in Global Remuneration Practice” and “Anti-
Bribery and Corruption”.
Performance evaluation
The Board recognises the importance of 
continuing evaluation of the performance of 
the Board and its Committees and a review of 
the operation and performance of the Board 
Corporate Governance continued  43
Significant Shareholders
Under UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules, 
significant Shareholders are required to notify 
Dialog of a shareholding of 3% or more. Dialog 
must then notify BaFin and the Stock Exchange. 
Under S.15a of the German Securities Trading Act 
(Wertpapierhandelgesetz) transactions in the 
Company’s shares carried out by members of 
the Board of Directors and their family members 
are reported and published without delay.
Dialog’s shares are listed with Clearstream 
Germany as legal owner. As far as the  
Company is aware, based on TR-1 notifications 
received, those holding a significant beneficial 
interest (>3%) in our Company as 
of 28 February 2013 were:
Kleinwort Benson (Jersey) Trustees (2011) 
Limited as Trustee of the Dialog Semiconductor 
plc Employee Benefit Trust (3.9%); Deutsche 
Bank AG (8.1%). For shares held on behalf  
of discretionary client, see page 9.
Internal control and risk management
In accordance with the EU Transparency 
Directive (DTR 7.2.5), the Board of Directors 
and Audit Committee acknowledge that they 
are responsible for the Company’s process of 
internal control and risk management and for 
reviewing its continuing effectiveness. Such 
processes are designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
The Board ensures, to the extent possible, that 
the system of internal procedures and controls 
is appropriate to the nature and scale of the 
Company’s activities and that appropriate 
processes and controls are in place to effectively 
manage and mitigate strategic, operational, 
financial and other risks facing the Company.  
A detailed list of risks and their management  
is set out on pages 27 to 29.
The Company has an ongoing process of 
identifying, evaluating and managing risk. 
This process is reviewed in accordance with 
the EU Transparency Directive. The process 
was in place during 2012 and up to the date 
of the approval of the 2012 Annual Report 
and Financial Statements. The Board and Audit 
Committee can confirm that necessary actions 
are being undertaken to remedy any perceived 
failings or weakness identified from these 
ongoing process reviews.
Committee and Strategic Transaction and 
Technology Committee. Attendance at meetings 
held in 2012 are set out in the table on page 42. 
Ad hoc committees are formed from time  
to time to deal with specific matters.
The composition of the Board sub-committees, 
as at 14 February 2013, was as follows:
Audit Committee
Aidan Hughes (Chair), John McMonigall and 
Chang-Bun Yoon
Remuneration and Nomination Committee
Russ Shaw (Chair), Chris Burke and Peter Weber
Strategic Transaction and 
Technology Committee
Chris Burke (Chair), Aidan Hughes and 
Peter Weber.
Each of the permanent Board Committees has 
terms of reference under which authority is 
delegated to them by the Board. These terms  
of reference are available on the Company’s 
website. The Chairman of each sub-committee 
attends the Annual General Meeting and is 
available to answer Shareholder questions.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company is committed to ongoing and 
active communication with its Shareholders. 
During 2012, the Company appointed a  
Head of Investor Relations to manage and 
enhance the dialog between the Company, 
its Shareholders and the broader financial 
community. The Company also retains 
independent advisers in the UK and Germany  
to help manage communication with both 
English and German speaking Shareholders. 
Dialog prepares annual and quarterly 
consolidated financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles  
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards. 
The Company maintains an investor relations 
section on its website. This contains copies 
of investor presentations and annual reports 
as well as providing other financial statements 
and corporate press releases. 
There is regular discussion between Company 
management and analysts, brokers and 
institutional Shareholders, ensuring that the 
market is appropriately informed on business 
activities. Dialog promptly discloses price 
sensitive information to all market participants. 
Notifications are first sent to the Frankfurt Stock 
Exchange and the Federal Financial Supervisory 
Authority in Germany (Bundesanstalt für 
Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht – BaFin) and then 
published via an electronic information system.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to 
participate in the Company’s bonus or share 
award schemes. In the past, non-executive 
Directors were awarded share options.  
This is no longer the practice at Dialog  
and no share options will be awarded  
to non-executive Directors in the future.
None of the remuneration of the non-executive 
Directors is performance related. The non-
executive Directors’ fees are not pensionable 
and non-executive Directors are not eligible to 
join any Company pension plans. Non-executive 
Directors are reimbursed for their reasonable 
travel expenses incurred in connection with 
attending meetings of the Board or 
related committees.
The compensation of the executive Director 
comprises a base salary and variable 
components. Variable compensation includes 
an annual bonus linked to, and dependent on, 
certain business targets as well as long-term 
incentives. The executive Directors’ 
remuneration is inclusive of any Director’s fee. 
Further details are set out on page 46.
Share ownership and dealing
Details of Directors’ shareholdings are set out 
on page 52. The Company has a policy on 
dealing in shares that applies to all Directors and 
senior management. Under this policy, Directors 
are required to obtain clearance from the Chief 
Executive Officer (or in the case of the Chief 
Executive Officer himself, from the Chairman) 
before dealing.
Directors and senior management are prohibited 
from dealing in the Company’s shares during 
designated close periods and at any other time 
when the individual is in possession of Inside 
Information (as defined by the Market Abuse 
(Directive 2003/6/EC) Regulations).
Transactions in securities of the Company’s own 
shares carried out by members of the Board of 
Directors and of their family members will be 
reported within five business days and published 
without delay, if the total value of such 
transactions in any one year exceeds €5,000, 
pursuant to and in accordance with section 
15a of the German Securities Trading Act 
(Wertpapierhandelsgesetz).
Loans to Directors or senior executives
The Company will not provide or guarantee 
any loans to Directors or senior executives.
Board sub-committees
The Board has established three permanent 
sub-committees to assist in the execution 
of its responsibilities. These are the: Audit 
Committee, Remuneration and Nomination  44 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance
The ongoing results of the work of the internal 
audit function are reviewed by the Committee 
at each meeting and where appropriate issues 
are brought to the attention of the executive 
management and the Board.
External auditor
The Committee is responsible for the 
development, implementation and monitoring 
of the Group’s policy on external audit. 
This policy assigns oversight responsibility 
for monitoring the independence, objectivity 
and compliance with ethical and regulatory 
requirements to the Audit Committee and 
day-to-day responsibility to the Chief 
Financial Officer.
The external auditor audits all of the Company’s 
financial statements. Prior to the Audit Committee 
proposing the appointment or re-appointment 
of the external auditor, the proposed auditor 
provides details of any professional, financial 
and other relationship which may exist between 
the auditor and the Company that could call its 
independence into question. This includes the 
extent to which other (non-audit) services were 
performed for the Company in the past year  
or which are contracted for the following year.
The external auditor has committed to inform 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee of any 
grounds for disqualification or impartiality of 
the auditor occurring during the audit, unless 
such grounds are eliminated.
The external auditor has committed to report 
to the Audit Committee, without delay,  
on all facts and events of importance that 
should be brought to the attention of the  
Board of Directors, which come to light during 
the performance of the audit, including the 
Company’s financial performance and 
compliance with the Company’s corporate 
governance principles.
The external auditor takes part in Audit 
Committee meetings on the annual and 
quarterly consolidated financial statements 
and reports on the essential results of its audit.
 ■ Make recommendations on the appointment 
and remuneration of external auditors  
and to monitor their performance 
and independence;
 ■ Approve and monitor the policy for non-audit 
services provided by the external auditors to 
ensure that the independence and objectivity 
of the auditors is not compromised.
In order to fulfil its duties, the Committee 
receives sufficient, reliable and timely 
information from the Dialog management team. 
The Audit Committee discharged its obligations 
during the year as follows:
Financial reporting
During the year the Committee reviewed the 
financial statements of the Company, including 
the annual report, quarterly financial statements 
and other announcements relating to the 
Company’s financial performance and received 
reports from the external auditors setting out 
the accounting or judgemental areas that 
required its attention.
Internal controls
The Committee considered reports from internal 
audit on the operation of, and issues arising 
from, the Group’s internal control procedures, 
together with observations from the external 
auditors and discussions with senior 
management. In addition, the Committee 
monitored the effectiveness of the Group’s 
risk management process.
Specific issues
On occasions the Committee takes a detailed 
look at specific issues outside of the course 
of the regular Committee meetings.
Internal audit
Internal audit activities and responsibilities are 
provided by an in-house internal audit team. 
An internal audit charter is also in place which 
outlines the objectives, authority, scope and 
responsibilities of internal audit.
An internal audit plan is approved by the 
Committee and the work specified in the  
plan is designed to monitor the effectiveness  
of the Group’s system of internal controls.
Audit Committee
The Board of Directors has established an Audit 
Committee and has delegated authority to this 
committee to consider and report to the Board 
on the Company’s financial reporting, internal 
control and risk management procedures and 
the work of the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee comprises only 
independent, non-executive Directors.  
The members during the year were Aidan 
Hughes (Chairman), John McMonigall and  
Peter Tan. Mr Tan ceased to be a member  
of the Committee upon his resignation as 
a Director on 24 April 2012. Chang-Bun Yoon 
joined the Committee on 18 July 2012. As set 
out on page 41, the Board has determined that 
Aidan Hughes has recent and relevant financial 
experience and is the Audit Committee financial 
expert. He is a qualified chartered accountant, 
an associate member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, 
and has significant experience as a senior 
accountant and Finance Director at a number 
of public companies. The other members of the 
Audit Committee have a wide range of business 
experience, which is evidenced by their 
biographies on pages 36 and 37.
Meetings
The Audit Committee meets a minimum of four 
times a year. During 2012, the Committee met 
five times. Attendance at meetings held is set 
out in the table on page 42. The Committee 
also meets privately with the internal and 
external auditors and separately with the 
executive management and executive Director.
The Audit Committee’s main responsibilities 
include to:
 ■ Review and advise the Board on the integrity 
of the financial statements of the Company, 
including the annual report, quarterly 
financial statements and other formal 
announcements relating to the Company’s 
financial performance;
 ■ Review and advise the Board on  
the effectiveness of the Company’s  
internal controls, including its 
“whistle-blowing” procedures;
 ■ Review the nature and scope of the work 
performed by the external and internal 
auditors, the results of their audit work 
and the response of the management team;
Corporate Governance continued  45
 ■ Administer the Company’s compensation, 
stock and benefits plans;
 ■ Review the Board structure, size and 
composition and make recommendations  
to the Board; and,
 ■ Identify and nominate Board candidates for 
approval by the Board.
The key activities of the Committee during the 
year were:
 ■ Review and address 2011 Annual General 
Meeting outcomes;
 ■ Review and approve Executive 
Management compensation;
 ■ Recruit and appoint non-executive Directors 
and regularly discuss succession planning;
 ■ Appoint new independent remuneration 
adviser to the Committee (Towers Watson);
 ■ Discuss and review senior level talent; 
 ■ Review, plan and approve CEO remuneration.
Details of 2012 remuneration and Dialog’s 
remuneration policy are set out in the Director’s 
remuneration report on pages 46 to 52.
Strategic Transaction and 
Technology Committee
The Board of Directors has established a 
Strategic Transaction and Technology Committee 
and has delegated authority to this Committee 
to review, evaluate and make recommendations 
in relation to strategic transactions (such as 
acquisitions, disposals or licensing arrangements) 
and the Company’s technology and the 
technological market in which it operates.
The Strategic Transaction and Technology 
Committee comprises only independent, 
non-executive Directors. The members during 
the year were Chris Burke (Chair), Aidan Hughes 
and Peter Weber.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and 
determined the criteria and focus of the 
Company in terms of technology enhancement 
and potential M&A activity. 
External auditor and non-audit work
The Company has a policy in place governing 
the conduct of non-audit work by the external 
auditor. Under this policy the auditor is 
prohibited from performing services where 
the auditor:
 ■ May be required to audit his/her own work;
 ■ Would participate in activities that would 
normally be undertaken by management; or
 ■ Is remunerated through a “success 
fee” structure.
Other than the above, the Company does not 
impose an automatic ban on the external auditor 
undertaking non-audit work. The external 
auditor is permitted to provide non-audit 
services that are not, or are not perceived to be, 
in conflict with auditor independence, provided 
it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry 
out the work and is considered by the Audit 
Committee to be the most appropriate to 
undertake such work in the best interests of 
the Company. The engagement of the external 
auditor in non-audit work must be pre-approved 
by the Audit Committee or entered into 
pursuant to pre-approved policies and 
procedures established by the Audit Committee.
Details of the amounts paid to the external 
auditor during the year for audit and other 
services are set out on page 76. The Audit 
Committee has adopted a policy that, except 
in exceptional circumstances with the prior 
approval of the Audit Committee, non-audit 
fees paid to the Company’s Auditor should be 
capped at a maximum of 100% of audit fees 
in any one year. 
During 2012, the non-audit fees paid to the 
external auditor represented 80% of the audit 
fee. Fees paid for non-audit services relate 
to other services pursuant to legislation, taxation 
services and corporate finance transactions. 
The Remuneration and 
Nomination Committee 
The Board as a whole is responsible for  
setting the Company’s policy on Directors’ 
remuneration. 
The Board of Directors has established a 
Remuneration and Nomination Committee  
and has delegated authority to this Committee 
to determine and recommend to the Board:  
the salaries and incentive compensation  
of the Company’s officers; and changes  
to Board structure, size and composition. 
The Committee comprises only independent, 
non-executive Directors. The members during 
the year were Russ Shaw (Chair), Chris Burke 
and Peter Weber. The Committee’s members 
have no financial interest in the Company other 
than as shareholders and through the fees paid 
to them.
By invitation, other members of the Board may 
attend the Committee’s meetings. The CEO  
and the Vice President, Human Resources, may 
also attend by invitation but take no part in 
discussions or decisions on matters relating to 
their own remuneration. The Committee is free 
to seek its own advice free from management  
as it deems appropriate.
During the year the Committee sought and 
received general advice relating to remuneration 
from Towers Watson and PwC, both of whom 
are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants 
Group Code of Conduct and any advice was 
provided in accordance with this code.
During the year the Committee met formally  
on five occasions, in addition the Committee 
Chairman held a number of meetings with 
our advisers.
Responsibilities
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee’s 
main responsibilities include to:
 ■ Determine the salaries and incentive 
compensation of the Company’s officers and 
the officers of the Company’s subsidiaries;
 ■ Provide recommendations for other 
employees and consultants as appropriate; 46 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance
 ■ Annual bonus now includes a formal 
maximum (previously performance above 
target was discretionary);
 ■ Annual bonus will now include a deferral 
mechanism into Company shares with 
clawback provisions; and
 ■ The level of grant under the long-term 
incentive has been formalised and linked 
more tangibly to both CEO performance  
and his investment in Company shares.
Each of these aspects is set out in more detail  
in the relevant sections of this report. 
Remuneration review and approach 
to benchmarking
The Committee reviews the CEO’s remuneration 
package annually both in the context of 
Company performance and against a range  
of peer companies. In reviewing the CEO’s pay 
arrangements the Committee takes into account:
 ■ The history and growth of the Company;
 ■ The Company’ s UK incorporation and associated 
corporate governance expectations;
Unuadited information
The Remuneration and 
Nomination Committee 
For information on the Remuneration and 
Nomination Committee and its responsibilities, 
refer to page 45.
Executive Director remuneration policy
The primary objectives of the Company’s policy 
on executive Director remuneration are:
1  To ensure that it is structured so as to attract 
and retain executives of a high calibre, with 
the skills and experience necessary to 
develop the Company successfully; and
2  To reward executives in a way that aligns 
with Shareholder interests and promotes  
the creation of sustained value for the 
Company’s Shareholders.
In response to the level of Shareholder approval 
of last year’s Directors’ remuneration report, the 
Committee embarked on a fundamental review 
of its approach to CEO remuneration and consulted 
with Shareholder proxy advisers in advance of 
finalising its arrangements for 2013. It is committed 
to ongoing dialogue with Shareholders and 
Shareholder proxy advisers in this regard.
During 2012, the Committee reviewed its 
remuneration objectives and determined that 
these principles remain fit for purpose. It 
believes that a simple approach is the most 
effective, so the package comprises of three 
principal elements:
 ■ Fixed pay, including base salary, benefits 
and pensions;
 ■ Annual bonus; and
 ■ Long-term incentive.
The Committee believes that, in order to align 
with Shareholder interests and “pay for 
performance”, a significant portion of the CEO’s 
remuneration should be linked to, and paid in, 
Company shares. The Committee believes that 
the CEO should also hold a meaningful level of 
shares personally.
While the Committee determined that its overall 
approach to remuneration remains appropriate, 
certain changes were made during 2012 to the 
operation and application of the pay arrangements 
to address issues raised around the 2012 AGM 
and closer align with best practice:
Directors’ remuneration report
Introduction from the Committee Chairman
This year, for the first time and in my capacity as Chairman of the Dialog Semiconductor Remuneration and Nomination Committee, I have decided to 
include an introductory letter to the Directors’ remuneration report to provide some detail on the Dialog approach to remuneration and to address some 
of the concerns raised in the context of our 2012 AGM.
Last year, Shareholders gave a strong signal to the Company that there were elements of our approach to remuneration and, in particular, our disclosure 
in our Directors’ remuneration report, with which they were not entirely happy. This was reflected in the number of votes cast against the report at the 
AGM and the proposed introduction of the new share plan not being approved.
The Committee, and the Board, took that signal very seriously, and embarked on a major review of both our approach to remuneration and our 
disclosure. As part of this, we sought further feedback from Shareholders and proxy advisers before finalising any changes to our remuneration plans.
This year, you will see that the Directors’ remuneration report has been extensively expanded, with a focus on describing our arrangements more fully 
and transparently; and demonstrating how opportunity and realised pay links both to Dialog’s strategy and to performance.
We believe that our remuneration approach for the executive Director remains fit for purpose and propose no material changes for 2013. However,  
as a result of Shareholder feedback from last year and as a result of this year’s review we introduced a deferral element to the 2012 annual bonus.  
The first deferral will happen in 2013. 
We have reviewed and amended the terms of the share plan that we proposed for Shareholder approval at the 2012 AGM and are seeking approval  
for that plan this year. The material differences in the proposal this year are:
 ■ The CEO is expressly excluded from participation; and
 ■ Share dilution will be limited compared to the previously agreed levels.
Finally, subject to Shareholders’ approval, fees to non-executive Directors will be paid entirely in cash in the future. All outstanding non-executive  
Director options that were exercisable in the year were exercised.
We believe that these changes directly address Shareholder concerns and will make the plan acceptable to Shareholders. It is an important addition  
to the existing share plan arrangements for employees below executive Director level.
Russ Shaw
Chairman, Remuneration and Nomination Committee  47
Elements of remuneration
Pay mix and performance
The following graphs represent the pay mix 
between the elements of remuneration, 
assuming target and maximum performance.
100
80
60
40
20
0
Maximum
performance
Target
performance
Base          Bonus          LTIs
Maximum performance 
against target performance 
(%)
As required, the chart below sets out Dialog’s 
five-year TSR.
 ■ The Company’s international focus 
and operation;
 ■ The general external environment and 
context for executive pay; and
 ■ The pay and employment practices of Dialog 
employees generally.
The Committee has determined that the pay 
policy for the CEO should set fixed pay at the 
median level when compared to a range of 
peers with total remuneration within the upper 
quartile when superior performance is achieved.
Benchmarking the CEO remuneration is not 
straightforward. The Company is not UK listed, 
and operates in a multinational sector, with  
few UK comparators. This year, the Committee 
reviewed the CEO’s remuneration against two 
peer groups:
 ■ UK FTSE 250 companies of similar market 
capitalisation to the Company (taking 20 
above and 20 below based on the sterling 
equivalent of the Company’s market 
capitalisation); and
 ■ An industry peer group, covering Europe, 
North America and Asia. This group is diverse 
both in terms of headquarters and financial 
scale but reflects the reality of the Company’s 
talent acquisition challenges.
In reviewing these benchmarks, the Committee 
was particularly sensitive to Shareholders’ 
expectations of executive pay restraint, increases 
awarded to the Company’s employees generally 
and the level of support for the 2011 Directors’ 
remuneration report.
This year’s review highlighted that at £316,000, 
the CEO’s 2011 base salary was the lowest in 
the UK benchmark group. However, despite the 
continuing strong performance of the Company, 
the Committee determined that any increase 
would need to be restrained for the reasons set 
out above. The CEO was awarded a 5% base 
pay increase to an annual salary of £331,800 
with effect from July 2012. This increase is in 
the median of the pay increases awarded to 
all employees.
On total remuneration, the CEO would not 
achieve upper quartile positioning against the 
benchmark group even for superior performance.
Against the international sector benchmark 
group, base pay was in the lower quartile, but 
the Committee recognises that international 
comparisons are difficult. The Committee 
believes that international comparisons of 
remuneration competitiveness are important 
from a talent recruitment and retention 
perspective, but recognises that as a UK 
incorporated company, UK comparisons  
are considered important by Shareholders.
Changes currently anticipated for 2013
As noted above, the Committee believes it has 
an approach to remuneration that remains 
appropriate, and appropriately competitive, other 
than in one regard. The Committee believes that 
the CEO’s base salary is too far below appropriate 
market levels to be sustainable. Mindful that any 
increase in base salary can have a ratchet effect 
on other elements of pay, notably pension and 
annual bonus (but not any basic award under 
the long-term incentive plan, which is set 
without reference to salary), it believes that 
above median inflation increases will be 
necessary over the next two to three years  
in order to bring the CEO closer to market.
In assessing the appropriate level, the Committee 
will take into account individual and Company 
performance and other relevant factors.
At this point in time, it does not envisage 
making any other changes to the CEO’s 
remuneration arrangements during 2013.
Dialog Semiconductor five-year TSR performance (%)
Dialog Semicon. (XTRA: DLG)                       German TecDAX (Price Return) – Index                         Philadelphia SE Semiconductor Sector Index
Jul 2008 Jan 2009 Jul 2009 Jan 2010 Jul 2010 Jan 2011 Jul 2011 Jan 2012 Jul 2012Jan 2013
-200
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200 48 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance
This mechanism is considered 
appropriate because:
 ■ It mandates a certain part of the bonus can 
be deferred into Company shares;
 ■ It encourages the CEO to invest and hold 
Company shares beyond that required under 
the bonus rules; and
 ■ It creates a more tangible link between 
annual performance and long-term pay 
opportunity and performance.
The Committee determined that establishing  
a separate bonus matching plan was an 
unnecessary complication and preferred to 
retain a single, active long-term incentive plan. 
This approach also provides for clarity of 
long-term performance metrics.
Any annual bonus (whether paid in cash and/or 
shares) is non-pensionable.
Deferred awards will also be subject to financial 
clawback provisions in the case of material 
financial misstatement.
Long-term incentives
The Company currently operates one long-term 
incentive plan, the Executive Incentive Plan (EIP). 
The EIP was approved by Shareholders in 2010 
(with a five-year life) and the first annual  
awards were made in 2012. The EIP incentivises 
participants (the executive team and selected 
other key senior managers) to deliver 
Shareholder value through long-term 
profitability and share price growth.
The main features of the EIP are 
summarised below:
 
Design feature Description
Delivery medium Performance shares  
 (as nominal price options)
Performance 3 years, based on  
period three annual targets
Performance 75% EBIT and revenue,  
metrics equally weighted
 25% share price growth
Vesting 20% at threshold
 40% at target
 100% at maximum
Dilution limit 0.75% of issued share  
 capital per annum
Key financial performance achieved during the year  
was as follows:
Revenue:    +47% 
Gross margin  -170bps/-1.7% 
EBIT     +48%
These three financial metrics make up 50%  
of the annual bonus (the remainder being 
commercial and organisational goals, see 
below). Pay is therefore closely aligned with  
the financial performance of the Company.
Base pay
As described above, the CEO receives base pay, 
which is reviewed annually, with any increases 
effective in July. The CEO’s current annual salary 
level is £331,800, an increase of 5% on his 
prior salary.
Other benefits
The CEO receives a cash allowance in lieu of  
a Company car of £10,200 per annum, medical 
insurance for himself and his spouse and life 
and disability insurance.
Pension
Consistent with the approach adopted for all  
of the Company’s eligible UK employees, the 
Company contributes 9% of the CEO’s base  
pay to a defined contribution pension scheme.
Annual bonus
The annual bonus is entirely performance- 
based and is paid based on the achievement  
of stretching performance objectives set  
by the Committee.
As noted above, prior to 2012, performance 
above the predetermined target performance 
level was determined at the discretion of the 
Committee. We recognise that this approach 
raised some concerns with Shareholders.  
As a result, the annual bonus provided  
for payment of up to 200% of salary for  
maximum performance, with 100% of  
salary being paid for target performance.
Performance is split into the following metrics:
 
Metric Bonus weighting
Financial goals
Revenue 16.67%
Gross margin 16.67%
EBIT 16.67%
  50%
Commercial goals
Product related 12.5%
Customer related 12.5%
  25%
Organisation and  
employee goals  25%
Total  100%
In addition to the above metrics, no bonus is 
payable if a minimum profitability gate is not 
met and the Committee retains discretion to 
adjust the overall bonus to take account of 
performance outside the normal bounds.  
The exercise of any such discretion will be 
disclosed in the normal way.
For the financial metrics, target performance  
is set consistent with the annual budget,  
which the Committee considers to be a stretch.
In order to ensure consistency with our 
approach to align remuneration with 
Shareholder interests, a deferral element was 
introduced in 2012, which operates as follows:
Performance up to target 
Paid in cash
Performance above target 
Paid in deferred shares
Deferred shares are held for three years then 
released. The CEO can request that up to 100% 
of his bonus be paid in the form of deferred 
shares. The first deferral will occur in 2013.
Any deferred shares, whether compulsorily  
or voluntarily deferred, form the basis for 
determining the award under the Company’s 
long-term incentive plan, the Executive Incentive 
Plan (EIP). Further details of this are set out below.
Directors’ remuneration report continued  49
In 2012, the CEO was awarded 97,603 
performance shares (in the form of nominal 
price options).
Since the first operation of the EIP , the grant  
to the CEO has been set by reference to a 
percentage of the available pool, rather than  
by reference to salary. The Committee continues 
to believe that de-linking salary and grant 
level allows:
 ■ For more independence between elements 
of pay, thereby avoiding an unnecessary 
ratchet of pay;
 ■ An incentive for the share price to increase; 
and
 ■ Avoiding overgranting of value if share price 
were to dip at the time of grant.
The Committee has determined that the 
appropriate level of award for the CEO is 
normally 20% of the available annual pool, 
which represents 0.15% of the issued share 
capital of the Company. For 2013, the 
Committee determined that this level of  
award remains appropriate, and is termed  
the basic award.
As noted in the annual bonus section above,  
the Committee has introduced a mechanism 
that links the amount of deferred shares  
from the annual bonus plan to the level of 
award under the EIP . For each share deferred 
(whether compulsorily or voluntarily) an 
additional share will be awarded under the EIP . 
This will be termed the invested award.
Based on the current base pay and bonus 
structure, the maximum value of the invested 
award is equivalent to 200% of salary. This only 
occurs if a maximum bonus is earned and the 
CEO elects to take it all in deferred shares.
The table below provides other scenarios, in  
the absence of any election by the CEO to defer 
additional shares. The number of shares is an 
assumption based on the closing share price  
as at 31 December 2012 of €13.30 and  
a £/€ exchange rate of 1.22.
Notes:
* Together with a basic award, this takes the maximum award for the CEO would not exceed 160,000 shares.
    Deferred EIP invested Invested 
   Cash shares award award 
Bonus earned (% of salary)   % of salary % of salary % of salary shares*
Target    100 0 0 0
Target with maximum voluntary deferral  0 100 100 30,954
Maximum    100 100 100 30,954
Maximum with maximum voluntary deferral  0 200 200 61,908
 
Performance metrics, operation 
and standards
EBIT and revenue: 75% of each award 
in total
As part of the Shareholders’ approval for the EIP in 
2010, the Committee undertook to ensure that the 
level of stringency with regard to the attainment 
of the performance targets is maintained for 
each and every grant under the EIP . To give 
comfort to Shareholders that there is integrity  
in the process, the Committee undertook to 
provide full retrospective details of the annual 
targets each year. This is set out below.
These corporate performance conditions are  
set annually over the three-year holding period. 
For each annual period, a third of this part of 
the award (i.e. ¹/
³
 of 75%) is determined based 
on the actual performance against the targets 
set at the beginning of each year.
This is illustrated in the diagram below: 
Any remaining
options lapse
Exercise period
Vested options can be exercised up to 
three years after end of holding period
Exercise period
Vested options can be exercised up to 
three years after end of holding period
Year 3
Measurement
period 3
Year 2
Measurement
period 2
Year 1
Measurement
period 1
Start of 
holding period
End of 
holding period
Year 1 revenue 
and EBIT 
targets set
Year 2 revenue 
and EBIT 
targets set
Year 3 revenue 
and EBIT 
targets set
Revenue growth 
and EBIT 
measured
Options vest based
on corporate
performance 50 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance
Share ownership guidelines
The CEO is required to establish and hold  
a shareholding of at least 100% of salary. 
Consistent with the other changes to the annual 
bonus and granting of awards under the EIP  
in 2012, this has been increased to 200% of 
salary, and excludes unvested awards from  
the calculation. The CEO currently complies  
with this new requirement.
Contract terms
The CEO’s contract provides for six months’ 
notice on either side (which is extendable  
to 12 months’ notice in the case of a change  
of control) during which only basic pay and 
benefits are payable, and a bonus if he is 
employed at year end. 
There is no acceleration of bonus on a change 
of control. The CEO has no entitlement to  
a bonus if his employment is terminated  
before the end of the bonus year unless his 
employment is terminated in lieu of notice  
after 1 October in any year. In this case he  
is entitled to a pro rata bonus for that year. 
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration 
Historically, non-executive Directors were paid 
their base fee two-thirds in cash and one-third 
in market value shares (as nominal price options 
as set out on page 51), which had a three-year 
holding period under an arrangement approved 
by Shareholders. Any additional fees were payable 
in cash. Non-executive Directors are not eligible 
for incentives, pensions or other benefits.
Following feedback from Shareholders and proxy 
advisers, it was determined that the way in which 
non-executive Directors would be remunerated 
would be reviewed. Following this review, it was 
determined that, subject to Shareholder approval, 
the structure of the non-executive Directors’ fee 
structure would change. The proposed change  
is to pay fees only in cash, consistent with UK 
corporate governance norms and no new  
share grants will be made. The fees paid  
to non-executive Directors are as follows:
Chairman: flat fee of £110,000.
Other non-executive Directors: basic fee  
of £80,000 plus additional fees of £10,000  
for chairing the Board Committees, currently  
the Audit and Remuneration and Nomination 
Committees and for 2013 onwards the Strategic 
Transaction and Technology Committee.
Share price: 25% of the award
This part of the award is banked or lapses 
depending on the Dialog share price at the 
anniversary date of the award throughout the 
three-year holding period. At the end of the 
three-year holding period, the banked portion 
of the award will vest.
This is illustrated in the diagram below: 
Any remaining
options lapse
Award
granted
Exercise period
Vested options can be exercised up to 
three years after end of holding period
Exercise period
Vested options can be exercised up to 
three years after end of holding period
Year 3 Year 2 Year 1
Start of 
holding period
End of 
holding period
First 
measurement
point
Second
measurement
point
Third
measurement
point Banked 
options vest
¹/
³
 of options
banked or lapsed
¹/
³
 of options
banked or lapsed
¹/
³
 of options
banked or lapsed
Vesting is dependent on ongoing employment 
with the Company at the time of vesting. 
Certain “good leaver” provisions apply.
Performance standards for the 2012 award
As noted above, as part of the approval for the 
EIP given by Shareholders, the Company 
undertook to disclose on a retrospective basis, 
the annual performance standards that had 
been set, together with the level of performance 
achieved. This is set out below.
EBIT and revenue
The performance standards for these metrics 
in 2012 were as follows:
  EBIT Revenue 
 Vesting margin growth 
Performance level % % %
Threshold  20 10.90 15
Target 40 11.00 25
Exceptional  100 11.76 34
 
EBIT and revenue achieved in 2012 were both 
above the exceptional level of performance 
in 2012.
Share prices
The share prices (using 30 business day 
averages) at the beginning and end of the 
performance period were €16.39 and €13.86 
respectively, meaning that none of the award 
would be banked.
Other long-term incentive schemes
The Company has in the past operated the 
Executives’ Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). 
Awards to the CEO were made up to 2010.  
No awards have been made since then and the 
plan has now expired, Details of outstanding 
awards under this plan are set out in the table 
below, with further details at Note 21 B of the 
consolidated financial statements.
Dilution
The Company operates under a general 
Shareholder-approved dilution limit of 15% of 
issued share capital. This approval stems from  
a time when the Company was in an early stage 
of its turnaround when cash preservation was 
key, yet with a need to incentivise employees 
with share-based remuneration.
The Committee recognises that the Company 
has grown to a scale where Shareholders have 
an expectation that this limit may need to  
be reduced over time, with the aim of being 
managed within UK corporate 
governance norms.
Although the Company has not reached the 
existing 15% limit, in recognising concerns 
expressed last year by some Shareholders, the 
Committee has determined, for all awards made 
with effect from the approval of this report, 
dilution will be managed using an average 
annual flow rate of 1% per annum. This means 
that the Company will be able to move dilution 
towards a rolling 10% in 10 years in a measured 
way over time.
Shareholders will note that the Company is 
seeking approval of a new share plan to  
operate below executive Director level, which 
will include provisions to comply with this 
updated approach to dilution. The EIP will  
also be subject to this new overall flow rate  
limit for new awards.
Directors’ remuneration report continued  51
Non-executive Directors’ terms 
and compensation
All non-executive Directors are appointed  
for up to three years by the Board of Directors, 
subject to any earlier requirements to stand  
for re-election as required by the Articles of 
Association (one-third of the Directors must 
stand for re-election at each AGM) and subject 
to further periods of renewal.
The fees for non-executive Directors in the 
table below reflects two-thirds of the total 
fees paid in cash and converted to US dollars. 
The remaining one-third was paid in market 
value shares (as approved by Shareholders) 
structured as nominal price options. These  
are shown in the share options table below.
Audited information
        Directors’ holdings  
  Base salary  Pensions    at 31 December 2012
  and fees  Bonus contribution Other 2012 Total 2011 Total 
Name and position  US$  US$  US$  US$  US$  US$ Shares Options
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Executive Director and CEO 513,042 450,476 55,693 27,094 1,046,305 868,743 266,679 780,015
Chris Burke
Non-executive Director 84,477 – – – 84,477 83,713 15,593 3,889
Aidan Hughes
Non-executive Director  
and Chairman of the  
Audit Committee  95,037 – – – 95,037 96,023 25,000 4,374
John McMonigall
Non-executive Director 84,447 – – – 84,477 83,713 76,000 3,889
Gregorio Reyes
Non-executive Chairman 116,156 – – – 116,156 118,182 20,000 5,347
Russ Shaw
Non-executive Director and  
Chairman of the Remuneration  
and Nomination Committee 95,037 – – – 95,037 96,023 19,891 4,374
Peter Tan
1)
Non-executive Director 21,119 – – – 21,119 83,713 40,000 –
Peter Weber
Non-executive Director 84,477 – – – 84,477 83,713 33,000 3,889
Chang-Bun Yoon
1)
Non-executive Director 63,358 – – – 63,358 – – 1,850
    1,157,180 450,476 55,693 27,094 1,690,443 1,513,823 496,160 807,627
 
1)  2012 fees for Peter Tan and Chang-Bun Yoon reflect nine months and three months respectively 52 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Share options granted to the 
executive Director
As at 31 December 2012, Jalal Bagherli, 
executive Director, held 780,015 options over 
ordinary shares which entitle him to acquire  
the same amount of shares.
The grants in 2010 and 2011 reflect awards 
made at the end of the performance period 
under the LTIP . The 2012 award was made  
under the EIP .
        Market price of  Gain on the 
        exercised options¹
)
 exercise of options 
Exercise price Date of grant Expiry date Vesting period 31 December 2011 Granted Exercised 31 December 2012 € €
€1.52 13.05.2009 12.05.2016 1-44 months 58,892 – (39,650) 19,242 16.71 602,204
£0.10 21.02.2010 04.02.2015 0 and 1 2 months 445,290 – (290,290) 155,000 16.27 4,692,245
£0.10 18.02.2011 18.02.2016 Immediately 508,170 – – 508,170 – –
€0.12 16.02.2012 16.02.2018 3 years – 97,603 – 97,603 – –
     1,012,352 97,603 (329,940) 780,015  5,292,626
1) The market price as a weighted average price
Share options granted to the 
non-executive Directors
Each non-executive Director was previously 
entitled to an initial grant of 50,000 options 
vesting monthly in 48 equal tranches. Up to  
the 2009 AGM each non-executive Director 
received a further 20,000 options vesting  
over 12 months. 
This practice ceased at the 2010 AGM.  
All remaining options were exercised during 
2012. At the 2011 AGM Shareholders resolved 
that one-third of the non-executive Directors’ 
remuneration should be satisfied in market value 
shares in the Company, via nominal price options 
(with an exercise price of €0.15), the exercise  
of which is conditional on the Director 
still being a member of the Board immediately 
before the third AGM following grant.
Subject to Shareholder approval, it is intended 
that for 2013 onwards all non-executive 
Directors’ fees will be paid in cash. 
The share option grants to non-executive Directors are as follows:
          Market price Gain on 
     31    31 of exercised the exercise
Director Exercise price     December    December options¹
)
 of options
2)
 
 € Date of grant Expiry date Vesting period 2011 Forfeited Granted Exercised 2012 € €
Chris Burke 1.40 12.07.2006 11.07.2013 48 months 5,210 –  (5,210) – 16.30 77,629
  1.17 22.04.2009 24.04.2016 12 months 18,547 –  (18,547) – 16.30 280,616
  0.15 21.07.2011 21.07.2018 48 months 2,039 –  – 2,039 – –
  0.15 18.07.2012 18.07.2019 48 months – – 1,850 – 1,850 – –
Aidan Hughes 1.27 19.06.2006 18.06.2013 48 months 4,168 – – (4,168) – 15.75 60,353
  1.35 30.04.2008 29.04.2015 12 months 20,000 – – (20,000) – 15.75 288,000
   1.17 22.04.2009 21.04.2016 12 months 20,000 – – (20,000) – 15.75 291,600
   0.15 21.07.2011 21.07.2018 48 months 2,293 – – – 2,293 – –
  0.15 18.07.2012 18.07.2019 48 months – – 2,081 – 2,081 – –
John McMonigall 1.27 19.06.2006 18.06.2013 48 months 5,210 – – (5,210) – 15.75 75,441
   1.17 22.04.2009 21.04.2016 12 months 3,340 – – (3,340) – 15.75 48,697
  0.15 21.07.2011 21.07.2018 48 months 2,039 – – – 2,039 – –
  0.15 18.07.2012 21.07.2019 48 months – – 1,850 – 1,850 – –
Gregorio Reyes 0.15 21.07.2011 21.07.2018 48 months 2,803 – – – 2,803 – –
  0.15 18.07.2012 21.07.2019 48 months – – 2,544 – 2,544 – –
Russ Shaw  1.35 30.04.2008 29.04.2015 12 months 20,000 – – (20,000) – 15.75 288,000
   1.17 22.04.2009 21.04.2016 12 months 20,000 – – (20,000) – 15.75 291,600
   0.15 21.07.2011 21.07.2018 48 months 2,293 – – – 2,293 – –
  0.15 18.07.2012 21.07.2019 48 months – – 2,081 – 2,081 – –
Peter Tan 0.15 21.07.2011 21.07.2018 48 months 2,039 (2,039) – – – – –
Peter Weber 0.15 21.07.2011 21.07.2018 48 months 2,039 – – – 2,039 – –
  0.15 18.07.2012 21.07.2019 48 months – – 1,850 – 1,850 – –
Chang-Bun Yoon 0.15 18.07.2012 21.07.2019 48 months – – 1,850 – 1,850 – –
Total     132,020 (2,039) 14,106 (116,475) 27,612 – 1,701,936
1) The market price as a weighted average price
2) Before broker fees as appropriate
Approved by the Board of Directors  
and signed on its behalf by:
Tim Anderson
Secretary
14 February 2013  53
the parent company and enable them to ensure 
that its financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation.
They have a general responsibility for taking 
such steps as are reasonably open to them  
to safeguard the assets of the Group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the 
Directors are also responsible for preparing 
a Directors’ report and Directors’ remuneration 
report that comply with that law and 
those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 
financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislations in 
other jurisdictions.
The Directors are responsible for preparing  
the annual report and the Group and parent 
company financial statements in accordance 
with the applicable law and regulations.  
UK company law requires the Directors to 
prepare Group and parent company financial 
statements for each financial year. Under the 
law the Directors are required to prepare the 
Group financial statements in accordance with 
IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected 
to prepare the parent company financial 
statements on the same basis.
The Group and parent company financial 
statements are required by law and IFRS as 
adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial 
position of the Group and the parent company 
and the financial performance and cash flows 
for that period; the Companies Act 2006 
provides in relation to such financial statements 
that references in the relevant part of the Act  
to financial statements giving a true and fair 
view are references to their achieving a fair 
presentation. In preparing each of the Group 
and parent company financial statements,  
the Directors are required to:
1  Select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently;
2  Present information, including accounting 
policies, in a manner that provides relevant, 
reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
3  Provide additional disclosures when 
compliance with the specific requirements  
in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions  
on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performances;
4  State whether they have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU; 
and
5  Make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper 
accounting records that disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance 
with the applicable reporting principles, the 
consolidated financial statements, prepared  
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit and loss of the issuer 
and undertakings included in the consolidation 
and the “our business strategy and performance”, 
“our products and key customers”, “financial 
review” and “risks and their management” 
sections of this report include a fair review  
of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company and 
the Group, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties associated with 
the expected development of the Company and 
the Group.
Dr Jalal Bagherli
Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Michel Richard
CFO, Vice President Finance
20 February 2013
Responsibility statement 54 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes
Independent Auditors’ report to the members  
of Dialog Semiconductor Plc
We have audited the financial statements of Dialog Semiconductor Plc for the year ended 31 December 2012, which comprise the Consolidated and 
Company statements of financial position, the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated 
and Company statements of cash flow, the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 33. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union and, as regards the parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibility statement set out on page 53, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
 ■ The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2012  
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 ■ The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
 ■ The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied 
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 ■ The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 ■ The part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
 ■ The information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial 
statements; and
 ■ The information given in the Corporate Governance statement set out on pages 40 to 45 with respect to internal control and risk management 
systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 ■ Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or
 ■ The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
 ■ Certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 ■ We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 ■ A Corporate Governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Julian Gray
(Senior Statutory Auditor)  
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP , Statutory Auditor  
Reading
20 February 2013  
  
 55
 
  
  Notes At 31 December
2012
US$000
At 31 December
2011
US$000
Assets     
Cash and cash equivalents 6 312,435 113,590
Trade accounts receivable and other receivable 7 82,887 46,729
Inventories 8 152,455 62,637
Income tax receivables 5 60 58
Other financial assets 9 3,120 25
Other current assets 10 12,545 8,236
Total current assets   563,502 231,275
Property, plant and equipment 11 50,318 28,404
Goodwill 4, 12 32,283 32,283
Other intangible assets 12 51,789 38,361
Deposits   1,137 1,445
Income tax receivables 5 198 239
Deferred tax assets 5 8,913 17,382
Total non-current assets   144,638 118,114
Total assets   708,140 349,389
Liabilities and Shareholders' equity     
Trade and other payables 13 106,216 50,457
Other financial liabilities 14 4,117 7,213
Provisions 15 1,288 1,040
Income taxes payable   9,359 5,178
Other current liabilities 16 21,670 16,552
Total current liabilities   142,650 80,440
Provisions 15 603 536
Other non-current financial liabilities 17 176,617 373
Deferred tax liabilities (non-current) 5  5,679 3,436
Total non-current liabilities   182,899 4,345
Ordinary shares   12,852 12,380
Additional paid-in capital   243,829 203,911
Retained earnings   129,190 59,722
Other reserves   (427) (8,251)
Employee stock purchase plan shares   (2,853) (3,158)
Net Shareholders´ equity 19 382,591 264,604
Total liabilities and Shareholders´ equity   708,140 349,389
  
 
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 February 2013 and were signed on its behalf by: 
Dr Jalal Bagherli 
Director 
Consolidated statement of financial position 
As at 31 December 2012   
  
56  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
  
  Notes 2012 
US$000 
2011
US$000
Revenue 3, 24, 27 773,583 527,261
Cost of sales  (480,971) (319,073)
Gross profit  292,612 208,188
Selling and marketing expenses  (38,669) (32,370)
General and administrative expenses  (33,476) (24,442)
Research and development expenses 24 (127,886) (90,046)
Restructuring 4 (1,549) –
Other operating income 3, 27 – 303
Operating profit 3 91,032 61,633
Interest income 3 1,360 376
Interest expense 3 (6,466) (235)
Foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net  199 (352)
Result before income taxes  86,125 61,422
Income tax expense 5 (23,612) (4,070)
Net profit  62,513 57,352
      
   2012 2011
Earnings per share (in US$)     
Basic  0.97 0.91
Diluted  0.93 0.86
Weighted average number of shares (in thousands) 2   
Basic  64,681 62,873
Diluted  67,354 66,711
  
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012   
  
 57
 
  
  2012 2011
  US$000 US$000
Net profit 62,513 57,352
Exchange differences on translating foreign operations (322) (92)
Cash flow hedges 8,871 (6,825)
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (725) 314
Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year, net of tax 7,824 (6,603)
Total comprehensive income for the year 70,337 50,749
  
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
For the year ended 31 December 2012   
  
58  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
 
  
Notes 2012 
US$000 
2011
US$000
Cash flows from operating activities:      
Net profit  62,513 57,352
Adjustments to reconcile net profit to net cash used for operating activities:     
Interest income, net 3 5,106 (141)
Income tax expense 5 23,612 4,070
Impairment of inventories  8,207 3,660
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 12,698 8,801
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 19,593 16,030
Losses on disposals of fixed assets and impairment of fixed and financial assets  1,029 1,106
Expense related to share-based payments 21 6,955 6,329
Changes in working capital:     
Trade accounts receivable, other receivables and factoring 7 (36,158) (21,451)
Inventories  (105,015) (10,716)
Prepaid expenses  (159) (967)
Trade accounts payable  55,652 11,958
Provisions  293 (334)
Other assets and liabilities   7,462 (3,336)
Cash generated from operations  61,788 72,361
Interest paid  (1,141) (109)
Interest received  1,277 381
Income taxes paid   (9,483) (3,078)
Cash flow from operating activities  52,441 69,555
Cash flows from investing activities:      
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11 (35,025) (21,161)
Purchase of intangible assets 12 (13,417) (5,414)
Payments for capitalised development costs 12 (5,956) (5,165)
Purchase of SiTel Semiconductor B.V. 4 – (84,166)
Deposits received back (made)   98 (157)
Cash flow used for investing activities  (54,300) (116,063)
Cash flows from financing activities:      
Cash flow from the convertible bond  196,631 –
Sale of employee stock purchase plan shares    4,114 2,254
Cash flow from financing activities  200,745 2,254
Cash flow from (used for) operating, investing and financing activities  198,886 (44,254)
Net foreign exchange difference  (41) (356)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  198,845 (44,610)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  113,590 158,200
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 6 312,435 113,590
 
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2012   
 
  
 59
 
   
        Other reserves   
  
Ordinary Shares
US$000
Additional paid-in 
capital
US$000
Retained earnings 
(Accumulated 
deficit)
US$000
Currency 
translation 
adjustment
US$000
Hedges 
US$000 
Employee stock 
purchase plan 
shares
US$000
Total
US$000
Balance at 1 January 2011 12,380 202,416 (3,961) (1,717) 69 (3,915) 205,272
Total comprehensive income (loss) – – 57,352 (162) (6,441) – 50,749
Sale of employee stock purchase plan shares – 1,495 – – – 757 2,252
Equity settled transactions, net of tax – – 6,331 – – – 6,331
Changes in Equity total – 1,495 63,683 (162) (6,441) 757 59,332
Balance at 31 December 2011 /  
1 January 2012 12,380 203,911 59,722 (1,879) (6,372) (3,158) 264,604
Total comprehensive income (loss) – – 62,513 (85) 7,909 – 70,337
Conversion right embedded in Convertible 
Bond – 37,393 – – – – 37,393
Convertible Bond transaction cost attributable 
to conversion right – (814) – – – – (814)
Capital Increase for employee share option 
plan (gross proceeds)  472 2,680 – – – (3,152) –
Transaction cost of capital increase - 
employee share option plan  – (33) – – – – (33)
Sale of employee stock purchase plan shares – 692 – – – 3,457 4,149
Equity settled transactions, net of tax – – 6,955 – – – 6,955
Changes in Equity total 472 39,918 69,468 (85) 7,909 305 117,987
Balance at 31 December 2012 12,852 243,829 129,190 (1,964) 1,537 (2,853) 382,591
   
 
For further details, please refer to note 19. 
 
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2012   
 
 
 
 
  
60  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
1. General 
The consolidated financial statements of Dialog Semiconductor Plc (“Dialog or the Group”) for the year ended 31 December 2012 were authorised for 
issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 15 February 2013. Dialog Semiconductor Plc is a company incorporated in the UK, whose 
shares are publicly traded. The principal activities of the Group are set out in the segment reporting (note 24). 
Company name and registered office 
Dialog Semiconductor Plc 
Tower Bridge House  
St Katharine’s Way 
London E1W 1AA 
United Kingdom 
Basis of presentation 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value. 
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars (“US$”) and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (US$000) except when 
otherwise stated.  
Statement of compliance 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the recognition and measurement requirements of 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and its interpretation as adopted by the EU. Based on these standards, management has applied the 
accounting policies as provided in note 2. 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies 
Changes in accounting policies and disclosures 
The accounting policies are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the changes resulting from the adoption of the following 
amended, revised and new Standards and new IFRIC interpretations during the year: 
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (amended) 
The amendment was issued in October 2010 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011. The amendments will allow users of 
financial statements to improve their understanding of transfer transactions of financial assets (for example, securitisations), including understanding the 
possible effects of any risks that may remain with the entity that transferred the assets. The amendments also require additional disclosures if a 
disproportionate amount of transfer transactions are undertaken around the end of a reporting period. The amendment had no impact on the 
disclosures of Dialog. 
Recently issued accounting standards not yet adopted (Standards and Interpretations are endorsed by the EU except as noted otherwise) 
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (amended / IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation (amended) 
The amended IFRS 7 / IAS 32 were issued in December 2011 and are effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 in respect of IFRS 7 and 
1. January 2014 in respect of IAS 32. The amendment standards comprise additional guidance in respect of offsetting financial assets and financial 
liabilities and introduce disclosure requirements to assess the effect or potential effect of offsetting arrangements on a company’s financial position. The 
new disclosure requirements also improve transparency in the reporting of how companies mitigate credit risk, including disclosure of related collateral 
pledged or received. 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
The new IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009. The new standard for financial instruments sets out provisions for the classification and measurement of 
financial assets. IFRS 9 uses a single approach to determine whether a financial asset is measured at amortised cost or fair value, replacing the many 
different rules in IAS 39. The approach in IFRS 9 is based on how an entity manages its financial instruments (its business model) and the contractual cash 
flow characteristics of the financial assets. 
In October 2010 additions to IFRS 9 Financial instruments were issued.  The additions outline the requirements on the accounting for financial liabilities. 
The new requirements address the problem of volatility in profit or loss (P&L) arising from an issuer choosing to measure its own debt at fair value (often 
referred to as the ‘own credit’ problem). The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) decided to maintain the existing amortised cost 
measurement for most liabilities, limiting change to that required to address the own credit problem. With the new requirements, an entity choosing to 
measure a liability at fair value will present the portion of the change in its fair value due to changes in the entity’s own credit risk in the other 
comprehensive income (OCI) section of the income statement, rather than within profit or loss.. 
The new IFRS 9 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 (as amended in December 2011). IFRS 9 has not yet been endorsed by the 
EU The impact will be further analysed in the future when the project is complete. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012   
 
  
 61
 
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities, IAS 27 (revised) 
Separate Financial Statements, IAS 28 (revised) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 
The IASB completed in May 2011 its improvements to the accounting requirements for off balance sheet activities and joint arrangements by issuing 
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (amended in June 2012 in 
order to clarify the transition guidance in IFRS 10 and to provide additional transition relief in IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12). The new and revised 
standards are effective for periods beginning on 1 January 2013, however the Standards were adopted by the EU for periods beginning on 1 January 
2014, at the latest (the transition guidance has not yet been adopted by the EU). 
 IFRS 10 builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within 
the consolidated financial statements of the parent company. The standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of control 
where this is difficult to assess. 
The Group does not expect a material effect on its financial statements resulting from this new standard. 
 IFRS 11 provides for a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the arrangement, rather than its 
legal form (as is currently the case). The standard addresses inconsistencies in the reporting of joint arrangements by requiring a single method to 
account for interests in jointly controlled entities. 
The Group does not expect a material effect on its financial statements resulting from this new standard, as the Group is not engaged in joint 
arrangements.  
 IFRS 12 is a new and comprehensive standard on disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, 
associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles. 
The Group expects additional disclosures from this new standard. 
 IAS 27 (revised) now includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included 
in the new IFRS 10. 
 IAS 28 (revised) now includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11. 
Investment Entities (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27) 
The amendments made to the standards were issued in October 2012 and apply to a particular class of business that qualify as “Investment Entities”. The 
amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Investment Entities amendments provide an exception to the 
consolidation requirements in IFRS 10 and require investment entities to measure particular subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss, rather than 
consolidate them. The amendments also set out disclosure requirements for investment entities as Dialog does not qualify as a “Investment Entity”, Dialog 
does not expect a material effect on its financial statements resulting from this amendments. The amended standards have not yet been endorsed by the 
EU. 
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 
The new IFRS 13 was issued in May 2011 and is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. The requirements of IFRS 13 do not extend 
the use of fair value accounting, but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards 
within IFRSs. Beside additional disclosures, the Group does not expect a material effect on its financial statements resulting from this amendment. 
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 
The amendments to IAS 1 were issued in June 2011 and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012. The amendments require 
companies preparing financial statements in accordance with IFRSs to group together items within Other Comprehensive Income (“OCI”) that may be 
reclassified to the profit or loss section of the income statement. The amendments also reaffirm existing requirements that items in OCI and profit or loss 
should be presented as either a single statement or two consecutive statements. The amendment will primarily result in a grouping of OCI items. All OCI 
items presented by the Group are reclassifiable.  
IAS 12 Income taxes 
The amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes were issued in December 2010 and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012, 
however the amendment was adopted by the EU for periods beginning on 1 January 2013. IAS 12 requires an entity to measure the deferred tax 
relating to an asset depending on whether the entity expects to recover the carrying amount of the asset through use or sale. It can be difficult and 
subjective to assess whether recovery will be through use or through sale when the asset is measured using the fair value model in IAS 40 Investment 
Property. The amendment provides a practical solution to the problem by introducing a presumption that recovery of the carrying amount will normally 
be through sale. As a result of the amendments, SIC-21 Income Taxes—Recovery of Revalued Non-Depreciable Assets would no longer apply to 
investment properties carried at fair value. The amendments also incorporate into IAS 12 the remaining guidance previously contained in SIC-21, which 
is accordingly withdrawn. The Group does not expect a material effect on its financial statements resulting from this amendment. 
 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
 
 
 
  
62  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (amended) 
The amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits were issued in December 2010 and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
The amendments especially relate to:  
 eliminating an option to defer the recognition of gains and losses, known as the ‘corridor method’, improving comparability and faithfulness of 
presentation;  
 streamlining the presentation of changes in assets and liabilities arising from defined benefit plans, including requiring remeasurements to be 
presented in other comprehensive income (OCI), thereby separating those changes from changes that many perceive to be the result of an entity’s 
day-to-day operations;  
 enhancing the disclosure requirements for defined benefit plans, providing better information about the characteristics of defined benefit plans 
and the risks that entities are exposed to through participation in those plans.  
Since the Group does not operate any defined benefit plan, the Group does not expect a material effect on its financial statements resulting from this 
amendment. 
Improvements to IFRSs – a collection of amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards (annual improvements project) 
The IASB has also issued a collection of amendments to various IFRSs (“Improvements to IFRSs”) in May 2012, which are effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2013. This includes amendments to various existing IFRSs. Dialog does not expect a material impact on the financial 
position nor the financial performance of Dialog. The amended standards have not yet been endorsed by the EU. 
In addition, the following interpretation has been issued: 
   
Interpretation  Title Effective date 
IFRIC 20 
1)
 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 January 2013 
   
1)
 IFRIC 20 is not relevant to the operations of the Group 
The Group does not intend to make early application of the amended or revised Standards and Interpretation listed above. 
Principles of consolidation and investments in affiliated companies 
The consolidated financial statements include Dialog Semiconductor Plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year: 
 
Name Country of incorporation Participation
Dialog Semiconductor GmbH Germany 100%
Dialog Semiconductor B.V. The Netherlands 100%
Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Limited  UK 100%
Dialog Semiconductor Inc. USA 100%
Dialog Semiconductor KK Japan 100%
Dialog Semiconductor Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100%
Dialog Semiconductor (Italy) S.r.l. Italy 100%
Dialog Semiconductor Arastirma Gelistirme ve Ticaret A.S. Turkey 100%
Dialog Semiconductor Trading (Shanghai) Limited      China 100%
 
 
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which Dialog obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until 
the date such control ceases. 
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. 
All intra-group balances, transactions, unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions and dividends are eliminated in full. 
 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
  
 63
 
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.  If Dialog loses control over a 
subsidiary, it: 
 Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary; 
 Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest; 
 Derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity; 
 Recognises the fair value of the consideration received; 
 Recognises the fair value of any investment retained; 
 Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss; 
 Reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as  
appropriate. 
Business combinations and Goodwill 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. For each business combination, the 
Group measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. 
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses. 
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance 
with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded 
derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.  
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is 
remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.  
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair 
value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as 
a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled 
within equity. 
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling 
interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the 
subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss. 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired 
in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the 
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-
generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the 
carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured 
based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained. 
Foreign exchange 
The functional currency for the Group entities is generally the currency in which they primarily generate and expense cash. Each entity in the Group 
determines its own functional currency. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of companies whose functional currency is other than the US dollar are 
included in the consolidation by translating the assets and liabilities into the presentation currency (US$) at the exchange rates applicable at the end of 
the reporting period. Equity accounts are measured at historical rates. The statements of income and cash flows are translated at the average exchange 
rates during the year. The exchange differences arising on the translation are directly recognised in equity (other reserves). On disposal of an entity, the 
component of other comprehensive income relating to that particular entity is recognised in the income statement. 
 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
 
 
 
  
64  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date. All differences are taken to 
profit and loss with the exception of differences on monetary items that form part of a net investment in a foreign operation. These are taken directly to 
equity until the disposal of the net investment at which time they are recognised in profit or loss. Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange 
differences on those monetary items and borrowings are also dealt with in equity. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a 
foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transaction. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are 
disclosed separately in the income statement, at each reporting period. Key exchange rates against US dollars used in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements were: 
   
 Exchange rate at   Annual average exchange rate  
 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 2012 2011
Currency US$1 = US$1 = US$1 = US$1 =
Pound Sterling 0.62 0.65 0.63 0.62
Japanese Yen 86.20 77.37 79.74 79.71
Euro 0.76 0.77 0.78 0.72
   
 
Financial instruments 
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset in one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument in another. Financial 
assets include, in particular, cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and other loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and derivative 
and non-derivative financial assets accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, as well as investments available for sale.  
Financial liabilities generally substantiate claims for repayment in cash or another financial asset. In particular, this includes trade payables, liabilities to 
banks and derivative financial liabilities.  
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the entity currently has a 
legal right to set off the recognised amounts and intends to settle on a net basis. 
Financial assets 
Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as being at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity investments, loans and receivables 
or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate. When financial assets are first recognised, they are measured at fair value, plus, in case of 
investments not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.  
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets on first recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at 
each financial year end.  
All regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the settlement date, which is the date that the Group receives the asset. Regular 
purchases or sales are classified as purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the period generally established by 
regulation or convention of the market place.  
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition at fair 
value through profit or loss. Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term. This 
category includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as 
defined by IAS 39. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective 
hedging instruments. Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value with changes in 
fair value recognised in finance income or finance costs in the income statement. 
 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
  
 65
 
Derivatives embedded in host contracts are accounted for as separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic characteristics and risks are 
not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not held for trading or designated at fair value though profit or loss. These 
embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. Reassessment only occurs if there is a 
change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be required. 
The Group has not entered into trading actions nor designated financial asset as financial asset through profit or loss in 2012 and 2011. 
Financial assets held to maturity 
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities are classified as held to maturity when the Group has the 
positive intention and ability to do so. After initial measurement, held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. The effective interest method takes into account any premium or discount on acquisition and includes transaction costs and fees that 
are an integral part of the effective interest rate. 
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the investments are de-recognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. The 
carrying amount of financial assets held-to-maturity are tested at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective, material evidence of 
impairment as outlined in IAS 39.59. Any impairment losses caused by the fair value being lower than the carrying amount are recognised in profit or 
loss. The Group does not use allowance accounts in order to record the impairment in the statement of financial position but credits the impairment loss 
directly against the book value of the financial assets.  
If in a subsequent period the fair value increases and this increase can be related objectively to events occurring after the impairment was recognised, 
the impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date. The fair value 
which is required for impairment testing corresponds to the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted using the original effective 
interest rate. 
Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market, such as trade 
accounts receivable. Loans and receivables are recorded initially at fair value and do not bear interest. As of 31 December 2012 as well as 31 December 
2011, loans and receivables of the Group comprise trade accounts receivable from customers, cash and cash equivalents (except for deposits designated 
as hedging instruments). After initial recognition, loans and receivables are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less any allowance for impairment, if necessary. 
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are de-recognised or impaired. Interest income and expense on 
the application of the effective interest method are also recognised in profit or loss.  
The Group continuously reviews its allowance for doubtful accounts. Management considers the collectability of a trade account receivable to be 
impaired when it is probable that the Group will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the sales terms, based on current information and 
events regarding the customers’ ability to meet their obligations. The amount of the impairment loss on loans and receivables is measured as the 
difference between the carrying amount of the asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest 
rate of the financial asset. The amount of the impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss. 
If, in a subsequent reporting period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can objectively be related to an event occurring 
after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed and recognised in profit or loss. 
When a trade receivable is considered to be impaired, any credit losses are included in the allowance for doubtful accounts through a charge to bad 
debt expenses. Account balances are set off against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is 
considered remote. Recoveries of trade receivables previously written-off are recorded as other income when received. Reversals of impairment losses are 
recognised in profit and loss. The Group does not have any off-balance sheet credit exposure related to its customers. 
Receivables from work in process for customer specific development projects according to IAS 11 are recorded in the balance sheet line “trade accounts 
receivable and other receivables” and are disclosed in the notes respectively. 
 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
 
 
 
  
66  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified as loans and 
receivables, held-to-maturity investments or as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.  
After initial measurement available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value. Unrealised gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, on 
available-for-sale financial assets are excluded from earnings and are reported as a component of other reserves until realised, or the investment is 
determined as being impaired. 
At each reporting date, the carrying amounts of available-for-sale assets are assessed to determine whether there is objective, significant evidence of 
impairment as outlined in IAS 39.59. Any impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are charged to profit or loss. The Group does not use 
allowance accounts in order to record the impairment in the statement of financial position but credits the impairment loss directly against the book 
value of the financial assets. If this impairment relates to losses previously recognised in equity then the impairment loss is transferred from equity to the 
income statement. Reversals of impairment losses in respect of equity instruments or investment funds that are classified as available-for-sale are not 
recognised in profit or loss. Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through profit or loss if the increase in fair value of the 
instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss. 
The fair value of available-for-sale financial assets actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices 
at the close of business on the reporting date. 
For investments in which there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques, including recent arm’s length market transactions; 
reference to the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same; discounted cash flow analysis; or other valuation models. If 
the fair value of unquoted equity instruments cannot be measured with sufficient reliability, these instruments are measured at cost (less any impairment 
losses, if applicable). 
Derecognition of financial assets 
A financial asset is derecognised when: 
 the right to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; 
 the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third 
party under a “pass through agreement”; or 
 the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset. 
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in the 
derecognition as receivables under factoring agreement. 
Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities primarily include trade accounts payable, liabilities due to banks, derivative financial liabilities and other liabilities. 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised costs 
After initial recognition at fair value, less directly attributable transaction costs, financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair 
value through profit or loss. Gains and losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in profit or loss. 
During the financial years 2012 and 2011 the Group did not classify any financial liabilities as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. 
Derecognition of financial liabilities 
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
  
 67
 
Hedging instruments and hedge accounting 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward contracts, mainly for the purposes of hedging currency risks that arise from its 
operating activities. Beside the derivative financial instruments the Group designated certain deposits as hedging instruments in order to hedge foreign 
currency risks as well. Such derivative financial instruments and deposits were initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract 
was entered into or the cash deposit was designated as a hedging instrument and was subsequently remeasured at fair value on each subsequent 
reporting date. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
Any gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value on derivatives and the deposits during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
taken directly to profit or loss. 
The fair value of derivatives is equal to their positive or negative market value. The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to 
current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. The fair value of the deposits was measured based on foreign currency 
market rates at each reporting date. 
If the requirements for hedge accounting set out in IAS 39 are met, the Group designates and documents the hedge relationship from the date a 
derivative contract is entered into or the cash deposit is designated as a hedging instrument, either as a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge. 
The Group did not enter into fair value hedges in 2012 and 2011. 
In a cash flow hedge, the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, 
or a firm commitment (in case of currency risks) is hedged. To hedge a currency risk of an unrecognised firm commitment, the Group makes use of the 
option to recognise this as a cash flow hedge. The documentation of the hedge relationship includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged 
item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure 
to changes in the hedged cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in 
cash flows, and are assessed on an on-going basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods 
for which they were designated. 
For cash flow hedges, fair value changes of the effective portion of the hedging instrument are recognised in other reserves, net of applicable taxes, 
while any ineffective portion of the fair value changes are recognised immediately in profit or loss. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the 
income statement when the hedged transaction affects the income statement, such as when the forecast or committed expenses occur. If the forecast 
transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss. 
If the hedging instrument does not, or no longer, qualifies for hedge accounting because the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting are not, or are no 
longer met, the derivative financial instruments are classified as held for trading and the deposits are classified as loans and receivables. Amounts 
previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss, if the transaction is no longer expected to occur. 
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts 
previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or the firm commitment occurs. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with original maturity dates of three months or less and are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value. The financial position cash and cash equivalents also includes deposits designated as hedging instruments. 
Inventories 
Inventories include assets held for sale in the ordinary course of business (finished goods), in the process of production (work in process) or in the form 
of materials to be consumed in the production process (raw materials). Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost, which 
includes direct materials, labour and overhead, plus indirect overhead, is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Net realisable value is the 
estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and estimated costs to make the sale. 
 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
 
 
 
  
68  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. These include the cost of replacing 
part of the plant and equipment when that cost is incurred, if the recognition criteria are met. Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the 
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: 
 
Category of assets Useful life
Test equipment 3 to 8 years
Leasehold improvements Shorter of useful life or lease term
Office and other equipment 18 months to 13 years
 
 
The asset’s residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end. 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired separately (primarily licences, software and patents) are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets 
acquired in a business combination (primarily customer based intangible assets, technology) is its fair value as at the date of acquisition. Intangible assets 
with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. The amortisation period and the 
amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected 
useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for by changing the amortisation 
period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. 
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives as follows:  
Intangible asset Useful life
Customer related intangible assets  1.5 to 3 years
Brand / base technology 2 to 4.5 years
SAP software 10 years
Other intangible assets 3 to 6 years
 
 
Amortisation expenses are allocated to the cost of goods sold, selling expenses, research and development expenses, or general administration expenses. 
Other than its goodwill, the Group has no intangible assets with an indefinite useful life. 
Self-developed intangible assets are recorded on a cost basis. They are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated usefulness of 12-60 months. 
The costs of internally generated intangible assets comprise all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce and prepare the asset to be 
capable of operating in a manner intended by management, e.g. costs of materials and services used or consumed in generating the intangible asset, 
costs of employee benefits or fees to register a legal right. Reference is also made to the accounting policy regarding research and development costs in 
this section. 
Patents have been granted by the relevant government agency for a certain period, depending on the specific country, with the option of renewal at the 
end of this period. In most cases the maximum lifetime of the patents is 20 years. They are amortised over the shorter period of expected future benefit, 
which is principally ten years. Acquisition costs for patents are based on the cost of patent registration. 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
  
 69
 
Impairment of non-monetary assets including Goodwill 
Dialog assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually (as at 30 
November) and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Impairment testing involves comparing the carrying amount of 
each cash-generating unit including goodwill or item of intangible assets, property, plant or equipment to the recoverable amount, which is the higher 
of its fair value less costs to sell or its value in use. If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is 
written down to its recoverable amount. An impairment is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are 
largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets (cash-generating unit). Dialog considers its operating segments as cash-generating 
units. If a cash generating unit is found to be impaired, an impairment loss is first recognized on any goodwill allocated to it. Any remaining impairment 
amount is then allocated among the other assets of the strategic business entity, and pro-rated impairment losses are recognized on the carrying 
amounts of these assets.  
Impairment losses of continuing operations, are recognised in the income statement in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired 
asset, except goodwill. Impairment losses on goodwill are recognized in “other expense”. 
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. These are forecasted on the basis of the Group’s current planning, the 
planning horizon normally being three years including one year of budgeted and two additional forecasted years. In determining the fair value less costs 
to sell, recent market transactions are taken into account, if available. If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.  
Forecasting for the entire planning period involves making assumptions, especially regarding future selling prices, sales volumes and costs. Where the 
recoverable amount is the fair value less costs to sell, the cash-generating unit or individual asset is measured from the viewpoint of an independent 
market participant. Where the recoverable amount is the value in use, the cash-generating unit or individual asset is measured as currently used. In 
either case, net cash flows beyond the planning period are determined on the basis of long-term business expectations using the respective individual 
growth rates derived from market information. 
The net cash inflows are discounted at a rate equivalent to the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). To allow for the different risk and return 
profiles of the Group’s principal businesses, the WACC is calculated separately for each strategic business unit (synonymously cash generating unit from 
impairment test perspective)-specific capital structure is defined by benchmarking against comparable companies in the same industry sector. The cost of 
equity corresponds to the return expected by stockholders, while the cost of debt is based on the conditions on which comparable companies can 
obtain long-term financing. Both components are derived from capital market information. 
For assets other than goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether any indication that previously recognised impairment losses 
may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, an estimation of the recoverable amount is made. A previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment 
loss was recognised. If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount, however, cannot 
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. 
Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss. 
Leases 
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date of whether the 
fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. 
Where the Group is lessee, finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, 
are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease 
payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability. Finance charges are reflected in profit and loss.  
A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that Dialog will obtain ownership by the end of 
the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term. 
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
 
 
 
  
70  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. 
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes or duty. The Group 
assesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or agent. The Group has concluded that it is 
acting as a principal in all of its revenue arrangements. The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: 
Sale of goods 
Revenue from the sale of goods is derived from the sale of products, application specific integrated circuit (“ASIC”) and application specific standard 
product (“ASSP”) to end customers. These products are manufactured and tested in accordance with customers’ technical specifications prior to delivery.  
Revenue is recognised when title passes, the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, the fee is fixed or determinable, and 
collection of the related receivable is probable. Revenues are recorded net of sales taxes and customer discounts, if any. 
The Group has insurance for product claims and also records a provision for warranty costs as a charge in cost of sales, based on historical trends of 
warranty costs incurred as a percentage of sales, which management has determined to be a reasonable estimate of the probable costs to be incurred 
for warranty claims in a period.  
Customer returns are permitted only for quality-related reasons within the applicable warranty period and any potential warranty claims are subject to 
the Group’s determination that it is at fault for damages. Such claims must usually be submitted within a short period of the date of sale. 
Research and development 
Revenue from customer-specific research and development contracts involving the development of new customer-specific technology is recognised on 
the percentage of completion basis when the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably. A contract’s outcome can be estimated reliably when 
total contract revenue can equally be estimated, it is probable that economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the Group, and the stage 
of contract completion can be measured reliably. When the Group is not able to meet those conditions, the policy is to recognise revenues only to the 
extent the expenses incurred are eligible to be recovered. Completion is measured by reference to costs incurred to date as a percentage of estimated 
total project costs. The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total expected contract revenue and costs, as well as the dependable 
measurement of the progress made towards completing the particular project. Losses on projects in progress are recognised in the period they become 
likely and can be estimated. 
 
Government grants 
Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied with. 
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs 
that it is intended to compensate. Grants are deducted in reporting the related expense.  
Cost of sales 
Cost of sales consists of the costs of outsourced production, assembly and test, personnel costs and applicable overheads and depreciation of 
equipment. Provisions for estimated product warranties are recorded in cost of sales at the time the related sale is recognised. 
Sales and marketing expenses 
Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, travel expenses, sales commissions, bad debt expenses and costs associated with advertising 
and other marketing activities. 
General and administrative expenses 
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and support costs for finance, human resources, ERP system and other management 
departments which are not attributable to development, production or sales functions.  
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
  
 71
 
Research and development costs 
Costs identified as research costs are expensed as incurred, whereas development costs on an individual project are capitalised as an intangible asset and 
amortised over the period of expected future benefit if the Group can demonstrate the following: 
 
 The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale; 
 Its intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; 
 Its ability to use or sell the intangible asset; 
 How the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits. Among other things, the Group can demonstrate the existence of a 
market for the output of the intangible asset or the intangible asset itself or, if it is to be used internally, the usefulness of the intangible asset; 
 The availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and use or sell the intangible asset; and 
 Its ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development. 
 
Interest income/expense 
Interest income is recognised as interest accrues. Interest income includes interest income from investments in securities, cash and cash equivalents. 
Income and expense resulting from the allocation of premiums and discounts is also included. Interest expense is generally expensed as incurred. 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get 
ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they 
occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.  
Foreign currency exchange gains and losses 
The foreign currency exchange gains and losses mainly result from foreign currency cash transactions and period end revaluation of foreign currency 
denominated cash into US dollars. It is the Group’s view that these gains and losses are driven by the financing activities of the Group and are therefore 
shown as non-operating results.  
Employee benefits – defined contribution plans 
Contributions to defined contribution and state-funded pension plans are recognised in the income statement as incurred. 
Income taxes 
Current income taxes for current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The 
tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are accounted for using the liability method and are recognised for the future tax consequences attributable to 
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, and their respective tax bases, as well as on the carry-forward of 
unused tax losses that can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates that have been enacted, or substantially enacted, by the reporting date and which are 
expected to apply to taxable income in the years, in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of a change 
in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognised in income in the period that includes the enactment date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences 
can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed 
at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent, that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be 
recovered. Deferred tax assets being reduced in the past are presented in the notes gross less respective provisions. If in future periods it becomes 
probable that taxable profits will be available against which the unused tax losses can be utilized, it is assumed that tax losses incurred first will be 
utilized first and the respective provision will be reversed. 
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, only if a legally enforceable right exists, to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. 
Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it relates to items that are charged or credited to other comprehensive income. 
Similarly, income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged directly to equity. Otherwise income tax is 
recognised in the income statement. 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
 
 
 
  
72  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Sales tax 
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax, except: 
 Where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is 
recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable; 
 Receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of sales tax included.  
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the statement of 
financial position. 
Share-based payments 
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date, reflects the extent to which the vesting 
period has expired and the best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The income statement charge or credit for a 
period represents the movement in cumulative expense in the period. 
Stock options 
The Group has established an equity-settled share option scheme under which employees and Directors may be granted stock options to acquire shares 
of Dialog. 
The fair value of options granted is recognised as a compensation expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant 
date and spread over the service period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. 
The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions on which 
the options were granted. Expectations of early exercise are accounted for within the average life of the options. The Group applies IFRS 2 to all options 
granted after 7 November 2002 that had not been vested as of 1 January 2005. 
Executives’ Long Term Incentive Plan 
The Group operates an equity settled Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). Under this plan, key executives are eligible to share in a percentage of the value 
created for Shareholders in excess of an annual return hurdle measured over a four year performance period.  
Each participant in the LTIP is awarded a number of units which convert into Company shares according to the level of outperformance of the 
Company’s share price over the annual return hurdle. If this hurdle is not reached no units convert into Company shares.  
The fair value of the awards is recognised as a compensation expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date, 
using a Monte Carlo Model, taking into account the terms and conditions on which awards are granted and is spread over the service period during 
which the key executives become unconditionally entitled to the awards.  
The last measurement date for the LTIP was 31 January 2011, the LTIP was then replaced by the Executive Incentive Plan see below.  
For further information please refer to note 21.B. 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
  
 73
 
Executive Incentive plan 
In 2011 the Group established an equity settled Executives Incentive Plan (EIP). As described above, the EIP replaces the LTIP . Under this plan, key 
executives and other key value drivers of the business are eligible to share in a percentage of the value created for Shareholders. Pay-outs are now in 
addition to share price growth also based on corporate performance targets.  
Each participant in the EIP is awarded a number of units which convert into Company shares according to the level of the Company’s share price, EBIT 
and revenue growth over a term of three years from the date of grant.  
The fair value of the awards is recognised as a compensation expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant date, 
using a Monte Carlo Model, taking into account the terms and conditions on which awards are granted and is spread over the service period during 
which the key executives become unconditionally entitled to the awards.  
For further information please refer to note 21.C. 
Employee benefit trust – Treasury shares 
The Group has an employee benefit trust. The employee benefit trust is separately administrated and is funded by the Group, which consolidates the 
assets, liabilities, income and expenses in its own accounts. The shares held by the trust are recorded at cost and are shown under “Employee stock 
purchase plan shares” in the statement of changes in Shareholders’ equity. 
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit (loss) for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of Dialog by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. 
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of Dialog by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued if all the securities or 
other contracts to issue ordinary shares were exercised. 
The weighted average number of shares outstanding is as follows: 
  
  2012
000
2011
000
Basic number of shares 64,681 62,873
Effect of dilutive options outstanding 2,673 3,838
Dilutive number of shares 67,354 66,711
  
 
The number of anti-dilutive share options outstanding was 1,071,524 (2011: 615,744). 
In 2012 the potential ordinary shares of the convertible bond were antidilutive as their conversion to ordinary shares would increase earnings per share.  
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions 
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of 
assets and liabilities, as well as disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of 
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 
The significant accounting estimates and assumptions are outlined below: 
Impairment of non-financial assets 
The Group assesses whether there are any indicators of impairment for all non-financial assets at each reporting date. In case of such an indicator, an 
impairment test is made. This requires the determination of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell respectively of the assets. Estimating the 
value in use requires management to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the asset and also to choose a suitable discount rate in 
order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The carrying amount of such assets at 31 December 2012 was US$286,845,000 (2011: 
US$161,685,000), please refer to notes  4, 8, 11 and 12. 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
 
 
 
  
74  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Estimation of useful lives 
Although the estimates of the useful lives of certain assets, assumptions concerning the macroeconomic environment and developments in the industry 
in which the Group operate, and estimates of the discounted future cash flows are believed to be appropriate, changes in assumptions or circumstances 
could require changes in the analysis. This could lead to impairment losses in the future or – except in the case of goodwill – to reversals of impairment 
losses.  The useful lives of certain assets relate to the anticipated period of productive use of the assets or contractual terms.  
Business Combinations 
In accordance with business combination accounting, we allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values. We engage third-party appraisal firms to assist management in determining the 
fair values of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, 
especially with respect to intangible assets.  
Management makes estimates of fair value based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable. These estimates are based on historical experience and 
information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in valuing certain assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from the sale of products, and engineering service sales, the acquired 
company’s brand awareness and discount rate. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such 
assumptions, estimates or actual results. Subject to these estimates are the fair values recorded as shown in note 4 (Business Combinations). 
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units or groups of cash generating units, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business 
combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquire are assigned to these units or group of units. The estimates of these 
synergies include but are not limited to: future cash flows from the sale of products, changes in fair values of cash generating units and discount rate. 
We refer to note 4 (Allocation of Goodwill to Cash Generating Units and Goodwill Impairment Testing) for the applied approach and assumptions. 
Deferred tax assets 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses 
can be utilised.  
Significant management judgement on projected future taxable profits and cash flows is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that 
can be recognised, based upon the likely timing of future taxable profits, together with future tax planning strategies. At year end 2012, net deferred 
tax assets amounting to US$3,234,000 were recognised (2011: US$13,946,000). Impaired deferred tax assets at 31 December 2012 were nil (2011: 
US$1,105,000). 
Further information regarding the assessment of future taxable income is disclosed in note 5. 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
  
 75
 
Share-based employee compensation awards 
 Stock options 
Share-based payment transactions for stock options are measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted. The fair 
value of share-based payments is determined using the Black-Scholes model, which involves making assumptions about interest rates, volatilities, 
market conditions, dividend yield, expected life and fluctuation. Due to the nature of these assumptions, such estimates are subject to significant 
uncertainty. In 2012, the expense related to stock options was US$5,466,000 (2011: US$5,279,000). For further information on stock options 
please refer to note 21.A and 21.D.  
 Executives’ Long Term Incentive Plan 
The fair value of the awards is recognised as a compensation expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant 
date, using a Monte Carlo Model, based on standard inputs such as the Company’s share price, interest rate, and volatility of the Company’s share 
price, dividend yield and expected life. Due to the nature of these assumptions, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. In 2012, an 
expense of US$74,000 was booked (2011: US$1,050,000). Further information regarding LTIP is provided in note 21.B and 21.D. 
 Executives Incentive Plan 
The fair value of the awards is recognised as a compensation expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant 
date, using a Monte Carlo Model, based on standard inputs such as the Company’s share price, interest rate, and volatility of the Company’s share 
price, dividend yield and expected life. Due to the nature of these assumptions, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. In 2012, an 
expense of US$1,415,000 was booked (2011: nil). Further information regarding EIP is provided in note 21.C and 21.D. 
Customer-specific research and development 
For the determination of revenue and costs for customer-specific research and development contracts, management judgement is required. It is, 
therefore, necessary to determine the stage of completion based on the progress made towards completing the particular project, as well as the 
contract revenue and the contract costs. Besides an advance payment received from one customer, at 31 December 2012 no receivables or liabilities 
from constructions contracts were outstanding (2011: nil). 
Self-developed intangible assets 
Development costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy mentioned above, i.e. they are recorded on a cost basis. However, initial 
capitalisation of costs is based on management’s judgement that technological and economical feasibility is confirmed, usually when a product 
development project has reached a defined milestone according to an established project management model. The amortisation start correlates with the 
first delivery of products to the customer.  In determining the probable future economic benefits of the self-developed intangible asset, management 
makes assumptions regarding the expected future cash generation of the assets, discount rates to be applied and the expected period of benefits. At 
31 December 2012, the carrying amount of capitalised development costs was US$13,425,000 (2011: US$16,041,000), please refer to note 12. 
Actual results may differ from all of the above judgements and estimates. 
2. Summary of significant accounting policies continued  
 
 
 
 
  
76  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
3. Other disclosures to the income statement 
a) Operating expenses and revenues 
The operating result before income taxes is stated after charging: 
  
  2012 
US$000 
2011
US$000
Auditors' remuneration    
for the audit of the group financial statements (302) (310)
for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries (154) (61)
for other audit related services (70) (67)
Other fees for auditors    
Audit related assurance services – (54)
Services related to Corporate Finance transaction (373) (15)
Other services (7) –
  (906) (507)
     
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (12,698) (8,801)
     
Amortisation of intangible assets    
thereof included in cost of sales  (4,454) (2,120)
thereof included in selling and marketing expenses (9,076) (5,810)
thereof included in general and administrative expenses (5,426) (300)
thereof included in research and development expenses (637) (7,800)
  (19,593) (16,030)
      
Personnel costs     
Wages and salaries (85,684) (68,585)
Social and security costs (9,049) (6,976)
Share-based payments (6,955) (6,331)
Pension costs from defined contribution plans
1)
 (6,455) (5,685)
  (108,143) (87,577)
     
Included in revenues    
Revenue from the sale of goods 772,919 524,114
Revenue from customer specific research and development contracts 664 1,362
Included in revenue from sale of goods income attributable to prior periods from BenQ cash settlement 
(see note 27)  – 1,785
     
Included in cost of sales:    
Costs in relation to customer specific research and development contracts (664) (1,362)
Amount of inventory recognised as expense (437,939) (286,396)
Impairment of inventories recognised as an expense (8,207) (3,660)
     
Included in other operating income    
BenQ Settlement (see note 27) – 303
  
[1] The pension costs from defined contribution plans include costs for the state funded pension plan in Germany of US$2,242,000 (2011: US$1,999,000).    
 
  
 77
 
b) Directors’ remuneration 
  
  
2012
US$000
2011
US$000
Aggregate remuneration in respect of qualifying services 1,690 1,514
  
  
  
2012
No.
2011
No.
Number of directors who received shares in respect of qualifying services 8 8
Number of directors who exercised share options 5 3
  
  
  
2012
US$000
2011
US$000
In respect of the highest paid director:   
Aggregate remuneration 1,046 869
Of which pension contribution for the year 56 42
  
 
The highest paid director exercised 329,940 (2011: 370,820) share options during the year. 
c) Interest income and interest expense 
Interest income and expenses comprise the following items: 
  
  2012
US$000
2011
US$000
Interest income 1,360 376
Interest expense (6,466) (235)
  (5,106) 141
Of which: from financial instruments relating to categories in accordance with IAS 39   
Loans and receivables 204 239
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (5,310) (98)
  (5,106) 141
  
 
d) Government grants 
The Group receives government grants for research and development activities of its Dutch design centre. Under the condition that technologies are 
new to the company and performed by the Group’s employees, grants can be received for its development. The grants are based on an estimated 
number of hours spent on these R&D activities. In 2012 the Group received grants in the amount of US$1,078,000 (2011: US$1,493,000). In the profit 
and loss account the grants received were deducted from research and development expenses. In addition in 2012 the company received a grant in the 
form of a tax relief, an amount of US$2,356,000 can be deducted from a positive taxable income in the Netherlands. 
 
3. Other disclosures to the income statement continued  
 
 
 
 
  
78  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
e) Headcount 
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including the Executive Director) during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: 
  
  2012 2011
Research and Development 445 367
Production 95 69
Sales and Marketing 92 76
Admin 58 41
IT 24 20
  714 573
4. Business combination 
Acquisition in 2011 
On 10 February 2011, Dialog Semiconductor Plc acquired 100% of the voting shares of SiTel Semiconductor B.V. (“SiTel”, now Dialog Semiconductor 
B.V.), an unlisted company headquartered and incorporated in the Netherlands and a leader in short-range wireless, digital cordless and VoIP technology. 
Dialog acquired SiTel in order to expand its product portfolio with short-range wireless and VoIP based internet connectivity products. This will allow 
Dialog to develop new products for these markets as well as to cross-sell Dialog’s existing Power Management technology to SiTel’s customer base. The 
acquisition significantly expands Dialog’s addressable market targeting high growth wireless personal devices.    
 
3. Other disclosures to the income statement continued  
 
  
 79
 
Assets acquired and liabilities identified 
 
  Fair value recognised 
on acquisition
  US$000
Assets  
Cash and cash equivalents 5,052
Trade accounts receivable and other receivable 12,722
Inventories 14,849
Other current assets 1,798
Property, plant and equipment 2,886
Intangible assets 
1)
 32,975
Income tax receivables 788
Deferred tax assets 4,776
Other non-current assets 411
Total assets 76,257
   
Liabilities  
Trade and other payables (10,106)
Provisions (606)
Income taxes payable (40)
Other current liabilities (3,645)
Deferred tax liabilities (4,925)
Total liabilities (19,322)
   
Total identifiable net assets at fair value 56,935
Goodwill arising on acquisition 32,283
Purchase consideration transferred 89,218
 
[1] For further information please refer to note 12. 
The fair value of the trade receivables and other receivables recognized on the day of acquisition amounted to US$12,722,000. None of the trade 
receivables had been impaired and it was expected that the full contractual amounts could be collected. The goodwill of US$32,283,000 comprises the 
value of expected synergies arising from the acquisition. The goodwill recognised is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.  
4. Business combination continued   
 
 
 
 
  
80  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Given the timing of the transaction, at the end of 2011 it was not possible to provide all disclosures required by IFRS 3 (R) as the acquisition accounting 
including the purchase price allocation (“PPA”) was still in the process of being finalised. The Company completed this during 2012. Therefore in the 
consolidated financial statements 2011 Dialog reported the results of the PPA on the basis of provisional figures. The final results led to changes to the 
PPA and numbers 2011 have been retrospectively adjusted. The table below shows the adjustments:  
 
  2011 as previously 
reported
US$000
PPA adjustment 
US$000 
2011 adjusted
US$000
Income tax expense (5,559) 1,489 (4,070)
Net profit 55,863 1,489 57,352
      
 
2011 as previously 
reported
US$
PPA adjustment 
US$ 
2011 adjusted
US$
Earnings per share (in US$)     
Basic 0.89 0.02 0.91
Diluted 0.84 0.02 0.86
      
  At 31 December
2011 as previously 
reported
US$000
PPA adjustment 
US$000 
At 31 December
2011 Adjusted
US$000
Goodwill 27,358 4,925 32,283
Deferred tax liabilities (non-current) – 3,436 3,436
Net Shareholders´ equity 263,115 1,489 264,604
  
 
From the date of the acquisition until 31 December 2011, SiTel has contributed US$108,780,000 of revenue and US$8,997,000 of net profit after tax to 
the Group. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, revenues would have been US$120,197,000 and the profit after tax would 
have been US$6,550,000. 
In connection with the business combination expenses related to employee restructuring measures of US$1,549,000 occurred during the financial year 
2012.  
 
Purchase consideration 
The total purchase considerations amounted to US$89,218,000.  
 
Analysis of cash flows from acquisition 
 
  US$000
Transaction costs of the acquisition (included in cash flows from operating activities) (3,291)
Total cash outflow for acquisition (included in cash flows from investing activities) (89,218)
Net cash acquired with the subsidiary (included in cash flows from investing activities) 5,052
Net cash flow on acquisition (87,457)
 
 
Transaction costs of US$3,291,000 have been expensed and are included in administrative expenses.  
4. Business combination continued   
 
  
 81
 
Allocation of goodwill to Cash Generating Units 
We expect additional value from the acquisition in respect of entry to new markets, internationalisation, cross-selling opportunities and customer 
diversification. Besides for the connectivity segment we also expect additional value from the acquisition for our Mobile Systems segment.  
The synergies and other effects described above were measured on the basis of the Group’s current planning; the planning horizon was three years 
including one budgeted year and two additional forecasted years. The assumptions were the same that we applied for the goodwill impairment test as 
described below.  
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to the two CGUs (strategic business units) as follows: 
  
                       Mobile Systems                       Connectivity 
 
2012
US$000
2011 
1)
  
US$000 
2012
US$000
2011 
1)
US$000
Goodwill 5,150 n/a 27,133 n/a
  
[1]  No allocation was done in 2011 as the initial accounting for the business combination was incomplete by the end of reporting period. The end of the measurement period was in 2012, where 
reliable information about the facts and circumstances existed as of acquisition date was available. 
 
Goodwill impairment testing 
As described in note 2 in more detail an impairment loss must be recognized if the carrying amount of a cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount.  The recoverable amount can either be measured as the fair value less cost to sell or the value in use. In Q4-2012 the company performed a 
separate impairment test for the two relevant CGU’s based on the value in use to determine the recoverable amount.  
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations 
The calculation of value in use for both connectivity and mobile systems units is most sensitive to the following assumptions: 
 Return on sales; 
 Discount rates; 
 Growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the planning period. 
 
Return on sales – Return on sales is calculated by dividing the EBITDA by net sales. The EBITDA is defined as the operating profit (loss) excluding 
depreciation and amortisation expenses as reported in note 24. 
Discount rates – Discount rates represent the current market assessment of the risks specific to each CGU, taking into consideration the time value of 
money and individual risks of the underlying assets that have not been incorporated in the cash flow estimates. The discount rate calculation is based on 
the specific circumstances of the Group and its operating segments and is derived from its weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The WACC takes 
into account both debt and equity. The applied WACC represents a post-tax discounting rate. The cost of equity is derived from the expected return on 
investment by the Group’s investors. The cost of debt is based on the interest bearing borrowings the Group is obliged to service. Segment-specific risk is 
incorporated by applying individual beta factors. The beta factors are evaluated annually based on publicly available market data. The calculation of the 
recoverable amount is based on post-tax cash flows discounted using a post-tax discount rate. The result would have been the same, had pre-tax cash 
flows been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate. 
Growth rate estimates – Rates are based on company’s industry research and applied for calculation of perpetuity.   
The discounted cash flow calculations use projections that are based on management’s expectations covering the assessment year 2013. The planning 
horizon reflects the assumptions for short-to mid-term market developments. Cash flows for the assessment years 2014 and 2015 are extrapolated 
using appropriate growth rates. Key assumptions on which management has based its determination of the value in use include the development of key 
assumptions mentioned above. Cash flow calculations are supported by external sources of information. 
4. Business combination continued   
 
 
 
 
  
82  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Impairment Testing Parameters 
 Mobile Systems Connectivity
  in % in %
Actual    
Return on sales 22.0 5.0
Pre-tax discount rate 17.4 17.4
Growth rates 72.2 (12.0)
3 year planning period    
Return on sales 24.0 - 28.0 9.0 - 14.0
Pre-tax discount rate 17.4 17.4
Growth rates 10.0 - 36.0 12.0 - 20.0
Perpetual annuity     
Return on sales 27.0 13.0
Pre-tax discount rate 17.4 17.4
Growth rates 10.0 20.0
  
 
Based on the performance of the Connectivity and Mobile System Segment Management did not identify any indications for a goodwill impairment in 
2011. 
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions 
The sensitivity analysis for the cash-generating units Connectivity and Mobile System, to which goodwill is allocated, was based on a 10% decline in 
future revenue growth and cost of sales as well as a less than proportional decrease of other operating expenses. Furthermore, an increase of 1 to 2% in 
the weighted average cost of capital was applied. The Company believes that such potential changes are reasonably possible, especially in the long term.  
When applying the sensitivity parameters described above to the impairment model, it resulted in recoverable amounts of US$777,063,000 and 
US$49,203,000 for the Mobile Systems and the Connectivity CGU respectively. With a net book value of assets of US$423,657,000 and allocated 
goodwill of US$5,150,000, the strategic business unit Mobile Systems does not exceed its recoverable amount. As for the strategic business unit 
Connectivity, the recoverable amount does not exceed the net assets in the amount of US$23,899,000 and the allocated goodwill of US$27,133,000 
and could result in an impairment loss of US$1,829,000. Thus, in order to align the recoverable amount to the aggregate carrying amount of net assets 
and allocated goodwill, the decrease in future revenue growth and cost of sales must not be greater than 5%. 
Management concluded that no impairment charge against goodwill should be recognised in either of the two strategic business units. However, 
although the assumptions concerning the macroeconomic environment and developments in the industries in which Dialog operates and estimates of 
the discounted future cash flows are believed to be appropriate, changes in assumptions or circumstances could require changes in the analysis. This 
could lead to impairment losses in the future. 
5. Income taxes  
Income (loss) before income taxes consists of the following: 
  
  2012 
US$000 
2011
US$000
Germany 96,999 60,673
Foreign (10,874) 749
  86,125 61,422
  
4. Business combination continued   
 
  
 83
 
Income tax benefit (expense) is comprised of the following components: 
  
  2012
US$000
2011
US$000
Current taxes:   
Germany (12,819) (6,682)
Foreign (852) (273)
Deferred taxes:   
Germany (14,860) 4,282
Foreign 4,919 (1,397)
Income tax expense (23,612) (4,070)
  
 
  
  2012
US$000
2011
US$000
Current taxes:   
Current income tax charge (13,391) (6,876)
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous year (280) (79)
Deferred taxes:   
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences (12,073) (11,722)
Relating to a reversal of a previous write-down of a deferred tax asset  2,132 14,607
Income tax expense (23,612) (4,070)
  
 
Although Dialog is a UK company, its principal operations are located in Germany. Accordingly, the following information is based on German corporate 
tax law. 
The tax rate for its German subsidiary is 15%; considering the impact of the solidarity surcharge of 5.5%, the federal corporate tax rate amounts to 
15.8%. Combining the federal corporate tax rate with the trade tax rate of 12.6%, the combined statutory tax rate of the German subsidiary is 28.4%.  
5. Income taxes continued  
 
 
 
 
  
84  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
A reconciliation of income taxes determined using the combined German income tax rate of 28.4% (2011: 28.4%), is as follows: 
  
  2012 
US$000 
2011
US$000
Expected income tax expense (24,439) (17,429)
Tax rate differential (568) (21)
Non-deductible portion of share based payments (1,782) (1,668)
Tax benefit from share based payments 3,434 2,964
Tax free income (non-deductible expenses) (291) (1,035)
Recognised deferred tax assets relating to a reversal of a previous write-down of deferred tax assets and first time 
recognition of deferred tax assets relating to prior years  2,132 14,607
Benefit from previously unrecognised deferred tax assets that is used to reduce current tax expense 1,631 1,295
Additional losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised (2,543) (3,362)
Adjustments recognised for tax of prior periods (388) 144
Differences arising from differences between functional currency and tax currency (773) 462
Other (25) (27)
Actual income tax expense (23,612) (4,070)
  
 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are summarised as follows: 
  
  At 31 December 2012 
US$000 
At 31 December 2011
US$000
Temporary differences relating to intangible assets (5,111) (3,432)
Other temporary differences 2,178 (3,075)
Deferred taxes in relation to tax credits – 1,105
Net operating loss carryforwards  6,167 20,453
Total net deferred tax assets 3,234 15,051
Impaired deferred tax assets
1)
 – (1,105)
Recognised net deferred tax assets 3,234 13,946
  
 [1] Impaired in FY 2005. In 2012 an impairment of US$nil (2011: US$2,079,000) was reversed 
 
5. Income taxes continued   
 
  
 85
 
5. Income taxes continued 
Tax loss carryforwards, temporary differences and net deferred tax assets are summarised as follows: 
    
  31 December 2012 31 December 2011 
  
Tax loss 
carryforwards 
US$000 
Temporary 
Differences
US$000
Net deferred tax 
assets (liabilities)
US$000
Tax loss
 carryforwards
US$000
Temporary  
Differences 
2)
 
US$000 
Tax credits
US$000
Net deferred tax assets 
(liabilities) 
2)
US$000
Germany 629 (2,181) (440) 67,161 (4,673) – 13,726
UK 69,739 23,084 – 51,387 25,588 4,420 1,105
Netherlands 
2)
 19,384 (13,244) 945 17,184 (22,515) – (1,333)
US
1)
 4,029 928 2,132 4,290 – – –
Other – 1,296 597 20 1,061 – 448
Total  93,781 9,883 3,234 140,042 (539) 4,420 13,946
    
[1] Including an estimated amount of US$2,806,000 (2011: US$2,910,000) for state tax loss carryforwards 
[2] 2011 temporary differences and deferred tax liabilities for the NL have been retrospectively adjusted following adjustments to the purchase price allocation, please refer to note 4. 
 
The amount of deductible temporary differences and unused tax loss carryforwards for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet is 
US$95,179,000 (2011: US$95,382,000). 
In assessing whether the deferred tax assets can be used, management considers the probability that some, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be 
realised. The utilisation of deferred tax assets depends upon generating taxable profit during the periods in which those temporary differences become 
deductible or tax-loss carryforwards can be utilised. Management considers the reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, 
benefits that could be realised from available tax planning strategies and other positive and negative factors in making this assessment. 
The utilisation of tax loss carryforwards and temporary differences for which currently no deferred tax asset is recognized is subject to the achievement 
of positive income in periods which are beyond the Company’s current business plan and therefore this utilisation is uncertain. Consequently no deferred 
tax assets were recognised for these losses and temporary differences.  
The tax loss carryforwards in the US will expire between 2013 and 2029 and in the Netherlands between 2017 and 2019; other tax loss carryforwards 
have no  expiration date. 
The amount shown under “income tax receivables” in the statement of financial position includes a corporation tax refund claim of the Group’s German 
subsidiary. The total amount the German subsidiary is entitled to receive amounts to €414,000 to be paid out in ten equal amounts during 2008 to 
2017. The amount shown within the non-current assets represents the discounted part of the claim that is due after 2013. The amount that will be paid 
in 2013 is shown within the current assets. 
6. Cash and cash equivalents 
  
  At 31 December
2012
US$000
At 31 December
2011
US$000
Cash at bank 136,117 91,010
Short-term deposits 170,000 20,381
Deposits designated as a hedging instrument 6,318 2,199
Cash and cash equivalents 312,435 113,590
  
 
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group. 
Deposits designated as a hedging instrument are classified as cash flow hedges to cover firm commitments and forecast transactions in Euros, Pound 
Sterling and Japanese Yen.   
 
 
 
 
  
86  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
7. Trade accounts receivable and other receivable 
  
  At 31 December 
2012 
US$000 
At 31 December
2011
US$000
Trade accounts receivable 70,490 38,929
Receivables from factoring agreement 12,397 7,800
  82,887 46,729
  
 
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-60-day terms. 
As described in note 25, in 2007 the Group entered into a selective factoring agreement. The amount shown as receivables from the factoring 
agreement represents a 15% retainer kept by the factoring bank against sold receivables. The retainer is released only once the receivable is fully paid by 
the customer, at the latest, 120 days after the receivable becomes due or if the insurance event occurs. The amounts are non-interest bearing and are 
generally on 30-60-day terms. 
The recorded trade accounts receivable for which an impairment has been recognised, was US$1,130,000 and US$1,180,000 at 31 December 2012 and 
2011, respectively. The related allowance for doubtful accounts was US$1,130,000 and US$1,180,000 at 31 December 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
The allowance for doubtful accounts developed as follows: 
  
  At 31 December 
2012 
US$000 
At 31 December
2011
US$000
Allowance for doubtful accounts at beginning of year 1,180 1,410
Additions charged to bad debt expense 8 –
Write-offs charged against the allowance (26) –
Reductions credited to income (2) (303)
Effect of movements in foreign currency (30) 73
Allowance for doubtful accounts at end of year 1,130 1,180
  
 
As at 31 December 2012 and 2011, the aging analysis of trade account receivable is as follows: 
 
  
  At 31 December 
2012 
US$000 
At 31 December
2011
US$000
Receivables neither past due nor impaired 66,374 35,969
Receivables past due, not impaired individually – –
Less than 30 days 3,410 2,780
30 to 59 days 706 171
60 to 89 days – –
90 to 130 days – 9
Total 70,490 38,929
    
 
  
 87
 
8. Inventories 
Inventories are comprised of the following: 
  
  At 31 December 2012
US$000
At 31 December 2011
US$000
Raw materials 20,686 4,031
Work-in-process 51,739 22,496
Finished goods 79,942 36,110
Deposits 88 –
  152,455 62,637
  
9. Other financial assets 
Other financial assets comprise: 
  
  At 31 December 2012
US$000
At 31 December 2011
US$000
Deposits for hedging contracts 368 –
Hedging instruments 2,752 25
  3,120 25
  
 
The deposits for hedging contracts are an advance settlement for hedging instruments with a negative fair value. The deposits do not bear  interests and 
are offset with amounts due when the hedge is settled.  
The amount shown under hedging instruments includes the fair value of derivative financial instruments used for cash flow hedges. The Group is 
exposed to currency risks in the course of its operating activities. These risks are reduced by the use of forward currency exchange contracts. 
The Group has clear guidelines as to the use of those derivatives, and compliance is constantly monitored. For further information on the Group’s 
hedging policy please see note 25. 
10. Other current assets  
Other current assets comprise: 
  
  At 31 December 2012
US$000
At 31 December 2011
US$000
Prepaid expenses 5,581 5,400
Other tax receivables 1,650 1,448
Other 
1)
 5,314 1,388
  12,545 8,236
  
[1] Including US$3,557,000  prepayments made to a major supplier   
 
 
 
 
  
88  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
11. Property , plant and equipment, net 
A summary of activity for property, plant and equipment for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 is as follows: 
   
  
Test equipment
US$000
Leasehold 
improvements
US$000
Office and other 
equipment
US$000
Construction in 
progress 
US$000 
Total
US$000
Cost       
Balance at 31 December 2010 / 1 January 2011 77,932 2,487 23,777 210 104,406
Additions relating to the SiTel acquisition 1,711 757 418 – 2,886
Effect of movements in foreign currency (8) (47) (89) (3) (147)
Additions 7,290 4,467 8,844 301 20,902
Reclassifications – 207 34 (241) –
Disposals (1,193) (254) (8,323) – (9,770)
Balance at 31 December 2011 / 1 January 2012 85,732 7,617 24,661 267 118,277
Effect of movements in foreign currency 19 85 177 1 282
Additions 23,744 2,007 9,284 13 35,048
Reclassifications – 22 242 (264) –
Disposals (1,297) (101) (1,786) (5) (3,189)
Balance at 31 December 2012 108,198 9,630 32,578 12 150,418
Depreciation and impairment losses       
Balance at 31 December 2010 / 1 January 2011 (71,997) (571) (17,589) – (90,157)
Effect of movements in foreign currency 8 37 65 – 110
Depreciation charge for the year (3,846) (983) (3,972) – (8,801)
Disposals 1,151 107 7,717 – 8,975
Balance at 31 December 2011 / 1 January 2012 (74,684) (1,410) (13,779) – (89,873)
Effect of movements in foreign currency (9) (25) (70) – (104)
Depreciation charge for the year (6,030) (1,221) (5,447) – (12,698)
Disposals 1,114 16 1,445 – 2,575
Balance at 31 December 2012 (79,609) (2,640) (17,851) – (100,100)
Net book value       
At 31 December 2010 / 1 January 2011 5,935 1,916 6,188 210 14,249
At 31 December 2011 / 1 January 2012 11,048 6,207 10,882 267 28,404
At 31 December 2012 28,589 6,990 14,727 12 50,318
   
 
Finance leases 
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases at 31 December 2012 was US$628,000 (31 December 2011: 
US$606,000). Additions during the year were US$506,000 (2011: nil). As of the reporting date future minimum lease payments under those finance 
lease contracts were US$221,000 (2011: US$457,000). The present value of the net minimum lease payments was US$211,000  (2011: US$431,000). 
 
   
 
  
 89
 
12. Goodwill and other intangible assets 
A summary of activity for intangible assets for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 is as follows: 
   
  Goodwill Other intangible assets 
  
US$000
Customer related 
intangible assets
US$000
Purchased software, 
licenses and other
US$000
Patents 
US$000 
Intangible assets from 
internal development
US$000
Total
US$000
Cost        
Balance at 31 December 2010 / 1 January 
2011 – – 21,149 1,309 5,951 28,409
Additions relating to the SiTel acquisition 32,283 14,100 525 3,696 14,654 32,975
Effect of movements in foreign currency – – (58) – (30) (88)
Additions – – 5,175 759 5,165 11,099
Reclassifications – – – – – –
Disposals – – (554) (10) (210) (774)
Balance at 31 December 2011 / 1 January 
2012 32,283 14,100 26,237 5,754 25,530 71,621
Effect of movements in foreign currency – – 96 – – 96
Additions – – 26,606 950 5,956 33,512
Reclassifications – – – – – –
Disposals – – (725) – (387) (1,112)
Balance at 31 December 2012 32,283 14,100 52,214 6,704 31,099 104,117
Amortisation and impairment losses        
Balance at 31 December 2010 / 1 January 
2011 – – (14,783) (183) (2,716) (17,682)
Effect of movements in foreign currency – – 48 – 30 78
Amortisation charge for the year – (5,428) (2,650) (939) (7,013) (16,030)
Impairment charges – – – – – –
Disposals – – 158 6 210 374
Balance at 31 December 2011 / 1 January 
2012 – (5,428) (17,227) (1,116) (9,489) (33,260)
Effect of movements in foreign currency – – (50) – – (50)
Amortisation charge for the year – – (10,273) (1,135) (8,185) (19,593)
Impairment charges – – – – – –
Disposals – – 575 – – 575
Balance at 31 December 2012 – (5,428) (26,975) (2,251) (17,674) (52,328)
Net book value             
At 31 December 2010 / 1 January 2011 – – 6,366 1,126 3,235 10,727
At 31 December 2011 / 1 January 2012 32,283 8,672 9,010 4,638 16,041 38,361
At 31 December 2012 32,283 8,672 25,239 4,453 13,425 51,789
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
90  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
A key element of the 2012 additions relates to a new a US$26,4 million, 6 years licensing agreement (with the option to extend the term of the 
agreement by a period of two years) which the Company entered into during the third quarter of 2012 as part of the Company’s on-going strategy to 
invest in R&D. This agreement allows Dialog to access patents in the area of portable power management and battery charging technology.  
Dialog paid an initial amount of US$6 million in Q3-2012. In addition to this payment 24 subsequent quarterly payments of US$850,000 will be made 
by Dialog amounting to a total investment of US$26,4 million. Upon initial recognition, the license agreement was capitalised with its net present value 
of US$22,077,000. The discount rate used for this calculation represents the imputed interest rate which consists of a credit- and risk spread component 
reflecting the business risk of the entity. The useful life has been determined being 6 years. 
A key element of the 2011 additions was the acquisition of SiTel Semiconductor B.V. In connection with this acquisition the company acquired goodwill, 
internally developed intangible assets, patents and customer related intangible assets, such as customer relationship and order backlog. For further 
information, please refer to note 4.  
Customer related intangible assets comprise intangible assets acquired in a business combination containing key customers, other customer relationships 
and order backlog. Intangible assets from internal development represent capitalised development costs of individual projects. We refer to Note 2 for a 
description of applied accounting policies. 
Hire purchase 
The carrying value of intangible assets held under hire purchase leases at 31 December 2012 was US$21,315,000 (31 December 2011: US$851,000). 
Additions during the year were US$23,173,000 (2011: US$668,000). As of the reporting date future minimum payments under those hire purchase 
contracts were US$19,177,000 (2011: US$662,000). The present value of the net minimum payments was US$15,462,000 (2011: US$602,000). 
13. Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables comprise: 
  
  At 31 December 2012 
US$000 
At 31 December 2011
US$000
Trade accounts payable 100,616 46,567
Other payables 5,600 3,890
  106,216 50,457
  
 
Terms and conditions of the above trade and other payables: 
 trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-60-day terms; and 
 other payables are non-interest bearing and have a term of less than three months. 
14. Other financial liabilities 
Other financial liabilities comprise: 
  
  At 31 December 2012 
US$000 
At 31 December 2011
US$000
Hire purchase agreements and finance lease obligations 3,645 661
Fair value of derivative financial instruments 472 6,552
  4,117 7,213
  
 
The Group is exposed to currency risks in the course of its operating activities. These risks are reduced by the use of forward currency exchange 
contracts.  
12. Goodwill and other intangible assets continued  
 
  
 91
 
15. Provisions 
The Group issues various types of contractual product warranties under which it guarantees the performance of products delivered for a certain period 
or term. The estimated provision is based on historical warranty data. The provision for dilapidation includes costs of dismantling and restoring the 
offices of the Group to their original condition at end the end of the lease terms. The changes in the provision are summarised as follows: 
   
  At 1 January 
 2012 
US$000 
Currency change
US$000
Discount
000US$
Additions
US$000
Used 
US$000 
Released
US$000
At 31 December 
2012
US$000
Obligations for product warranties 573 – – 788 (430) (119) 812
Pending legal claims 301 6 – – – – 307
Other 166 1 – 112 (110) – 169
Total current 1,040 7 – 900 (540) (119) 1,288
Dilapidation 536 22 39 6 – – 603
Total non-current 536 22 39 6 – – 603
Total 1,576 29 39 906 (540) (119) 1,891
   
16. Other current liabilities 
Other current liabilities comprise: 
  
  At 31 December 2012
US$000
At 31 December 2011
US$000
Obligations for personnel and social expenses 15,348 12,206
Advances received in relation to customer specific research and development contracts 2,100 721
Other  4,222 3,625
  21,670 16,552
  
 
Terms and conditions of the above other current liabilities: 
 obligations for personnel and social expenses have an average term of three months (2011: three months); and 
 other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms. 
17. Other non-current financial liabilities 
Other non-current financial comprise: 
  
  At 31 December 2012
US$000
At 31 December 2011
US$000
Liabilities relating to the convertible bond 
1)
 164,589 –
Liabilities relating to hire purchase and finance lease obligations 12,028 373
  176,617 373
  
[1] Please refer to note 18 Convertible Bond   
 
 
 
 
  
92  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
18. Convertible bond 
During Q1-2012, the Company launched a 5 year Convertible Bond Offering  raising gross proceeds of US$201 million. The offering closed on 
12 April 2012. The bonds, which are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange’s Euro MTF market, will be convertible into ordinary shares of Dialog 
Semiconductor Plc., listed on the Regulated Market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. 1,005 Bonds with a principal amount of US$200,000 each were 
issued at 100% with a coupon of 1.0% per-annum payable semi-annually in arrears. The initial conversion price is US$29.5717 (€22.367), representing 
a premium of 35 per cent above the volume-weighted average price on XETRA of Dialog Semiconductor Plc’s ordinary shares to the time of pricing on 
8 March 2012.  
The net proceeds of issuing the Bonds, after deducting US$4,369,000 of commission and other costs incurred in connection with the bond issuance 
were US$196,631,000. In accordance with IAS 32,  US$163,607,000 of gross proceeds was allocated to financial liabilities and US$37,393,000 was 
allocated to equity. The debt component of convertible bonds is measured using the market interest rate obtainable on a similar debt instrument but 
one that is not convertible. This debt component is measured as liabilities at amortised cost until it is converted into equity or becomes due for 
repayment. The  component of the net proceeds allocated to equity represents the fair value of the conversion right.  
  
  Liability component
US$000
Conversion right 
embedded in 
Convertible Bond 
US$000 
Total
US$000
Gross proceeds 163,607 37,393 201,000
Issue costs (allocated pro rata to gross proceeds) (3,555) (814) (4,369)
Net proceeds 160,052 36,579 196,631
  
 
The equity component is presented under additional paid-in capital in equity. The financial liability rises over the 5 year lifetime to the principal amount 
of the bonds. Transaction costs related to the issue of the instrument were allocated to the debt and equity components of the convertible bonds in 
proportion to the capital extended to the Group by the instrument. Of the total transaction costs an amount of US$814,000 was allocated to equity and 
an amount of US$3,555,000 was allocated to financial liabilities. 
Final Redemption 
Unless previously purchased and cancelled, redeemed or converted, the Bonds will be redeemed at their principal amount on the final maturity date.  
Redemption at the option of Dialog 
The Bonds may only be redeemed at the option of Dialog prior to the final maturity date in the following cases: 
Optional Redemption  
The Company will have the option to call all outstanding Bonds from approximately 3 years after the Closing Date until maturity, in the event that the 
value of the Shares underlying a Bond exceeds 130% of the principal amount over a certain period. Dialog will also have the option to redeem all 
outstanding bonds if redemptions have been effected in respect of 85% or more of the bonds originally issued. In these cases the bonds will be 
redeemed at their principal amount, together with accrued interest to such date. 
Redemption for Taxation Reasons 
In the event that Dialog will become obliged to pay additional amounts as a result of any change in, or amendment to, the laws or regulations of the 
United Kingdom or any political subdivision or any authority thereof or therein having power to tax, and such obligation cannot be avoided by Dialog by 
taking reasonable measures, Dialog  will have the option to call all outstanding bonds. In this case the bonds will be redeemed at their principal amount, 
together with accrued interest to such date. 
Redemption at the Option of Bondholders upon a Change of Control 
Following the occurrence of a Change of Control, the holder of each Bond will have the right to require Dialog to redeem the Bond at its principal 
amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest to such date.  
Earnings per share 
In 2012 the potential ordinary shares of the convertible bond were antidilutive as their conversion to ordinary shares would increase earnings per share.  . 
   
 
  
 93
 
19. Shareholders’ equity and other reserves 
Capital increase 
On 7 March 2012, the Company completed an offering of 3,000,000 previously unissued ordinary shares at £0.10 per share to its employee benefit 
trust (“Trust”) at a price of €0.80 per share, to make such shares available for the exercise of stock option rights that had previously been granted to 
employees.  
Ordinary shares 
The amount of authorized shares at 31 December 2012 was 104,311,860 (2011: 104,311,860) with a par value of £0.10 per share, of which 
68,068,930 (2011: 65,068,930) shares were issued and outstanding. 
  
  Amount of shares US$000
At 1 January 2011/2012 65,068,930 12,380
Issued on 7 March 2012 3,000,000 472
At 31 December 2012 68,068,930 12,852
  
 
Dialog’s stock is issued in the form of registered shares. All shares are fully paid. 
Additional paid-in capital 
The account comprises additional paid-in capital in connection with the issue of shares. With an amount of US$36,579,000 the increase in 2012 mainly 
relates to the conversion rights of the convertible bond which was launched in 2012 as described in note 18 and which were treated as equity 
instruments in accordance with IAS 32.  
Retained earnings 
Retained earnings comprise losses and non-distributed earnings of consolidated Group companies.  
Other reserves 
Currency translation reserve 
The currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries and 
branches whose functional currency is not the US$. At 31 December 2012 and 2011, the negative currency translation reserve was US$1,964,000 
and US$1,879,000 respectively. 
Cash flow hedge reserve 
The cash flow hedge reserve is used to record the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument that is determined to be a highly effective cash 
flow hedge. At 31 December 2012 the positive cash flow hedge reserve was US$1,537,000 compared to a negative cash flow hedge reserve of US$-
6,372,000 at 31 December 2011. Please refer to note 25 for the amounts reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized in profit and 
loss statement. 
The related tax effects allocated to each component of other reserves for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 are as follows: 
  
2012 2011
  
Pre-tax
US$000
Tax effect
US$000
Net
US$000
Pre-tax 
US$000 
Tax effect
US$000
Net
US$000
Currency translation adjustment (322) 237 (85) (92) (70) (162)
Hedges 8,871 (962) 7,909 (6,825) 384 (6,441)
Other comprehensive income (loss) 8,549 (725) 7,824 (6,917) 314 (6,603)  
 
 
 
 
  
94  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Employee stock purchase plan shares 
The employee stock purchase plan shares contain the acquisition cost of the shares held by the employee benefit trust (the “Trust”). Please refer to note 
21. At 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, the Trust held 2,679,768 and 1,267,332 shares respectively. These shares are legally issued and 
outstanding for accounting purposes and accordingly have been reported in the caption “employee stock purchase plan shares” as a reduction of 
shareholders’ equity. 
20. Pension scheme 
The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes. The pension cost charge for the year represents contributions payable by the Group to the 
funds and amounted to US$4,213,000 (2011: US$3,686,000). At 31 December 2012, contributions amounting to US$674,000 (2011: US$353,000) 
were payable to the funds and are included in other current liabilities. Pension costs also include payments to the state funded pension plan in Germany 
in the amount of US$2,242,000 (2011: US$1,999,000). 
21. Share-based payments 
A) Stock option plans 
On 7 August 1998, the Group adopted a stock option plan (the “Plan”) under which employees, the executive management and the Executive Directors 
may be granted from time to time, at the discretion of the Board, stock options to acquire up to 3,840,990 shares of the Group’s authorised but 
unissued ordinary shares. On 16 May 2002 the Shareholders of the Group approved a resolution increasing the maximum amount of unexercised stock 
options which may be granted by the Group at any time, to 15% of Dialog’s issued share capital, from time to time on a diluted basis. At 31 December 
2012, 12,012,164 shares could be issued. 
Unless otherwise determined by the Board, stock options granted to employees are granted with an exercise price not less than the quoted price at the 
date of grant, and vest during the service period of the employee without any further vesting conditions. Stock options granted before 31 October 2006 
have terms of ten years and vest over periods of one or five years from the grant date. On 19 June 2006 the Board amended the stock option plan 
under which stock options now have a seven-year life and vest monthly over a period of one to 48 months. The new stock options may not be exercised 
until they have been held for one calendar year from the grant date. The new rules were implemented on grants made on or after 31 October 2006. 
The stock option plan was extended by the Board in 2008 to expire 6 August 2018.  
At the 2006 Annual General Meeting, Shareholders approved a stock option plan for Non-Executive Directors. Each Non-Executive Director was entitled 
to an initial grant of 50,000 options vesting over four years and each year thereafter, a further 20,000 options vesting over 12 months were granted. 
Options were exercisable at the market price prevailing at the date of grant. At the 2010 Annual General Meeting the Shareholders voted against the 
continuance of this share option plan. Consequently, no share options were granted to the Non-Executive Directors in 2010. All outstanding options 
were exercised in 2012 and none remain.  
At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, Shareholders approved a change of the fee structure for Non-Executive Directors. 2/3 of the total fees are 
delivered in cash and 1/3 of the Non-Executive Directors’ annual total fees are delivered in Company equity. The number of shares is calculated using the 
average 30 day share price preceding the date of the Annual General Meeting. Shares are delivered in the form of conditional shares or options (an 
exercise price has been attached at Euro 15 cents). Each individual shall be entitled to sell their shares, or exercise their options, if any, no earlier than the 
day preceding the third AGM following the grant (unless specific circumstances such as a change of control apply).  
The fair value of all grants in the two-year period ended 31 December 2012 was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Expectations 
of early exercise are considered in the determination of the expected life of the options. The Group does not have adequate historical development of 
the share price, particularly as a result of material unusual effects in the stock market in recent years. Furthermore, implicit volatility cannot be 
determined since none of the Group’s options are actively traded. The Group has therefore based its calculation of expected volatility on an average of 
the volatility of the Dialog Semiconductor Plc shares. 
 
19. Shareholders’ equity and other reserves continued  
 
  
 95
 
The following assumptions were used for stock option grants for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011: 
  
  2012 2011
Expected dividend yield 0% 0%
Expected volatility 38% 39%  -  46%
Risk free interest rate 0.2% 4.0%
Expected life (in years) 2.0  -  6.0 2.0  -  6.0
Weighted average share price during the year (in €) 15.87 14.36
Weighted average share price for Option grants (in €)  15.68 13.71
Weighted average exercise price (in €) 15.48 13.55
Weighted-average fair value (in €) 4.34 4.80
  
 
B) Executives’ Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
The Group also operates the Dialog Semiconductor Plc Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which was approved by shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting in April 2008. Under the LTIP , key executives are eligible to share in a percentage of the value created for shareholders in excess of an annual 
return hurdle measured over a four-year performance period (this was originally a three-year period, extended by one year at the Annual General 
Meeting in April 2009). This value is delivered to a participant in the form of a series of nil-cost options which can be exercised within five years of the 
date of grant. The first award under the LTIP was made on 8 May 2008. 
In 2010 a new award under LTIP was made to selected new and existing members of the executive management. These awards are shown under 
“Second award” in the table below. In 2012, no further awards under the LTIP plan were made or can be made. 
The fair value of the LTIP , where the number of nil-cost options granted to an individual is contingent upon the returns to Shareholders, was calculated 
using a Monte Carlo simulation model. As a portion of each award is capable of vesting at three separate measurement dates each tranche has been 
valued separately in accordance with IFRS2. 
The following assumptions were used for the fair value calculations: 
    
  First award Second award
Inputs Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 LTIP extension Tranche 1 Tranche 2
Share price at grant date €1.40 €1.40 €1.40 €4.08 €10.51 €10.51
Exercise price £0.10 £0.10 £0.10 £0.10 £0.10 £0.10
Expected life (years) 0.64 1.64 2.64 2.35 0.54 1.54
Expected volatility 40% 40% 40% 42% 42% 42%
Risk-free-interest-rate 4.8202% 4.8202% 4.8202% 1.4900% 0.4820% 0.7040%
    
 
Expected volatility has been determined on the same basis as the input into the fair value calculation for share options granted during the year. 
Measurement date 31 January 2010 
The measurement share price at 31 January 2010 (average share price over the prior 30 days) was €9,8942. As this price was above the return hurdle for 
January 2010 of €1.82 (prior year return hurdle of €1.62+12.5%), 3,055,064 nil cost option grants were approved by the Board on 4 February 2010, 
with 25% exercisable from 22 February 2010 and the remaining 75% exercisable for 5 years from 21 February 2011.  
Measurement date 31 January 2011  (Last Measurement Date) 
The measurement share price at 31 January 2011 (average share price over the prior 30 days) was €17.6632. As this price was above the return hurdle 
for January 2011 of €11.1310 (prior year return hurdle of €9.8942+12.5%), 1,575,327 nil cost option grants were approved by the Board on 18 
February 2011, all exercisable for 5 years from 18 February 2011.  
C) Executives Incentive Plan (EIP) 
The Group also operates the Dialog Executive Incentive Plan (EIP) which was approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May 2010. 
Under this plan, key executives and other key value drivers of the business are eligible to share in a percentage of the value created for Shareholders. 
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee may not grant awards under the EIP more than five years after its approval. 
21. Share-based payments continued   
 
 
 
 
  
96  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Under the EIP , up to 0.75% of the issued share capital at the date of grant will be made available for the Remuneration and Nomination Committee to 
grant to participants in the EIP on an annual basis.  It is envisaged that these shares will be granted to approximately 10 – 15 key executives.  A portion 
of the total number of shares which can be awarded each year would be reserved for grants to new recruits.  However, there is no requirement for the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committee to allocate all available shares on an annual basis. 
Continuity of Employment Condition 
25% of the EIP Award will be banked in equal annual installments (1/3 of 25% each year) based on the achievement of a share price hurdle measured 
at the end of each year (Continuity Award). The hurdle is such that the Company’s share price at each measurement point (being the anniversary of the 
date of grant – the first grant was on 16 February 2012) must be greater than the higher of the share price on the date of grant or previous 
measurement points. Where the share price hurdle has not been achieved at the end of the year, that proportion of the Continuity Award will lapse. 
At the end of the three year holding period, the Continuity Award will vest and become exercisable subject to continuity of employment. Individuals 
have three years with which to exercise vested options. 
Corporate Performance Conditions 
75% of any EIP Award will vest subject to the achievement of challenging performance conditions (Performance Award). The primary performance 
measure relates to EBIT and Revenue Growth targets.  The vesting of 50% of the Performance Award relates to EBIT growth with the other 50% relates 
to revenue growth targets.  The number of shares which vest under the primary performance measure would then be subject to a secondary 
performance measure (as set out below). The Company believes that these two measures are directly relevant to the Company’s strategy at its current 
stage of development and that the executives should be rewarded on this basis and that focusing on these metrics are critical to driving shareholder 
value over the medium to long term. Targets are set on an annual basis, rather than over the long-term, to ensure that they remain challenging and 
relevant.  These targets take into consideration budget and market expectations for EBIT and revenue growth for the relevant financial year on the 
following basis: 
Threshold (e.g. an acceptable level of performance growth which must be attained for an award to begin to vest) 
Target (e.g. the level of performance for achieving budgeted growth and which ensures that the business is online for achieving its long-term objectives)  
Exceptional (e.g. the level of performance which is acknowledged by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee as exceptional)  
At the end of the three year performance period, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee will determine the level of vesting based on the actual 
level of growth achieved over the three year period relative to the compounding of the three yearly targets.   
Provided that the threshold level of growth has been achieved for both targets, at the end of the performance period, the level of vesting for both 
metrics will be as follows: 
  
Level of Corporate Performance % of EIP Award vesting
Threshold
1)
 20%
Target
1)
 40%
Exceptional
1)
  100%
  
[1] Straight-line between points 
 
Where the threshold level of growth has not been achieved for either the EBIT or revenue target the Performance Award will lapse. 
Under the secondary performance measure the number of shares vesting at the end of the performance period as determined under the primary 
performance measure can be adjusted using a downward multiplier of up to 20% against a customer diversification target. 
For example, in measuring customer diversity this could be calibrated as the increase in the regional revenues in key strategic market as a percentage of 
total revenues. 
The level of vesting of the Performance Award at the end of the three year period will therefore be based on: 
Growth in Revenues (50%) + Growth in EBIT (50%) X - 20% Adjustment Factor 
The balance of any Performance Award which does not vest in accordance with the above performance conditions will lapse. 
21. Share-based payments continued   
 
  
 97
 
 The following assumptions were used for the fair value calculations: 
 Grant in 2012
Share price at grant date €16,43
Exercise price €0.12
Expected volatility  38%
Risk free interest rate  0.2%
Assumed level of vesting regarding the performance conditions  50%
Option lifetime  6 Years
 
D) Development of plans 
Stock option plan activity (including stock options granted under the LTIP and the EIP) for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 was as follows: 
  
  2012 2011 
  Options
Weighted average 
exercise price 
€ Options
Weighted average 
exercise price
€
Outstanding at beginning of year 6,160,579 5.48 6,098,193 2.88
Granted 1,557,339 11.22 2,975,730 6.45
Exercised (1,584,866) 1.93 (2,727,709) 0.60
Forfeited (254,227) 9.07 (185,635) 7.35
Outstanding at end of year  5,878,825 7.83 6,160,579 5.48
Options exercisable at year end 2,976,684 4.46 3,532,169 1.90
  
 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of options was €16.30 and €14.04 in the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 respectively. 
Liabilities from share option exercises to employees were nil at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$135,000). 
The following table summarises information on stock options outstanding (including stock options granted under the LTIP and the EIP) at 31 December 
2012: 
  
  Options outstanding Options exercisable 
Range of Exercise Prices 
Number 
outstanding at 31 
December 2012
Weighted average 
remaining 
contractual life
(in years)
Weighted average 
exercise price 
€ 
Number exercisable 
at 31 December 2012
Weighted average 
exercise price
€
€0.11 -  2.99 2,331,018 3.2 0.56 1,820,661 0.64
€3.00 -  8.00 513,433 3.7 6.63 361,450 6.52
€8.00 -  15.50 3,034,374 5.7 13.62 794,573 12.27
€0.11 -  15.50 5,878,825 4.5 7.83 2,976,684 4.46
  
 
E) Employee benefit trust 
The Group established an employee benefit trust (the “Trust”). The Trust purchases shares in the Group for the benefit of employees under the Group’s 
share option scheme. At 31 December 2012 the Trust held 2,679,768 shares (2011: 1,267,322). 
 
21. Share-based payments continued   
 
 
 
 
  
98  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
22. Additional disclosures on financial instruments 
Amount categorised in accordance with IAS 39: 
     
    Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position according to IAS 39   
  
Category 
in accordance 
with IAS 39 
Carrying
amount
31 December 2012
US$000
Amortised cost
US$000
Cost
US$000
Fair value 
recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income 
US$000 
Fair value 
recognised in 
profit or loss 
US$000 
Fair value
 31 December
2012
US$000
Assets           
Cash at bank and Short-term 
deposits LaR 306,117 306,117 – – – 306,117
Restricted cash LaR – – – – – –
Deposits designated as a 
hedging instrument n/a 6,318 – – 6,318 – 6,318
Trade accounts receivable and 
other receivable LaR 82,887 82,887 – – – 82,887
Other non-derivative financial 
assets           
      Deposits for hedging  
      contracts LaR 368 368 – – – 368
Derivative financial assets           
      Derivatives without hedging  
      relationship n/a – – – – – –
      Derivatives with hedging  
      relationship n/a 2,752 – – 2,752 – 2,752
            
Liabilities           
 Trade account payables FLAC 100,616 100,616 – – – 100,616
Other payables FLAC 5,600 5,600 – – – 5,600
Other financial liabilities FLAC 180,262 180,262 – – – 180,262
Derivative financial liabilities           
     Derivatives without hedging  
     relationship n/a – – – – – –
     Derivatives with hedging  
     relationship n/a 472 – – 472 – 472
            
Of which aggregated by category in 
accordance with IAS 39:         
Loans and receivables (LaR) 389,372 389,372 – – – 389,372
Deposits designated as a hedging instrument 6,318 – – 6,318 – 6,318
Held-to-maturity investments (HtM) – – – – – –
Available-for-sale financial assets (AfS) – – – – – –
Derivatives without hedging relationship – – – – – –
Derivatives with hedging relationship 2,280 – – 2,280 – 2,280
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (FLAC) (286,478) (286,478) – – – (286,478)
     
   
 
  
 99
 
    
    Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position according to IAS 39   
  
Category 
in accordance 
with IAS 39 
Carrying
amount
31 December 2011
US$000
Amortised cost
US$000
Cost
US$000
Fair value 
recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income 
US$000 
Fair value
recognised in
profit or loss
US$000
Fair value
 31 December
2011
US$000
Assets          
Cash at bank and Short-term 
deposits LaR 111,391 111,391 – – – 111,391
Restricted cash LaR – – – – – –
Deposits designated as a 
hedging instrument n/a 2,199 – – 2,199 – 2,199
Trade accounts receivable and 
other receivable LaR 46,729 46,729 – – – 46,729
Other non-derivative financial 
assets          
      Deposits for hedging  
      contracts LaR – – – – – –
Derivative financial assets          
      Derivatives without hedging  
      relationship n/a – – – – – –
      Derivatives with hedging  
      relationship n/a 25 – – 25 – 25
           
Liabilities          
 Trade account payables FLAC 46,567 46,567 – – – 46,567
Other payables FLAC 3,890 3,890 – – – 3,890
Other financial liabilities FLAC 1,034 1,034 – – – 1,034
Derivative financial liabilities          
     Derivatives without hedging  
     relationship n/a – – – – – –
     Derivatives with hedging  
     relationship n/a 6,552 – – 6,552 – 6,552
           
Of which aggregated by category in 
accordance with IAS 39:        
Loans and receivables (LaR) 158,120 158,120 – – – 158,120
Deposits designated as a hedging instrument 2,199 – – 2,199 – 2,199
Held-to-maturity investments (HtM) – – – – – –
Available-for-sale financial assets (AfS) – – – – – –
Derivatives without hedging relationship – – – – – –
Derivatives with hedging relationship (6,527) – – (6,527) – (6,527)
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (FLAC) (51,491) (51,491) – – – (51,491)
    
 
The fair value of derivatives has been determined with reference to available market information (Level 2). The carrying amounts of the loans and 
receivables and financial liabilities approximate their fair values due to short-term maturities. Since the market conditions affecting non-current liability 
component of convertible bond are unchanged the fair value is equal to the carrying amount. 
22. Additional disclosures on financial instruments continued  
 
 
 
 
  
100  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
23. Commitments 
Operating lease, software and service commitments 
The Group leases all its office facilities and vehicles, and some of its office and test equipment, under operating leases. Future minimum lease payments 
under non-cancellable operating rental and lease agreements and payments for other commitments are as follows: 
  
  Operating leases and 
software 
commitments
Other commitments Operating leases and 
software  
commitments 
Other commitments
  
2012
US$000
2012
US$000
2011 
US$000 
2011
US$000
Within one year 8,896 3,572 7,683 3,033
Between one and two years 6,536 693 7,078 1,529
Between two and three years 4,321 4,565 188
Between three and four years 3,875 – 2,490 –
Between four and five years 3,484 – 2,331 –
Thereafter 10,782 – 8,266 –
Total minimum payments 37,894 4,265 32,413 4,750
  
 
Total payments for operating leases and software commitments, charged as an expense in the income statement, amounted to US$8,896,000 and 
US$9,219,361 for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 respectively. 
Finance lease, hire purchase and software commitments 
The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for test and IT equipment and has software contracts. The leases have terms of renewal but 
no purchase options and escalation clauses. Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease. Future minimum payments under 
finance leases and hire purchase and software contracts together with the present value of the net minimum payments are as follows: 
  
  Minimum payments 
  
2012 
US$000 
2011
US$000
Within one year 4,097 700
Between one and two years 3,400 418
Between two and three years 3,400 –
Between three and four years 3,400 –
Between four and five years 3,400 –
Thereafter 1,700 –
Total minimum payments 
1)
 19,397 1,118
Less amounts representing finance charges (3,724) (84)
Present value of minimum payments 15,673 1,034
  
[1] The increase in 2012 relates to a new six year licensing agreement, further information is provided in note 12. 
 
Capital commitments 
The Group has contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment in 2012 of US$3,014,000 (2011: US$2,264,000) and for 
the acquisition of intangible assets of US$1,229,000 (2011: US$2,501,000). 
In addition the company has a contingent liability of US$400,000 in connection with the purchase of intangible assets. This liability is contingent to 
certain shipping volumes, relating to the acquired technology, being met. We expect to reach these shipping volumes in first Quarter 2013.    
 
  
 101
 
24. Segmental reporting  
Following the provisions of IFRS 8, reportable operating segments are identified based on the “management approach”. The management approach 
requires external segment reporting based on the Group’s internal organisational and management structure and on internal financial reporting to the 
chief operating decision maker, which considered the Group as being the Board of Management. 
The Group reports on three operating segments, which are independently managed by bodies responsible for the respective segments depending on the 
nature of products offered. The identification of Company components as operating segments is based in particular on the existence of business unit 
managers who report directly to the Board of Management of Dialog and who are responsible for the performance of the segment under their charge. 
Following the change in IFRS 8.23, the Group no longer reports assets and liabilities as only inventories are reported to the chief operating decision 
maker. Prior-year figures have been adjusted accordingly. 
a) Operating segments 
The Group’s operating segments are: 
Mobile Systems  
This segment includes our power management and audio chips especially designed to meet the needs of the wireless systems markets and a range of 
advanced driver technologies for low power display applications – from PMOLEDs, to electronic paper and MEMS displays. This segment was newly 
created in Q1-2012 and includes our former Audio and Power Systems segment and our former Display Systems segment. For further information, see 
below. 
Automotive and Industrial  
In the automotive and industrial market our products address the safety, management and control of electronic systems in cars and for industrial 
applications. 
Connectivity 
The activities of this segment include short-range wireless, digital cordless and VoIP technology. The new Connectivity segment includes the operating 
segment of our acquired subsidiary SiTel Semiconductor B.V. SiTel which was acquired on 10 February 2011; therefore its results are consolidated from 
this date. 
      
  2012 2011 
  
Mobile Systems 
US$000 
Automotive/ 
Industrial 
US$000 
Connectivity
US$000
Corporate
US$000
Total
US$000
Mobile Systems
US$000
Automotive/ 
Industrial 
US$000 
Connectivity 
US$000 
Corporate  
3)
US$000
Total
US$000
Revenues 
1)
 638,765 38,686 96,133 (1) 773,583 370,926 45,878 108,778 1,679 527,261
R&D expenses 96,586 3,613 24,590 3,097 127,886 62,065 4,527 20,012 3,442 90,046
Operating profit 
(loss) 
2)
 112,244 8,127 (13,144) (16,195) 91,032 59,814 9,844 4,853 (12,878) 61,633
Depreciation/ 
amortisation 26,268 508 5,515 – 32,291 18,471 1,353 5,007 – 24,831
Inventory 
impairment and 
fixed asset 
disposal losses 8,470 26 740 – 9,236 4,032 661 73 – 4,766
Investments 55,693 1,077 11,692 – 68,462 
4)
23,922 1,752 6,484 – 32,158 
5)
  At 31 Dec 2012 At 31 Dec 2011
Inventories 129,121 7,989 14,868 477 152,455 45,801 5,957 10,879 – 62,637
      
[1] All revenues are from sales to external customers 
[2] Certain overhead costs are predominantly allocated based on sales and headcount.  
     The Operating loss of the Corporate Segment results from Holding related expenses, share option and business development costs  
[3] The revenue in the corporate column include mainly the BenQ settlement please refer to note 27 and sales discounts 
[4] Including 35,048 US$000 additions to PPE, 33,512 US$000 additions to intangible assets and -98 US$000 deposits 
[5] Including 20,902 US$000 additions to PPE, 11,099 US$000 additions to intangible assets and 157 US$000 deposits   
 
 
 
 
  
102  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Revenues in the Corporate column include sales discounts on early payment of US$1,000 (2011: US$107,000). The amount in 2011 also includes the 
BenQ Cash settlement of US$1,785,000).  
R&D expenses in the Corporate column predominantly include stock option expenses, expenses for the Management Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and 
expenses for the Executive Incentive Plan (EIP) of US$2,950,000 (2011: US$3,442,000).  
The operating losses recorded in the corporate column for the year ended 31 December 2012 of US$16,195,000 (2011: US$12,878,000) are primarily 
resulting from stock option expenses, bonus payments for employees, expenses in relation to the Long Term Incentive Plan introduced in 2008, sales 
discounts for early payments and the costs of the holding company. Additionally in 2011 the BenQ cash settlement in the amount of US$2.1 million was 
included.  
Investments comprise additions to property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets. 
In 2012 and 2011 the Group had no inter-segment sales, income, expenses, receivables, payables or provisions. 
There are no differences between the measurements of the reportable segments profits and losses, assets and liabilities and the entity’s profit and losses, 
assets and liabilities. 
Change of Segmental Reporting structure 
Following the acquisition of SiTel Semiconductor B.V. (now Dialog B.V.) in February 2011, the Company initiated a review of the business segments. The 
first outcome was the creation of the Connectivity Segment in 1Q-2011 to encapsulate all the activities of former SiTel. During Q1-2012, the Company 
went on to review its display activities.  
Low market traction of the Company’s display products in the last two years which resulted in minimal revenue drove the Company’s decision to re-
allocate its scarce R&D resources away from these products and onto higher priority projects. Therefore already in Q1-2012 the Company indicated that 
it would no longer invest R&D activities in the development of next generation display products unless it sees traction in the market and capacity 
investment in display glass modules from it business partners in Asia. Nevertheless, the Company continues to engage with major tier 1 OEMs and 
module display manufacturers to secure their adoption of this technology. 
Due to high synergy of end markets and customers in mobile products between audio & power management and display products, the Company then 
decided to merge the two marketing and support organisations.   
These decisions meant that it was no longer meaningful to report the display activity as a separate business segment. As a result in Q1-2012 the 
Company has decided to merge the former Audio & Power Management Segment and the former Display Systems Segment under the newly created 
segment called Mobile Systems Business Group.  
24. Segmental reporting continued   
 
  
 103
 
The following table shows for 2011 the Company’s former Audio & Power Management Segment, the former Display Segment and the combination of 
both into the new Mobile Systems Segment: 
  
  2011 
  
Audio & Power 
Management 
US$000 
Display Systems
US$000
Total
US$000
Revenues 
1)
 369,211 1,715 370,926
R&D expenses 56,763 5,302 62,065
Operating profit (loss) 
2)
 69,960 (10,146) 59,814
Depreciation/ 
amortisation 16,915 1,556 18,471
Inventory impairment and fixed asset disposal losses 3,876 156 4,032
Investments 21,907 2,015 23,922
  At 31 Dec 2011 
Inventories 45,505 296 45,801
  
[1] All revenues are from sales to external customers 
[2] Certain overhead costs are predominantly allocated based on sales and headcount 
 
b) Geographic information – Revenues by shipment destination 
 
  
  2012
US$000
2011
US$000
Revenues   
   United Kingdom 2,317 3,499
   Other European countries  72,722 83,399
   China 600,991 336,910
   Other Asian countries 90,294 83,941
   Other countries  7,259 19,512
Total revenues 773,583 527,261
    
Investments   
   Germany 38,278 25,371
   Japan 41 785
   United Kingdom 3,044 3,034
   Netherlands 3,391 2,612
   USA 22,686 110
   Taiwan 420 8
   Singapore 369 92
   Other 233 146
Total investments 68,462 32,158
  
24. Segmental reporting continued   
 
 
 
 
  
104  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
  
  At 31 December 2012 
US$000 
At 31 December 2011
US$000
Assets    
   Germany 461,824 236,561
   Japan 2,459 2,925
   United Kingdom 159,978 8,052
   Netherlands 57,608 98,688
   Other 26,271 3,163
Total assets 708,140 349,389
  
 
Revenues are allocated to countries based on the location of the shipment destination. Segmental investments and assets are allocated based on the 
geographic location of the asset. 
25. Financial risk management objects and policies 
Vulnerability due to certain significant risk concentrations 
The Group’s future results of operations involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors that could affect the Group’s future operating results and 
cause actual results to vary materially from historical results include, but are not limited to, the highly cyclical nature of both the semiconductor and 
wireless communications industries, dependence on certain customers and the ability to obtain an adequate supply of sub-micron wafers. 
The Group's products are generally utilised in the wireless and automotive industries. The Group generates a substantial portion of its revenue from the 
Mobile Systems Segment, which accounted for 77% and 70% of its total revenue for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
Changes in foreign currency exchange rates influence the Group’s results of operations. The Group’s sales, purchases of raw materials and 
manufacturing services are primarily denominated in US$.  
The Group depends on a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of its revenues, and the loss of one or more of these customers 
may result in a significant decline in future revenue.  
During 2012, one (2011; one) customer individually accounted for more than 10% of the Group's revenues. Total revenues from this customer were 
US$598,183,000 (2011: US$321,367,000). Net receivables from this customer at 31 December 2012 were US$69,035,306 (2011 US$28,311,000). This 
customer is part of the Mobile Systems Segment (for further information please see Section 2 – Principal customers). 
The Group is performing on-going credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition. 
Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term deposits. The main 
purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has other financial instruments which mainly comprise 
trade receivables and trade payables which arise directly from its operations. 
The Group also entered into derivative transactions (forward currency contracts). The purpose is to manage the currency risks arising from the Group’s 
operations. 
It is, and has been throughout 2012 and 2011, the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken. 
24. Segmental reporting continued   
 
  
 105
 
Exposure to currency, interest rate and credit risk arises in the normal course of the Group’s business. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies 
for managing each of these risks which are summarised below: 
Market risk 
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market prices 
comprise three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such as equity risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include 
loans and borrowings, deposits, available-for-sale investments, and derivative financial instruments. 
Interest risk 
The Group earns interest from deposits and uses money market deposits with highly rated financial institutions. During the year, the Group has held 
cash on deposit with a range of maturities from one week to one month. This can vary in view of changes in the underlying currency’s interest rates and 
the Group’s cash requirements. 
The Group pays interest on amounts received in connection with the factoring agreement as prescribed below. 
The Group has no long-term debt outstanding under short-term credit facilities as at 31 December 2012 (2011: nil). 
The Group’s policy is to manage its interest income using a mix of fixed and variable interest rate debts. In order to achieve this policy, the Group invests 
in highly liquid funds having a matching investment strategy. Once the operating business has been financed, short-term excess funds are invested in 
floating interest rate securities. Only short-term deposits bear fixed interest rates. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s 
profit before tax as well as the Group’s equity: 
  
  Increase/decrease in 
basis points 
Effect on profit
US$000
Effect on equity
US$000
2012     
  83 2,081 2,081
  (54) (1,360) (1,360)
2011     
  34 129 129
  (34) (129) (129)
  
 
Currency risk 
The main functional currency within the Group and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements is the US$. Accordingly, foreign 
exchange risks arise from transactions, and recognised assets and liabilities, the functional currency of which is not the US$. The currencies giving rise to 
these exposure risks are primarily the Euro and Pound Sterling. The majority of the Group’s revenue and material expenses are denominated in US$. The 
majority of other operating expenses are denominated in Euros and Pounds Sterling. The Group has transactional currency exposures. Such exposure 
arises from the sales or purchases by an operating unit in currencies other than the unit’s functional currency. In 2012 and 2011 nearly all the Group’s 
sales were denominated in US$. 
The Group uses forward currency contracts as well as certain deposits (together referred to as the “hedging instruments”) to eliminate the currency 
exposure of recurring expected payments, such as salaries, wages and office rents non-US$ denominated. The hedging instruments must be the same 
currency as the hedged item. 
It is the Group’s policy not to enter into forward contracts nor classify deposits as non-derivative hedging instruments until a firm commitment is in place 
and to maximise hedge effectiveness by negotiating the terms of hedge instruments to match the terms of the hedged item. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US$ exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the 
Group’s profit before tax (resulting from changes in the fair value of monetary assets, excluding securities, and liabilities) and changes in the Group’s 
equity (resulting in addition from changes in the fair value of deposits designated as cash flow hedges). 
25. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued  
 
 
 
 
  
106  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
   
   Loans and receivables (LaR) and deposits 
designated as cash fow hedges 
1)
 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (FLAC) 
1)
  Increase/decrease 
against US$
Effect on profit
US$000
Effect on equity
US$000
Effect on profit 
US$000 
Effect on equity
US$000
2012       
   Euro 1.9% 178 279 (134) (134)
   Pound Sterling 4.6% 42 42 (148) (148)
   Euro (1.9)% (178) (279) 134 134
   Pound Sterling (4.6)% (42) (42) 148 148
2011       
   Euro 3.4% 300 374 (33) (33)
   Pound Sterling 0.5% 8 8 (5) (5)
   Euro (3.4)% (300) (374) 33 33
   Pound Sterling (0.5)% (8) (8) 5 5
   
[1] Categories according to IAS 39 
 
A risk analysis for the Group’s securities was done separately, based on the inherent historic volatility of the specific securities, see below. 
Credit risk 
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities and certain financing activities. The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third 
parties. It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable 
balances are monitored on an on-going basis, with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. Regarding the risk concentration 
please see above, “vulnerability due to certain significant considerations”. 
In order to finance its growth the Group entered into two factoring agreements with reputable financial institutions. The maximum amount of cash that 
can be received under these agreements is US$60,000,000 (2011: US$42,000,000). The agreements, which comprise receivables from selective 
customers, significantly reduce the underlying credit risk because the financial institutions assume all credit risks associated with the collection of the 
receivables financed under the programmes. 
The Group’s exposure to credit risk arising from other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash, cash equivalents and restricted, would arise 
from default by counterparty. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group uses quarterly cash flow forecasts to monitor its liquidity risk. It takes financial investments and financial assets (e.g. trade accounts receivable 
and other financial assets) into consideration, as well as projected cash flows from operations. The Group’s objective is to minimise interest expense by 
avoiding the use of short-term bank liabilities or bank overdrafts within the Group. 
At 31 December 2012, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of US$312,435,000 (2011: US$113,590,000). 
25. Financial risk management objects and policies continued  
 
  
 107
 
The Group’s policy is to structure its maturities of current financial assets within the Group to meet 100% of the respective maturities of the liabilities. 
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2012, based on contractual undiscounted payments: 
  
  Less than 3 months
US$000
3 to 12 months 
US$000 
1 to 5 years
US$000
Total
US$000
Financial year ended 2012      
     Trade accounts payable 100,616 – – 100,616
     Other payables 5,600 – – 5,600
     Other financial liabilities 3,868 249 176,617 180,734
  110,084 249 176,617 286,950
Financial year ended 2011      
     Trade accounts payable 46,567 – – 46,567
     Other payables 3,890 – – 3,890
     Other financial liabilities 7,213 – 373 7,586
  57,670 – 373 58,043
  
 
At 31 December 2012, the Group had unused short-term credit lines of US$35.0 million (2011: US$5 million) and a multi-currency revolving credit line 
facility of £10.0 million (2011: £10 million) There were no amounts outstanding under these credit lines at 31 December 2012 (2011: nil). 
Capital management 
The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains healthy and strong capital ratios in order to support its business 
and strategies for growth. The company is considering its total equity as capital. 
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust its capital 
structure, the Group may generally issue new shares. Also in 2012 the Group launched a 5 year convertible bond offering amounting to US$201 million 
which has a significant impact on the capital structure of the group, amongst others it led to a decrease of the equity ratio. For further information 
please refer to note 18.  
The Group monitors capital using an equity ratio (total equity divided by total assets). The equity ratio as of 31 December 2012 was 54.0% (2011: 
75.7%). Capital includes net Shareholders’ equity. The Group’s policy is to finance operational business development and growth if at all possible with 
equity rather than long-term liabilities. It is, therefore, also its policy to keep a strong equity ratio. This policy will be reconsidered as soon as sustainable 
profits are earned in order to achieve leverage. However financing of strategic decisions focused on long term growth is ensured by long-term liabilities.  
Hedging activities 
At 31 December 2012, the Group held Forward exchange contracts and deposits (referred to as the “hedging instruments”) designated as hedges of 
firm commitments and forecast transactions in Euros, Pound Sterling and Japanese Yen. 
The hedging instruments are being used to hedge the foreign currency risk of contractual cash flows, principally resulting from wages and salaries, and 
rental payments with the aim of eliminating the currency risk by transforming these cash flows from Euros, Pounds Sterling or Japanese Yen into US 
Dollars. The fair values of the hedging instruments which equal the book values are as follows: 
  
                         At 31 December 2012                      At 31 December 2011 
  
Assets
US$000
Liabilities 
US$000 
Assets
US$000
Liabilities
US$000
Fair values      
Forward exchange contracts 2,752 472 25 6,552
Deposits 6,318 – 2,199 –
  
 
The critical terms of the deposits have been set to match the terms of the hedged cash flows. 
25. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued  
 
 
 
 
  
108  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
The cash flow hedges of the expected future cash flows in each month from January 2013 to December 2013 and January 2012 to December 2012 
respectively were assessed to be highly effective and, at 31 December 2012, a net unrealised gain of US$1,537,000 was included in other 
comprehensive income in respect of these cash flows (2011: loss of US$6,372,000). During the financial year 2012 a net profit of US$2,171,000 (2011: 
loss of US$3,768,000) was recognised in other comprehensive income and a loss of US$6,701,000 (2011: gain of US$3,058,000) was reclassified from 
other comprehensive income and recognised in profit and loss. The months of occurrence of the cash flows are the same as the month when the 
income statement is affected. 
The following tables show the contractual maturities of the payments for which deposits are used as hedging instruments, i.e., when the hedged item 
will be recognised in profit or loss. 
Hedging instruments for Euro commitments: 
   
Maturity Nominal amount €000 Forward rate US$/€ Nominal amount €000 Historical rate US$/€
                     Derivatives            Deposits 
2012      
January 2013 2,500 1.2655 4,000 1.3334
February 2013 6,500 1.2546 – –
March 2013 5,000 1.2483 – –
April 2013 5,000 1.2492 – –
May 2013 5,000 1.2500 – –
June 2013 5,000 1.2180 – –
July 2013 – – – –
August 2013 – – – –
September 2013 – – – –
October 2013 – – – –
November 2013 – – – –
December 2013 – – – –
2011      
January 2012 9,000                     1.3622 – –
February 2012 5,000                     1.3823 – –
March 2012 9,400                     1.3505 – –
April 2012 5,000                     1.3915 – –
May 2012 5,000                     1.3907 – –
June 2012 5,000                     1.3901 – –
July 2012 5,000                     1.3768 – –
August 2012 5,000                     1.3994 1,700 
 
1.4293  
September 2012 5,000                     1.3985 – –
October 2012 5,000                     1.3654 – –
November 2012 5,000                     1.3654 – –
December 2012 5,000                     1.3654 – –
   
 
25. Financial risk management objects and policies continued  
 
  
 109
 
Hedging instruments for Pound Sterling commitments: 
  
Maturity Nominal amount £000 Forward rate US$/£
                                   Derivatives 
2012    
January 2013 1,900              1.5516 
February 2013 1,900              1.5515 
March 2013 1,900              1.5513 
April 2013 1,900              1.5503 
May 2013 1,900              1.5501 
June 2013 –                      - 
July 2013 –                      - 
August 2013 –                      - 
September 2013 –                      - 
October 2013 –                      - 
November 2013 –                      - 
December 2013 –                      - 
2011    
January 2012 1,900              1.5951 
February 2012 1,900              1.5945 
March 2012 2,600              1.5897 
April 2012 1,900              1.5944 
May 2012 1,900              1.5947 
June 2012 1,900              1.5908 
July 2012 1,900              1.6005 
August 2012 1,900              1.6005 
September 2012 1,900              1.6001 
October 2012 1,900              1.5827 
November 2012 1,900              1.5827 
December 2012 1,900              1.5827 
 
Subsequent to 31 December 2012, the Group entered into further forward currency contracts of nominal £25,800,000  at an average forward rate of 
1.5807 US$/£.  
 
25. Financial risk management objects and policies continued  
 
 
 
 
  
110  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Hedging instruments for Japanese Yen commitments: 
   
Maturity Nominal amount ¥000 Forward rate ¥/US$ Nominal amount ¥000 Historical rate ¥/US$
                     Derivatives              Deposits 
2012      
January 2013 50,000 78.000 – –
February 2013 50,000 78.000 – –
March 2013 50,000 78.000 – –
April 2013 45,000 78.000 – –
May 2013 45,000 78.000 – –
June 2013 45,000 78.000 – –
July 2013 45,000 78.000 – –
August 2013 45,000 82.000 – –
September 2013 45,000 82.000 45,000 78.253
October 2013 45,000 82.000 45,000 78.253
November 2013 45,000 83.000 – –
December 2013 45,000 83.000 – –
2011      
January 2012 60,000                77.519 –                         - 
February 2012 64,000                77.519 –                         - 
March 2012 75,000                77.519 –                         - 
   
 
25. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued  
 
  
 111
 
26. Transactions with related parties 
For the relationship between the parent company, Dialog Semiconductor Plc, and its subsidiaries please see note 2. 
Related parties are comprised of eight (2011: seven) non-executive members of the Board of Directors and ten (2011: ten) members of the executive 
management which are named in the management and governance section. These are the only related parties of the Group.  
All transactions with related parties are carried out at arm´s length. 
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 
For the composition of our key management please see management and governance beginning on page 34. Compensation of key management 
personnel of the Group is as follows: 
  
  2012
US$000
2011
US$000
Short term employee benefits 4,447 4,121
Post-employment benefits
1)
 208 170
Share based payments 1,301 1,180
  5,956 5,471
  
[1] The amounts include payments for defined contribution plans. 
 
Compensation of Non-Executive Directors  
The compensation of Non-Executive Directors was US$644,000 (2011: US$645,000). As at 31 December 2012 the amount of Board member fees 
outstanding was nil (2011: US$67,000). For further information please see the Directors’ remuneration report within the management and governance 
section on pages 46 to 52. 
Other related party transactions 
In 2012 and 2011 there were no other transactions with related parties. None of the related parties has a major influence in one of the Group’s major 
suppliers or customers.  
   
 
 
 
 
  
112  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 4 | Consolidated financial statements and notes 
 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
27. BenQ settlement 
In the second quarter of 2011, the company received an unexpected cash settlement of US$2.1 million. As the allocation of the payment was not 
confirmed by the paying party, we were only able to allocate it in Q3 to receivables which had been previously written down and revenues that had not 
been recognised in 2006 as a result of the insolvency of BenQ Mobile. The amount represents 30% of the original claim to BenQ Mobile. Of this 
amount, US$1.8 million were classified as revenue and US$0.3 million were classified as other operating income. The amount shown as revenue 
represents prior period revenue. As one of the criteria for revenue recognition under IFRS was not met, for this amount the related revenue was not 
accounted for in 2006. The amount shown as other operating income was previously recognised as revenue in the periods preceding the insolvency but 
the underlying receivables were written down against other operating expenses. 
28. Subsequent event 
There are no known events after the date of the Statement of Financial Position that require disclosure. 
 
   
 
  
Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 5 | Company financial statements and notes             113
 
  
  Notes At 31 December 2012
US$000
At 31 December 2011
US$000
Assets     
Cash and cash equivalents   155,112 27,429
Amounts owed by group undertakings   203,191 14,599
Prepaid expenses   – 371
Other financial assets   – –
Other current assets   520 180
Total current assets   358,823 42,579
Investments 29 161,896 161,855
Total non-current assets   161,896 161,855
Total assets   520,719 204,434
Trade and other payables   2,005 684
Other payables   2,029 367
Total current liabilities   4,034 1,051
Other non-current financial liabilities   164,589 –
Ordinary Shares   12,852 12,380
Share Premium   243,829 203,911
Retained earnings (accumulated deficit)   98,268 (9,519)
Other reserves   – (231)
Employee stock purchase plan shares   (2,853) (3,158)
Total Shareholders´ equity 32 352,096 203,383
Total liabilities and Shareholders´ equity   520,719 204,434
  
 
Profit for the financial year 
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent company’s profit and loss account has not been included in these financial 
statements. The parent company’s profit after taxation was US$107,677,000 (2011: loss of US$6,629,000). 
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 February 2013 and were signed on its behalf by: 
Dr Jalal Bagherli 
Director 
Company statement of financial position 
For the year ended 31 December 2012   
Company financial statements 
 
 
 
  
114  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 5 | Company financial statements and notes 
 
    
        Other reserves   
  
Ordinary Shares 
US$000 
Additional paid-in 
capital
US$000
Retained earnings 
(Accumulated deficit)
US$000
Hedges
US$000
Employee stock 
purchase plan shares 
US$000 
Total
US$000
Balance at 31 December 2010 /  
1 January 2011 12,380 202,416 (2,992) 69 (3,915) 207,958
Total comprehensive income (loss) – – (6,629) (300) – (6,929)
Sale of employee stock purchase plan 
shares – 1,495 – – 757 2,252
Equity settled transactions, net of tax – – 102 – – 102
Changes in Equity total – 1,495 (6,527) (300) 757 (4,575)
Balance at 31 December 2011 /  
1 January 2012 12,380 203,911 (9,519) (231) (3,158) 203,383
Total comprehensive income (loss) – – 107,677 231 – 107,908
Conversion right embedded in 
Convertible Bond – 37,393 – – – 37,393
Convertible Bond transaction cost 
attributable to conversion right – (814) – – – (814)
Capital Increase for employee share 
option plan (gross proceeds)  472 2,680 – – (3,152) –
Transaction cost of capital increase - 
employee share option plan  – (33) – – – (33)
Sale of employee stock purchase plan 
shares – 692 – – 3,457 4,149
Equity settled transactions, net of tax – – 110 – – 110
Changes in Equity total 472 39,918 107,787 231 305 148,713
Balance at 31 December 2012 12,852 243,829 98,268 – (2,853) 352,096
 
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2012   
  
 115
 
  
  2012
US$000
2011
US$000
Cash flows from operating activities:    
Net income (loss) 107,677 (6,629)
Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by (used for) operating activities:   
Interest expense (income), net 900 (940)
Expense related to share-based payments 110 102
Changes in working capital:   
Trade accounts payable 1,321 (435)
Other assets and liabilities 2,184 447
Cash generated from (used for) operations 112,192 (7,455)
Interest paid (1,005) –
Interest received 4,151 258
Cash flow from (used for) operating activities 115,338 (7,197)
Cash flows from investing activities:    
Purchase of SiTel Semiconductor B.V. – (89,218)
Foundation of other affiliated companies (41) –
Loans made to other group companies (188,592) –
Loans repaid by other group companies – 41,577
Cash flow from (used for) investing activities (188,633) (47,641)
Cash flows from financing activities:    
Cash flow from the convertible bond 196,631 –
Sale of employee stock purchase plan shares  4,114 2,254
Cash flow from financing activities 200,745 2,254
Net foreign exchange difference 233 (294)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 127,683 (52,878)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 27,429 80,307
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 155,112 27,429
  
 
 
Company statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2012   
Company financial statements 
 
 
 
  
116  Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 5 | Company financial statements and notes 
 
29. Investments 
This represents the investment of the Company in Dialog Semiconductor GmbH and Dialog Semiconductor BV and in 2012 also the newly created 
subsidiaries in Italy and Turkey. Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.  
The aggregate amount of capital and reserves and the results of this undertaking were as follows: 
  
  2012 
US$000  
2011
US$000
Capital and reserves 155,927 147,048
Profit for the year 99,323 65,145
  
Based on preliminary unaudited results. 
30. Deferred tax 
The utilisation of tax loss carryforwards and temporary differences of the holding company is subject to the achievement of positive income in periods 
which are beyond the company’s current business plan and therefore this utilisation is uncertain. Consequently no deferred tax assets were recognised 
for these losses and temporary differences.  
31. Share capital and share options 
Details of the Company’s share capital and share options are set out in notes 19 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements as at 
31 December 2012. 
32. Headcount and costs 
The Company does not have any employees. 
33. Events after the reporting period 
There are no known events after the date of the Statement of Financial Position that require disclosure. 
 
Notes to the Company financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012   
 117
Glossary
LED A Light Emitting Diode is a semiconductor device that emits light 
when charged with electricity, often used for LCD display backlights.
Mixed signal A combination of analog and digital signals being 
generated, controlled or modified on the same chip.
OEM An Original Equipment Manufacturer that builds products or 
components that are used in products sold by another company.
Power Management The management of the power requirements 
of various subsystems, important in handheld and portable 
electronics equipment.
PMIC Power Management IC.
Semiconductor A base material halfway between a conductor and 
an insulator, which can be physically altered by mixing in certain atoms. 
Semiconductors form the basis for present-day electronics.
Silicon A semi-metallic element used to create a wafer – and the  
most common semiconductor material – in about 95% of all 
manufactured chips.
Smartphone A mobile phone offering advanced capabilities, often with 
pc-like functionality (PC-mobile handset convergence). A smartphone runs 
complete operating system software providing a standardised interface 
and platform for application developers.
Smart Mirror™ A technology patented by Dialog Semiconductor which 
simplifies circuit design and provides very low current consumption in 
Power Management circuits.
SmartPulse™ A wireless sensor network connectivity solution based on the 
DECT ULE (Ultra Low Energy) standard for home automation applications. 
SmartXtend™ A technology patented by Dialog Semiconductor that 
extends the life and reduces power consumption of high-resolution, 
passive matrix OLED displays.
Subcontractor A business that signs a contract to perform part or all 
of the obligations of another’s contract.
Tablet PC A tablet PC refers to a slate- or tablet-shaped mobile computer 
device, equipped with a touchscreen or stylus.
TAM Total addressable market, TAM measures the potential market for 
your product – and your product only – assuming you could reach 100% 
of your customers.
Ultrabook™ A higher-end, compact sub-notebook that is designed  
to be compact, thin and light without compromising performance and 
battery life. Ultrabooks™ typically feature low power processors and 
solid-state drives.
USB Universal Serial Bus: a universal interface standard to connect 
different electronics devices.
Wafer A slice of silicon from a 4, 5, 6 or 8 inch diameter silicon bar 
and used as the foundation on which to build semiconductor products.
Technical glossary
Analog A type of signal in an electronic circuit that takes on a continuous 
range of values rather than only a few discrete values.
ASIC An Application Specific Integrated Circuit is an integrated chip, 
custom-designed for a specific application.
ASSP An Application Specific Standard Product is a semiconductor device 
integrated circuit (IC) dedicated to a specific application and sold to more 
than one user.
Audio CODEC The interface between analog signals (such as the human 
voice) and the digital data processing inside a mobile phone, determining 
voice quality.
BCD process platform The incorporation of analog components (Bipolar), 
digital components (CMOS) and high-voltage transistors (DMOS) on 
the same die to reduce the number of components required in the bill 
of materials, minimise board space, costs and the parasitic losses in 
comparison to a non-integrated solution.
Buck converter A DC-to-DC buck converter accepts a direct current 
input voltage and produces a direct current output voltage to a plurality 
of channels. 
CAD Computer Aided Design usually refers to a software tool used for 
designing electronics hardware or software systems.
CDMA Code Division Multiple Access is an alternative to GSM technology 
for mobile wireless networks.
Chips Electronic integrated circuits.
CMOS Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor: the most popular 
class of semiconductor manufacturing technology.
Digital A type of signal used to transmit information that has only  
discrete levels of some parameter (usually voltage).
Fabless A company that designs and delivers semiconductors by 
outsourcing the fabrication (manufacturing) process.
FET A Field Effect Transistor uses an electric field to control the shape 
and hence the conductivity of a channel of one type of charge carrier  
in a semiconductor material.
Foundry A manufacturing plant where silicon wafers are produced.
Hi-Fi High-Fidelity is the reproduction of sound with little or no distortion.
IC Integrated Circuit: an electronic device with numerous components 
on a single chip.
Imaging The capture and processing of images via an image sensor for 
use by an electronic device to send to a display for viewing by a user.
Liquid Crystal Display (LCD) A display technology found in many 
portable electronics products, including personal organisers, cellular 
handsets and notebook computers.
LDO Low dropout voltage regulators are used in battery operated systems, 
where the output voltage is typically lower than the input voltage.
Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 6 | Additional information  
118 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 6 | Additional information
Glossary continued
Gross margin This is difference between revenues and cost of sales  
as presented in the statement of operations.
Impairment The condition that exists when the carrying amount of  
a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value (the sum of the undiscounted  
cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of 
the asset).
IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) Accounting standards 
generally to be used for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 
2005 by all publicly listed European Union companies in compliance with 
the European Parliament and Council Regulation adopted in July 2002.
Prime Standard The new segmentation of the equity market of the 
German Stock Exchange comprises a Prime Standard segment in addition 
to the General Standard segment that applies the statutory minimum 
requirements. The Prime Standard segment addresses companies that wish 
to target international investors. These companies are required to meet 
high international transparency criteria, over and above those set out by 
the General Standard.
Restructuring charges Costs associated with an exit or disposal  
activity, e.g. termination benefits provided to employees that are 
involuntarily terminated.
Securities Debt securities are instruments representing a creditor 
relationship with an enterprise and includes government securities, 
corporate bonds, commercial paper and all securitised debt instruments. 
Available-for-sale securities are debt securities not classified as held to 
maturity or trading securities.
Shareholders’ equity This reflects the investment of Shareholders in 
a Company. Shareholders’ equity comprises ordinary shares, additional 
paid-in capital, retained earnings and accumulated other 
comprehensive income.
Stock option plans This refers to all agreements by an entity to issue 
shares of stock or other equity instruments to employees. Stock option 
plans provide employees the opportunity to receive stock resulting in 
an additional compensation based on future share price performance. 
The purpose of stock option plans is to motivate employees to increase 
Shareholder value on a long-term basis.
Total assets All current and non-current assets. Total assets equal total 
liabilities and Shareholders’ equity.
Working capital The excess of current assets over current liabilities  
and identifies the relatively liquid portion of total enterprise capital  
that constitutes a margin or buffer for meeting obligations within the 
ordinary operating cycle of the business.
Financial glossary
AGM Annual General Meeting.
CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate, a method of assessing the 
average growth of a value over time.
Cash flow The primary purpose of a statement of cash flow is to provide 
relevant information about the cash receipts and cash payments of an 
enterprise during a period. It helps to assess the enterprise’s ability to 
generate positive future net cash flows. A statement of cash flows shall 
explain the change in cash and cash equivalents during the period by 
classifying cash receipts and payments according to whether they stem 
from operating, investing or financing activities.
Cash flow from operating activities includes all transactions and other 
events that are not defined as investing or financing activities in 
paragraphs. Operating activities generally involve producing and delivering 
goods and providing services. Cash flows from operating activities are 
generally the cash effects of transactions and other events that enter into 
the determination of net income.
Comprehensive income The purpose of reporting comprehensive income 
is to report a measure of all changes in equity of an enterprise that results 
from recognised transactions and other economic events of the period 
other than transactions with owners such as capital increases or dividends. 
An example of items affecting comprehensive income is foreign currency 
translation adjustments resulting from the process of translating an entity’s 
financial statements in a foreign currency into the reporting currency.
Corporate Governance The system by which business corporations are 
directed and controlled. The Corporate Governance structure specifies the 
distribution of rights and responsibilities among different participants in 
the corporation, such as the Board, managers, Shareholders and other 
stakeholders, and spells out the rules and procedures for making decisions 
on corporate affairs. By doing this, it also provides the structure through 
which the Company’s objectives are set, and the means of attaining those 
objectives and monitoring performance.
Deferred taxes Deferred tax assets or liabilities are temporary differences 
between the tax basis of an asset or liability and its reported amount in 
the financial statements that will result in taxable or deductible amounts  
in future years when the reported amount of the asset or liability is 
recovered or settled, respectively.
Derivative financial instruments A financial instrument that derives 
its value from the price or expected price of an underlying asset  
(e.g. a security, currency or bond).
Dividends Payments made by a company to its shareholders. When the 
company earns a profit, that money can be put to two uses: it can either 
be reinvested in the business (called retained earnings) or it can be paid 
to the shareholders of the company as a dividend.
DTR The UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules implementing the 
provisions of the Transparency Directive. 
EURIBOR The Euro Interbank Offered Rate is the rate at which euro 
interbank term deposits within the euro zone are offered by one prime 
bank to another prime bank. 
Free-float The proportion of an issuer’s share capital that is available  
for purchase in the public equity markets by investors.  
 119
Advisers and corporate information
Registered office
Dialog Semiconductor Plc 
Tower Bridge House 
St Katharine’s Way 
London E1W 1AA 
UK
Website: www.dialog-semiconductor.com
Registered number
3505161
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting     2 May 2013 
Q1 2013 Results       8 May 2013 
Q2 2013 Results       23 July 2013 
Q3 2013 Results       29 October 2013 
Preliminary results for 2013     February 2014
Public relations
FTI Consulting        FTI Consulting 
Holborn Gate        Park Tower 
26 Southampton Buildings    Bockenheimer Anlage 44 
London EC4R 9HA       60322 Frankfurt am Main 
UK            Germany
Legal adviser
Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP  
Tower Bridge House  
St Katharine’s Way  
London E1W 1AA  
UK 
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP 
Apax Plaza 
Reading 
Berkshire RG1 1YE 
UK
Principal bankers
HSBC Bank Plc            Deutsche Bank AG 
Thames Valley Corporate Banking Centre    Global Banking 
Apex Plaza             Am Hafenmarkt 
Reading              D-73728 Esslingen 
Berkshire RG1 1AX           Germany 
UK 
Designated sponsor
Close Brothers Seydler  Credit Agricole Cheuvreux (as of January 2013) 
Schillerstrasse 27-29  Tatnnusarlage 14 
D-60313 Frankfurt   D-60325 Frankfurt 
Germany      Germany
Shares
Information on the Company’s shares and on significant shareholdings  
can be found on page 9.  
120 Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 3 | Management and governance Dialog Semiconductor Plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | Section 6 | Additional information
Group directory
Germany
Dialog Semiconductor GmbH
Neue Strasse 95 
D-73230 Kirchheim/Teck-Nabern 
Germany 
Phone: (+49) 7021 805-0 
Fax: (+49) 7021 805-100 
Email: dialog.nabern@diasemi.com
United Kingdom
Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd
Delta 200 
Delta Business Park 
Welton Road 
Swindon 
Wiltshire SN5 7XB 
UK  
Phone: (+44) 1793 757700 
Fax: (+44) 1793 757800 
Email: dialog.swindon@diasemi.com
The Netherlands
Dialog Semiconductor B.V.
Het Zuiderkruis 53
5215 MV ‘s-Hertogenbosch
The Netherlands
Phone: (+31) 73 640 88 22
Fax: (+31) 73 640 88 23
Email: dialog.nl@diasemi.com
North America
Dialog North America
2560 Mission College Boulevard 
Santa Clara 
California 95054 
USA 
Phone: (+1) 408 845 8500 
Fax: (+1) 408 845 8505 
Email: NA_sales_enquiries@diasemi.com
Japan
Dialog Semiconductor K.K.
Kamiyacho MT Bldg 16F 
4-3-20 Toranomon 
Minato-ku 
Tokyo 105-0001  
Japan 
Phone: (+81) 3 5425 4567  
Fax: (+81) 3 5425 4568 
Email: dialog.tokyo@diasemi.com
Taiwan & Greater China
Dialog Semiconductor GmbH
Taiwan Branch
9F, No 185, Sec 2, Tiding Blvd 
Neihu district 
Taipei city 114 
Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Phone: (+886) 281 786 222 
Fax: (+886) 281 786 220 
Email: dialog.taiwan@diasemi.com
Singapore
Dialog Semiconductor GmbH
Singapore branch
10 Ang Mo Kio. Street 65.
Unit # 03-11A Techpoint 
Singapore 569059
Phone: (+65) 64849929
Fax: (+65) 64843455
Email: dialog.singapore@diasemi.com
Korea
Dialog Semiconductor (UK) Ltd 
Korea Branch
501 Dongsung B/D,  
158-9, Samsung-Dong 
Kangnam-Ku, Seoul 
Korea, 135-830 
Phone: (+82) 2 569 2301  
Fax: (+82) 2 569 2302 
Email: dialog.korea@diasemi.com  
Designed and produced by FTI Consulting www.fticonsulting.com 
Sections 4 and 5 produced in-house with FIRE.sys 
Printed in England by Cousin, environmentally accredited printers, ISO 14001. Dialog Semiconductor Plc 
Tower Bridge House 
St Katharine’s Way 
London E1W 1AA 
UK
www.dialog-semiconductor.com
Dialog Semiconductor Plc Annual report and accounts | 2012
