 Dignity plc
4 King Edwards Court
King Edwards Square
Sutton Coldfield
West Midlands B73 6AP
For more information on 
investor relations please visit:
www.dignityfuneralsplc.co.uk
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Serving local communities for generations 
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 About Dignity
Dignity owns 567 funeral locations and operates 33 crematoria in the United
Kingdom. The Group continues to have a strong market presence in pre-arranged
funeral plans, where people plan and pay for their funeral in advance.
We are a FTSE 250 company listed on the London Stock Exchange, with over 
2,400 employees serving families and local communities across the United 
Kingdom for generations.
What we believe in:
• we are here to help people through
one of the most difficult times 
in their lives;
• we do this with compassion, respect,
openness and care; and
• we want to be the company that
everyone knows they can trust in 
their time of need.
Our strategy
We plan to grow the profitability 
of our business by: 
• operating in a traditional market
where people use our services 
based on our reputation and through
recommendations, where we believe
our continued commitment to
excellent service for our clients will
generate a high level of referral and
organic revenue growth;
• continuing to control our 
operating costs;
• selective acquisition of additional
funeral locations;
• developing, managing or acquiring
additional crematoria where 
possible; and
• national marketing, principally through
affinity partners, of pre–arranged 
funeral plans.
Front cover: Rachael Barber, Area Manager for Norwich and 
North Anglia and the third generation of her family to serve local
communities in the funeral profession, with Ken Fickling, Funeral
Director, outside Fenland Crematorium in Cambridgeshire.
Contents
01 Key financial highlights
02 Dignity at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
05 Chief Executive’s overview
06 Business review
12 Corporate and social responsibility
22 Financial review
25 Principal risks and uncertainties
26 Board of Directors
27 Directors’ report
30 Report on Directors’ remuneration
37 Directors’ statement on corporate governance
Group Accounts
42 Independent Auditors’ report to the members 
of Dignity plc
43 Consolidated income statement
43 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
44 Consolidated balance sheet
45 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
46 Consolidated statement of cash flows
47 Notes to the financial statements
Company Accounts
83 Independent Auditors’ report to the members 
of Dignity plc 
84 Dignity plc Company balance sheet
85 Notes to the Dignity plc financial statements
89 Financial record
91 Notice of Meeting
95 Shareholder information
96 Contact details and advisers 
96 Financial calendar Underlying earnings per share 
(pence)
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Revenue 
(£million)
Underlying operating profit 
(£million)
Revenue up 8% 
to £199.1 million
Underlying operating 
profit up 8% to 
£61.0 million
Underlying earnings 
per share up 15% to 
46.4 pence per share
Key ﬁnancial highlights
65
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2007 2008 2009 2010
149.8
159.5
175.8
184.7
199.1
44.1
47.6
52.1
56.4
61.0
33.4
38.2
2006
26.6
40.5
46.4
Funeral services 143.3 
Crematoria 37.5 
Pre-arranged funeral 
plans 18.3
Funeral services 49.3 
Crematoria 19.9
Pre-arranged funeral 
plans 4.3
*Excludes head office costs 
   of £12.5 million
Revenue by area 
(£million)
Underlying operating profit by area*
(£million)
01 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Current period financial highlights 2010 2009 Increase %
Revenue (£million) 199.1 184.7 8
Underlying operating profit
(a)
(£million) 61.0 56.4 8
Underlying profit before tax
(a)
(£million) 40.4 36.4 11
Underlying earnings per share
(b)
(pence) 46.4 40.5 15
Cash generated from operations (£million) 74.5 65.3 14
Operating profit (£million) 60.4 57.5 5
Profit before tax (£million) 39.8 37.5 6
Basic earnings per share (pence) 46.9 41.8 12
Interim dividend (pence)
(c,d)
– 4.03 n/a
Final dividend (pence)
(e)
8.07 7.34 10
Return of Value (£million) 63.9 – n/a
(a)
Underlying profit is calculated as profit excluding profit on sale of fixed assets and transaction costs.
(b)
Underlying earnings per share is calculated as profit on ordinary activities after taxation, before profit on sale of fixed assets and transaction costs (both net 
of tax), divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue in the period.
(c)
Interim dividend represents the interim dividend that was approved and paid in the period out of earnings generated in the same period.
(d)
An interim dividend was not paid separately, but was instead included within the £1 Return of Value per Ordinary Share paid October 2010.
(e)
The final dividend represents the final dividend that was approved and paid in the period relating to the earnings generated in the previous period. 02 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Dignity at a glance
The Group’s operations are managed across three main areas, namely 
funeral services, crematoria and pre-arranged funeral plans. Our people
across the business are dedicated to making a difference to the local
communities they serve. We aim to achieve our business objectives in 
a caring and responsible manner, recognising the economic, social and
environmental impact of our activities.
Funeral services
Funeral services revenues relate to 
the provision of funerals and ancillary
items such as memorials and floral
tributes. We operate a network of 
567 funeral locations throughout 
the United Kingdom trading under
established local trading names.
In 2010, the Group conducted 
64,500 funerals, which represents
approximately 11.5 per cent of
estimated total deaths in Britain.  
Business overview
Crematoria
Pre-arranged funeral plans
Business overview
Business overview
Crematoria revenues arise from
cremation services and the sale of
memorials and burial plots at the
Group’s crematoria and cemeteries.
We are the largest single operator of
crematoria in Britain. We operate 33
crematoria in England and Scotland
and carried out 45,200 cremations 
in 2010 representing 8.1 per cent 
of estimated total deaths in Britain.
Pre-arranged funeral plans income
represents amounts to cover the costs
of marketing and administering the
sales of plans. Pre-arranged funeral
plans allow people to plan and pay for
their funeral in advance. The Group 
has a strong market presence in the
provision of pre-arranged funeral plans
with 238,000 unfulfilled funeral plans
as at 31 December 2010. Dignity
works with a number of reputable
affinity partners.
72%
Group revenue share
567
Number of funeral 
locations in theUK
64,500
Number of funerals 
conducted during 2010
19%
Group revenue share
33
Number of crematoria
in England and
Scotland
45,200
Number of cremations
conducted during 2010
9%
Group revenue share
238,000
Number of unfulfilled 
funeral plans as at 
31 December 2010 03 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Our performance in 2010
The Group has performed strongly in 2010 with revenue up 8 per cent,
underlying operating profit up 8 per cent and underlying earnings per share 
up 15 per cent.
Operational and ﬁnancial summary Key developments
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Revenue (£million) Underlying operating profit (£million)
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Revenue up 3% 
to £143.3 million
Underlying operating profit
up4% to £49.3 million
120.0
126.3
137.2 138.5
143.3
39.3
42.1
46.3
47.3
49.3
Operational and ﬁnancial summary Key developments
Operational and ﬁnancial summary Key developments
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
20
18
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
Revenue (£million) Underlying operating profit (£million)
Revenue up 9% 
to £37.5 million
Underlying operating profit
up13% to £19.9 million
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
12.1
14.0
14.6
17.6
19.9
23.2
25.7
29.2
34.4
37.5
Total unfulfilled pre-arranged 
funeral plans increased to 238,000 
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
188,800
197,300
204,000
216,000
238,000
250,000
225,000
200,000
175,000
150,000
125,000
100,000
Total number of unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans
• Good cost control has
helped performance.
• Six locations acquired.
• 18 satellite locations
opened.
• Strong performance 
in the period.
• Plans outstanding
continue to grow.
• The most successful 
sales year since the
creation of pre-arranged
funeral plans.
• Division performed well
with significant growth
year on year.
• Three locations added 
in the year.
• Two further locations due
to open in 2011.
• Mercury abatement project
on track for completion 
in 2012. Results
I am pleased to report that Dignity has continued its track
record of strong profit growth.
Underlying operating profits have increased by 8 per cent 
to £61.0 million (2009: £56.4 million). Underlying earnings
per share have increased 15 per cent to 46.4 pence per
Ordinary Share (2009: 40.5 pence per Ordinary Share).
Dividends
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.88 pence per
Ordinary Share to be paid on 24 June 2011 to members 
on the register at close of business on 27 May 2011. This
dividend is subject to the approval of shareholders at the
Annual General Meeting on 9 June 2011. This final dividend
represents a 10 per cent increase on the equivalent dividend
paid in the previous year.
This will be the only dividend paid in respect of profits
generated in 2010, as an interim dividend was not paid
separately, but was instead included within the £1 Return 
of Value per Ordinary Share paid in October 2010.
New Secured Notes and Return of Value
In the second half of the year, the Group issued further
Secured Notes, raising gross proceeds of £87.1 million. 
The majority of the proceeds were returned to shareholders.
This demonstrates the Group’s continued ability to leverage
its stable cash flows for the benefit of its shareholders by
replacing relatively expensive equity with cheaper debt that
also benefits from a tax deduction.
The Board
There were no changes to the Board in the year and I am
pleased that Ishbel Macpherson and Alan McWalter have
both agreed to remain Non-Executive Directors until the 
end of 2012 to serve alongside James Newman and Bill
Forrester. I have also signed a new contract for a further
three year period. I will therefore, remain Chairman until
December 2013.
I would like to thank all my fellow Directors for their support
during another successful year.
Our people
This business continues to set client service excellence 
as a key objective. Once again, 98 per cent of families
would recommend our services and 99 per cent said we
either met or exceeded their expectations. This is due to the
continued dedication of our staff across the entire business
and I thank them for the roles they have each played during
the year.
I am delighted that as a Group, we continue to invest heavily
to support our staff by keeping open our defined benefit
pension scheme, through training, a generous staff sick pay
scheme, awards for long service and grants for personal
development via the Welfare Trust. In return, we have loyal
staff, with more than half having worked for the Group for
over five years, who are all dedicated to helping our clients
every step of the way.
Outlook for 2011
The year has started well in all three divisions of our
business and the Board remains confident in the 
Group’s prospects.
Chairman’s statement
“Underlying earnings per share have
increased 15 per cent.”
Serving local communities for generations
Peter Hindley, Chairman
04 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Francis Chappell 
& Sons, London
Francis Chappell 
& Sons,London have
been part of the
southeast London
community since
1840, when the
founder , John
Chappell, opened 
the first branch on
Deptford High Street.
J Rymer Funeral
Service,Y ork
In 1848, James
Rymer founded the
family business in
premises very close
to York Minster . By
1925, Jack Rymer,
then aged 15, was
managing the
business after the
death of his father . 
J Rymer Funeral
Service joined the
Dignity network in
1994 and today is
managed by the sixth
generation of the
Rymer family.
Ginns & Gutteridge,
Leicestershire
Ginns Funeral
Directors was listed
in a local trade
directory in 1855. 
In the early 20th
century there were
several competing
funeral businesses
bearing this name –
all run by different
members of the
Ginns family, until
they amalgamated
with another local
funeral director and
Ginns & Gutteridge
was established.
Lawrence Funeral
Service, Halifax
In 1857, John
Lawrence established
his family business, 
J Lawrence & Sons,
in Halifax, Yorkshire.
They produced
furniture but
occasionally made
coffins for local
families. By 1945,
the Lawrence family
were arranging
enough funerals 
to open a chapel 
of rest.
E Finch & Sons,
Aldershot
In 1857, Emmanuel
Finch established 
E Finch & Sons on
the High Street of
Aldershot. During 
the 20th century 
the business built 
its reputation by
conducting military
funerals and
pioneering many new
initiatives, including
the first motorised
hearse in the area.
Beckenham
Cemetery, Kent
Beckenham
Cemetery, the oldest
cemetery operated
by Dignity, opened 
in 1876. It includes 
the resting place of
cricketing legend 
W G Grace.
J H Kenyon, London
James H Kenyon
opened his first
funeral location on
Edgware Road in
1880. The business
expanded to include
five branches in
northwest London
and became one of
the most well-known
names in the 
profession,conducting
funerals for the Royal
Family, politicians
and other prominent
figures.
Frederick W Paine,
London
Charles Paine opened
his first funeral
location in Station
Road, New Malden,
in 1884. Ten years
later the business
was passed on to his
eldest son, Frederick
W Paine, who opened
two further funeral
locations over the
next few years.
1840 1848 1855 1857 1857 1876 1880 1884 Delivering profitable growth and building value 
for shareholders
I am delighted that yet again, Dignity has delivered strong
growth in its operating performance and earnings per share
by continuing to follow its long term strategy. Since the end
of 2007, which marked the start of the recent economic
crisis, the Group’s underlying operating profits have grown
by 28 per cent, cash generated from operations has increased
by 26 per cent and underlying earnings per share have
increased by 39 per cent. The results for 2010 represent the
seventh consecutive year of growth in each of these measures.
The Return of Value in the year means that an investor at the
time of the IPO will have had nearly all their initial investment
returned in cash and still hold shares in Dignity which, at
the current market price, are worth approximately twice
their original investment.
Our consistent strategy and business model continue 
to drive performance:
Continued commitment to client service excellence
We monitor many details about the services we perform 
and the tremendous responses we get back from the families
we serve demonstrate the high level of service that we
provide. Details of these responses are summarised in 
the Business Review.
Continuing to control our costs
It is crucial that as well as increasing revenues, we control 
our costs. I am pleased that cost control has remained
strong and that the Group remains focused on this
important aspect of our strategy.
Selective acquisitions of additional funeral locations
We continue to identify and acquire well established
businesses and incorporate them into our funeral location
portfolio.The funeral services market remains very
fragmented, which should lead to further acquisition
opportunities in the coming years. In addition, we are
testing a number of satellite funeral locations.
Developing, managing or acquiring additional 
crematoria where possible
In the last couple of years, development activity in the
crematoria division has increased significantly. 
Our crematoria portfolio has increased to 33 with a further
two due to become operational in 2011.
National marketing, principally through affinity partners, 
of pre-arranged funeral plans
This source of incremental future business for our funeral
division has had a very successful year. This is attributable 
to strong relationships being developed with our affinity
partners, in particular the Age UK charity. 
A strong platform for sustainable growth
Over the years, we have demonstrated that the strategy we
operate suits the stable nature of this business. This was
demonstrated very well in 2010 with the Group rebalancing
its capital structure through the issue of further Secured
Notes and the return of £1 per Ordinary Share to our
shareholders.
Valuing our people
Our history of success is undoubtedly due to our stable and
experienced management team. I remain grateful for their
ceaseless efforts to improve the service we provide. All our
staff remain key to the success of this business. I would like
to pay tribute to each of them and in particular thank them
for the extraordinary lengths they went to in December
during the terrible weather. As a result of their efforts, only
a very small number of funerals and cremations had to 
be rescheduled.
It gives me great pleasure that we were able to share the
Group’s success with our staff, by paying a total of £1.7
million discretionary bonus payments, an increase of 13 per
cent on the previous year. All full time employees with full
attendance received over £1,000.
Serving our local communities for generations
We are funeral people. This is all we do and we are obsessive
about it. Our local businesses have, in many cases, been
established in their communities for generations and to this
day we have many employees who are descendants of the
founders of those businesses.
Serving the people in our local communities at one of the
most difficult times in their lives remains at the centre of
everything we do at Dignity.
Chief Executive’s overview
“Serving the people in our local
communities at one of the most difficult
times in their lives remains at the centre
of everything we do at Dignity.”
Mike McCollum, Chief Executive
05 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Birmingham
Crematorium
Birmingham
Crematorium opened
in 1903. At this time
it was only one of
nine crematoria in 
the UK.
John Bardgett & Son,
Newcastle upon Tyne
John Bardgett, who
had been a branch
manager of another
local funeral director ,
established his own
business in 1914. By
1916 his three sons,
John Ernest, Arthur
and Stanley had
joined him and
formed a limited
company in 1935.
They were the first
funeral services in
Newcastle to have
motorised vehicles.
Jonathan Harvey,
Glasgow
In 1928, Jonathan
Harvey , a local motor
engineer who
managed a vehicle
hire company and
cab service, opened 
a funeral business 
on Argyle Street in
Glasgow. A second
Jonathan Harvey
funeral location was
established in 1950
and over the next 40
years another four
branches were
opened in the city.
South London
Crematorium
Following World War
One more people
became interested 
in cremation and the
fifth crematorium in
London was built in
Streatham in 1930.
There were originally
three chapels but
only St George’s
remains in use today.
The mausoleum was 
the first to be built 
in Britain in over 
150 years.
Seaford&Newhaven
Funeral Service, 
East Sussex
C Morling Ltd,
primarily a building
company whose
carpenters had made
coffins for over 100
years, opened an
office in Seaford as
its funeral business.
Dignity Caring 
Funeral Services
All of these
businesses came
together in 1994
when Dignity was
created through 
the merger of
Plantsbrook Group
and Great Southern
Group and was re-
branded as Dignity 
in 2001.
Northern Ireland
Dignity acquires six
branches in Northern
Ireland. Three of
these are in Belfast
with one each in
Bangor, Newtonabbey
and Carrickfergus.
Dignity is a British
company that is
listed on the London
Stock Exchange. 
Dignity maintains the
rich heritage of these
companies and we
strive to set the
highest standards 
in the industry.
1903 1914 1928 1930 1950 1994 2008 T oday Introduction
The Group’s operations are managed across three main
areas; funeral services, crematoria and pre-arranged funeral
plans, which respectively represented 72 per cent, 19 per
cent and 9 per cent of the Group’s revenues in 2010.
Funeral services revenues relate to the provision of funerals
and ancillary items, such as memorials and floral tributes.
Crematoria revenues arise from cremation services and the
sale of memorials and burial plots at the Group’s crematoria
and cemeteries. Pre-arranged funeral plan income represents
amounts to cover the costs of marketing and administering
the sale of these plans.
Office for National Statistics data
Some of the Group’s key performance indicators rely on 
the total number of estimated deaths for each period. 
This information is obtained from the Office for National
Statistics (ONS).
The initial publication of recorded total estimated deaths 
in Britain for the 53 weeks in 2010 was 557,000 compared
to 545,000 for the 52 weeks in 2009. Historically, the ONS 
has updated these estimates from time to time. As in
previous years, the Group does not restate any of its key
performance indicators when these figures are restated 
in the following year.
Funeral services
Overview
The Group operates a network of 567 (2009: 546) funeral
locations throughout the United Kingdom, trading under
local established names. During the period, the Group
conducted 64,500 funerals (2009: 65,000). Approximately 
1 per cent of these funerals were conducted in Northern
Ireland. Excluding Northern Ireland, these funerals represent
approximately 11.4 per cent (2009: 11.8 per cent) of total
estimated deaths in Britain. However, because 2010 was a
53 week year, the 53rd week produces non-comparable
market share data. Taking the more comparable trailing 
52 weeks, market share was essentially flat at 11.5 per 
cent (2009: 11.6 per cent).
In addition, whilst funerals divided by estimated deaths 
is a reasonable measure of our market share, the Group
does not have a complete national presence. Consequently,
this calculation can only ever be an estimate.
Delivering client service excellence: the Dignity client survey
To ensure we maintain the highest levels of client service excellence,
all Dignity funeral locations send a written client survey to the
families we serve. In the last five years, we have received over
150,000 responses and from the responses in the last year we
know that, having received the final invoice:
• 99.2 per cent of respondents said that we met or exceeded 
their expectations; 
• 98.1 per cent of respondents would recommend us;
• 99.9 per cent thought our staff were respectful;
• 99.8 per cent thought our premises were clean and tidy;
• 99.8 per cent thought our vehicles were clean and comfortable;
• 99.7 per cent thought our staff listened to their needs and wishes;
• 99.2 per cent of clients agreed that our staff had fully explained
what would happen before and during the funeral;
• 99.2 per cent agreed that our staff were compassionate 
and caring;
• 98.9 per cent said that the funeral service took place on 
time; and
• 98.9 per cent said that the final invoice matched the 
estimate provided.
Developments
2010 has been a good year for funeral operations.
Underlying operating profits were £49.3 million (2009:
£47.3 million), an increase of 4 per cent. The difference
Business review
06 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
We are continuing to improve our skills and
knowledge through training initiatives
Dignity’s Training Department provides a variety of role specific courses
to ensure that staff continue to fulfil their potential and meet the needs
of our clients. These courses are continually assessed via feedback from
delegates and line managers to guarantee that they are relevant and add
value to the contribution made by each employee.
Left: Annie Pamplin, Training Manager, at Dignity’s dedicated training
facility in the West Midlands. 
Serving local communities 
for generations…
Above: In the late 1920’s G Hogben
& Sons on the Isle of Sheppey
moved into a new era with a
gleaming motorised hearse. 
Above right: Dignity invested
approximately £4 million in 2010
in new vehicles. 07 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Providing advice, care and support to the families we serve
At Dignity we are dedicated to achieving excellence in all we do and we strive to set the
highest standards for the funeral profession in terms of client service and care for the
deceased. Our funeral directors and arrangers come from the cities and towns they serve
or families that have been in the funeral profession for generations. This means they
understand local traditions and can help our clients every step of the way.
By choosing a Dignity business families can be assured that client service, premises 
and vehicles will all be of the highest standard.
Below: David Harrison, Area Manager for North Tyneside and County Durham and 
great grandson of William Samuel Harrison, at the branch of W S Harrison & Son 
in Newcastle-upon-Tyne with Funeral Manager, Christine Hardy and Funeral Director, 
Alex Thornhill. Right: W S Harrison & Son, Whitley Bay.
Dedicated people, committed to client service excellence  between statutory amounts and underlying amounts is
represented by profit on sale of fixed assets and transaction
costs totalling £0.2 million (2009: £1.1 million).
This performance continues to reflect organic revenue
growth. Continued strong cost control has ensured that this
has translated into operating profit growth.
The Group’s funeral services division has benefited from
continued investment in the year, with approximately £7.7
million being invested in the period on the refurbishment of
our properties and the ongoing renewal of 129 of our fleet
of hearses, limousines and other vehicles.
Funeral location portfolio
The Group’s funeral location portfolio has increased by 
21 in the year, reflecting acquisitions, disposals and the
opening of new satellite funeral locations.
Net acquisition investment of £5.8 million increased the
portfolio by six funeral locations in the United Kingdom.
Each of these acquisitions met the Group’s criteria of being
larger than average, long-established businesses that fit well
within the Group’s existing network.
The Group continues to seek businesses that meet the
Group’s stringent acquisition criteria and has acquired three
funeral locations since the end of 2010, representing an
investment of £6.4 million. Two of these funeral locations
are in Northern Ireland.
18 new satellite funeral locations (2009: one) were opened
in the year. The locations are situated close enough to
existing business centres to use their specialist vehicles and
mortuary equipment, but far enough away that they service
new families. In this way, these funeral locations will provide
the same outstanding level of client service that people
experience from other Dignity funeral locations without 
the need for significant capital investment.
Such locations are anticipated to be loss making in their
first full year of operation and be profitable in their third
year of operation.
Three locations (2009: six locations) were closed in the
period. This reflects the disposal of some valuable freehold
locations for cash that can be reinvested in the business
and also some smaller locations at the end of their leases.
Crematoria
Overview
The Group is the largest single operator of crematoria in
Britain, operating 33 (2009: 30) crematoria. The Group
performed 45,200 cremations (2009: 42,700) in the period,
representing 8.1 per cent (2009: 7.8 per cent) of deaths 
in Britain.
Developments
Operating profits were £19.9 million (2009: £17.6 million),
an increase of 13 per cent. This reflects a strong performance
from the 22 crematoria owned by the Group for many years,
together with the full year effect of recent acquisitions.
The Group has spent £2.1 million (2009: £1.7 million)
during the year as part of its obligations to comply with 
the mercury abatement legislation, which is effective from
the end of 2012. As a result of the investment so far, five
crematoria now have the required equipment installed and
operational. Legislation requires any crematorium constructed
after October 2006 to have mercury abatement equipment.
Consequently an additional four crematoria within the
Group’s portfolio already comply with the legislation. We
expect to be fully compliant before the 31 December 2012
deadline, by installing equipment at nine other locations.
£1.3 million (2009: £1.7 million) has also been spent on
new cremators and other improvements to the crematoria
locations. These new cremators have been installed earlier
Business review continued
“99.2 per cent of respondents to 
the client survey said that we met 
or exceeded their expectations.”
We are providing families with greater choice
At Dignity we take great care to create a peaceful and tranquil environment
at all of our crematoria and Gardens of Remembrance so that visitors can
remember their loved ones in a place of serenity and beauty.
We provide a range of memorial options in a variety of materials, colours
and styles to ensure that our clients are provided with a focal point for their
grief that gives them comfort for many years. Our aim is to offer families
a quality memorial that enables them to remember the life they shared
with their loved one and is as individual as the person it commemorates.
Left: Geraldine Marchant, Crematorium Manager at Loughborough
Crematorium.
08 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Above: The construction of 
St. Faith’s Crematorium in Norwich 
in the early 1930’s.
Above right: An artist’s impression
of the new Wyre Forest
Crematorium in Worcestershire. Investing responsibly for the future
As an industry leader we are constantly searching for ways to improve our client service
and the impact we have on the communities we serve. During 2010, Dignity opened a new
crematorium in Cambridgeshire and began construction of two new state of the art sites
in Somerset and Worcestershire. These new crematoria will provide greater convenience
for bereaved families by offering reduced journey times and superior facilities.
In 2010, Dignity have also acquired two new crematoria at Weston-super-Mare and 
Telford in Shropshire.
Below: Chris Black, Manager of Fenland Crematorium with Rachael Barber, Area Manager
for Norwich and North Anglia. Right: The Gardens of Remembrance at Loughborough
Crematorium in Leicestershire.
Meeting the different needs of the communities we serve 
09 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 than necessary, as it was more efficient to replace them now
given the works being performed on installing mercury
abatement equipment.
During the period, the Group has completed the construction
of a crematorium in Cambridgeshire, acquired an established
crematorium in Shropshire and started operating Weston-
super-Mare crematorium on behalf of the local authority.
Since the year end, the Group has completed construction
of a crematorium in Somerset which is due to open by the
end of March 2011 and work continues to build a new
crematorium in Worcestershire in partnership with the 
local authority. 
These developments represent an investment of £13.9
million in the year and will require capital investment of
approximately £6.5 million in 2011.
The Group continues to identify further locations suitable 
for a new crematorium and is also continuing to seek
partnerships with local authorities.
Pre-arranged funeral plans
Overview
The Group continues to have a strong market presence in
this area. These plans represent future incremental business
for the funeral division, as the Group expects to perform the
majority of these funerals.
Developments
The division has performed strongly in the period. Focused
marketing activity with its partners has resulted in the
number of unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans increasing
to 238,000 (2009: 216,000) with profits in the division
increasing to £2.8 million excluding Recoveries (2009: 
£2.0 million excluding Recoveries).
From time to time, the Group receives monies from the
Trusts, in line with the relevant Trust’s deed, which have
been assessed by the trustees as not required to ensure 
the Trust has sufficient assets to meet its future liabilities 
in respect of current members (‘Recoveries’). Recoveries
were £1.5 million in each period.
The Group has continued to work hard at developing its
portfolio of affinity partners and has formed a number of
new partnerships in the period with organisations in the
retail and financial services arena.
Central overheads
Overview
Head office costs relate to central services that are not
specifically attributed to a particular operating division.
These include the provision of IT , finance, personnel and
Directors’ emoluments. In addition and consistent with
previous periods, the Group records the costs of incentive
bonus arrangements, such as Long Term Incentive Plans
(LTIPs) and annual performance bonuses, which are provided
to over 50 managers working across the business.
Developments
Costs in the period were £12.5 million (2009: £12.0
million), an increase of 4 per cent. This year on year
increase principally reflects the additional cost of bonuses
paid to the operational managers of the business, together
with some additional pension costs.
The Group also relocated its head office to refurbished
premises within Sutton Coldfield, investing £0.9 million. 
The new head office also accommodates the Group’s
customer service centre, which was previously in a separate
building within the town.
Business review continued
We are enhancing customer experience 
and responsiveness
We provide our advisors with extensive training and coaching so that they
can help our clients at one of the most difficult times of their lives in a
caring and compassionate manner. Our advisors are encouraged to share
their knowledge, experiences and best practice to help maintain and
improve the service they all provide as individuals.
In October 2010, Dignity’s Client Service Centre out-performed national
competition and many household names to finish third for customer
service in the UK’s biggest ever call centre benchmarking exercise.
Left: Lindsey Paris, Amandeep Singh and Tara Wood at Dignity’s Client
Service Centre in Sutton Coldfield.
10 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Helping people plan for the future
Our Dignity Pre-Arranged Funeral Plans division has built up a unique understanding of
our client’s needs and created one of the most financially secure funeral plans in the UK.
This division continues to grow and exceed sales targets through the development of new
products, the instigation of national marketing campaigns and by increasing the number
of affinity partners in our portfolio.
Below: Justin Lewis, Dignity’s Market Development Manager with Sharon Dobson, 
Funeral Plan Manager, of Age UK Enterprises.
Developing new products, building valuable partnerships
11 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Top 3
Dignity’s Client Service Centre achieved third
place for customer service in the biggest ever
survey into UK call centres.
238,000
There were 238,000 unfulfilled pre-arranged
funeral plans at the end of the period. This
reflects strong sales through the Group’s 
funeral locations and affinity partners.
Key highlights: Introduction
Dignity is committed to meeting the needs of our clients,
shareholders and engaging all our employees whilst
considering the impact of our activities on the communities
and environment in which we work. We aim to achieve our
business objectives in a caring and responsible manner by
developing business practices and procedures that reflect this.
Within Dignity, Corporate Services Director, Richard Portman,
is accountable for corporate and social responsibility and
under this remit identifies major issues and reports these 
to his fellow Board members. 
Management and accountability
The governing principles of Dignity are that we are here to
help people at one of the most difficult times of their lives
and we do this with compassion, respect, openness and
care. Our objective is to be the company that everyone
knows they can trust in their time of need.
The flat structure of Dignity means that local management
are empowered to make decisions that provide quick and
effective solutions to the needs of their clients, businesses
and the communities they serve. Only five per cent of our
employees are based at our Head Office in Sutton Coldfield
where they perform such necessary business tasks as finance,
customer service centre, IT , HR and purchasing. This approach
demonstrates our commitment to providing staff in locations
where they can directly help and support our clients.
Our values, which are set out in our governing principles, 
are a fundamental part of our culture. By living these
values, we ensure that we operate in a responsible way 
and that we deliver the excellent service upon which our
business depends.
We foster a responsible culture:
We make our clients feel confident in us so that they are
reassured they are being served by responsible individuals
working for a responsible company. We give our clients
confidence that they can rely on us to understand their
needs and to take care of all the arrangements; and to 
feel confident that we can be responsible for looking after
their loved one.
Dignity has been identified by the FTSE Group in its
FTSE4Good initiative as a company that is working towards
environmental sustainability, developing positive relationships
with stakeholders and upholding and supporting universal
human rights.
We have created a culture of workplace safety so that our
staff understand and abide by legislation and guidelines
ensuring their own health and safety and that of their
colleagues and clients. We promote ‘green issues’ and
sustainability, continually seeking new initiatives that reduce
the impact of our business activities on our environment.
Making a positive contribution to charities and our local
communities is embedded into our corporate culture and 
an objective enthusiastically supported by our staff.
We enable our people to excel:
We train and develop our staff to the very highest standards,
enabling them to fulfil their potential and giving them the
skills to be able to meet and exceed our clients’ expectations.
We build trust and respect:
We build trust and respect with everyone touched by our
business operations – our clients, our colleagues, our
suppliers, trade authorities and members of our local
communities. Everyone at Dignity understands that at all
times they are an ambassador for the company and that the
future success of the business depends on its reputation.
Corporate and social responsibility
“Meeting the needs of clients,
shareholders and engaging all our
employees whilst considering the
communities and environment in 
which we work is at the heart of 
our business.”
Richard Portman, Corporate Services Director
12 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Our CSR commitments
Our people
Dignity is committed to high standards of employment practice and aims
to encourage, retain and develop successful employees.
Health and safety
Our business is conducted at all times in such a way as to ensure, as is
reasonably practical, the health, safety and welfare of all our employees
and all persons who may be attending our premises.
Our environment
We are committed to maintaining the quality of the environment in which
we all live and we aim to reduce the impact of our operations so that we
act in an environmentally friendly manner.
Our communities
We are committed to making a difference to both our clients and to
improving the welfare of all who live in the communities we serve.
Dignity has been identified by the
FTSE Group in its FTSE4Good
initiative as a company that meets
globally recognised standards of
corporate responsibility.
We submit our carbon footprint data
to the Carbon Disclosure Project that
measures disclosures from thousands
of organisations across the world’s
major economies.  At the heart of what we do
Our corporate responsibility programme focuses on developing our people, creating 
a culture of workplace safety, promoting environmental sustainability and making a
positive impact on the communities we serve.
We aim to achieve our business objectives in a caring and responsible manner by
developing business practices and procedures that reflect this. By living these values, 
we ensure that we operate in a responsible way and that we deliver the excellent service
upon which our business depends.
Below: Stuart Cox, Corporate Communications Manager, Sutton Coldfield.
Making a difference
2,000
2,000 delegates attended training courses
facilitated by Dignity’s Training Department
during the past twelve months.
6.7%
The number of accidents reported per thousand
staff employed has been reduced by 6.7per cent
over the last three years.
£
7 million
Dignity will invest approximately £7 million to
reduce mercury emissions from its crematoria
by the end of 2012.
£
60,000
Dignity raised £60,000 for its corporate charity,
Children’s Hospices UK, in 2010.
Key CSR highlights:
13 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 14 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Our CSR areas of focus
We have focused our corporate and social responsibilities 
on four key areas:
• Our people
• Health and safety
• Our environment
• Our communities
Developing key performance indicators
Our people:
Dignity monitors employment applications and appointments
to ensure that we comply with all employment legislation. 
A record is kept of training courses attended by each
employee and this is analysed to help develop future
training requirements.
Health and safety:
Proactively, health and safety is monitored via quarterly
return analysis, premises inspections, health surveillance,
line manager observations of how tasks are performed and
regular reports to the Board of Directors. Investigating
accidents, collation and analysis of statistics and ill-health
investigation reactively monitors health and safety.
Our environment:
Dignity submits its carbon data to the Carbon Disclosure
Project, a not-for-profit organisation that measures disclosures
from thousands of organisations across the world’s major
economies. The results are disclosed on page 18.
Our communities:
All funds raised for our corporate charity are recorded in
detail and can be easily cross-referenced as deposits go into
a specific Dignity Charity Account. Therefore the amount of
money being raised for charity can be compared with previous
performance and this process facilitates funds being
allocated to the geographical region that generated them.
Code of conduct
In 2010, Dignity launched its Code of Conduct. This
document ensures that all staff are aware of the principles
that govern how we operate in the business environment
and explains the standards of behaviour that all our
employees are expected to adhere to.
The Code of Conduct states that all clients should 
be supported during the funeral arrangements, at the 
service or when choosing a memorial or funeral plan in 
a paternalistic manner. We should be compassionate and
caring; pay attention to detail; spend as much time as the
client needs; be open and straightforward and keep in
regular contact with the client.
Our Code of Conduct was reinforced when the Company’s
‘Helping our clients every step of the way’ brochure was
refreshed and distributed to all staff at our funeral locations.
The aim of the brochure is to embed all new employees 
into the Dignity culture and to remind existing members 
of staff of the standards of behaviour and attitudes that 
are expected of them. The ‘Serving our local communities’
brochure has also been redeveloped for staff working at
Dignity’s crematoria.
The Code of Conduct is also published on the Dignity plc
investor website www.dignityfuneralsplc.co.uk.
V aluing our people, enabling them to excel
Dignity is committed to high
standards of employment practice
and aims to encourage, retain and
develop successful employees. We
train our staff to the very highest
standards to enable them to 
provide a truly excellent service 
to our clients.
Left: Mark McGurk, Funeral
Manager, and Julie Madsen, Funeral
Service Arranger at John Bardgett
& Sons in Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
53%
53 per cent of people employed 
by Dignity have 5 years or more
continuous service.
2,000
2,000 delegates attended training
courses facilitated by Dignity’s
Training Department during the 
past twelve months.
8.6 years
The average length of service for 
a Dignity employee is 8.6 years.
Corporate and social
responsibility continued Code of Conduct
literature
During the year, our Code of
Conduct was reinforced when the
Company’s ‘Helping our clients
every step of the way’ and ‘Serving
our local communities’ brochures
were refreshed and distributed to
staff at both our funeral locations
and crematoria. 15 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Our people
Dignity is committed to high standards of employment
practice and aims to encourage, retain and develop
successful employees. As ever our success is due to the 
on-going commitment of our staff to deliver exceptional
levels of client service excellence and staff turnover 
remains low within the Company.
The average age of our employees is 46 years for both male
and female members of staff. The average length of service
for an employee is 8.6 years. However, within Dignity, 44 per
cent of employees have between 5 and 19 years service and
9 per cent of employees have over 20 years service.  
As in previous years there continues to be an almost equal
split of male and female staff with 51 per cent male
employees and 49 per cent female.
Training and development
Dignity provides direct support to employees through both
in-house training and external training courses. 
Dignity’s Training Department provides a variety of role
specific courses to ensure that staff continue to fulfil their
potential and meet the needs of our clients. The provision 
of courses such as ‘An overview of making funeral
arrangements’, which was attended by 106 delegates in
2010, and ‘Identification of the deceased and personal
effects’, which was attended by 637 delegates during the
past 12 months, help to reinforce the understanding each
employee has of their role and reduces the risk of errors
being made when performing their duties.
These courses are continually assessed via feedback from
delegates and line managers with a view to guaranteeing
that they are relevant and add value to the contribution
made by each employee. 
Dignity’s Training Department also provides a number of
management development courses covering more complex
issues such as Business Planning, Financial Analysis,
Recruitment Skills and Presentation Skills.
Our on the job training concentrates on a “buddy” system
where an experienced member of the team provides new
operational staff with guidance on the responsibilities of
their role, our professional practices and company procedures
in addition to demonstrating our commitment to being 
a client focused organisation.
External training includes both relevant job training and
tutoring for professional qualifications. These professional
qualifications include the National Association of Funeral
Directors (NAFD) Diploma and Membership of the British
Institute of Embalmers (BIE). In addition, Dignity has five
members of staff who are accredited NAFD tutors and 
three BIE training specialists. 
This year two new training films have been developed to
share best practice on ‘Bringing the deceased into our care’
and ‘Spending time with the deceased’. The films will be
used for both group and individual development and 167
delegates attended this course in 2010. The two new films
complete our suite of training DVD’s as the ‘Making
arrangements’ film was completed in 2009.
Dignity provides additional support to staff development
through its Welfare Trust, which provides funds for
professional training and hardship grants. The Trust has
approximately £1.6 million available for future use.
Recognising achievement
Dignity has rewarded its loyal staff with long service and
retirement awards totalling approximately £220,000 in
2010 and we expect to spend a similar amount in 2011.
1 – 4 Years (35%)  
Less than 1 Year (12%)  
5 – 9 Years (22%) 
10 – 19 Years (22%)
Over 20 Years (9%)
Employee service
Male (51%)  
Female (49%) 
Employee ratio
As ever our success is due to 
the ongoing commitment and
dedication of our staff to deliver
exceptional levels of client 
service excellence.
Left: Christine Hardy, a Funeral
Manager in North Tyneside
completed 35 years service 
in August 2010.
£
220,000
Dignity has rewarded its loyal staff
with long service and retirement
awards totalling approximately
£220,000 in 2010.
44%
44 per cent of employees have
between 5 and 19 years service 
and 9 per cent of employees have
over 20 years service.
Recognising long service achievements  Corporate and social
responsibility continued
16 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Promoting diversity
Within Dignity there is no discrimination on the grounds 
of gender, race, religion, age and sexual orientation in 
terms of recruitment or career advancement. We encourage
colleagues to show respect and understanding to each 
other and prejudice of any kind will not be tolerated. 
Recruitment
To aid recruitment needs, a detailed job description
identifying key responsibilities and competencies for each
role in addition to a personal specification for the ideal
applicant have been developed. These enable the interviewer
to assess each candidate’s suitability for the role to which
they have applied.
Competency based interviews are held for all management
positions and candidates are expected to be able to clearly
demonstrate their experience and expertise during the
selection process.
Engaging our staff
Dignity publishes a quarterly in-house magazine, ‘Dignity
Express’, which is supplemented by monthly news bulletins
to keep all employees and pensioners informed of what is
happening within the organisation. ‘Dignity Express’ enables
the Company’s Directors and employees to share objectives,
best practice and news in a cost effective manner. News,
useful information and background on the company is also
available to staff via a dedicated employee website.
Through Dignity’s internal communications, and additionally
via formal and informal meetings, all of the Group’s
employees are invited to share best practice initiatives with
their colleagues and submit ideas for consideration to
improve client service.
Health and Safety
Effective health and safety management is critical to 
Dignity and a key priority of the Directors. Its operations 
are conducted at all times in such a way as to ensure, as 
far as is reasonably practical, the health, safety and welfare
of all our employees and all persons who may be attending 
our premises.
Dignity has a full-time Health and Safety Manager who is
dedicated to these issues and is supported by a Health 
and Safety Officer. 
Regional Health and Safety Officers operate in each of 
the geographical funeral trading areas. Dignity’s crematoria 
and manufacturing facility also have their own manager 
with responsibility for Health and Safety. All of these
managers and officers have qualifications from the National
Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health
(NEBOSH) qualified or are scheduled to take these
examinations.
Dignity has 13 managers with qualifications from NEBOSH.
Within this group there are also three that possess the
NEBOSH Fire Certificate with another nine employees sitting
the exam in March 2011.
Dignity also has 71 managers or officers that have
successfully completed the Institution of Occupational
Safety and Health (IOSH) course with a further 24 identified
as requiring this training in 2011.
13  
0   20   40   60   80   100   
Health and safety training (Number)
71   
101   
Employees with NEBOSH qualification: 13  
Employees with IOSH qualification: 71 
Employees with CIEH qualification: 101 
Minimising our health and safety risks
Dignity is committed to the
prevention of accidents. Procedures
and training are regularly reviewed
and updated to ensure that staff
minimise any risks associated 
with their role.
Left: Ewan Henderson, Dignity’s
Health and Safety Manager, during 
a visit to Rotherham Crematorium.
200
There are 200 health and safety 
co-ordinators embedded across 
the business.
185
185 members of staff have now
completed a health and safety
course.
6.7%
We have seen a 6.7per cent reduction
in the number of accidents reported
per 1,000 employees. 17 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
There are also 101 employees that have completed the
Chartered Institute of Environmental Health (CIEH) Working
Safely one-day course with another 62 identified as
requiring this training in 2011.
Effective health and safety management
Health and safety performance is measured in two ways. 
• Proactive monitoring
Health and safety is proactively monitored via quarterly
return analysis, premises inspections, health surveillance,
line manager observations of how tasks are performed and
regular reports to the Board of Directors.
• Reactive monitoring
Investigating accidents, collation and analysis of statistics
and ill-health investigation reactively monitors health 
and safety.
Training programmes and initiatives
To achieve the NEBOSH qualifications, employees had to
study current legislation and best practice over a year-long
course and successfully complete a written two-hour
examination plus a two hour practical assessment. 
18 employees have also received Fire Marshall training.
Over 630 Dignity employees attended the Manual Handling
training course during 2010. This course is intended to
reduce the number of injuries incurred by our operatives.
Environment
Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we 
all live is an important concern for Dignity and all areas 
of the business operate in accordance with the Group’s
environmental policy. We recognise the impact of our
operations on local surroundings and our aim is to reduce
this and operate in an environmentally friendly manner.
Our business continues to have a low environmental impact
and its activities are not expected to give rise to any
significant environmental risk over the next twelve months.
Dignity and its employees undertake to act whenever
necessary to meet or exceed the standards of current
environmental legislation and we continue to review the
policies, systems and services to this end. All waste
generated is properly disposed of in accordance with
current legislation and steps are taken to recycle waste
wherever this is practical.
Minimising our impact on the local environment
Dignity is investing approximately £7 million in its crematoria
to conform to the government directive to reduce mercury
emissions from crematoria by 50 per cent before the end 
of 2012. 
Specialist technology has been installed at Randalls Park,
Rotherham, Exeter & Devon, Charnock Richard and Surrey 
& Sussex Crematoria. During construction the same
technology was installed at Dignity’s new crematoria in
Cambridgeshire. During construction the same technology
was installed at Wear Valley, Three Counties and Sherwood
Forest Crematoria.
Making progress and meeting targets
We recognise the impact of our
operations on local surroundings
and our aim is to reduce this and
operate in an environmentally
friendly manner.
Left: Georgina Bembridge,
Crematorium Manager, and Amelia
Hodgetts, Crematorium Operative,
discuss the mercury abatement
equipment installed at Rotherham
Crematorium.
£
7 million
Dignity is investing £7 million in its
crematoria to conform to government
legislation to reduce mercury emissions
from crematoria by 50 per cent.
5,800
Approximately 5,800 of the
cremations performed by Dignity 
in 2010 were mercury abated. 
9 crematoria
9 Dignity crematoria now have
mercury abatement equipment
installed. Due to this investment approximately 5,800 cremations 
at Dignity crematoria were mercury abated in the past 
12 months. 
The installation of this new equipment has been managed
so as to ensure there is no disruption to our usual services
at the crematoria.
Following the successful installation of a water harvesting
system at Surrey & Sussex Crematorium last year it was
decided to extend this environmental initiative to the
development of the new Wyre Forest Crematorium near
Kidderminster and Mendip Crematorium in Shepton Mallet.
The system allows water to be extracted from the land
drainage network at times when the water table is high and
stored for times of need, such as the summer. This enables
the crematorium to save water plus maintain a watering
regime that keeps the Gardens of Remembrance looking
green and attractive throughout the year. 
As with the mercury abatement projects, the sensitivity 
of the locations requires that all work is completed with
deference to existing interment plots and families of 
the deceased.
Reducing our carbon footprint
As in 2009, Dignity once again submitted its data to the
Carbon Disclosure Project in 2010. This is a not-for-profit
organisation that aims to improve the environment by
measuring disclosures from thousands of organisations
across the world’s major economies and Dignity aims to
reduce its future carbon footprint.
Submission to Carbon Disclosure Project
2009 2008 2007 2006
Scope 1 15,005 15,875 16,048 15,992
Scope 2 8,366 10,923 10,633 10,351
Total 23,371 26,798 26,681 26,343
All figures are metric tonnes of CO
2
equivalent. Dignity does not make any 
scope 3 disclosures.
In February 2010 Dignity launched a new website
specifically for the crematoria and cemeteries it operates. 
It features a profile of each crematorium that includes
information on public transport links to individual locations,
with an aim to reduce the carbon footprint.
Waste and recycling
At Dignity’s new Head Office in Sutton Coldfield there are
facilities for recycling paper, cardboard and cans.
Sustainable sources
All raw materials used in the manufacture of our coffins 
are sourced from well-managed and sustainable sources. 
91 per cent of the coffins required by Dignity’s businesses
are now manufactured from Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)
accredited timber at the Group’s facility in East Yorkshire.
Reducing energy consumption
During 2010 a successful test was conducted with smart
meters being installed at 20 premises owned by Dignity. 
We have committed to further reducing our energy
consumption by ordering another 200 smart meters 
and these will be installed during 2011.
Corporate and social
responsibility continued
18 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Reducing our environmental impact
Reducing energy
consumption
Following a successful test during
2010, there are plans to install a
further 200 smart meters at Dignity
premises in 2011 to help reduce
energy consumption.
All raw materials used in the
manufacture of our coffins are
sourced from well-managed and
sustainable sources.
Left: Nigel Banks, Logistics
Operative, and Robert Ireland,
Stores Supervisor, at Dignity’s
manufacturing facility in Yorkshire
inspect timber for the FSC kite mark.
91 %
91 per cent of the coffins required
by Dignity businesses are now made
from FSC accredited timber. In our communities
Everyone within Dignity is committed to not only making 
a real difference to our clients but also to improving the
welfare of all who live within the communities we serve.  
To demonstrate our values and principles our staff support
hundreds of local initiatives, good causes, clubs and events
every year. By listening to and understanding the needs of
local communities our staff are able to respond by providing
help where it is most needed.
For example many of Dignity’s funeral locations, including
those in London, Birmingham, the West Midlands, Bristol,
Leeds, Hartlepool and Northern Ireland held memorial
services to bring comfort and solace to those that have 
lost a loved one during the past year. 
Services of Remembrance were held at Rotherham
Crematorium on Armistice Day and the 65th Anniversary 
of the D-Day landings to honour and pay respect to those
that sacrificed their lives protecting this country and its
interests. Both events were well attended by the Royal
British Legion, the Veteran’s Association and local residents.
Dignity’s funeral location on the Isle of Sheppey, G Hogben 
& Son, also provided a limousine and chauffeur to two
veterans of the Burma Campaign so that they could attend
the 65th Anniversary of VJ Day at the Cenotaph in London.
The heroes of our armed services were also commemorated
in November with window dressings and numerous poppy
appeals at branches to raise much-needed funds for the
Royal British Legion.
Once again kind-hearted Dignity employees from across 
the UK took part in the Easter Egg Challenge and collected
1,500 chocolate gifts and soft toys to distribute to those
less fortunate. Beneficiaries included children’s wards at
local hospitals, women’s refuges, special needs centres,
children’s hospices and Mencap. Staff at W Kaye & Sons in
Leeds also raised £400 last Easter by knitting and selling
“egg characters” . The egg decorations in football and rugby
colours proved particularly popular and the donations were
given to the children and teenager cancer wards of their
local hospital.
During the past year Dignity has continued to support grass
roots football by providing training equipment and kit to
many youth football teams across the UK. In 2010 Dignity
has also continued its tradition of providing financial
support to bowling clubs and has sponsored a number of
tournaments and events. Both of these initiatives provide
different sectors of the local community with a focal point
for socialising and healthy exercise and in many cases these
clubs may struggle to exist without our help.
Dignity’s support for the communities it serves was
wonderfully illustrated last summer when staff from the
East Midlands area and some of their business partners
spent a weekend transforming an unused piece of land at a
primary school into a garden and wildlife area. This initiative
formed part of an ‘eco-week’ for the children and provides
regular gardening lessons for the pupils.
19 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Making a positive difference in the
communities we serve
We believe in encouraging staff to communicate regularly with 
clubs, social groups, charities and civic and religious leaders so that
we understand their needs and are able to give something back to 
the community.
Left: Funeral Directors, Diane Smith of F W Collins & Son in Bilston 
and Inderjeet Matharu of Asian Funeral Directors in Birmingham discuss
the needs of their local communities with local religious leader, Dharm
Dutt Vasistha, Head Minister at Shri Geeta Bhawan, Birmingham.
New crematoria and cemeteries website
Dignity’s crematoria and cemeteries website features a profile page 
that provides details of public transport links to each of our sites. 
The website provides added value to our clients, their families and
friends and the communities we serve by including location maps 
and a route finder tool to help make their journey to our crematorium 
as easy as possible. www.dignityfunerals.co.uk/crematoria Supporting charities
In 2010, Dignity employees and clients continued to raise
funds for the staff elected charity – Children’s Hospices UK.
This worthy cause is the national charity that gives voice
and support to 41 children’s hospices and provides care 
for approximately 20,000 children each year. All Dignity
funeral locations and crematoria have been linked with 
a local children’s hospice and during the year a total 
of £60,000 was raised. 
There were many fund raising initiatives held nationwide
during the year including tea parties, car washes, sponsored
walks and golf tournaments. Some of Dignity’s athletic
employees chose to raise funds by taking part in sponsored
cycling events and marathons. 
Amongst the more imaginative events organised by
employees was a sponsored walk that raised £1,470 by
visiting each of the 11 Dignity branches in South East
London, a distance of 26 miles. Staff from Yorkshire took
part in the ‘Faster Than Light Cycle Challenge’. This novel
event saw participants cycling from Pluto to the Sun and
back again with the planets positioned on the 13 mile 
route at a scale of 575,872,239 to1. The result is that 
the fundraisers are moving at approximately 10 times the
speed of light at this scale. Employees from Aldershot,
Southampton and Burnley also raised funds for our
corporate charity by taking part in a parachuting and
skydiving event in September called The Big Jump! 
The Directors and senior managers also supported Dignity’s
corporate charity. Operations Director, Andrew Davies and
friends, raised £2,000 for Ty Hafan Children’s Hospice 
by cycling the 55 miles between Brecon and Cardiff Bay, 
a route known as the Taff Trail. Anthony Driver, Regional
Manager for South London and Northern Ireland also took
part in the charity’s Big Boss Ride and raised over £1,900.
This was a two-day challenge where directors and executives
from companies that support Children’s Hospices UK cycled
from the oldest hospice in Oxford to the newest in South
East London.
Our five charity fairground organs continued to be a vital 
aid in fund raising activities and in 2010 almost £78,000
were raised for a variety of national and local charities.
Dignity employees also supported a number of cancer
charities including Macmillan, Cancer Research UK, Marie
Curie, The Big C and The Pink Ribbon Ball. For example,
Shirley Roberts and Jennifer Yardley, two senior managers 
from our crematoria team raised £2,500 for Cancer
Research UK by completing their debut marathon whilst
Karen Russell, a funeral service arranger based at Peter
Wilson & Sons in Ayr raised £12,000 for a local breast
cancer charity by organising a charity ball.
Corporate and social
responsibility continued
20 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Supporting local initiatives and good causes
We are committed to improving the welfare of all who live in the
communities we serve and our staff support hundreds of local 
initiatives every year.
Left: Dignity's Area Manager, Barry McBratney (left) with staff and pupils
from St. Malachy's Primary School in Northern Ireland. Our funeral
location, Russells of Bangor held a Mother's Day Competition to help
pupils say "Thank you" to their mums.
Our corporate charity
Children’s Hospices UK is Dignity’s
corporate charity for 2010 and 2011.
They care for approximately 20,000
children each year and the charity
supports and give a national voice 
to 41 hospices in the UK. In 2010
Dignity raised £60,000 for this
worthwhile cause. 21 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial review
“The Group returned £63.9 million  
to Shareholders following a successful
issue of Secured Notes.”
Steve Whittern, Finance Director
Financial highlights
The Group’s financial performance is summarised below: 
Increase
2010 2009 %
Revenue (£million) 199.1 184.7 8
Underlying operating profit* (£million) 61.0 56.4 8
Underlying profit before tax* (£million) 40.4 36.4 11
Underlying earnings per share* (pence) 46.4 40.5 15
Cash generated from operations (£million) 74.5 65.3 14
Operating profit (£million) 60.4 57.5 5
Profit before tax (£million) 39.8 37.5 6
Basic earnings per share (pence) 46.9 41.8 12
Dividends paid in the period:
Interim dividend (pence) – 4.03 n/a
Final dividend (pence) 8.07 7.34 10
*Underlying amounts exclude profit on sale of fixed assets, transaction
costs and exceptional items.
The Board has proposed a dividend of 8.88 pence per
Ordinary Share as a final distribution of profits relating 
to 2010 to be paid on 24 June 2011.
Underlying profit after tax
The Board believes that, whilst statutory reporting
measures provide a useful indication of the financial
performance of the Group, additional insight is gained 
by excluding certain non-recurring or non-trading
transactions. Accordingly, the following information 
is presented to aid understanding of the performance 
of the Group:
53 week 52 week 
period ended period ended
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Operating profit for the
period as reported 60.4 57.5
Deduct the effects of:
Profit on sale of fixed assets (0.5) (1.1)
Transaction costs 1.1 –
Underlying operating profit 61.0 56.4
Net finance costs (20.6) (20.0)
Underlying profit before tax 40.4 36.4
Tax charge on underlying profit before tax (11.7) (10.6)
Underlying profit after tax 28.7 25.8
Weighted average number of Ordinary 
Shares in issue during the period (million) 61.8 63.7
Underlying EPS (pence) 46.4p 40.5p
Increase in underlying EPS (per cent) 15% 6%
Earnings per share
The Group’s earnings were £29.0 million (2009: £26.6
million). Basic earnings per share were 46.9 pence per
share (2009: 41.8 pence per share).
The Group’s measures of underlying performance exclude
the effect (after tax) of the profit on sale of fixed assets,
transaction costs and exceptional items. Consequently,
underlying profit after tax was £28.7 million (2009: 
£25.8 million), giving underlying earnings per share of
46.4 pence per share (2009: 40.5 pence per share), an
increase of 15 per cent.
The issue of further Secured Notes and subsequent
Return of Value had a negligible impact on earnings per
share. This is because of the timing of the transaction.
The full benefit of the transaction will be witnessed in the
Group’s 2011 results and beyond when the reduction in
the number of shares in issue is expected to enhance
earnings per share.
Cash flow and cash balances
Cash generated from operations was £74.5 million 
(2009: £65.3 million). This increase year on year reflects
the Group’s increase in operating profits together with a
later cut off than the previous year which has resulted in
£4.4 million of positive working capital movements.
Capital expenditure increased year on year, with £27.9
million (2009: £17.2 million) being spent on the purchase
of property, plant and equipment.
This is analysed as:
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Vehicle replacement programme and 
improvements to locations 10.3 8.0
Branch relocations 0.6 1.3
Satellite locations 1.0 –
Development of new crematoria 13.9 6.2
Mercury abatement project 2.1 1.7
Total property, plant and equipment 27.9 17.2
Partly funded by:
Disposal proceeds (1.1) (2.1)
Crematoria Acquisition Facility – (2.6)
Net capital expenditure 26.8 12.5
In addition, the Group spent £5.8 million on acquisitions
of six funeral locations.
22 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Capital expenditure on mercury abatement represents the
monies incurred to comply with new legislation. The total
spent to date is £3.8 million and the total anticipated
capital expenditure is approximately £7 million. The
project will be completed by the end of 2012.
The Group also paid dividends on Ordinary Shares
totalling £5.1 million (2009: £7.2 million) in the period. 
Cash balances at the end of the period were £48.1 million
(2009: £45.8 million).
£1.5 million (2009: £1.5 million) represents amounts
received as Recoveries from the pre-arranged funeral 
plan trusts. These amounts are legally required, under 
the terms of the Group’s securitisation, to be retained in
a separate bank account for one year following receipt and
do not therefore meet the definition of cash for cash flow
reporting purposes.
Approximately £24.7 million of the remaining cash
balance was immediately available for acquisitions and
developments and approximately £18.7 million was set
aside for future corporation tax and dividend payments.
Further details and analysis of the Group’s cash 
balances are included in note 15 to the consolidated
financial statements.
Pensions
The balance sheet shows a surplus of £8.5 million 
before deferred tax (2009: £9.1 million). This includes 
a one off contribution from the Group of £1 million from
the proceeds of the issue of further Secured Notes.
The scheme remains open to both new and existing
members of staff.
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax rate in the period was 29 per
cent (excluding the exceptional rate change) (2009: 29
per cent). Following the Government’s announcement 
to reduce the rate of Corporation Tax in future years, 
the Group expects its effective rate in 2011 to be
approximately 28.5 per cent.
The Group’s consolidated income statement includes
exceptional income of £0.7 million which reflects the
reduction in the headline Corporation Tax Rate to 27 
per cent. The Group expects similar exceptional credits 
in future years as and when each reduction is
substantively enacted.
Capital structure and financing
Secured Notes
The Group’s principal source of long term debt financing
is the Class A and B Secured Notes, rated A and BBB
respectively.
The Board considers that maintaining a leveraged balance
sheet is appropriate for the Group, given the highly stable
and predictable nature of its cash flows. This predictability
is matched in the Secured Notes. The principal and interest
on the Secured Notes amortise fully over their life and are
completely repaid by 2031. The interest rate is fixed for
the life of the Secured Notes and interest is calculated 
on the outstanding principal.
This has the benefit of enhancing shareholder returns,
whilst leaving sufficient flexibility to invest in the growth 
of the business.
During the period, the Group issued further Class A and B
Secured Notes with a nominal value outstanding of £38.9
million and £33.1 million respectively. These Notes were
issued at a premium and raised a total of £81.8 million
after fees and expenses.
The Board believes that this fund raising, which equated
to a pre tax cost of debt of approximately 4.9 per cent and
subsequent Return of Value described later, is consistent
with the Group’s strategy of operating an efficient balance
sheet to enhance total shareholder returns, as it has enabled
the Group to replace some expensive equity with cheaper
debt that also attracts a tax deduction.
The Group’s primary financial covenant under the Secured
Notes requires EBITDA to total debt service to be above
1.5 times. The ratio at 31 December 2010 was 2.56 times
(2009: 2.60 times). Further details may be found in note 24.
Crematoria Acquisition Facility
The Group is also fully drawn on a £10 million Crematoria
Acquisition Facility, which was used to fund the acquisition
of five crematoria locations in the last quarter of 2008.
The principal on this facility is repayable in one amount in
November 2013 and interest is either fixed or capped at
approximately 5.6 per cent. All interest is payable in cash
on a quarterly basis.
+8%
Underlying operating profits 
have increased 8 per cent to 
£61.0 million.
+15%
Underlying earnings per share 
increased 15 per cent to 
46.4 pence per share.
+14%
Cash generated from operations
has increased 14 per cent to 
£74.5 million.
23 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 £
63.9 million
The Group returned £63.9 million
to shareholders in October 2010,
equating to £1 per Ordinary Share.
£
24.7million
The Group has set aside
approximately £24.7 million for
acquisitions and developments. 
Financial review continued
Net debt
As set out in note 24, the Group’s gross debt outstanding
was £359.1 million (2009: £283.2 million). Net debt 
was £311.1 million (2009: £247.1 million), including the
premia on the Secured Notes. This change reflects an
increase in debt of £84.7 million resulting from the issue
of further Secured Notes which has been mitigated by
strong cash generation and repayments of principal on
the Secured Notes.
Net finance costs
The Group’s finance expense substantially consists of the
interest on the Class A and B Secured Notes and ancillary
instruments. The net finance cost in the period relating to
these instruments was £20.3 million (2009: £19.6 million).
Interest costs of £0.5 million (2009: £0.4 million) were
incurred in respect of the Crematoria Acquisition Facility.
Other ongoing finance costs incurred in the period
amounted to £0.6 million (2009: £0.8 million), including
the unwinding of discounts on the Group’s provisions,
other financial liabilities and interest capitalised in
accordance with IAS 23. 
Interest receivable on bank deposits was £0.4 million
(2009: £0.5 million). Net finance income of £0.4 million
(2009: £0.3 million) was recognised in respect of the
Group’s pension scheme in accordance with IAS 19.
Return of Value and share consolidation
As planned, the Group returned £63.9 million to
shareholders in October 2010 using the majority of 
the proceeds of the issue of further Secured Notes.
Shareholders were given the choice to receive either
capital or income return, but in each case received 
£1 per Ordinary Share.
In addition, following approval by shareholders, the
Ordinary Share Capital of the Company was consolidated
on a six for seven basis in order to maintain the
comparability of financial indicators such as share price
and earnings per share.
Combined with the Return of Value, the effect was the
same as buying back 9.1 million shares at a market price
of approximately £7.00 per share.
Key performance indicators
The Group uses a number of performance indicators to
both manage the business and ensure that the Group’s
strategy and objectives are being delivered.
53 week 52 week
period ended period ended
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Total estimated number of
deaths in Britain (number) 557,000 545,000
Number of funerals performed 
(number) 64,500 65,000
Funeral market share excluding 
Northern Ireland (per cent) 11.4 11.8
Number of cremations performed 
(number) 45,200 42,700
Crematoria market share (per cent) 8.1 7.8
Unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans
(number) 238,000 216,000
Underlying earnings per share
(pence) 46.4 40.5
Underlying operating profit
(£million) 61.0 56.4
Cash generated from operations 
(£million) 74.5 65.3
These key performance indicators are produced using information supplied
by ONS and company data.
In addition to these key performance indicators, the
Group closely monitors the results of its client surveys.
Highlights of these results for 2010 can be found in the
Business Review.
A summary of the Group’s financial record for the last 
five years can be found on pages 89 and 90.
Forward-looking statements
Certain statements in this Annual Report are forward-
looking. Although the Board believes that the expectations
reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable,
it can give no assurance that these expectations will prove
to have been correct. Because these statements involve
risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially
from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking
statements.
24 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties
Our risk process is designed to identify, evaluate and
manage our operational and financial risks.
Operational risk management
Significant reduction in the death rate
There is a risk that the number of deaths in any year
significantly reduces. This would have a direct result 
on the financial performance of both the funerals and
crematoria divisions.
However, the profile of deaths has historically followed 
a similar profile to that predicted by the ONS, giving the
Group the ability to plan its business accordingly.
Nationwide adverse publicity
Nationwide adverse publicity could result in a significant
reduction in the number of funerals or cremations performed
in any financial period. This would have a direct result on
the financial performance of that division.
However, this risk is addressed by ensuring appropriate
policies and procedures are in place, which are designed 
to ensure client service excellence. These policies and
procedures retain flexibility for the business to serve
families in accordance with local traditions.
Ability to increase average revenues per funeral 
or cremation
Operating profit growth is in part attributable to the
Group’s ability to increase the average revenue per funeral
or cremation. There can be no guarantee that future
average revenues per funeral or cremation will increase 
at rates similar to previous periods.
However, the Group believes that its focus on client service
excellence helps to mitigate this risk.
Significant reduction in market share
It is possible that other external factors, such as new
competitors, could result in a significant reduction in market
share within funeral or crematoria operations. This would
have a direct result on the financial performance of 
that division.
However, the Group believes that this risk is mitigated 
for funeral operations by reputation and recommendation
being a key driver to the choice of funeral director being
used and for crematoria operations is mitigated by
difficulties associated with building new crematoria.
Demographic shifts in population
There can be no assurance that demographic shifts in
population will not lead to a reduced demand for funeral
services in areas where Dignity operates. In such situations,
Dignity would seek to follow the population shift.
Competition
The UK funeral services market and crematoria market is
currently very fragmented.
There can be no assurance that there will not be further
consolidation in the industry or that increased competition
in the industry, whether in the form of intensified price
competition, service competition, over capacity or otherwise,
would not lead to an erosion of the Group’s market share,
average revenues or costs of funerals and consequently 
a reduction in its profitability.
However, there are barriers to entry in the funerals services
market due to the importance of established local reputation
and to the crematoria market due to the need to obtain
planning approval for new crematoria and the cost of
developing new crematoria.
Financial risk management
An assessment of the Group’s exposure to financial risks
and a description of how these risks are managed are
included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Group manages the operational and financial risks
described through a combination of regular Board reports
and also monthly and weekly management information that
is reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Financial Covenant under the Secured Notes
The Group’s Secured Notes requires EBITDA to total debt
service to be above 1.5 times. If this financial covenant is
not achieved, then this may lead to an Event of Default
under the terms of the Secured Notes, which could result
in the Security Trustee taking control of the securitisation
group on behalf of the Secured Noteholders.
In addition, the Group is required to achieve a more
stringent ratio of 1.85 times for the same test in order to
be permitted to transfer excess cash from the securitisation
group to Dignity plc. If this stricter test is not achieved,
then the Group’s ability to pay dividends would be impacted.
However, in order to issue the further Secured Notes, the
Group certified based on independent advice, that the
stricter condition was expected to be met for at least the
first year after the issue of further Secured Notes.
25 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Board of Directors
1. Peter Hindley (67)
(n)
(Non-Executive Chairman)
Peter has extensive experience of the industry having been
appointed Chief Executive of Plantsbrook Group plc in 1991.
Following the acquisition of Plantsbrook Group plc and Great
Southern Group plc by SCI in 1994, he was appointed CEO of
SCI (UK). He subsequently led a management buy out of the
Group from SCI in 2002. The Company was then floated on the
Stock Exchange in 2004. Peter became Non-Executive Chairman
in January 2009. Before entering the funeral service industry,
Peter spent 25 years in retailing, holding senior positions in
Debenhams, Burtons and Harris Queensway. 
2. Mike McCollum (43)
(Chief Executive)
Mike joined Dignity’s former parent, SCI, in 1995 from KPMG
Corporate Finance in London. He was appointed Finance Director
at the end of 2001 and became Chief Executive at the beginning
of 2009. He has a law degree from Birmingham University (LL.B),
is a solicitor and also holds an MBA from Warwick University.
3. Steve Whittern (36)
(Finance Director)
Steve joined the Group in 1999 from KPMG. He was appointed
Finance Director at the beginning of 2009, having spent the
previous two years as Financial Controller, being responsible 
for the Group's finance function. Steve led the further debt 
issue and Return of Value in 2010. Steve is an FCA and holds 
a mathematics degree from Warwick University.
4. Andrew Davies (49)
(Operations Director)
Andrew joined his family owned business in 1979 and worked
as a funeral director and embalmer until the business was 
sold to Great Southern Group in 1993. He then held various
management positions within Great Southern Group and following
the acquisition by SCI in 1994, held senior operational positions
within SCI (UK). He became Operations Director in 2001 and was
a member of the management buy out team in 2002.
5. Richard Portman (49)
(Corporate Services Director)
Richard joined SCI from HSBC as Chief Accountant in 1999. 
In 2001 he was appointed Head of Finance and was responsible
for the running of Dignity's finance department. Richard was part
of the team that took Dignity through the management buy out 
in 2002, the whole business securitisation in 2003 and the IPO 
in 2004. Following the IPO Richard was appointed as Company
Secretary and became Corporate Services Director in 2006.
Richard is an FCA, holds a geography degree from Birmingham
University and is a Member of the Chartered Management
Institute and of the Investor Relations Society.
6. James Newman (61)
(a)(n)(r)
(Senior Independent Director)
James has a portfolio of non-executive directorships in both the
private and public sectors. He is currently Chairman of Straight
plc and Brulines Group plc and senior Non Executive Director of
Bglobal plc. He is also Chairman of Finance Yorkshire, Deputy
Chairman of the Governors of Sheffield Hallam University and
has just been appointed the first Chairman of the Sheffield City
Region Local Enterprise Partnership Board. He was formerly
Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director of Kelda Group plc
and a number of other public companies. He has also been
Chairman of Waste Recycling and a Non-Executive Director of
Scott Wilson Group plc and Richmond Foods plc, before their
respective takeovers. James is a Fellow of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a Member 
of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
7. Bill Forrester (70)
(a)(n)(r)
(Non-Executive Director)
Bill is the Chairman of Nuaire Group Ltd and a Director of Brittpac
Limited. Prior to this he was Group Chief Executive of SIG plc,
Europe’s largest distributor of insulation, ceiling, partitioning and
roofing products and Chairman of John Laing plc, the infrastructure
investment group. He was also the Managing Director at Kuwait
Insulation Manufacturing Company and the Sales and Marketing
Director at BP Rockwool Limited.
8. Ishbel Macpherson (50)
(a)(n)(r)
(Non-Executive Director)
Ishbel was appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009. Ishbel 
is a Non-Executive Director of GAME Group plc and May Gurney
Integrated Services plc, Senior Independent Director of Hydrogen
Group plc and Chairman of Speedy Hire plc. Prior to those roles
she held senior positions with Barclays de Zoete Wedd, Hoare
Govett and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
9. Alan McWalter (57)
(a)(n)(r)
(Non-Executive Director)
Alan was appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009. Alan 
is a Non-Executive Director of Churchill China plc, Haygarth 
Group Ltd, Fabris Lane Ltd and is Non-Executive Chairman of
Constantine Group plc and Kornicis Group Ltd. Prior to these
roles Alan was Marketing Director of Marks and Spencer plc 
and prior to that held senior positions with Kingfisher plc and
Thomson Consumer Electronics.
(a) Member of the Audit Committee
(n) Member of the Nomination Committee
(r) Member of the Remuneration Committee
1
4
23
6
5
9 78
26 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Directors’ report
The Directors present their report and the audited
consolidated financial statements for Dignity plc 
and its subsidiaries for the 53 week period ended 
31 December 2010.
The company registration number of Dignity plc 
is 4569346.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual
Report, the Report on Directors’ Remuneration and the
financial statements in accordance with applicable law
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year. Under that law the
Directors have prepared the Group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, 
and have elected to prepare the parent company financial
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting
Standards and applicable law). Under company law the
Directors must not approve the financial statements
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company
and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.  
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; and
• State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the
European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards
have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the Group and parent
Company financial statements respectively.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that
the financial statements and the Report on Directors’
Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and,
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection
of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the Group’s websites and legislation 
in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are
listed on page 26 of the Annual Report, confirm that, 
to the best of each person’s knowledge and belief:
• The Group and parent Company financial statements,
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
EU and UK GAAP respectively, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of
the Group; and
• The Directors’ report contained in the Annual Report
includes a fair review of the development and performance
of the business and the position of the Company and
Group, together with a description of the principal risks
and uncertainties that they face.
Principal activities and business review
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of
funeral services including funeral directing, crematoria
operation and the marketing and administration of
pre-arranged funeral plans. The principal activity of the
Company is that of a holding company. 
The principal activities and key performance indicators 
of the Group are also described on pages 22 to 24 of
the Financial Review. A review of the development of the
business in 2010, events affecting the Group since the
end of the financial year and likely future developments
are referred to in the Business Review, which is
incorporated into this Directors’ Report by reference. 
The review of business activities in the Business Review,
Financial Review and the Directors’ Statement of Corporate
Governance are in line with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006.
Principal risks and uncertainties
Operational risks are considered on page 25.
An assessment of the Group’s exposure to financial risks
and a description of how these risks are managed are
included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Capital reorganisation
On 27 September 2010, Dignity Finance PLC, a 
subsidiary of the Group, issued £48.7 million Class A
Secured 6.31 per cent Notes due 2023 and £33.1 million
Class B Secured 8.151 per cent Notes due 2031.This
raised a total of £81.8 million after expenses. The
Company returned £63.9 million (£1 per Ordinary Share)
to shareholders through the issue and redemption of 
a class of one B or C Share for each existing Ordinary
Share. This was approved at an Extraordinary General
Meeting of the Company on 8 October 2010. The Company
also completed at the same time a consolidation of its
share capital on the basis of six new Ordinary Shares of
10.5 pence for every seven old shares of 9 pence each. Directors’ report continued
28 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Share capital
During the period, the Group issued 143,974 Ordinary
Shares of 9 pence each. 143,713 Shares of 9 pence each
were issued to satisfy Long Term Incentive Plan share
awards vesting in the period and 261 shares were issued
to satisfy options exercised under the Save As You Earn
Scheme. The Long Term Incentive Plan awards were made
in 2007 and the SAYE options were granted in 2007.
Following the share consolidation referred to above, the
issued share capital of Dignity plc at 31 December 2010
consisted of 54,757,002 Ordinary Shares of 10.5 pence
each. All the Ordinary Shares carry the same rights and
obligations. There are no other class or type of voting
share in issue. Subsequent to the share consolidation 
a further 1,322 shares were issued to satisfy options
exercised under the Save As You Earn Scheme. These
options were granted in 2007.
A special resolution passed at the last Annual General
Meeting on 4 June 2010 gives Dignity plc the authority 
to purchase up to 3,194,068 Ordinary Shares of 9 pence
each at not less than nominal value and not more than 
5 per cent above the average middle market quotation for
the preceding 5 business days. At the same meeting the
Company was also given authority to allot Ordinary Shares
up to an aggregate nominal value of £1,916,441 of which
up to £287,466 may be for cash. These authorities will
expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting on 9 June 2011. It is the intention of the
Directors to seek renewal of these authorities at that
Annual General Meeting.
Results
The results for the period are set out in the Consolidated
Income Statement on page 43. Group profit before tax
amounted to £39.8 million (2009: £37.5 million).
Dividends
The planned interim dividend of 4.43 pence per share
which was due to be paid on 29 October 2010 was
declared but cancelled following the decision to return
capital to shareholders. The Board has proposed a final
dividend of 8.88 pence per share, which, subject to
approval at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 
24 June 2011 to shareholders on the register at close 
of business on 27 May 2011.
Payments policy
The Group has no formal code or standard that deals
specifically with the payment of suppliers. However, the
Group’s policy on the payment of all creditors is to ensure
that the terms of payment as specified by, and agreed
with, the supplier are not exceeded, provided all trading
terms and conditions have been complied with. The average
creditor payment period for the Group was 32 days (2009:
25 days). The Company has no trade creditors.
Key contractual arrangements
The Directors consider there to be one key contractual
arrangement in relation to the supply and maintenance 
of cremators. This company is responsible for supplying
and installing the cremator abatement equipment. If this
company ceased to trade, the Group may have difficulties
in installing the necessary equipment by the end of 2012.
Employment policies
During the period the Group has maintained its obligations
to develop and improve arrangements aimed at involving
employees in its affairs. Methods of communication used
include an in-house newsletter, an employee website,
bulletins and management briefings. This is discussed 
in more detail in the Corporate and Social Responsibility
Report on pages 12 to 21.
Employment policies are designed to provide equal
opportunities irrespective of age, sexuality, colour, ethnic
or national origin, religion, nationality, sex or marital
status. Full consideration is given to the employment,
training and career development of disabled persons,
subject only to their aptitudes and abilities. The Group
endeavour, as far as practicable, to treat disabled persons
equally with others and will also endeavour to help and
accommodate persons who become disabled whilst
working for Dignity.
Directors and their interests
Details of the Directors of the Company who were in 
office during the period and up to the date of signing the
financial statements are shown in the Report on Directors’
Remuneration on page 33. In accordance with the Articles
of Association and the UK Corporate Governance Code
(2010 Code), at the Annual General Meeting, all Directors
will retire as Directors of the Company and, being eligible,
offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General
Meeting on 9 June 2011.
During the period, the Company maintained liability
insurance for its Directors and Officers. The Directors 
of each of the Company’s subsidiaries, have the benefit 
of an indemnity provision in the Company’s Articles of
Association. The indemnity provision, which is a qualifying
third party indemnity provision as defined by section 234
of the Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the
period and is currently in force.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 7 March 2011, the Company had been notified of
the following interests of 3 per cent or more of the issued 
share capital:
Number of % of issued
Holder Ordinary Shares share capital
Franklin Templeton Institutional 5,428,056 9.91%
Tiger Global Management LLC 3,640,829 6.65%
Standard Life Investments 2,704,738 4.94%
Baillie Gifford and Co 2,688,153 4.91%
BlackRock Inc 2,670,275 4.88%
BAM & Oppenheimer Funds 2,366,066 4.32%
Montanaro Group 2,190,334 4.00%
Legal and General Group plc 2,182,083 3.99%
UBS Global Asset Management Ltd 1,864,533 3.41% 29 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
The Takeover Directive
The Group has one class of voting share capital, Ordinary
Shares. All of the shares rank pari passu. There are no
special control rights in relation to the Group’s shares.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of
Board members and changes to the Articles of Association
accord with usual English company law provisions. The
Board has authority to purchase its own shares and is
seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting within the limits set out in the notice 
of that meeting. There are no significant agreements 
to which the Group is party which take effect, alter or
terminate in the event of change of control of the Group.
Health and safety policy
The Group’s operations are designed at all times in such 
a way as to ensure, so far as reasonably practical, the
health, safety and welfare of all of our employees and all
other persons who may be attending our premises. This is
discussed in the Corporate and Social Responsibility
Report on pages 12 to 21.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all
live is an important concern for the Group. This is discussed
in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages
12 to 21 alongside other social and ethical considerations.
Donations
The Group made charitable donations amounting to £0.1
million (2009: £0.1 million) during the period. There were
no political donations. Further information can be found
on page 20.
Going concern
The Directors receive and review regularly management
accounts, cash balances, forecasts and the annual budget
together with covenant reporting. After careful consideration,
and mindful of the current market conditions, the Directors
confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate
resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
The Directors formally considered this matter at the Board
meeting held on 3 March 2011. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing
the financial statements.
Post balance sheet events
Please refer to note 32 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further details.
Independent Auditors and disclosure of information 
to Auditors
A resolution for the reappointment of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will be proposed 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors at
the time when the report is approved, the following applies.
• So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditors are
unaware; and
• The Directors have taken appropriate steps to make
themselves aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Group’s auditors is aware 
of that information.
Corporate Governance Statement
The information that fulfils the requirements of a
corporate governance statement in accordance with 
rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules can 
be found in this Directors’ Report and in the Directors’
Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 37 to 41,
which is incorporated by reference.
By order of the Board
Richard Portman
Company Secretary
10 March 2011 This report sets out the remuneration policy operated by the Group in respect of the Executive Directors, together with
disclosures on all Directors’ remuneration. The auditors are required to report on the ‘auditable’ part of this report and
to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006.
The Board has reviewed the Group’s compliance with the 2008 Combined Code (the Code) on remuneration related
matters and has followed the Code in the preparation of the report of the Remuneration Committee. It is the opinion of
the Board that the Group complied with all remuneration related aspects of the Code during the period.
Unaudited information
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing policy on remuneration for Executive Directors and senior
management and for determining specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors.
Bill Forrester chairs the Remuneration Committee and its other members are the independent Non–Executive Directors:
James Newman, Ishbel Macpherson and Alan McWalter. The Code requires that a Group of the size of Dignity plc has a
Remuneration Committee comprising a minimum of three non–executives. The Remuneration Committee members
have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of
interests arising from cross directorships and no day–to–day involvement in running the business.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive attend the Remuneration Committee by invitation or when required and the
Company Secretary, who is also the Corporate Services Director, attends meetings when required as Secretary to
the Remuneration Committee. No Executive Director takes part in discussions relating to their own remuneration
and benefits.
The Remuneration Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference. A copy of the terms of reference
is available for inspection on the Group’s investor website www.dignityfuneralsplc.co.uk. The Committee met six times
during 2010. At those meetings basic salaries of Executive Directors and senior managers were reviewed, the targets
and quantum of annual performance related bonuses for Directors were also agreed, as were options granted under
the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP). The meetings also approved the payment of the 2009 performance
related bonus and the vesting of the shares awarded under the LTIP scheme in 2007. A further meeting was also held
in March 2011 to approve the payment of the performance related bonus for 2010, LTIP awards and bonus targets
for 2011.
In 2008, the Committee retained the external benefit consultants, Hewitt New Bridge Street, to complete a review of
the Executive Directors’ remuneration. In discussions with the Committee, and in consultation with Hewitt New Bridge
Street, it was decided that a ‘Comparator Group’ would be defined consisting of all companies in the Consumer Goods
and Consumer Services Sector of the FTSE 250 filtered to exclude companies deriving more than 50 per cent of their
turnover from overseas or having a market capitalisation in excess of £1.4 billion at that time. This gave a group of 32
companies with an average market capitalisation of £628 million at November 2008 as the Comparator Group. At that
date Dignity had a market capitalisation of £473 million and an enterprise value (including net debt) of £710 million.
The bottom half of the FTSE 250 was also used as a reference point for the benchmarking process. The Committee
continue to believe that the use of this Comparator Group is the most appropriate way of reviewing and setting
Executive Directors’ salaries.
Remuneration policy
The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide remuneration packages to each Executive Director that will:
• Align rewards with the interests of shareholders;
• Motivate and encourage superior performance;
• Allow the Group to retain the talent needed to execute its business strategy; and
• Enable the Group to be competitive when recruiting appropriately skilled and experienced management.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this policy will retain and develop further the Group’s entrepreneurial
culture, whilst also focusing executive remuneration on performance which the Committee believes will best serve
shareholders’ interests. It is therefore the aim of the Remuneration Committee to encourage and reward superior
performance by Executive Directors with that performance being based on strong financial performance and returns to
shareholders. This is achieved by weighting the overall remuneration package towards achievement of that performance.
Only 31 per cent of each Executive Directors’ total potential remuneration package (ignoring benefits and pension
contributions) is accounted for by basic salary, assuming a full annual bonus is achieved and a maximum conditional
award under the LTIP is made.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to review all aspects of the policy on an annual basis to ensure that
rewards continue to be in line with the Group’s objectives and shareholders’ interests.
Report on Directors’ remuneration
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
30 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Basic salary
When determining the basic salary of the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee takes into consideration:
• The levels of base salary for similar positions with comparable status, responsibility and skills, in organisations of
broadly similar size and complexity;
• The performance of the individual Executive Director;
• The individual Executive Director’s experience and responsibilities; and
• Pay and conditions throughout the Group.
No changes were made to their basic salaries during the period. With the exception of Steve Whittern the salary review
for 2011 was set at 2 per cent by the Remuneration Committee. Steve Whittern received a pay review of £54,000
(36 per cent) recognising his increasing experience in the role of Finance Director following his appointment at the
start of 2009. Salaries effective from 1 January 2011 are:
2010 2011
Name £’000 £’000
Mike McCollum 440 449
Andrew Davies 250 255
Richard Portman 200 204
Steve Whittern 150 204
Total 1,040 1,112
Annual performance related bonus
The targets for the year, which are based on the achievement of set earnings per share targets, are reviewed and set
annually by the Committee to ensure that they are appropriate to the current market conditions and remain
challenging. They are ratified by the full Board. The targets are designed to enhance shareholder value.
The maximum bonus attainable for 2010 by Executive Directors was 100 per cent of basic salary. A bonus of
70 per cent is attainable for meeting the first earnings per share target set by the Committee and a further bonus of
30 per cent may be earned by achieving a second and more demanding earnings per share target. The increase in
underlying earnings per share during the period was 15 per cent and the bonus percentage earned by the Executive
Directors in the period was 100 per cent.
No other bonuses of any description were paid in the period to Executive Directors.
No changes have been proposed to the Annual Performance Related Bonus for 2011 and there were no departures from
this policy in the current period. This will continue to be based on demanding earnings per share targets with a
maximum bonus equal to 100 per cent of base salary.
Share incentives
Shareholders approved the current discretionary share incentive plan, the LTIP , on 5 June 2009. If existing LTIPs were
to be amended or if there was a new LTIP Scheme, approval would be sought from the shareholders. The Committee is
currently reviewing the performance conditions for future LTIP awards.
All Executive Directors and other employees are entitled to be considered for the grant of conditional share awards under
the LTIP . Under the rules, the maximum annual award that can be made to an individual is 125 per cent of salary. All
four Executive Directors serving at the start of the year, were granted conditional share awards during 2010 equivalent
to the maximum award. The Committee deemed this award appropriate, as in previous years, mindful of the need to
encourage superior performance from the Executive Directors and ensure that a significant proportion of their total
remuneration is linked to the performance of the Group. This award is in addition to those made in 2004 through to 2010.
Steve Whittern received awards of 4,000 shares in each of the years in 2007 and 2008, prior to his appointment to the
Board on 29 December 2008. Total awards made to the Executive Directors under the scheme are shown on page 35.
Eligible Executives are awarded rights, in the form of nil cost conditional share awards, to acquire a maximum number
of shares at the beginning of a three year period, the proportion of which they will be entitled to receive at the end of
that period depending on the extent to which the performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee at the
time the allocation is made, are satisfied.
The Remuneration Committee selected comparative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) as the performance condition for
LTIP awards as it ensures that the Group outperforms the FTSE 350 Index over the measurement period in delivering
shareholder value, before participants are entitled to receive any of their awards. The constituent companies of the
FTSE 350 Index, at the time the awards are made, are selected as a benchmark as there are no directly comparable
quoted companies in the United Kingdom and as Dignity is a constituent of the FTSE 350 this is a valid benchmark.
The Remuneration Committee will calculate the TSR in accordance with the rules of the scheme and ratify the
calculation prior to the release of any award. Performance conditions under the LTIP are not subject to re–testing.
31 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The percentage of the conditional share awards made up to and including the awards in 2009 are exercisable on
vesting as follows:
• Ranked in the top quintile: 100 per cent of the total award;
• Ranked at median: 40 per cent of the total award;
• Ranked below median: zero; and
• Ranked between median and top quintile: straight–line apportionment.
The percentage of the conditional share awards exercisable on vesting from the 2010 awards and onwards is
calculated as follows:
• Ranked in the top quartile: 100 per cent of the total award;
• Ranked at median: 25 per cent of the total award;
• Ranked below median: zero; and
• Ranked between median and top quartile: straight–line apportionment.
In addition and irrespective of the TSR performance target, no award will vest unless, in the opinion of the
Remuneration Committee, the underlying financial performance of the Group has been satisfactory over the
measurement period.
The graph shows the Group’s TSR compared to the FTSE 350. This gives a broad indication of the likelihood of any
conditional award vesting.
On 27 March 2010 the conditional share awards made in 2007 under the LTIP became capable of vesting. The TSR of
the Group over the measurement period was compared to that of the constituent companies of the FTSE 350 at the
time the awards were made. The performance of the Group was found to be above median but below upper quintile
such that 62.68 per cent of the shares were capable of vesting. On that basis the Remuneration Committee, mindful
also of the continued strong performance of the Group, recommended that 62.68 per cent of shares vest. Shares were
issued to Peter Hindley, Mike McCollum and Andrew Davies on 29 March 2010 and sold in their entirety on 31 March
2010 by the Group’s brokers. On the same day 16,116 shares were issued to Richard Portman who sold 7,885 shares
on 31 March 2010 and Steve Whittern was issued with 2,507 shares and sold 1,227 shares on 31 March 2010. Both
sales were completed by the Group’s brokers.
The total conditional awards held by each Director are shown on page 35 in the section of the Remuneration
Committee’s Report that is subject to audit.
In accordance with the ABI guidelines, the Group can issue a maximum of 10 per cent of its issued share capital in a
rolling ten year period to employees under all share plans. In addition, of this 10 per cent, the Company can only issue
5 per cent to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans. At the period end, conditional awards under the
LTIP Scheme to Executive Directors and senior managers amount to 1.38 per cent of the current issued share capital.
If the awards in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, that have vested, are included, that percentage is 3.15 per cent. The
total, including SAYE options granted in both the 2004, 2007 and 2010 Schemes, is 5.25 per cent.
Pensions
Mike McCollum and Richard Portman are members of the Group’s pension scheme into which the Group contributed
10.5 per cent of salary (details are set out within the audited section of this report on page 34). The Group makes no
pension contributions for Andrew Davies or Steve Whittern. No Non–Executive Directors receive any pension contributions.
Report on Directors’ remuneration continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
32 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
6 Year Total Shareholder Return
Apr 04
Jun 04
Sep 04
Dec 04
Mar 05
Jun 05
Dec 05
Mar 06
Sep 05
Jun 06
Sep 06
Dec 06
Mar 07
Jun 07
Sep 07
Dec 07
Mar 08
Jun 08
Sep 08
Dec 08
Mar 09
Jun 09
Sep 09
Dec 09
Mar 10
Jun 10
Sep 10
Dec 10
Feb 11
Dignity plc FTSE 350 Index   
300%
250%
200%
150%
100%
50%
0% Benefits in kind
Benefits included the following elements: provision of a company car or allowance; fuel; landline telephone at each
Executive Director’s home residence; and a mobile telephone; together with a pre–arranged funeral plan in accordance
with any scheme established by the Group in respect of the funeral of the Executive Director or his wife. All Executive
Directors received all of their benefits in kind.
Non–Executive Directors’ fees
The Board determines the fees of the Non–Executive Directors. It is based upon recommendations from the Chairman
and Chief Executive (or, in the case of the Chairman, based on recommendations from the Remuneration Committee
and the Chief Executive). The level of fees of the Non–Executive Directors reflects the time commitment and
responsibility of their respective roles. Their fees are set by reference to the constituent companies of the bottom half
of the FTSE 250.
Service contracts
Details of the service contracts with all Executive Directors and letters of appointment with Non–Executive Directors are
as follows:
Unexpired term of contract
Name Contract date Notice period or letter of approval
Mike McCollum 1 April 2004 12 months Rolling Contract
Andrew Davies 1 April 2004 12 months Rolling Contract
Richard Portman 1 November 2006 12 months Rolling Contract
Steve Whittern 1 January 2009 12 months Rolling Contract
Peter Hindley 7 December 2010 3 months 36 months
James Newman 31 March 2010 3 months 15 months
Bill Forrester 31 March 2010 3 months 15 months
Ishbel Macpherson 7 December 2010 3 months 24 months
Alan McWalter 7 December 2010 3 months 24 months
There are no special provisions in service contracts of employees or Directors relating to cessation of employment or
change of control. The policy on termination is that the Group does not make payments beyond its contractual
obligations, which do not include any payment from the takeover or liquidation of the Group. In addition, the
Remuneration Committee ensures that there have been no unjustified payments for failure.
The contracts of the Non–Executive Directors, Ishbel Macpherson and Alan McWalter were renewed for a further two
years in December 2010. The contract of the Chairman, Peter Hindley, was also renewed for a three year period, rather
than two, to provide additional continuity to the Board.
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, one third of the Directors are required to submit themselves for
re–election every year. This requirement will be superseded by the requirements of the 2010 Code from January 2011
which specifies that all Directors offer themselves for re–election each year. In accordance with the terms of the 2010
Code all Directors will submit themselves for re–election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in June 2011.
No Executive Directors hold a Non–Executive position with any other company. However, the Group allows one such
appointment per Executive Director, for which they can retain the fees.
Audited information
The following information on pages 33 to 36 has been audited.
Directors’ interest in shares
The interests of the Directors and their families in the Ordinary Shares of the Company at 31 December 2010 and
25 December 2009 were as follows:
Ordinary Shares of 9 pence
31 December 2010 25 December 2009
Name Number *Number
Peter Hindley 188,790 188,790
Mike McCollum 270,000 270,000
Andrew Davies 161,250 161,250
Richard Portman 106,782 99,728
Steve Whittern 6,987 5,890
James Newman 10,000 6,666
Bill Forrester 6,666 6,666
Ishbel Macpherson 5,695 5,695
Alan McWalter 3,000 3,000
* Comparative shareholdings have been restated following the share consolidation of six 10.5 pence shares for every seven 9 pence shares.
There has been no change in the interest set out above between 31 December 2010 and 10 January 2011.
33 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors’ remuneration
The total of Directors’ remuneration for the period was £2,541,000 (2009: £2,343,000), including pension
contributions of £43,000 (2009: £18,000). The remuneration of individual Directors for the year or from their date of
appointment was as follows:
Annual
Salary and Non cash performance Total Total
fees benefits* Cash benefits* related bonus 2010 2009
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors
Mike McCollum 440 4 15 440 899 830
Andrew Davies 250 11 15 250 526 479
Richard Portman 200 3 15 200 418 386
Steve Whittern 150 4 15 150 319 294
Non–Executive Directors
Peter Hindley 150 1– – 151 151
James Newman** 60 –– – 60 60
Bill Forrester 45 –– – 45 45
Ishbel Macpherson 40 –– – 40 40
Alan McWalter 40 –– – 40 40
Total 1,375 23 60 1,040 2,498 2,325
*Benefits include the following elements: provision of a company car or allowance, fuel, landline telephone at each Executive Director’s home residence
and a mobile telephone together with a pre–arranged funeral plan in accordance with any scheme established by the Group in respect of the funeral of
the Executive Director or his wife.
**James Newman’s fees and expenses are invoiced to the Company by West Wood on Derwent Ltd.
Subsequent to the period–end the Non–Executive Directors fees were reviewed upwards as follows:
£’000
Peter Hindley 153
James Newman 66
Bill Forrester 48
Ishbel Macpherson 41
Alan McWalter 41
No Director waived emoluments in respect of the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 or the 52 week period
ended 25 December 2009.
Directors’ pension entitlements
Defined benefit salary scheme
Transfer
value of Accumulated
Change in Change in change in total
Change in Transfer value at transfer value accrued accrued accrued
accrued benefit Transfer value at 25 December less benefit in benefit net of pension at
over the 31 December 2009 Directors’ excess of Directors’ 31 December
period (1) 2010 (2) (2) contributions inflation contributions 2010 (3)
£££ £ £ ££
Mike McCollum 23,844 831,170 561,884 240,061 21,633 152,355 95,181
Richard Portman 8,216 343,210 233,760 95,450 7,448 60,414 32,986
(1) Throughout 2010 the above Directors were members of the Dignity Pension and Assurance Scheme, which is a defined benefit and tax approved
scheme to which both the Director and the Company contribute and remains open to all employees.
(2) Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the transfer value basis set by the Trustees.
(3) Pension accruals shown are the amounts that would be paid annually on retirement based on service at the end of the current period. This equates to
accrued entitlement.
(4) During 2010 the Trustees of the Dignity Pension and Assurance Scheme resolved to remove the cap on the maximum pension that a member could
accrue. This will affect the pension that Mike McCollum could potentially accrue.
Report on Directors’ remuneration continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
34 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Long Term Incentive Plan
Members approved the LTIP on 5 June 2009.
Awarded in 2010 for £nil consideration:
2010
Market Value of shares Date of the end
value of shares conditionally Number of shares of the holding
conditionally awarded during the conditionally period when
awarded during the period as a percentage awarded during the shares may be
period (2) of salary (3) period exercised
£
Mike McCollum 550,000 125% 82,011 After 18 March 2013
Andrew Davies 312,500 125% 46,597 After 18 March 2013
Richard Portman 250,000 125% 37,278 After 18 March 2013
Steve Whittern 187,500 125% 27,958 After 18 March 2013
Awarded in 2009 for £nil consideration:
2009
Market Value of shares Date of the end
value of shares conditionally Number of shares of the holding
conditionally awarded during the conditionally period when
awarded during the period as a percentage awarded during the shares may be
period (4) of salary (3) period exercised
£
Mike McCollum 550,000 125% 89,184 After 20 March 2012
Andrew Davies 312,500 125% 50,673 After 20 March 2012
Richard Portman 250,000 125% 40,538 After 20 March 2012
Steve Whittern 187,500 125% 30,404 After 20 March 2012
Awarded in 2008 for £nil consideration:
2008
Market Value of shares Date of the end
value of shares conditionally Number of shares of the holding
conditionally awarded during the conditionally period when
awarded during the Period as a percentage awarded during the shares may be
period (5) of salary (3) period exercised
£
Peter Hindley 437,500 125% 60,212 After 17 March 2011
Mike McCollum 343,750 125% 47,309 After 17 March 2011
Andrew Davies 250,000 125% 34,407 After 17 March 2011
Richard Portman 187,500 125% 25,805 After 17 March 2011
Steve Whittern 29,080 33% 4,000 After 17 March 2011
Awarded in 2007 for £nil consideration:
2007
Number of shares Market value of Number of shares Market value
conditionally shares conditionally vesting in the of shares at
awarded on awarded on period to Gain on the date of Date options
27 March 2007 27 March 2007 31 December vesting vesting (7) exercised
£ 2010 (6) ££
Peter Hindley 63,799 418,750 39,992 252,349 252,350 29 March 2010
Mike McCollum 47,611 312,500 29,844 188,315 188,316 29 March 2010
Andrew Davies 35,423 232,500 22,204 140,106 140,107 29 March 2010
Richard Portman 25,710 168,750 16,116 101,691 101,692 29 March 2010
Steve Whittern 4,000 26,254 2,507 15,818 15,819 29 March 2010
The total aggregated gain on vesting in 2010 was £698,279.
35 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The total options held by Directors at 31 December 2010 were:
Ordinary Shares of 10.5 pence
LTIP SAYE TOTAL
Peter Hindley 60,212 – 60,212
Mike McCollum 218,504 – 218,504
Andrew Davies 131,677 – 131,677
Richard Portman 103,621 1,283 104,904
Steve Whittern 62,362 1,283 63,645
Total 576,376 2,566 578,942
(1) Awards under the LTIP up to and including those made in 2009 will only be released if the Group’s comparative TSR performance is equal to or
greater than the median level of performance over the holding period at which point 40 per cent of the award will be released, with full vesting
occurring for upper quintile performance. Vesting occurs on a straight–line basis between those points. The Award in 2010 and all awards thereafter
will only be released if the Group’s comparative TSR performance is equal or greater than the median level of performance over the holding period at
which point 25 per cent of the award will be released with full vesting occurring for an upper quartile performance. Vesting occurs on a straight–line
basis between these points.
(2) Value based on the average mid market share price for the previous 28 days to 18 March 2010.
(3) Value as a percentage of salary as at the date the awards were made.
(4) Value based on the average mid market share price for the previous 28 days to 18 March 2009.
(5) Value based on the average mid market price for the previous 28 days to 14 March 2008.
(6) 62.68 per cent of the shares awarded on 28 March 2007 vested as the TSR of the Group was lower than the top quintile but above the median when
compared to the TSR of the constituent companies of the FTSE 350 at the time the awards were made.
(7) Based on a closing market price of £6.31 per share on 26 March 2010, being last business day before the day the options were capable of vesting.
Inland Revenue Approved SAYE Share Option Scheme
Number Number
held at held at
Date 25 December 31 December Exercise
of grant 2009 Granted Lapsed 2010 date
Mike McCollum 21 May 2007 1,322 Nil 1,322 Nil 30 June 2010
Richard Portman 21 May 2007 1,322 Nil 1,322 Nil 30 June 2010
22 October 2010 Nil 1,283 Nil 1,283 1 Dec 2013
Steve Whittern 21 May 2007 1,322 Nil 1,322 Nil 30 June 2010
22 October 2010 Nil 1,283 Nil 1,283 1 Dec 2013
The SAYE options granted on 22 October 2010 have an exercise price of £7.01 per share and must be exercised within
six months of the date shown above. The share price on this day was £6.46.
The market price of the Group’s shares on 31 December 2010 was £7.20 per share. The high and low share closing
prices in the period were £7.23 per share and £5.94 per share respectively.
On behalf of the Board
Bill Forrester
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
10 March 2011
Report on Directors’ remuneration continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
36 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Introduction
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance in order to achieve its objectives and meet the
necessary standards of accountability and integrity. In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, Dignity plc is required to state whether it has complied with the relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of
the 2008 Combined Code (the Code) and, where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
Dignity plc is also required to explain how it has applied the principles set out in the Code. This Directors’ Statement
on Corporate Governance and the Report on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 30 to 41 provide a description of how
the main and supporting principles of the Code have been applied within Dignity plc during 2010. The Group has
complied with all provisions of the Code during 2010 with the exception of:
On 29 December 2008 Peter Hindley was appointed Chairman upon relinquishing his responsibilities as Chief Executive
and the retirement of the then Chairman. This is contrary to provision A.2.2. of the Code. However, as suggested by the
Code, this appointment was only made after consultation with major shareholders of the Group. The Board felt it was
important to retain the skills and knowledge of Peter Hindley, given he is both a prominent and influential figure in the
funeral industry. Peter Hindley is not regarded as independent under provision A.3.1. of the Code.
The Board also recognises that the Code has been superseded by the UK Corporate Governance Code (2010 Code) that
was published in June 2010 and applicable for periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010. It is the Board’s intention
to implement the new guidance during 2011.
Narrative statement
The Code establishes nine principles of good governance, which are split into four areas as outlined below:
1. The Board
The Group is controlled through the Board of Directors that meets regularly throughout the year. Informal meetings are
held between individual Directors as required. The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved to it.
The Board is responsible for:
• Overall management of the Group;
• Setting and reviewing the strategy of the Group;
• Approval of major capital expenditure and acquisition projects, and consideration of significant financial matters;
• Monitoring the exposure to key business risks;
• Setting annual budgets and reviewing progress towards achievement of these budgets; and
• Proposing and making dividend payments to shareholders.
All Directors are provided with the necessary papers in advance of the meetings to permit them to make informed
decisions at those meetings. The Board also considers employee issues and key appointments, including the role of
Company Secretary.
The Board comprises eight Directors and the Non–Executive Chairman. There are the same number of independent
Non–Executive Directors and Executive Directors. The Board considers that four Executive Directors are sufficient to
manage a Company of this size and organisational structure.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Non–Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive so as to give no
individual, unfettered powers of decision making. The Chairman is responsible for:
• Ensuring the Board functions in all aspects of its role;
• Facilitating the effective contribution of the Non–Executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations between
Executive and Non–Executive Directors;
• Setting the agenda so all relevant issues are discussed; and
• Ensuring effective communication with stakeholders and acting as the public face of the Group.
The Chief Executive is responsible for:
• Operational management and control of the Group on a day–to–day basis;
• Formulating and proposing strategy to the Board; and
• Implementing the strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
The four independent Non–Executive Directors are Bill Forrester, Ishbel Macpherson, Alan McWalter, and James
Newman. James Newman is the appointed Senior Independent Director of the Group. Biographical details, including
committee membership, appear on page 26. The Chairman and the Non–Executive Directors have formally confirmed to
the Board, mindful of their other commitments they have, that they will have sufficient time to devote to their
responsibilities as Directors of the Group.
Directors’ statement on corporate governance
37 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Bill Forrester, Ishbel Macpherson, Alan McWalter, and James Newman are independent of management, as defined by
the Code.
All Directors are able to take independent professional advice on the furtherance of their duties if necessary. They also
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is also the Corporate Services Director and,
where it is considered appropriate and necessary, training is made available to Directors. All Directors receive annual
training and updates on the duties and responsibilities of being a Director of a listed company. This covers legal,
accounting and tax matters as required. The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of any legal
action against its Directors. The level of cover is currently £50 million.
The Directors have, during the period, formally reminded themselves of their duties as Directors under the Companies
Act 2006 (Section 171–177). These duties include the need to avoid conflicts of interest (Section 175). No such
conflicts of interests exist.
In accordance with the 2010 Code all Directors will submit themselves for re–election at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting.
The Board has established a Remuneration Committee, an Audit Committee and a Nomination Committee, all of which
operate within defined terms of reference. The specific terms of reference for all the Committees may be obtained
from the Company Secretary at the Registered Office and they are also available for inspection on the Group’s investor
website www.dignityfuneralsplc.co.uk. All Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Those attending and the frequency of Board and Committee meetings held during the year was as follows:
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Main Board(i) Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 83 6 2
Andrew Davies 70 0 0
Bill Forrester 73 6 1
Peter Hindley 83(ii) 5(ii) 2
Mike McCollum 83(ii) 1(ii) 0
Alan McWalter 83 6 2
Ishbel Macpherson 83 6 2
James Newman 53 5 2
Richard Portman 83(iii) 4(iii) 2(iii)
Steve Whittern 83(ii) 00
(i) Only full Board meetings have been included in the attendance analysis. Eight further meetings were held with a quorum of Directors to approve
announcements, documents or the issue of shares under the LTIP and SAYE.
(ii) In attendance by invitation of the respective Committee.
(iii) Richard Portman attended certain Committee meetings in his capacity as Company Secretary.
When Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are advised of the matters to be discussed and given an
opportunity to make their views known to the Chairman prior to the meeting. A process exists whereby such views will
be included in the minutes of the meeting if necessary.
A process exists whereby the Non–Executive Directors can meet without the Executive Directors being present. Three
such meetings were held during 2010.
During the year, the Board again undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its
Committees and Directors by way of the issue of a detailed questionnaire to all Directors. This was then followed by
a detailed review of the responses, by the Directors, and identification of any actions arising. The Non–Executive
Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, are responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The Board was satisfied that its performance and that of its individual Directors and Committees was of the
appropriate standard. Full evaluations will be completed again during 2011. As required under the 2010 Code the
Board will implement external facilitation such that it meets the requirement of having external facilitation once every
three years.
The Company Secretary, Richard Portman, is responsible for the preparation and distribution of all agendas, minutes
and related Board and Committee papers. As Corporate Services Director, he attends the Board meetings in his capacity
as a Director of the Company but also acts as Secretary to those meetings. He attends the Committee meetings in his
capacity as Company Secretary and also as Secretary of those Committees when requested to do so by the Chairman
of that Committee. He is also responsible for ensuring all Board procedures are followed and for advising the Board on
corporate governance matters.
Directors’ statement on corporate governance continued
38 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2. Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Bill Forrester, determines and agrees with the Board, within formal terms of
reference, the framework and policy of Directors’ and senior management’s remuneration and its cost to the Group.
The Committee met six times during 2010. The Committee considers the performance of the Executive Directors as a
prelude to recommending their annual remuneration, bonus awards and awards of share options to the Board for final
approval.
The Committee members during 2010 were the independent Non–Executive Directors, Bill Forrester, James Newman,
Ishbel Macpherson and Alan McWalter. The Code requires a Committee of at least three members. The Chief Executive
and the Chairman can also attend the meetings by invitation of the Committee. No Director or senior manager is
involved in any decisions with regard to their own remuneration. The Chairman of the Board is not a member of the
Remuneration Committee.
The Executive Directors recommend the remuneration of Non–Executive Directors and recommendations take into
account role, responsibilities and time commitment in the fulfilment of those duties. The Non–Executive Directors are
not eligible for pensions and do not participate in the Group’s bonus or share schemes. The Committee has considered
the remuneration of senior management immediately below Board level during the year. It concluded that their
remuneration was commensurate with their various duties and in line with market rates.
3. Accountability and audit
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee in 2010 comprised the four independent Non–Executive Directors. James Newman, who is a
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, is considered to have recent and relevant
financial experience to chair this Committee. Its membership is restricted to Non–Executive Directors whose
qualifications are shown in their biographies on page 26. The Committee has specific written terms of reference that
explain its authority and duties. The Committee has met three times during 2010. The external auditors, the Chairman,
the Chief Executive and the Finance Director have attended all the meetings by invitation. The external auditors and the
internal audit function also have the right to private audiences with the Audit Committee or its Chairman if either party
requires or requests them. Two meetings were held during 2010 between the Chairman and the external auditors. The
Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Audit Committee.
The Committee reviews the Group’s Annual Report and Interim Report before submission to the Board. It keeps under
review the Group’s accounting policies, financial controls and internal control and risk management systems. It also
evaluates, on a regular basis, the work of the internal audit function and reviews its effectiveness. The Committee also
reviews matters brought to its attention both internally and by the external auditors. The Committee reports all
findings to the Board.
A formal process, established via the Audit Committee, exists by which employees of the Group may, in confidence,
raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters. This ensures arrangements are in
place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow–up action.
The Committee also keeps under review the relationship with the external auditors, including their terms of
engagement, independence, objectivity and effectiveness. The Committee reviews the remuneration received by the
external auditors for non–audit work to safeguard the independence of the external auditors, which ongoing principally
relates to taxation advice. During 2011 the Committee will adopt a formal policy as to the approach of such work. The
external auditors have confirmed their audit independence in writing to the Committee. This confirmation specifically
contemplated the additional work that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP provided the Group during the year in respect of
the issue of further Secured Notes and subsequent Return of Value to shareholders. The Committee also retains
responsibility for the appointment and removal of the external auditors.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have been the Group’s auditors since the management buy out from SCI in 2002.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , were auditors of SCI at this time. The Audit Committee considers that the relationship
with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness. Accordingly, it has not considered it
necessary to date to require the firm to tender for the audit work. The external auditors are required to rotate the
Group audit partner every five years and this is the second year for the current lead audit partner Matthew Mullins.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Company’s choice of external auditor. However, under the terms of
the Secured Notes, Dignity (2002) Limited and certain of its subsidiaries are only permitted to use
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , KPMG LLP , Deloitte LLP or Ernst & Young LLP (or their successor firms).
Reporting responsibilities
The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects,
not only in the Directors’ Report and Accounts but also in the Chairman’s Statement (page 4), the Chief Executive’s
Overview (page 5), the Business Review (pages 6 to 11), the Financial Review (pages 22 to 24), Interim Reports, Interim
Management Statements and in price sensitive announcements. The Group will release its Annual Information Update
by 1 April 2011. A summary of the Directors’ responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 27.
39 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Going concern
The Directors receive and review regularly management accounts, cash balances, forecasts and the annual budget
together with securitised debt covenant compliance. After careful consideration, and mindful of the current market
conditions, the Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group and the Company has adequate resources to continue
operating for the foreseeable future. The Directors formally considered this matter at the Board meeting held on 3
March 2011. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
Internal control
The Board recognises it is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss. A formal process of identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant risks faced by the Group exists. This process was in place at the date of approval of the Annual Report and
is in accordance with the Code.
Internal controls are formally reviewed on an ongoing basis. Internal Audit completes a programme of work each
year that provides assurance that the internal controls they have tested are working effectively and also propose
improvements where appropriate and necessary. Coupled with this, the bi–annual review of the Risk Register provides
a further formal review mechanism for considering and reviewing internal controls. All such work is reported to and
monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, as part of an ongoing process, has formally reviewed and continues to
keep under review the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal controls, including financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management systems. The Audit Committee reviews risk management annually and
receives reports from executive management regarding weaknesses in internal control, any losses arising out of
weaknesses in internal control and progress in implementing revised procedures to improve and enhance internal
control. There have been no reports of system weaknesses that have resulted or would have resulted in a material
misstatement or loss.
The key procedures, which operated throughout the period, are as follows:
• Financial reporting – The Group has a comprehensive system of internal budgeting and forecasting. The Group’s
monthly actual results analysed by operating division are reported to the Board and significant variances to budget
are investigated with revised forecasts prepared as necessary. Operational management receives comprehensive
management accounts covering their areas of responsibility, which forms the basis for the consolidated accounts;
• Financial controls – The Executive Directors have defined appropriate and necessary financial controls and procedures
to be employed by operational management. Key controls over major business risks include reviews against budgets
and forecasts, review against key performance indicators and exception reporting;
• Quality and integrity of personnel – One of the Group’s core values is integrity. This is regarded as vital to the
maintenance of the Group’s system of internal financial control. The Directors have put in place an organisation
structure appropriate to the size and complexity of the Group with defined lines of responsibility and delegation of
authority where the Board considers it necessary and appropriate;
• Internal audit – The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit team, which reports to the Chief Executive. It coordinates
the completion of self–assessment reports by operational management that assists in highlighting areas of control
weakness or exposure. Internal audit reviews are completed on such areas together with selected areas of the head
office function and any area where an Executive Director requests a review. During 2010 (as in 2009), there were
quarterly meetings between the Head of Internal Audit and the Executive Directors to formally review and discuss
Internal Audit’s work programme and findings. In addition, regular meetings between Internal Audit and the external
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , were held during the year to discuss and plan audit work and to ensure a
complementary approach. The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee at every meeting;
• Procedures – The Group has established and documented processes and procedures covering most parts of its
operations, both client facing and in support departments. These provide clear guidance on the correct or most
appropriate course of action in various circumstances. Procedures are supplemented by training where needs have
been identified. Both Internal Audit and a comprehensive management structure monitor the adherence to such
processes and procedures. A comprehensive review of procedures and training commenced during 2008 and is
ongoing; and
• Risk assessment – Management has responsibility for the identification and evaluation of significant risks that might
arise in their area of responsibility together with the design of suitable internal controls. The Executive Directors and
the wider management team continually assess the risks. A Risk Register is maintained, which is formally presented
to and reviewed by the Audit Committee twice a year.
Directors’ statement on corporate governance continued
40 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Nomination Committee
Peter Hindley, the Chairman, chaired the Nomination Committee during 2010, which met on two occasions during the
year. The other members of the Committee are James Newman, Bill Forrester, Ishbel Macpherson and Alan McWalter.
The Committee regularly reviews and makes recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of
the Board and the senior management team. It is also responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of
the Board, replacement or additional Directors and members of the senior management team. The Committee
formally considers succession planning annually under the written terms of reference.
4. Relations with shareholders
The Group encourages two–way communication with both its institutional and private shareholders and responds
promptly to any queries received.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and
analysts to discuss information made public by the Group. Where appropriate or if requested, such meetings could
include either or both the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director. The Chairman and the Senior Independent
Director are also available to meet separately with shareholders if necessary or requested. The Chairman is also
available to discuss governance and strategy matters with the major shareholders. The Corporate Services Director,
in his additional role as Company Secretary, generally deals with queries from private shareholders.
The Group has and will arrange visits to its funeral locations and crematoria, if requested by a shareholder, where it
will not disrupt services to our clients.
Each year all shareholders receive the Annual Report and Accounts. The Interim Report is no longer published as a
paper document but is available on the Group’s separate investor website www.dignityfuneralsplc.co.uk, upon which
users can also access the latest financial and corporate news.
The Board regards the Annual General Meeting, which this year is on 9 June 2011, as an opportunity to communicate
directly with all shareholders. At least 20 working days notice will be given of the Annual General Meeting at which all
Directors plan to be present and available to answer questions.
41 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Dignity plc for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows, and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, set out on page 27, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates
made by the directors; and, the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of its profit and cash flows
for the 53 week period then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS
Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 for
which the consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement set out on page 29, in relation to going concern;
• the part of the Directors’ Statement on Corporate Governance relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine
provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Dignity plc for the 53 week period ended
31 December 2010 and on the information in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration that is described as having
been audited.
Matthew Mullins (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Birmingham
10 March 2011
Independent Auditors’ report to the members of Dignity plc
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
42 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 53 week period 52 week period
ended ended
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Revenue 3 199.1 184.7
Cost of sales (87.3) (85.1)
Gross profit 111.8 99.6
Administrative expenses (53.2) (43.6)
Other income 1.8 1.5
Operating profit 3 60.4 57.5
Analysed as:
Operating profit before profit on sale of fixed assets 61.0 56.4
and before transaction costs
Profit on sale of fixed assets 0.5 1.1
Transaction costs 5 (1.1) –
Operating profit 60.4 57.5
Finance costs 4 (22.5) (21.6)
Finance income 4 1.9 1.6
Profit before tax 5 39.8 37.5
Taxation – before exceptional items 6 (11.5) (10.9)
Taxation – exceptional 6 0.7
–
Taxation 6 (10.8) (10.9)
Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 3 29.0 26.6
Earnings per share for profit attributable to equity shareholders (pence)
– Basic and diluted 8 46.9p 41.8p
Underlying Earnings per share (pence) 8 46.4p 40.5p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
53 week period 52 week period
ended ended
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Profit for the period 29.0 26.6
Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations 28 (2.0) (4.8)
Tax on actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations 6 0.6 1.3
Other comprehensive loss (1.4) (3.5)
Comprehensive income for the period 27.6 23.1
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent 27.6 23.1
Consolidated income statement
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
43 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Restated (a)
Note £m £m
Assets
Non–current assets
Goodwill 9 142.9 139.7
Intangible assets 9 39.5 35.9
Property, plant and equipment 10 133.6 116.8
Financial and other assets 11 12.0 9.4
Retirement benefit asset 28 8.5 9.1
336.5 310.9
Current assets
Inventories 13 5.2 4.1
Trade and other receivables 14 24.0 21.5
Cash and cash equivalents 15 48.1 45.8
77.3 71.4
Total assets 413.8 382.3
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities 16 8.7 8.5
Trade and other payables 17 32.0 34.5
Current tax liabilities 4.8 4.3
Provisions for liabilities and charges 19 1.5 1.3
47.0 48.6
Non–current liabilities
Financial liabilities 16 338.5 266.6
Deferred tax liabilities 20 27.3 26.0
Other non–current liabilities 17 2.9 3.1
Provisions for liabilities and charges 19 2.9 2.5
371.6 298.2
Total liabilities 418.6 346.8
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary share capital 22 5.7 5.7
Share premium account 17.4 35.8
Capital redemption reserve 99.3 80.0
Other reserves (8.8) (8.9)
Retained earnings (118.4) (77.1)
Equity attributable to shareholders (4.8) 35.5
Total equity and liabilities 413.8 382.3
(a) In accordance with IFRS 3, the Group has been required to restate its prior year balance sheet. See note 1 for further details.
The financial statements on pages 43 to 82 were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2011 and were
signed on its behalf by:
M K McCollum S L Whittern
Chief Executive Finance Director
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 2010
44 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts Ordinary Share Capital
share premium redemption Other Retained Total
capital account reserve reserves earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Shareholders’ equity as at
26 December 2008 5.7 34.6 80.0 (8.9) (93.0) 18.4
Profit for the 52 weeks ended
25 December 2009 ––– – 26.6 26.6
Actuarial loss on defined
benefit plans ––– – (4.8) (4.8)
Tax on pensions ––– – 1.3 1.3
Effects of employee share options ––– 1.0 – 1.0
Tax on employee share options ––– 0.2 – 0.2
Share issue under 2006 LTIP Scheme – 1.2 –– – 1.2
Gift to Employee Benefit Trust (1) ––– (1.2) – (1.2)
Dividends ––– – (7.2) (7.2)
Shareholders’ equity as at
25 December 2009 5.7 35.8 80.0 (8.9) (77.1) 35.5
Profit for the 53 weeks ended
31 December 2010 ––– – 29.0 29.0
Actuarial loss on defined
benefit plans ––– – (2.0) (2.0)
Tax on pensions ––– – 0.6 0.6
Effects of employee share options ––– 0.9 – 0.9
Tax on employee share options ––– 0.1 – 0.1
Adjustment for tax rate change 28% to 27% ––– – 0.1 0.1
Share issue under 2007 LTIP Scheme – 0.9 –– – 0.9
Gift to Employee Benefit Trust (2) ––– (0.9) – (0.9)
Issue of B Shares in respect of Capital Option
(see note 7) – (19.3) –– – (19.3)
Redemption of B Shares in respect of Capital
Option (see note 7) –– 19.3 – (19.3) – –
Dividend in respect of Special Dividend Option
and Deferred Dividend Option (see note 7) ––– – (44.6) (44.6)
Dividends (see note 7) ––– – (5.1) (5.1)
Shareholders’ equity as at 31 December 2010 5.7 17.4 99.3 (8.8) (118.4) (4.8)
(1) Relating to issue of shares under 2006 LTIP scheme.
(2) Relating to issue of shares under 2007 LTIP scheme.
The above amounts relate to transactions with owners of the Company except for the profit for the period and also
pension items (net of tax) of £1.4 million loss (December 2009: £3.5 million loss).
The capital redemption reserve represents £80,002,465 B Shares that were issued on 2 August 2006 and redeemed
for cash on the same day and £19,274,610 B Shares that were issued on 10 October 2010 and redeemed for cash on
11 October 2010.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
as at 31 December 2010
45 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 53 week period 52 week period
ended ended 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations before transaction costs and exceptional 
pension contributions 25 74.5 65.3
Costs in respect of redemption of B and C Shares (0.8) –
Exceptional contribution to pension scheme (1.0) –
Transaction costs in respect of acquisitions (0.3) –
Cash generated from operations 72.4 65.3
Finance income received 0.4 0.7
Finance costs paid (32.6) (20.5)
Transfer from restricted bank accounts for finance costs 9.9 10.0
Payments to restricted bank accounts for finance costs 15 – (9.9)
Total payments in respect of finance costs (22.7) (20.4)
Tax paid (10.1) (8.5)
Net cash generated from operating activities 40.0 37.1
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses (net of cash acquired) 26 (5.8) (13.3)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1.1 2.1
Vehicle replacement programme and improvements to locations (10.3) (8.0)
Branch relocations (0.6) (1.3)
Satellite locations (1.0) –
Development of new crematoria (13.9) (6.2)
Mercury abatement project (2.1) (1.7)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (27.9) (17.2)
Net cash used in investing activities (32.6) (28.4)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of Secured Notes 87.1 –
Proceeds from borrowings 16 – 2.6
Issue costs in respect of borrowings of Secured Notes 16 (4.5) –
Repayment of borrowings (8.9) (4.9)
Transfer from restricted bank accounts for repayment of borrowings 2.6 2.4
Payments to restricted bank accounts for repayment of borrowings 15 – (2.6)
Total payments in respect of borrowings (6.3) (5.1)
Dividends paid to shareholders on Ordinary Shares 7 (5.1) (7.2)
Redemption of B Shares in respect of Capital Option 7 (19.3) –
Redemption of C Shares in respect of Special Dividend Option 7 (44.5) –
Net cash generated/(used) in financing activities 7.4 (9.7)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 14.8 (1.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 31.8 32.8
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 15 46.6 31.8
Restricted cash 15 1.5 14.0
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period as reported in the
consolidated balance sheet 15 48.1 45.8
Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
46 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 1 Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Prior year adjustment resulting from standards effective in 2010
The Group have revised the fair value of a prior year acquisition and accordingly as a result of IFRS 3 (Revised)
becoming effective in the period, the December 2009 balance sheet has been restated, by increasing goodwill by
£0.3 million and by increasing trade and other payables by the same amount. IFRS 3 (Revised) has other effects which
do not affect the prior year balance sheet. 
Basis of preparation
European law requires that the Group’s consolidated financial statements for the 53 week period ended 31 December
2010 are prepared in accordance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’), as adopted
by the European Union. These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, International
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) interpretations (as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board) and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historic cost convention, as modified by the
revaluation of pensions and financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement.
Preparation of financial statements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. This will
also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period. Actual results may differ from those estimates.
Basis of consolidation
The financial statements are presented in the form of Group financial statements. The Group financial statements
consolidate the accounts of the Company and the entities controlled by the Company (including all of its subsidiary
entities) after eliminating internal transactions. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the
financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are included from the effective date of control using the
acquisition method of accounting. The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of newly acquired subsidiary
undertakings are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value to the Group as at the
effective date of control.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are of a non–recurring nature to the results for the period and are therefore presented separately. 
Pre–arranged funeral plan trusts
The three pre–arranged funeral plan trusts were not consolidated during the period as they were not controlled by
the Group. Specifically, Article 60 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001
requires a majority of the managing trustees to be independent of the Group. Furthermore, the Group did not direct
their financial and operating policies, nor did it have substantially all of the risks and rewards of their ownership.
Revenue
Revenue from funeral operations comprises the amount recoverable from customers for the provision of funerals,
income from crematoria and other services, to the extent that those services have been performed or the goods
supplied. 
Revenues include amounts receivable from the pre–arranged funeral plan trusts for funerals performed by the Group
for pre–arranged funeral plan members.
Income from memorial sales is recognised at the point of sale, to the extent that the goods have been supplied.
Costs of maintaining memorials are recognised as incurred.
The accounting policies for recognising turnover for pre–arranged funeral plans are stated below. The Group pays
certain disbursements such as crematoria fees, burial plots, ministers’ fees and doctors’ fees on behalf of its clients.
These amounts are recovered as part of the invoicing process. However, these amounts are not included within net
revenues as they are simply passed on to the customer at cost.
The Group views the United Kingdom as one geographical segment, given each local business exhibits similar long
term characteristics.
All amounts are exclusive of VAT .
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
47 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 1 Accounting policies (continued)
Pre–arranged funeral plans
Trust plans
The Group markets and sells pre–arranged funeral plans, monies received from selling funeral plans being held
and controlled by independent pre–arranged funeral plan trusts (‘the Trusts’). The responsibility for the ultimate
performance of funerals is allocated to funeral directors, who are selected by the beneficiary of the plan and some
of whom are not owned by the Group. 
The Group receives monies from the Trusts in respect of the following transactions:
• A marketing and administration fee in respect of each plan sold. The marketing element is only refundable in the
event that the plan is subsequently cancelled. A provision is made for cancellations based on historical experiences,
where material, to cover the estimated marketing element refundable to the Trusts. Marketing and administration
fees are included in Group revenue when the related plan is sold less the provision for refunds arising on
cancellations; and
• Further contributions are also received from the Trusts in return for the provision of general ongoing administrative
services supplied to the Trusts. These contributions are included in Group revenue for the period to which they relate.
All costs in respect of the marketing and administration of the pre–arranged funeral plans are expensed in the Group
income statement as incurred.
From time to time, the Group receives monies from certain of the Trusts, in line with the relevant Trust’s deed, which
have been assessed by the trustees as not required to ensure the Trust has sufficient assets to meet its future liabilities
in respect of current members (‘Recoveries’). All Recoveries are recognised as other operating income in the period in
which the trustees approve their payment.
The Group makes payments on behalf of the Trusts relating to the ongoing overheads of the Trusts, refunds to
members of the Trusts in event of cancellation, and the payments made to third party funeral directors when the
funeral is ultimately performed. All such payments are reimbursed in full by the Trusts on demand, in accordance with
the terms of the relevant Trust’s deed.
Neither the sales value of plans nor the costs of providing funerals are recognised in the financial statements of the
Group when a pre–arranged funeral plan is sold.
Each Dignity marketing company contractually guarantees with the customer of a pre–arranged funeral plan that (i) if
the customer chooses to cancel their selected funeral plan, a full refund will be made to the customer of all monies
paid in respect thereof (less in certain cases an administration fee payable to the relevant Dignity marketing company);
(ii) the funeral director’s services (as selected by the customer) will be provided regardless of price rises in the future;
and (iii) for certain plans sold, specific disbursements will be provided regardless of price rises in the future.
Insurance plans
The Group is the named beneficiary on a number of life assurance products sold by third party insurance companies,
in consideration for which the Group has committed to performing the funeral (including some disbursements) of the
plan holder at no further charge.
A commission is paid when the policy is charged to the Group. As this commission is fully refundable if the Group does
not perform the funeral for any reason, it is carried as a debtor and expensed when the funeral is performed. 
In the event of death of the policyholder, the Group makes an agreed payment to the nominated funeral director and a
debtor is recognised. At this time a commission fee is recognised as turnover. All monies are reclaimed in full from the
life insurance company.
Share–based payments
The Group issues equity settled share–based payments to certain employees. A fair value for the equity settled share
awards is measured at the date of grant. Management measures the fair value using the valuation technique that they
consider to be the most appropriate to value each class of award, which include Black–Scholes calculations and Monte
Carlo simulations. The valuations take into account factors such as non–transferability, exercise restrictions and
behavioural considerations.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight–line basis, after
allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest. The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at
least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
48 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts Earnings per Ordinary Share
Basic Earnings per Ordinary Share (‘EPS’) is calculated by dividing the profit on ordinary activities after taxation by the
weighted average number of shares in issue during the period. Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing profit on ordinary
activities after taxation by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period increased by the effects of
all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares (primarily share options). Underlying Earnings per Ordinary Share is calculated by
dividing the underlying profit after tax by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Intangible assets – goodwill
Goodwill, which represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration for subsidiaries and other businesses over
the fair values of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed, is capitalised and stated at historical cost less
provisions for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to cash–generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. The business and subsidiaries
acquired are generally combined with existing operations in the year of acquisition, or the year thereafter and are
therefore only considered to be separate cash–generating units during this time.
Intangible assets – trade names 
Intangible trade names are recognised as assets at the fair value of the consideration paid to acquire them and are
carried at historical cost less provisions for amortisation and impairment. When acquired as part of a business
combination the fair value is calculated by reference to the estimated incremental cash flows expected to arise by
virtue of the trade name being well–established.
Amortisation is provided from the date of acquisition so as to write–off the asset on a straight–line basis over the term
of its useful life. Where there are indicators that a trade name has an indefinite life then these assets are not amortised
but are subject to annual impairment reviews. The factors that indicate an indefinite life of trade names acquired
include the fact that the Group is a significant operator in a well–established market with inelastic demand, the
conservative nature of the UK funeral industry that acts as a barrier to entry for new trade names, and the Group’s
track record for actively monitoring and relocating trade names to combat shifting demographics. In addition, when
allocating a useful life to acquired trade names, the following matters are considered:
• The strength of the trade name in its local environment which is assessed by reference to relative market share and
anticipated profitability;
• The likelihood that market based factors could truncate a trade name’s life such as competition and shifting
demographics and the Group’s ability to combat these;
• The length of time, prior to acquisition, for which trade has been conducted under the name acquired; and
• The likely support the Group will give to the name in its local environment through marketing and promotion,
maintaining community awareness etc.
The useful lives of all capitalised trade names are considered to be indefinite and are reviewed on an annual basis.
Intangible assets – non–compete contracts
Non–compete contracts arising from business combinations are capitalised at the fair value, which is calculated as the
present value of any consideration paid discounted at the Group’s cost of capital.
All costs are amortised over the term of the relevant agreement on a straight–line basis.
Intangible assets – software
Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an
intangible asset. Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of costs incurred to acquire and
bring into use the specific software.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Group’s development of computer systems (including
web–sites) is recognised if and only if the costs are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique
software products, controlled by the Group and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
All other costs incurred in research or development are expensed as incurred. Capitalised costs will include, where
appropriate, directly attributable payroll costs and a portion of direct overheads. Costs recognised as assets are
amortised over their estimated useful lives (three to eight years) using the straight–line method.
Intangible assets – use of third party brand
The Group has a marketing agreement with Age UK Enterprises Limited, giving rights to market pre–arranged funeral
plans under the Age UK brand. The value of this right has been recognised as a separate intangible asset.
This asset is being amortised over twenty years on a straight–line basis, recognising that each year’s additional
marketing activity generates incremental revenues and profits to the Group for at least the following twenty years.
49 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 1 Accounting policies (continued)
Property, plant and equipment 
Assets are recorded in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes, where appropriate, directly attributable costs incurred in bringing each asset to its present location
and condition.
Depreciation is charged (excluding freehold land and assets in the course of construction) so as to write off the cost of
assets to their residual value, over their expected useful lives using the straight–line method. The bases and annual
depreciation rates in use for the various classes of assets are as follows:
Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2% – 10% 
Short leasehold buildings Over term of lease
Motor vehicles 11% – 20%
Computers 20% 
Other plant and equipment 5% – 33% 
Fixtures and fittings 15%
Freehold land is not depreciated on the basis that land has an unlimited life. Where the historical cost of land and
buildings cannot be split, the Directors have estimated that the historical cost attributable to land is one third of the
original cost of acquiring the land and buildings. This estimate is regularly reviewed.
Major renovations of the Group’s trading premises and crematory re–linings are depreciated over the remaining life of
the related asset or to the estimated date of the next major renovation or cremator re–lining, whichever is sooner. Asset
lives and residual values for each class of asset are reviewed annually.
Repairs and renewals
All repairs and renewals are charged to the income statement unless they represent an enhancement to the original
asset.
Property, plant and equipment held under leases
When assets are financed by leasing agreements, where the risks and rewards are substantially transferred to the
Group, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the lessor is
included as an obligation under finance leases. Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the income statement on
the same basis as owned assets. Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the
interest is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate on the outstanding lease obligation.
All other leases are ‘operating leases’ and the relevant annual rentals are charged to the income statement.
Profit on sale of fixed assets
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised
within profit on sale of fixed assets in the statement of comprehensive income.
Borrowing costs
If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment extends over a long period, the interest incurred on borrowed
capital up to the date of completion is capitalised as part of cost of construction in accordance with IAS 23
(Borrowing Costs).
Impairment of assets
The carrying values of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in periods
where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Assets that have an
indefinite useful life (e.g. goodwill) are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment. 
Where an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the
recoverable amount of the cash–generating unit to which the asset belongs. For goodwill this is considered at a
business segment level as that is the level at which the return on assets acquired is monitored. For other intangibles
(principally trade names) this is considered at a regional level for each business segment as this is the level where cash
inflows are largely independent. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In
assessing value in use, the estimated future discounted cash flows of the cash–generating unit are estimated, based on
latest management expectations for the following year and an annual growth rate in subsequent years. These cash
flows are discounted at rates that management estimate to be the risk affected average cost of capital for the
particular segment and compared to the carrying value of the relevant asset. Any impairment in the value of an asset
below its carrying value is charged to the income statement within operating profit. A reversal of an impairment loss is
recognised in the income statement to the extent that the original loss was recognised.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
50 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts Inventories
Inventories, which comprise funeral supplies and monumental masonry, are stated at the lower of cost and fair value
less costs to sell. Cost includes all directly attributable costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location
and condition. Fair value less costs to sell is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be
incurred in completion and sale.
Taxation
The tax charge for the period includes the charge for tax currently payable and deferred tax. The current tax charge
represents the estimated amount due that arises from the operations of the Group in the period and after making
adjustments to estimates in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, except where the
temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of
other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of an asset is greater than its associated tax basis or
where the carrying value of a liability is less than its associated tax basis. Deferred tax is provided for any differences
that exist between the tax base and accounting base of intangibles arising from a business combination that does not
involve the acquisition of a subsidiary.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available
evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future
reversal of the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are
expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet
date. Deferred tax is measured on a non–discounted basis.
Pensions
The cost of defined contribution retirement schemes is charged as an expense as the costs become payable. Any
difference between the payments and the charge is recognised as a short term asset or liability.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing the benefits is determined using the projected unit credit
method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are vested, and otherwise are amortised on
a straight–line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. The current service cost and the
recognised element of any past service cost are presented within operating profit. The expected return on plan assets
less the interest arising on the pension liabilities is presented within net finance costs. Actuarial gains and losses are
recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the consolidated income statement and presented in the
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The expected return on plan assets reflects the estimate made by management of the long term yields that will arise
from the specific assets held within the pension plan. The rate of return is determined by identifying an appropriate
rate of return for each class of asset held in conjunction with the Group’s professional adviser. The retirement benefit
net asset recognised in the balance sheet represents the fair value of any relevant scheme assets net of the present
value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost. The discount rate applied in
arriving at the present value represents yields on high quality corporate bonds in a similar economic environment with
lives similar to the maturity of the pension liabilities.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company or the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result
of a past event, where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and
where a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions (other than deferred tax) are discounted where the present value of the provision is materially different to
the undiscounted value. The unwinding of discounts is included within finance costs.
Employee share trust 
The assets of the employee share trust are held by a separate limited company, of which the Directors consider that
Dignity plc has de facto control. In accordance with IFRS 2, share–based payment, the trust’s assets and liabilities are
recognised in the Group’s balance sheet within share capital and reserves.
Dividends
Dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the
period in which they are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recorded in the financial
statements when paid.
51 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 1 Accounting policies (continued)
Foreign currency 
Foreign currency transactions recognised in the income statement are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate on
the date the transaction took place.
Financial instruments 
Borrowings
All borrowings are stated at the fair value of consideration received after deduction of transaction costs. The
transaction costs, interest payable and premium on debt finance are charged/credited to the income statement, as
finance costs/income, on a constant–yield basis over the term of the borrowings, or over a shorter period where it is
more likely than not that the lender will require earlier repayment using the effective interest method.
Early termination costs on borrowings
Premiums and discounts arising on the early repayment of borrowings are written–off to the income statement as
incurred.
Interest rate swaps
The Group currently uses several types of financial instruments as part of an overall interest rate risk management
strategy. It does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest rate risk associated with net debt is
managed by using a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings and financial liabilities. The cash flows from,
and losses arising on terminations of, these contracts are recognised as cash flows from operating activities. See note
16(e) for further information.
Trade receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. A
provision for impairment is established based on historical experience. When a trade receivable is not collectable it is
written–off against the allowance account. Subsequent recovery of amounts previously written–off are credited against
administration expenses in the income statement.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all
of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct
transaction costs. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits.
Critical accounting estimates
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make estimates and
assumptions in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts. The most sensitive estimates affecting the
financial statements are in the areas of assessing the recoverability of receivables, post–retirement benefits, the
recognition and measurement of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Provision for doubtful trade receivables
Provision is made against accounts that in the estimation of management may be impaired. Within each division,
assessment is made of the recoverability of trade receivables based on a range of factors including the age of the
receivable and the type of services provided. The provision is assessed monthly against actual experience of
irrecoverable accounts and adjusted if appropriate.
Pensions
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme that is accounted for using methods that rely on actuarial
assumptions to estimate costs and liabilities for inclusion in the financial statements. These actuarial assumptions
include discount rates, assumed rates of return, salary increases and mortality rates.
While management believes that the actuarial assumptions are appropriate, any significant changes to those used
would affect the balance sheet and income statement. The Group considers that the most significant assumptions are
the discount rate and the inflation rate. See note 28 for further details.
Goodwill
The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy
stated in note 1 "Impairment of assets". The recoverable amounts of cash–generating units have been determined
based on value–in–use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice
of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows. Actual outcomes could vary from
those calculated. See note 9 for further details.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
52 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts Other intangible assets
The decision process to ascertain whether trade names will have an indefinite life are detailed in note 1 "Intangible
assets – trade names". These assets with an indefinite life are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. When a
review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is determined based on value–in–use calculations prepared
on the basis of management’s assumptions and estimates. See note 9 for further details.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2010
IFRS 2 (amendment), Group cash–settled share–based payment transaction, effective 1 January 2010. In addition
to incorporating IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 – Group and treasury share transactions, the
amendments expand on the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the classification of group arrangements that were not
covered by that interpretation. The new guidance has not had a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
IFRS 3 (revised), Business combinations, effective 1 January 2010. The revised standard continues to apply the
acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes. For example, all payments to purchase
a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, any subsequent fair value adjustments are to be
recorded in the period of acquisition, with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently re–measured through
the income statement. There is a choice on an acquisition–by–acquisition basis to measure the non–controlling interest
in the acquiree either at fair value which the Group has adopted, or at the non–controlling interest’s proportionate share
of the acquiree’s net assets. The Group has expensed all acquisition–related costs. 
IFRS 5 (amendment), Non–current assets held–for–sale and discontinued operations, effective 1 January 2010. The
amendment clarifies that all of a subsidiary's assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale if a partial disposal
results in loss of control. This standard has no impact on the Group’s financial statements.
IAS 1 (amendment), Presentation of financial statements, effective 1 January 2010. The amendment provides clarification
that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as current or
non–current. By amending the definition of current liability, the amendment permits a liability to be classified as
non–current (provided that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash or other assets
for at least 12 months after the accounting period) notwithstanding the fact that the entity could be required by the
counterparty to settle in shares at any time. This standard has no impact the Group’s financial statements.
IAS 27 (revised), Consolidated and separate financial statements’, effective 1 July 2010. The revised standard requires
the effects of all transactions with non–controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and
these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses. The standard also specifies the accounting
when control is lost. Any remaining interest in the entity is re–measured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in
profit or loss. This standard has no impact on the Group’s financial statements.
IAS 36 (amendment), Impairment of assets, effective 1 January 2010. The amendment clarifies that the largest
cash–generating unit (or group of units) to which goodwill should be allocated for the purposes of impairment testing
is an operating segment, as defined by paragraph 5 of IFRS 8, ‘ Operating segments’ (that is, before the aggregation
of segments with similar economic characteristics). This has no impact on the Group’s financial statements.
IAS 38 (amendment), Intangible assets, effective 1 July 2009. The amendment clarifies guidance in measuring the fair
value of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination and it permits the grouping of intangible assets as a
single asset if each asset has similar useful economic lives. This has not had a material impact on the Group’s
financial statements.
IAS 39 (amendment), Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement on eligible hedged items, effective 1 July
2009. This amendment makes two significant changes. It prohibits designating inflation as a hedgeable component of
a fixed rate debt. It also prohibits including time value in the one–sided hedged risk when designating options as
hedges. This has no impact on the Group’s financial statements.
IFRIC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives and IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement,
effective 1 July 2009. This amendment to IFRIC 9 requires an entity to assess whether an embedded derivative should
be separated from a host contract when the entity reclassifies a hybrid financial asset out of the ‘fair value through
profit or loss’ category. This has no impact on the Group’s financial statements.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of real estates, effective 1 January 2010. This interpretation clarifies which
standard (IAS 18, Revenue, or IAS 11, ‘Construction contracts’) should be applied to particular transactions and is
likely to mean that IAS 18 will be applied to a wider range of transactions. Entities that have previously recognised
revenue from residential real estate sales under IAS 11 will be the most significantly affected and will probably be
required to apply IAS 18. This has no impact on the Group. 
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation effective 1 July 2009. This amendment states that, in a
hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, qualifying hedging instruments may be held by any entity or entities
within the group, including the foreign operation itself, as long as the designation, documentation and effectiveness
requirements of IAS 39 that relate to a net investment hedge are satisfied. This has no impact on the Group. 
53 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 1 Accounting policies (continued)
IFRIC 17, Distribution of non–cash assets to owners, effective 1 July 2010. This interpretation provides guidance on
accounting for arrangements whereby an entity distributes non–cash assets to shareholders either as a distribution of
reserves or as dividends. 
IFRS 5 has also been amended to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are available
for distribution in their present condition and the distribution is highly probable. This standard has no impact on the
Group’s financial statements.
IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers, effective for transfer of assets received on or after 1 July 2009. This
interpretation clarifies the requirements of IFRSs for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item
of property, plant and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to
provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services (such as a supply of electricity, gas or
water). This has no impact on the Group’s financial statements.
Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2009 were issued in April 2009. The effective dates vary
standard by standard but most are effective 1 January 2010. The only improvement applicable to the Group in 2010 is
IAS 17, Leases. This improvement has no impact on the Group’s financial statements.
Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been
early adopted
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for accounting periods
beginning on or after 31 December 2010 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted:
IFRS 9 Financial instruments (to replace) IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement. This standard
introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is likely to affect the Group’s
accounting for financial assets. The standard is not applicable until 1 January 2013 subject to endorsement by the EU.
The impact of this standard is currently being assessed.
IAS 24 (revised), Related party disclosures effective 1 January 2011, subject to endorsement by the EU. The revised
standard clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party. When the revised standard is applied the Group and
the parent will need to disclose any transactions between its subsidiaries and its associates. This is not expected to
have a material impact on the Group. 
IAS 32 (amendment), Financial instruments: Presentation on classification or rights issues, effective 1 February 2010.
The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues (rights, options or warrants) that are denominated in a
currency other than the functional currency of the issuer. This amendment has no impact on the Group’s financial
statements.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments, effective 1 July 2010. The interpretation clarifies
the accounting by an entity when the term of a financial liability are renegotiated and result in the entity issuing equity
instruments to a creditor of the entity to extinguish all or part of the financial liability. This is not expected to have any
impact on the Group.
Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement, (amendments to IFRIC 14). The amendments correct an unintended
consequence of IFRIC 14, IAS 19, the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their
interaction. Without the amendments, entities are not permitted to recognise as an asset some voluntary prepayments
for minimum funding contributions. The amendments are effective for periods beginning 1 January 2011. This is not
expected to have an impact on the Group.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
54 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 2 Financial risk management 
The Group finances its operations by a mixture of shareholders’ funds, Secured Notes and bank borrowings. This
approach seeks to minimise financing costs and generate optimum shareholder value through efficient leveraging of the
Group’s balance sheet, which is made possible by the stable and predictable cash generative nature of the business.
It is not the Group’s policy to actively trade in derivatives.
Market risk
Currency risk
All the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are denominated in Sterling. The Group purchases minimal amounts from
overseas. Accordingly, exposure to currency fluctuations are not significant and therefore not actively managed. 
Interest rate risk and other price risk
The Group’s main borrowings consist of Class A and B Secured Notes, which are at fixed interest rates, resulting in a
predetermined repayment profile. The fair value of these financial instruments is based on underlying gilt prices and
yield spreads based on the market’s current view of the risk profile of the Secured Notes. Consequently, the fair value
of these instruments will fluctuate. Fair values are not relevant to the Group unless it was to change its funding
strategy and repay the Secured Notes early. 
The Group also has a £10 million Crematoria Acquisition Facility (‘the Crematoria Acquisition Facility’). £7.4 million
carries interest at 5.59 per cent per annum. The remaining £2.6 million carries interest at a rate relative to three
month LIBOR, with such rate being capped at 5.59 per cent. Consequently, the Group carries limited risk to increases
in LIBOR on this facility. The Crematoria Acquisition Facility is fully drawn and will be repayable in one payment in
November 2013.
The Group has significant cash balances that are held by institutions rated at least A–1 by Standard and Poors. These
balances earn interest by reference to the Bank of England base rate. If base rates reduced by one per cent at the
beginning of 2010 then the Group would receive £0.1 million less interest income on an annualised basis for each
£10 million held.
None of the Group’s other financial liabilities or financial assets carry any significant interest rate risk.
Credit risk
Trade receivables are the main source of credit risk to the Group. However, this risk is minimised as much as possible
through well–established credit control procedures. Quantitative disclosures regarding the aging of these receivables
are included in note 21(c).
Liquidity risk
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient cash reserves, committed undrawn borrowing facilities
and regular monitoring and forecasting of cash balances. In addition, the Group is required under the terms of its
secured borrowings to maintain a precisely defined EBITDA to total debt service ratio of at least 1.5 times. This ratio
was determined when raising the debt as being sufficient to ensure all borrowings could be repaid. This covenant test
has been satisfied on each quarterly testing date in the period. At 31 December 2010 the actual ratio was 2.56 times
(2009: 2.60 times).
Capital risk management
The Group’s objective under managing capital is to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in
order to provide returns for shareholders, repay holders of Class A and B Secured Notes and benefit other
shareholders. It also aims to reduce its cost of capital by maintaining an optimal capital structure. The Group’s
principal source of long term debt financing is the Class A and B Secured Notes, rated A and BBB respectively.
The Group monitors its capital structure based on gross debt to EBITDA. 
In order to achieve these objectives, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital
to shareholders, issue new shares or issue further Class A and B Secured Notes. During the period, the Group issued
further Secured Notes, undertook a Return of Value and consolidated its shares. This is discussed further in notes 21
and 22.
During the period, the Group achieved its covenants under the terms of the Group’s secured borrowings (see ‘Liquidity
risk’ above).
55 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 3 Revenue and segmental analysis
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating
decision maker who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments.
The chief operating decision maker of the Group has been identified as the four Executive Directors. The Group has
three reporting segments, funeral services, crematoria and pre–arranged funeral plans. The Group also reports central
overheads, which comprise unallocated central expenses.
Funeral services represent the sale of funerals and memorials at the time of need.
Crematoria represent the performance of cremations at the time of need, together with the sale of memorials.
Pre–arranged funeral plans represent the sale of funerals in advance to customers wishing to make their own funeral
arrangements, and the marketing and administration costs associated with making such sales.
Substantially all Group revenue is derived from, and substantially all of the Group’s net assets are located in, the
United Kingdom and Channel Islands. Overseas transactions are not material.
Underlying profit comprises profit before profit on sale of fixed assets, transaction costs and exceptional items.
Underlying operating profit is included as it is felt that adjusting operating profit for profit on sale of fixed assets,
transaction costs and exceptional items provides a useful indication of the Group’s performance. 
The revenue and operating profit (which includes Recoveries within pre–arranged funeral plans of £1.5 million in both
periods and £0.3 million dividend from a fixed asset investment received (2009: £nil)), by segment, was as follows:
Profit on sale of
Underlying fixed assets,
operating profit transaction
before Depreciation Underlying costs and 
depreciation and and operating exceptional Operating
Revenue amortisation amortisation profit/(loss) items profit/(loss)
53 week period ended 31 December 2010 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Funeral services 143.3 56.0 (6.7) 49.3 0.2 49.5
Crematoria 37.5 22.0 (2.1) 19.9 – 19.9
Pre–arranged funeral plans 18.3 4.4 (0.1) 4.3 – 4.3
Central overheads – (12.2) (0.3) (12.5) (0.8) (13.3)
Group 199.1 70.2 (9.2) 61.0 (0.6) 60.4
Finance costs (22.5) – (22.5)
Finance income 1.9 – 1.9
Profit before tax 40.4 (0.6) 39.8
Taxation – continuing activities (11.7) 0.2 (11.5)
Taxation – exceptional – 0.7 0.7
Taxation (11.7) 0.9 (10.8)
Underlying earnings for the period 28.7
Total other items 0.3
Profit after taxation 29.0
Earnings per share for profit attributable to equity shareholders (pence)
– Basic and diluted 46.4p 46.9p
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
56 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 3 Revenue and segmental analysis (continued)
The segment assets and liabilities were as follows:
Funeral Pre–arranged
services Crematoria funeral plans Head office Group
As at 31 December 2010 £m £m £m £m £m
Segment assets 247.1 101.2 14.0 3.4 365.7
Unallocated assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 48.1
Total assets 413.8
Segment liabilities (22.8) (4.7) (5.2) (7.2) (39.9)
Unallocated liabilities:
Borrowings – excluding finance leases (346.5)
Accrued interest (0.1)
Corporation tax (4.8)
Deferred tax (27.3)
Total liabilities (418.6)
Other segment items:
Additions to non–current assets (other than financial
instruments and deferred tax) 14.5 17.8 – 1.3 33.6
Depreciation (note 10) 6.7 2.1 – 0.2 9.0
Amortisation (note 9) –– – 0.2 0.2
Impairment of trade receivables (note 21 (c)) 1.3 –– – 1.3
Other non cash expenses (note 23) –– – 1.0 1.0
Profit on sale of fixed assets 0.5 –– – 0.5
The revenue and operating profit, by segment, was as follows:
Underlying Profit on sale of
operating profit fixed assets
before Depreciation Underlying and 
depreciation and and operating exceptional Operating
Revenue amortisation amortisation profit/(loss) tax credit profit/(loss)
52 week period ended 25 December 2009 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Funeral services 138.5 53.4 (6.1) 47.3 1.1 48.4
Crematoria 34.4 19.4 (1.8) 17.6 – 17.6
Pre–arranged funeral plans 11.8 3.5 – 3.5 – 3.5
Central overheads – (11.4) (0.6) (12.0) – (12.0)
Group 184.7 64.9 (8.5) 56.4 1.1 57.5
Finance costs (21.6) – (21.6)
Finance income 1.6 – 1.6
Profit before tax 36.4 1.1 37.5
Taxation (10.6) (0.3) (10.9)
Underlying earnings for the period 25.8
Total other items 0.8
Profit after taxation 26.6
Earnings per share for profit attributable to equity shareholders (pence)
– Basic and diluted 40.5p 41.8p
57 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 3 Revenue and segmental analysis (continued)
The segment assets and liabilities were as follows:
Funeral Pre–arranged
Services (restated) Crematoria funeral plans Head office Group (restated)
As at 25 December 2009 £m £m £m £m £m
Segment assets 236.4 84.1 13.7 2.2 336.4
Unallocated assets:
Financial assets – loans and receivables 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents 45.8
Total assets 382.3
Segment liabilities (21.8) (3.4) (2.8) (4.5) (32.5)
Unallocated liabilities:
Borrowings – excluding finance leases (274.3)
Accrued interest (9.7)
Corporation tax (4.3)
Deferred tax (26.0)
Total liabilities (346.8)
Other segment items:
Additions to non–current assets (other than financial
instruments and deferred tax) 12.7 18.0 – 0.5 31.2
Depreciation (note 10) 6.1 1.8 – 0.4 8.3
Amortisation (note 9) –– – 0.2 0.2
Impairment of trade receivables (note 21(c)) 1.1 –– – 1.1
Other non cash expenses (note 23) –– – 1.0 1.0
Profit on sale of fixed assets 1.1 –– – 1.1
4 Net finance costs
53 week period 52 week period
ended ended 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Finance costs
Class A and B Secured Notes – issued April 2003 13.8 14.0
Class A and B Secured Notes – issued February 2006 5.0 5.1
Class A and B Secured Notes – issued September 2010 1.3 –
Amortisation of issue costs – issued April 2003 1.0 1.0
Amortisation of issue costs – issued February 2006 0.2 0.3
Amortisation of issue costs – issued September 2010 0.1 –
Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.5 0.4
Other loans 0.2 0.1
Interest payable on finance leases 0.1 0.1
Unwinding of discounts 0.5 0.6
Finance costs 22.7 21.6
Less: interest capitalised (0.2) –
Net finance costs 22.5 21.6
Finance income
Bank deposits (0.4) (0.5)
Release of premium on Secured Notes – issued February 2006 (0.8) (0.8)
Release of premium on Secured Notes – issued September 2010 (0.3) –
Net finance income on retirement benefit obligations (note 28) (0.4) (0.3)
Finance income (1.9) (1.6)
Net finance costs 20.6 20.0
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
58 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 5 Profit before tax
53 week period 52 week period
ended ended
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Analysis by nature £m £m
The following items have been included in arriving at profit before tax:
Staff costs (note 27) 64.7 62.9
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (included in cost of sales) (note 13) 12.7 12.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – owned assets (note 10) 9.0 8.3
Amortisation of intangible assets (included in administrative expenses) (note 9) 0.2 0.2
Operating lease rentals – property 6.4 5.8
Transaction costs 1.1 –
Recoveries (included within other operating income) (1.5) (1.5)
Trade receivables impairment (included in administrative expenses) (note 21(c)) 1.3 1.1
Services provided by the Group’s auditor and its associates:
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of parent company and consolidated
financial statements 0.1 0.2
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– The audit of Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 –
– Other services pursuant to legislation – –
– Tax services 0.1 0.1
– Fees in relation to issue of Secured Notes 1.4 –
1.7 0.3
The transaction costs comprise £0.8 million in respect of the Return of Value and £0.3 million of acquisition expenses.
The impact on taxation of these is a credit of £0.3 million (2009: £nil).
During 2010, the Group paid fees of £1.4 million to the Group’s auditor in connection with the issue of Secured Notes
and redemption of B and C Shares. Costs of £0.2 million have been expensed and £1.2 million has been deferred in
accordance with IAS 39.
6 Taxation 
53 week period 52 week period
ended ended 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Analysis of charge in the period £m £m
Current tax – current period 11.2 10.3
Adjustments for prior period (0.3) (0.3)
10.9 10.0
Deferred tax – current period 0.4 0.7
Adjustments for prior period (note 20) 0.2 0.2
Exceptional adjustment for rate change – 28% to 27% (0.7) –
(0.1) 0.9
Taxation 10.8 10.9
All tax relates to continuing operations.
53 week period 52 week period
ended ended 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Tax on items charged to equity £m £m
Deferred tax credit on actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations (0.2) (0.5)
Corporation tax credit on actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations (0.4) (0.8)
Corporation tax relief relating to maturity of option schemes (0.1) (0.2)
Adjustment for rate change – 28% to 27% (0.1) –
(0.8) (1.5)
59 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 6 Taxation (continued)
53 week period 52 week period
ended ended 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Total tax charge £m £m
Total current tax charge 10.4 9.0
Total deferred tax (credit)/charge (0.4) 0.4
The taxation charge in the period is lower (2009: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK
(28 per cent). The differences are explained below:
53 week period 52 week period
ended ended 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Profit before taxation 39.8 37.5
Profit before taxation multiplied by the standard rate of corporation
tax in the UK of 28% (2009: 28%) 11.1 10.5
Effects of:
Adjustments in respect of prior period (0.1) (0.1)
Exceptional adjustment in respect of closing deferred tax rate change – 28% to 27% (0.7) –
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.5 0.5
Total taxation 10.8 10.9
Under IFRS the tax rate is lower (2009: higher) than the standard UK tax rate of 28 per cent due to combination of
the impact of disallowable trading expenses and expenditure on the Group’s premises that does not attract any
deductions for tax purposes. On 20 July 2010, legislation was passed confirming that the rate of Corporation Tax
would reduce from 28 per cent to 27 per cent from 1 April 2011. As a result, the Group recognised exceptional tax
income of £0.7 million through its income statement to reflect the one off reduction in the period of the Group’s
deferred tax position.
The Group anticipates its effective tax rate will transition to 28.5 per cent in the 2011 financial period.
Further rate changes are anticipated, if these are subsequently enacted in the form expected then the corporation tax
rate will reduce by a further 1 per cent per annum until 2014 when it will be 24 per cent. The changes had not been
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and therefore are not recognised in these financial statements.
Each percentage point reduction in corporation tax rate is expected to reduce the deferred tax liability by
approximately £1 million. These impacts will be recognised in the period in which substantive enactment occurs.
7 Dividends 
53 week period 52 week period
ended ended 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Final dividend paid: 8.07p per Ordinary Share (2009: 7.34p) 5.1 4.7
Interim dividend paid: nil p per Ordinary Share (2009: 4.03p) – 2.5
Dividend on Ordinary Shares (excluding special dividend) 5.1 7.2
Special dividend relating to Return of Value: £1 per C Share (2009: n/a) 44.6 –
On 15 October 2010, the Group returned a total of £63.9 million to Ordinary Shareholders equating to £1 for each
Ordinary Share held following the issue of further Secured Notes. Ordinary Shareholders were able to elect to receive
this Return of Value as either:
(a) A return of capital (the ‘Capital Option’);
(b) A special dividend (the ‘Special Dividend Option’); or
(c) A deferred income option (the ‘Deferred Dividend Option’).
Ordinary Shareholders elected to receive £19.3 million as a return of capital, £44.6 million as a special dividend
including £0.1 million as deferred income.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
60 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 7 Dividends (continued) 
The interim dividend represents the interim dividend that was approved and paid in the period out of earnings
generated in the same period. No interim dividend was paid in the year as it was included within the Return of Value.
The planned interim dividend of 4.43 pence per share which was due to be paid on 29 October 2010 was declared but
cancelled following the decision to return capital to shareholders.
The final dividend represents the final dividend that was approved and paid in the period relating to the earnings
generated in the previous period.
Consequently, total dividends recognised in the period were £49.7 million, 108.07 pence per share (2009: £7.2 million,
11.37 pence per share).
A final dividend of 8.88 pence per share, in respect of 2010, has been proposed by the Board. This will be paid on
24 June 2011 provided that approval is gained from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 9 June 2011 and
will be paid to shareholders on the register at close of business on 27 May 2011.
8 Earnings per share 
The calculation of basic earnings per Ordinary Share has been based on the profit for the relevant period. 
For diluted earnings per Ordinary Share, the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue is adjusted to
assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Group has two classes of potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares being those share options granted to employees
under the Group’s SAYE Scheme and the contingently issuable shares under the Group’s LTIP Schemes. At the balance
sheet date, the performance criteria for the vesting of the awards under the LTIP Schemes had not been met and these
contingently issuable shares have been excluded from the diluted EPS calculations. 
The Board believes that profit on ordinary activities before profit on sale of fixed assets, transaction costs, exceptional
items and after taxation is a useful indication of the Group’s performance, as it excludes significant non–recurring
items. This reporting measure is defined as ‘Underlying profit after taxation’. 
Accordingly, the Board believes that earnings per share calculated by reference to this underlying profit after taxation is
also a useful indicator of financial performance.
On 8 October, shareholders approved a share capital consolidation together with a Special Dividend of £1 per Ordinary
Share. The overall effect of the transaction was that of a share repurchase at fair value. The reduction in the number of
Ordinary Shares is the result of a corresponding reduction in resources.
Reconciliations of the earnings and the weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below:
Weighted
average
number of Per share
Earnings shares amount
£m millions pence
53 week period ended 31 December 2010
Profit attributable to shareholders – Basic and diluted EPS 29.0 61.8 46.9
Deduct: Exceptional items, profit on sale of fixed assets and transaction costs
(net of taxation) (0.3)
Underlying profit after taxation – Basic EPS 28.7 61.8 46.4
52 week period ended 25 December 2009
Profit attributable to shareholders – Basic and diluted EPS 26.6 63.7 41.8
Deduct: Profit on sale of fixed assets (net of taxation) (0.8)
Underlying profit after taxation – Basic EPS 25.8 63.7 40.5
In 2010 and 2009, the potential issue of new shares pursuant to the Group’s share option plans would have no impact
on the earnings per share.
61 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Use of third Non–
Trade party brand compete
names name Software agreements Sub–total Goodwill Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 26 December 2008 30.3 3.2 3.9 0.2 37.6 129.8 167.4
Acquisition of subsidiaries and 
other businesses 2.8 ––– 2.8 9.6 12.4
Restatement under IFRS 3 ––– – – 0.3 0.3
At 25 December 2009 (restated) 33.1 3.2 3.9 0.2 40.4 139.7 180.1
Additions –– 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Acquisition of subsidiaries and 
other businesses (note 26(a)) 3.7 ––– 3.7 3.2 6.9
At 31 December 2010 36.8 3.2 4.0 0.2 44.2 142.9 187.1
Accumulated amortisation 
At 26 December 2008 – (0.4) (3.8) (0.1) (4.3) – (4.3)
Amortisation charge – (0.1) – (0.1) (0.2) – (0.2)
At 25 December 2009 – (0.5) (3.8) (0.2) (4.5) – (4.5)
Amortisation charge – (0.1) (0.1) – (0.2) – (0.2)
At 31 December 2010 – (0.6) (3.9) (0.2) (4.7) – (4.7)
Net book amount at 
31 December 2010 36.8 2.6 0.1 – 39.5 142.9 182.4
Net book amount at 
25 December 2009 (restated) 33.1 2.7 0.1 – 35.9 139.7 175.6
Impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets
As described in note 1, goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life are subject to annual impairment
tests in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets.
For the purpose of impairment testing:
(i) Goodwill is tested at a business segment level.
(ii) Other intangible assets are allocated to the Group’s cash–generating units (‘CGUs’) on a regional basis.
The segmental allocation is shown below:
Amortisation of £0.2 million (2009: £0.2 million) is included within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Intangible
assets Goodwill Total
At 31 December 2010 £m £m £m
Funeral services 36.8 97.9 134.7
Crematoria – 40.3 40.3
Pre–arranged funeral plans 2.6 4.7 7.3
Head office 0.1 – 0.1
39.5 142.9 182.4
At 25 December 2009 (restated)
Funeral services 33.1 94.7 127.8
Crematoria – 40.3 40.3
Pre–arranged funeral plans 2.7 4.7 7.4
Head office 0.1 – 0.1
35.9 139.7 175.6
The recoverable amount of a CGU is based on a value–in–use calculation. However, the assets allocated to head office
are tested for impairment by reference to the Group as a whole.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
62 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
The value–in–use calculations use cash flow projections based on the latest management expectations. Key assumptions
used to produce the annual budget are the estimated UK death rates (based on historical death rates supplied by
ONS), anticipated market share (based on actual experience) and anticipated price increases. Cash flows beyond the
initial 12 month period are extrapolated using a growth rate of 2.25 per cent (2009: 2.25 per cent). The cash flows 
are discounted at a pre–tax rate of 9.2 per cent (2009: 9.2 per cent). This rate is used to analyse each CGU because
they all have similar risk profiles. Based on these calculations, the discount rate would have to increase to at least
19 per cent (2009: 22 per cent), or the growth rate would have to reduce to at least minus 9 per cent
(2009: minus 11 per cent) to result in any impairment of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant and equipment
and working capital.
On the basis of the above, the review indicated that no impairment arose in any segment (2009: £nil). 
10 Property, plant and equipment
Plant, Property,
Freehold machinery, plant and
land and Leasehold fixtures and Motor equipment Investment 
buildings buildings fittings vehicles Total properties Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 26 December 2008 64.9 17.7 19.5 38.3 140.4 9.6 150.0
Additions 2.2 – 8.6 3.6 14.4 3.1 17.5
Acquisition of subsidiaries and
other businesses 0.2 – 1.8 0.1 2.1 – 2.1
Disposals (0.6) – (0.8) (2.0) (3.4) – (3.4)
Reclassification 7.1 5.7 (4.5) – 8.3 (12.7) (4.4)
At 25 December 2009 73.8 23.4 24.6 40.0 161.8 – 161.8
Additions 0.6 2.7 18.5 4.0 25.8 – 25.8
Acquisition of subsidiaries and
other businesses (note 26(a)) 0.2 –– 0.4 0.6 – 0.6
Disposals (0.2) (0.1) (1.1) (1.8) (3.2) – (3.2)
Reclassification 4.6 2.7 (7.3) –– – –
At 31 December 2010 79.0 28.7 34.7 42.6 185.0 – 185.0
Accumulated depreciation 
At 26 December 2008 (7.4) (6.5) (9.2) (16.0) (39.1) – (39.1)
Depreciation charge (1.7) (1.0) (2.3) (3.3) (8.3) – (8.3)
Disposals 0.1 – 0.8 1.5 2.4 – 2.4
At 25 December 2009 (9.0) (7.5) (10.7) (17.8) (45.0) – (45.0)
Depreciation charge (1.9) (1.0) (2.6) (3.5) (9.0) – (9.0)
Disposals – 0.1 1.1 1.4 2.6 – 2.6
At 31 December 2010 (10.9) (8.4) (12.2) (19.9) (51.4) – (51.4)
Net book amount at 
31 December 2010 68.1 20.3 22.5 22.7 133.6 – 133.6
Net book amount at 
25 December 2009 64.8 15.9 13.9 22.2 116.8 – 116.8
Depreciation expense of £3.5 million (2009: £3.3 million) is included within cost of sales and £5.5 million
(2009: £5.0 million) is included within administrative expenses.
Included within plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings net book value is £8.9 million (2009: £4.1 million) relating to
assets held in the course of construction.
In 2010, borrowing costs of £0.2 million (2009: n/a) were capitalised as components of the cost of construction of
qualifying assets, applying an annualised average capitalisation rate of 6.7 per cent (2009: n/a).
Details of any securities over assets are disclosed in note 30.
63 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 10 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Additional headings have been included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for property, plant and
equipment in order to provide additional information on the different types of expenditure that the Group has spent
during the year.
Assets held under finance leases, which relate solely to leasehold land and buildings, have the following net book
amount:
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Cost 1.0 1.0
Accumulated depreciation (0.3) (0.3)
Net book amount 0.7 0.7
The Group had capital expenditure authorised by the Board and contracted for at the balance sheet date of
£9.3 million (2009: £2.8 million). This includes amounts in respect of the crematoria being developed at Somerset,
Worcestershire and Weston–super–Mare.
11 Non–current financial and other assets
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Prepayments (a) 10.2 8.2
Deferred commissions (b) 1.8 1.1
Other receivables – 0.1
12.0 9.4
(a) Prepayments
This balance represents the amounts paid to acquire the long leasehold interest in land at certain of the Group’s
properties. Management consider that leases greater than fifty years at inception are long leases. The balance is
expensed on a straight–line basis over the term of the relevant lease. The leases expire at various times over the next
thirty to nine hundred years.
(b) Deferred commissions
The Group is the named beneficiary on a number of life assurance products sold by third party insurance companies.
A commission is paid when the policy is charged to the Group. As this commission is fully refundable if the Group does
not perform the funeral for any reason, it is carried as a debtor and expensed when the funeral is performed.
12 Investments 
A list of the trading entities included within the financial information are included in note C2 to the Company’s
financial statements.
13 Inventories 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Materials 0.9 0.9
Finished goods 4.3 3.2
5.2 4.1
The cost of inventories recognised within cost of sales amounted to £12.7 million (2009: £12.6 million). 
There were no inventory write–downs in either period. 
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
64 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 14 Trade and other receivables 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Trade receivables 19.6 17.1
Less: provision for impairment (note 21(c)) (3.7) (3.6)
Net trade receivables 15.9 13.5
Receivables due from related parties (note 31) 2.4 3.6
Prepayments and accrued income 3.7 2.5
Other receivables 2.0 1.9
24.0 21.5
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s customer base being large
and unrelated. Due to this, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of normal
provision for doubtful recoverables. For further details of the trade receivables past due and impaired refer to note
21(c).
Due to the short term nature of these balances, the carrying value is considered to be their fair value.
15 Cash and cash equivalents 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Operating cash as reported in the consolidated statement of cash flows as cash
and cash equivalents 46.6 31.8
Recoveries: pre–arranged funeral plans (a) 1.5 1.5
Amounts set aside for debt service payments (b) – 12.5
Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the balance sheet 48.1 45.8
(a) Recoveries may not be used for one year following receipt and therefore do not meet the definition of cash and
cash equivalents in IAS 7, Cash Flow Statements. 
(b) This amount was transferred to restricted bank accounts which could only be used for the payment of the
interest and principal on the Secured Notes, the repayment of liabilities due on the Group’s interest rate swaps
(see note 16(e)) and commitment fees due on its undrawn borrowing facilities (see note 21(d)) and for no
other purpose. 
This amount does not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents in IAS 7, Cash Flow Statements. Whilst not
applicable in 2010, in 2009, this amount was used to pay these respective parties on 31 December 2009. Of this
amount £9.9 million is shown within the cash flow statement as ‘Payments to restricted bank accounts for finance
costs’ and £2.6 million is shown within ‘Financing activities’ as ‘Payments to restricted bank accounts for
repayment of borrowings’.
65 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 16 Financial liabilities 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Current Note £m £m
Class A Secured Notes – issued April 2003 (a) 3.2 4.6
Class A Secured Notes – issued February 2006 (b) 1.5 2.1
Class A Secured Notes – issued September 2010 (c) 1.4 –
Premium on Secured Notes – issued February 2006 (b) 0.7 0.8
Premium on Secured Notes – issued September 2010 (c) 1.2 –
Other current financial liabilities (e) 0.7 1.0
(g) 8.7 8.5
Non–current
Class A and B Secured Notes – issued April 2003 (a) 171.9 175.1
Class A and B Secured Notes – issued February 2006 (b) 64.1 65.7
Class A and B Secured Notes – issued September 2010 (c) 65.3 –
Premium on Secured Notes – issued February 2006 (b) 9.5 10.3
Premium on Secured Notes – issued September 2010 (c) 12.4 –
Finance lease obligations (d) 0.7 0.8
Other non–current financial liabilities (e) 4.7 4.9
Crematoria Acquisition Facility (f) 9.9 9.8
338.5 266.6
(a) Class A and B Secured Notes – issued April 2003 
On 11 April 2003, Dignity Finance PLC issued £110,000,000 Class A Secured Notes (the ‘A notes’) and £100,000,000
Class B Secured Notes (the ‘B notes’).
The A notes carry interest at 6.31 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears. The A notes are repayable in instalments
ending in December 2023. The transaction costs incurred on issue of the A notes totalled £9.8 million. The B notes
carry interest at 8.151 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears. The B notes are repayable in instalments ending in
December 2030. The transaction costs incurred on issue of the B notes totalled £8.9 million.
The principal outstanding on the Secured Notes and related issue costs have been presented on a net basis in the table
above. Both the A notes and the B notes are secured by first ranking security in respect of the undertakings and assets
of Dignity (2002) Limited and its subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2010, £86.0 million (2009: £91.6 million) of the principal of the A notes and £100.0 million
(2009: £100.0 million) of the principal of the B notes was outstanding.
At 31 December 2010, £4.9 million (2009: £5.6 million) and £6.0 million (2009: £6.3 million) of the transaction costs
in respect of the A notes and the B notes respectively remain unamortised.
(b) Class A and B Secured Notes – issued February 2006 
On 21 February 2006, Dignity Finance PLC issued £45,550,000 Class A Secured Notes (the ‘Further A notes’) and
£32,500,000 Class B Secured Notes (the ‘Further B notes’).
The Further A notes carry interest at 6.31 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears. The Further A notes are repayable
in instalments ending in December 2023. The transaction costs incurred on issue of the Further A notes totalled
£1.9 million. The Further B notes carry interest at 8.151 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears. The Further B notes
are repayable in instalments ending in December 2030. The transaction costs incurred on issue of the Further B notes
totalled £1.8 million. The principal outstanding on the Secured Notes and related issue costs have been presented on a
net basis in the table above. Both the Further A notes and the Further B notes are secured by first ranking security in
respect of the undertakings and assets of Dignity (2002) Limited and its subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2010, £35.6 million (2009: £38.0 million) of the principal of the Further A notes and £32.5 million
(2009: £32.5 million) of the principal of the Further B notes was outstanding.
At 31 December 2010, £1.1 million (2009: £1.2 million) and £1.4 million (2009: £1.5 million) of the transaction costs
in respect of the Further A notes and the Further B notes respectively remain unamortised.
The Further A notes and Further B notes were issued at a premium of £3.6 million and £10.8 million respectively,
which is being released in proportion to the interest cost in the notes. At the balance sheet date £2.1 million
(2009: £2.4 million) and £8.2 million (2009: £8.7 million) respectively remained unamortised.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
66 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 16 Financial liabilities (continued)
(c) Class A and B Secured Notes – issued September 2010 
On 27 September 2010, Dignity Finance PLC issued £48,650,000 Class A Secured Notes (the ‘Second Further
A notes’) and £33,100,000 Class B Secured Notes (the ‘Second Further B notes’).
The Second Further A notes carry interest at 6.31 per cent, payable half yearly in arrears. The Second Further A notes
are repayable in instalments ending in December 2023. The transaction costs incurred on issue of the Second Further
A notes totalled £2.4 million. The Second Further B notes carry interest at 8.151 per cent, payable half yearly in
arrears. The Second Further B notes are repayable in instalments ending in December 2030. The transaction costs
incurred on issue of the Second Further B notes totalled £2.1 million. The principal outstanding on the Secured Notes
and related issue costs have been presented on a net basis in the table on page 66. Both the Second Further A notes
and the Second Further B notes are secured by first ranking security in respect of the undertakings and assets of
Dignity (2002) Limited and its subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2010, £38.0 million of the principal of the Second Further A notes and £33.1 million of the principal
of the Second Further B notes was outstanding.
At 31 December 2010, £2.4 million and £2.0 million of the transaction costs in respect of the Second Further A notes
and the Second Further B notes respectively remain unamortised.
The Second Further A notes and Second Further B notes were issued at a premium of £5.7 million and £8.2 million
respectively, which is being released in proportion to the interest cost in the notes. At the balance sheet date
£5.5 million and £8.1 million respectively remained unamortised.
For further details of security over the class A and B Secured Notes see note 30(a).
(d) Obligations under finance leases
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase payable:
Within one year – –
Between one and two years – –
Between two and five years 0.2 0.2
After five years 0.5 0.6
0.7 0.8
The finance leases and hire purchase liabilities are secured on the related assets.
(e) Other financial liabilities
On 20 December 2002, Dignity (2002) Limited entered into contracts to swap the floating rate interest on a bank loan
into fixed rate. Contractually, these swaps were not effective until 30 April 2003.
On 11 April 2003, as described in note 16(a), the Group issued Secured Notes at a fixed rate of interest. These notes
replaced the bank loan. Consequently, the swaps were no longer required as the Group had no interest rate risk on the
Secured Notes. As a result, the Group entered into further contracts on 11 April 2003 to swap fixed rate interest into
floating in order to offset the original swaps and eliminate any interest rate risk in this regard.
As a result of interest rate movements between these two dates, the combined effect of all the contracts was that the
Group makes fixed and determinable bi–annual payments on a notional principal amount.
These swap agreements were entered into under one ISDA master agreement. This master agreement forces the 
swaps to be viewed and settled on a net basis only; a position that cannot be altered without the written consent of
both parties.
Accordingly, the overall transaction represents a financial liability. The fair value represents the discounted net present
value of future cash flows. Further, as these contracts related to the raising of the Secured Notes, the liability has 
been accounted for as a transaction cost of the Class A and B Secured Notes and is being amortised in accordance
with IAS 39.
67 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 16 Financial liabilities (continued)
(f) Crematoria Acquisition Facility
The Group also has a £10 million Crematoria Acquisition Facility (‘the Crematoria Acquisition Facility’). £7.4 million
carries interest at 5.59 per cent per annum. The remaining £2.6 million carries interest at a rate relative to three
month LIBOR, with such rate being capped at 5.59 per cent. Consequently, the Group carries limited risk to increases
in LIBOR on this facility. The Crematoria Acquisition Facility is fully drawn and will be repayable in one payment in
November 2013.
The transaction costs incurred on the Crematoria Acquisition Facility were £0.2 million. The principal outstanding on
the Crematoria Acquisition Facility and related issue costs have been presented on a net basis in the table above. 
At 31 December 2010, £10.0 million (2009: £10.0 million) of the principal was outstanding. At 31 December 2010,
£0.1 million (2009: £0.2 million) of the transaction costs remained unamortised. 
For further details of security over the Crematoria Acquisition Facility see note 30(b).
(g) Current financial liabilities
The current financial liabilities represent the amounts falling due within one year of the Group’s accounting reference
date, 31 December.
17 Trade and other payables 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009  (restated)
Current £m £m
Trade payables 10.2 5.0
Tax and social security 1.3 1.3
Other current liabilities 1.4 1.3
Other current liabilities – Deferred Dividend Option 0.1 –
Accruals and deferred income 19.0 26.9
32.0 34.5
Non–current
Deferred income 1.1 1.2
Deferred consideration for acquisitions (note 26(a)) 0.3 0.3
Long service awards 1.1 1.1
Other non–current liabilities 0.4 0.5
2.9 3.1
18 Obligations under finance leases and operating leases 
For minimum lease payments obligations under finance leases refer to note 21(d)(ii).
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
The minimum lease payments under non–cancellable operating leases fall due as follows:
Not later than one year 7.0 5.7
Later than one year but not more than five years 20.3 16.5
More than five years 89.3 29.8
116.6 52.0
The non–cancellable operating leases principally relate to leasehold land and buildings.
Of the total operating lease payments charged to trading expenses, £0.1 million (2009: £0.1 million) are in respect of
contingent rentals. The contingent rentals are based on the revenues generated at the specific locations.
Sublease payments received in the year amount to £0.4 million (2009: £0.4 million). Total future sublease payments
receivable relating to operating leases amount to £0.5 million (2009: £0.5 million).
In addition, the Group has operating lease commitments with rentals determined in relation to sales. It is not possible
to quantify future rentals payable under such leases.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
68 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 19 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Asbestos Onerous Cancellation
Dilapidations rectification contracts provision Total
£m £m £m £m £m
(a) (b) (c) (d)
At beginning of period 2.4 0.1 0.6 0.7 3.8
Charged/(released) to income statement 0.5 (0.1) – 1.0 1.4
Utilised in period (0.3) – (0.1) (0.5) (0.9)
Amortisation of discount 0.1 –– – 0.1
At end of period 2.7 – 0.5 1.2 4.4
Provisions have been analysed between current and non–current as follows:
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Current 1.5 1.3
Non–current 2.9 2.5
4.4 3.8
(a) Dilapidations
The provision for dilapidations covers the costs of repair to leased premises occupied by the Group in respect of which
a dilapidations notification has been received, and properties where a dilapidation obligation exists but for which no
notification has been received. 
It is anticipated that the element of provision relating to dilapidation notices served, £0.8 million (2009: £0.7 million),
will be incurred in the following financial year, and the element relating to dilapidation obligations where no notice has
been served will be utilised over the terms of the relevant property leases, the majority of which is expected to be by
31 December 2019.
(b) Asbestos rectification
In May 2004, the Control of Asbestos at Work regulations came into effect. This introduces an explicit duty to manage
asbestos in all non–domestic properties. Those who have responsibility for the maintenance and/or repair of the
premises are similarly responsible for the control of asbestos. Therefore, where the Group has entered into leases with
a ‘tenant–repairing’ clause, it is also responsible for the control of asbestos.
The provision included the expected rectification costs of properties plus the estimated costs of surveying these
properties. This provision has been fully released during the year.
(c) Onerous contracts
The Group has provided for the discounted future costs of certain contracts to which the Group is legally bound.
These contracts relate to vacant leasehold properties and other contracts from which no economic benefit is derived.
The provision will be utilised over the term of the contracts and it is anticipated that it will be fully utilised after
seven years.
Included within the provision is an amount of £0.1 million (2009: £0.1 million) relating to the expected costs of
ongoing rent reviews, the outcomes of which have been based on recent experience of similar reviews on other
properties.
(d) Cancellation provision
As described in note 1, the Group receives monies from certain pre–arranged funeral plan Trusts in respect of the
marketing of pre–arranged funeral plans, which are refundable to the Trust in the event of cancellation.
The provision covers the expected cost of such cancellations anticipated to occur in future years relating to plans sold
before the balance sheet date and is anticipated to be utilised over the next three years.
69 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 20 Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 27 per cent
(2009: 28 per cent).
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below:
31 December 25 December 
2010 2009
£m £m
At beginning of period 26.0 24.4
Charged to income statement (note 6) 0.6 0.9
Adjustment for rate change – 28% to 27% (0.8) –
Taken to equity (note 6) (0.2) (0.5)
Arising on acquisitions 1.7 1.2
At end of period 27.3 26.0
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as
permitted by IAS 12) during the period are shown below:
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated tax
Pensions depreciation Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At beginning of period 2.5 17.8 7.1 27.4
Charged to income statement (note 6) – (1.5) 2.0 0.5
Adjustment for rate change – 28% to 27% (0.1) (0.6) (0.1) (0.8)
Taken to equity (note 6) (0.1) –– (0.1)
Arising on acquisitions (note 26(a)) – 1.2 0.5 1.7
At end of period 2.3 16.9 9.5 28.7
Deferred tax assets
Other Total
£m £m
At beginning of period (1.4) (1.4)
Charged to income statement (note 6) 0.1 0.1
Taken to equity (note 6) (0.1) (0.1)
At end of period (1.4) (1.4)
All of the deferred tax assets were available for offset against deferred tax liabilities and hence the net deferred tax
provision at 31 December 2010 was £27.3 million (2009: £26.0 million). 
Other deferred tax liabilities includes goodwill on trade names and capital gains rolled forward, other tax assets
includes options schemes and long service awards. 
No deferred tax asset is recognised in respect of losses within the Group amounting to £4.1 million net at 27 per cent
(2009: £4.3 million net at 28 per cent). Based on the current debt structure of the Group and the nature of these
losses, the Directors do not consider that taxable profits will arise in the relevant company from which the future
reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Elements of these deferred tax balances may be payable/recoverable within one year. However, the Directors consider
that it is not possible to quantify the amount because the level of uncertainty in the timing of events and have
therefore classified the whole balance as due after more than one year.
The deferred income tax charged to equity during the period was as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Deferred tax credit on actuarial losses on retirement benefit obligations (0.2) (0.5)
Adjustment for rate change – 28% to 27% (0.1) –
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
70 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 21 Financial instruments 
Fair values of non–derivative financial assets and financial liabilities
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by
discounting expected future cash flows at relevant interest rates. The carrying values of short term borrowings
approximate to book value.
Trade receivables are held net of impairment. 
Fair value estimation 
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy:
• Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
• Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).
• Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).
All assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost other than interest rate swaps which are held at fair value. These
swaps are level 2.
(a) Fair value of current and non–current financial assets and liabilities
31 December 2010 25 December 2009
(restated)
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Long term borrowings (excluding finance lease obligations) (note 16) (337.8) (398.9) (265.8) (289.2)
Finance lease obligations (note 16) (0.7) (0.7) (0.8) (0.8)
(338.5) (399.6) (266.6) (290.0)
Fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance
the Group’s operations:
Short term borrowings (excluding finance lease obligations) (note 16) (8.7) (9.7) (8.5) (9.0)
Trade and other payables (excluding statutory liabilities) (note 17) (30.7) (30.7) (33.2) (33.2)
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) (note 14) 20.3 20.3 19.0 19.0
Cash and cash equivalents (note 15) 48.1 48.1 45.8 45.8
Other non–current financial liabilities (note 17) (2.9) (2.9) (3.1) (3.1)
71 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 21 Financial instruments (continued)
(b) Maturity of financial liabilities 
The tables below analyse the Group’s financial liabilities, which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity
groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts
disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest costs yet to be incurred.
31 December 2010
In more than In more than In more than 
one year but two years but three years but
In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than
one year two years three years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash liabilities
Class A and B Secured Notes
(gross) 7.7 8.3 8.9 20.0 280.3 325.2
Interest payable on Notes 23.5 23.0 22.4 43.0 193.7 305.6
Swaps 0.7 0.7 0.7 1.4 4.6 8.1
Crematoria Acquisition Facility –– 10.0 –– 10.0
Interest payable on Crematoria
Acquisition Facility 0.5 0.5 0.5 –– 1.5
Finance leases – 0.1 0.1 0.2 2.7 3.1
Debt repayments 32.4 32.6 42.6 64.6 481.3 653.5
Other financial liabilities 31.6 0.3 0.3 0.5 1.3 34.0
64.0 32.9 42.9 65.1 482.6 687.5
25 December 2009
In more than In more than In more than 
one year but two years but three years but
In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than
one year two years three years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash liabilities
Class A and B Secured Notes (gross) 8.0* 5.9 6.3 14.2 227.7 262.1
Interest payable on Notes 28.2** 18.4 18.0 34.8 170.4 269.8
Swaps 1.0*** 0.7 0.7 1.4 5.3 9.1
Crematoria Acquisition Facility ––– 10.0 – 10.0
Interest payable on Crematoria
Acquisition Facility 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 – 1.9
Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.8
Debt repayments 37.8 25.6 25.6 60.9 403.8 553.7
Other financial liabilities 33.9**** 0.4 0.4 0.5 1.2 36.4
71.7 26.0 26.0 61.4 405.0 590.1
* This amount includes £2.6 million that was paid on 31 December 2009. See note 15(b).
** This amount includes £9.5 million that was paid on 31 December 2009. See note 15(b).
*** This amount includes £0.3 million that was paid on 31 December 2009. See note 15(b).
**** This amount includes £0.1 million that was paid on 31 December 2009. See note 15(b).
The amounts disclosed in the tables below represent the anticipated amortisation profile for the issue costs and
premium relating to the issue of the A and B Secured Notes.
31 December 2010
In more than In more than In more than 
one year but two years but three years but
In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than
one year two years three years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Non–cash liabilities
Issue costs on Secured Notes 1.6 1.6 1.5 2.8 10.3 17.8
Premium on Secured Notes (1.9) (1.9) (1.8) (3.5) (14.8) (23.9)
Issue costs on Crematoria
Acquisition Facility –– 0.1 –– 0.1
(0.3) (0.3) (0.2) (0.7) (4.5) (6.0)
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
72 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 21 Financial instruments (continued)
25 December 2009
In more than In more than In more than 
one year but two years but three years but
In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than
one year two years three years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Non–cash liabilities
Issue costs 1.2 1.2 1.2 2.2 8.8 14.6
Premium on Secured Notes (0.8) (0.8) (0.7) (1.4) (7.4) (11.1)
Crematoria Acquisition Facility –– 0.1 0.1 – 0.2
0.4 0.4 0.6 0.9 1.4 3.7
(c) Trade receivables 
As at 31 December 2010, £8.4 million of the gross trade receivables (2009: £7.2 million) were past due and partially
impaired. A provision for impairment is established based on historical experience. The amount of the provision, as at
31 December 2010, was £3.7 million (2009: £3.6 million). The individually impaired receivables principally relate to
monies owing for funerals performed by the funeral services division. The aging of these receivables is as follows:
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
One to six months 5.7 4.5
Over six months 2.7 2.7
8.4 7.2
The amount of gross trade receivables past due that were not impaired was not significant.
Movements on the Group’s provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
At beginning of period (3.6) (3.3)
Charged to income statement (1.3) (1.1)
Utilised in period 1.2 0.8
At end of period (3.7) (3.6)
(d) Borrowing facilities 
(i) The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 December 2010, all of which
were at floating interest rates, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date:
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Expiring within one year 50.0 40.0
Expiring between one and two years – –
Expiring in more than two years 5.0 5.0
55.0 45.0
£50.0 million (2009: £40.0 million) of the amount above is a liquidity facility relating to the Class A and B Secured
Notes. This facility may only be used to repay interest and principal on the Secured Notes in the event of insufficient
cash to service these instruments. The facility is subject to annual renewal. However, if the bank providing the facility
does not renew it, then the provider is required to place £50.0 million (2009: £40.0 million) in a bank account, which
the Group may access as if it represented a borrowing facility on the same terms. The facility is available on these
terms until the Secured Notes have been repaid in full.
73 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 21 Financial instruments (continued)
The remaining £5.0 million facility expires in April 2013. Both these facilities incur commitment fees at market rates. 
(ii) The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Not later than one year – 0.1
Later than one year but not more than five years 0.2 0.2
More than five years 2.9 2.9
3.1 3.2
Future finance costs on finance leases (2.4) (2.4)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 0.7 0.8
22 Called up share capital
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid Equity shares
54,757,002 (2009: 63,737,653) Ordinary Shares of £0.105 (2009: £0.09) each 5.7 5.7
From 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006 abolished the requirement for a company to have an authorised
share capital. The Company’s articles have been updated to show there are no restrictions to the Company’s ability to
issue shares.
Each Ordinary Share carries equal voting rights and there are no restrictions on any share.
During the period, the Group received £nil consideration in relation to the 143,713 shares issued under the 2007
LTIP scheme.
Changes in issued share capital
On 10 October 2010, the Ordinary Share capital of the Company was consolidated such that shareholders received six
Ordinary Shares of £0.105 each in exchange for every seven Ordinary Shares of £0.09 each held at close of business
on 8 October 2010.
As a result of the Return of Value undertaken in the year bonus shares of 19,274,610 B Shares with a nominal value
of £1 per share and 44,607,017 C Shares were issued. The B Shares were issued on 8 October 2010 and redeemed for
cash on 11 October 2010. The C Shares were issued on 8 October 2010 and 44,500,715 were converted to Deferred
Shares on the same day.
As a result of the Return of Value undertaken in the year, the Group has 106,302 (2009: nil) C Shares in issue at the
period end. These C Shares have no voting rights and in accordance with the rights attached to the C Shares, the
Company may at any time after 1 May 2011 but before 31 July 2011 purchase the C Shares in issue for £1 per
C Share.
The Group also has 44,500,715 (2009: nil) Deferred Shares in issue at the period end. These Deferred Shares have no
voting rights and have a nominal value of £0.0001 per share, £4,500 in total. The Deferred Shares were purchased by
the Company on 2 February 2011 for £1 in aggregate and subsequently cancelled on the same date.
Potential issues of Ordinary Shares 
Certain employees hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company under an approved Save As You Earn (SAYE)
Scheme started in 2010. In addition, Executive Directors and senior management hold options to subscribe for shares
in the Company under Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs) awarded in 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
74 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 22 Called up share capital (continued)
The total number of outstanding shares subject to options (excluding lapses), the periods in which they were granted
and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below:
Exercise price 2010 2009 2008
Year of grant (pence) Exercise period Number Number Number
1 December 2013
2010 – SAYE 701.00 to 31 May 2014 207,231 n/a n/a
17 March 2011
2008 – LTIP – to 17 March 2012 227,089 227,089 227,963
20 March 2012
2009 – LTIP – to 20 March 2013 267,272 267,272 n/a
19 March 2013
2010 – LTIP – to 19 March 2014 255,844 n/a n/a
23 Share–based payments 
LTIP Schemes
The LTIP Scheme was introduced after the flotation of the Group in 2004. Under the LTIP Scheme, the remuneration
committee can grant options over shares in the Company to employees of the Group. Awards under the LTIP Scheme
are generally reserved for Executive Directors and senior management. The Company has made annual grants since
April 2004. Options granted under the LTIP Scheme will become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of
grant, subject to the conditions described on pages 31 and 32. Exercise of an option is subject to continued
employment unless an individual ceases to be an employee by reason of death, illness, redundancy or other similar
circumstances.
Options were valued using the Monte Carlo option pricing model. Performance conditions were included in the fair
value calculations. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
19 March 20 March 18 March
Grant date 2010 2009 2008
Share price at grant date £6.55 £5.66 £7.62
Exercise price – ––
Number of employees 32 30 31
Shares under option 255,844 268,799 229,733
Vesting period (years) 3 33
Expected volatility 26.4% 23.1% 18.1%
Option life (years) 10 10 10
Expected life (years) 3 33
Risk free rate 1.92% 1.89% 3.74%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 2.2% 2.1% 1.6%
Possibility of ceasing employment before vesting 0% 0% 0%
Fair value per option £4.19 £3.11 £4.13
The expected volatility is calculated by reference to historical volatility over the last three years. The expected life is the
average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero–coupon UK government bonds of a
term consistent with the assumed option life.
During the period, nil options (2009: 206) under the 2007 LTIP Scheme, nil options (2009: 874) under the 2008 LTIP
Scheme, nil (2009: 1,527) under the 2009 LTIP scheme and nil under the 2010 LTIP scheme were forfeited. 143,713
options were exercised under the 2007 LTIP Scheme during the period. The weighted average share price of the
options exercised during the period was £6.25. The options under the 2008, 2009 and 2010 LTIP Schemes have not
yet vested.
The charge to the income statement in the period in respect of the LTIP Schemes was £0.9 million (2009: £0.8
million). All of which are equity based settled.
75 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 23 Share–based payments (continued)
SAYE Scheme
Two Inland Revenue approved SAYE Schemes were in place during the period with both carrying the same terms and
conditions. Options were valued using the Black–Scholes option pricing model. No performance conditions were
included in the fair value calculations. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation
are as follows:
2010 Scheme 2007 Scheme
Grant date 22 October 2010 21 May 2007
Share price at grant date £6.46 £7.26
Exercise price £7.01 £7.15
Number of employees 489 680
Shares under option 207,231 292,377
Vesting period (years) 3 3
Expected volatility 26.6% 16.8%
Option life (years) 3.5 3.5
Expected life (years) 3.25 3.25
Risk free rate 1.02% 5.48%
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 2.2% 1.4%
Possibility of failing to save 0% 0%
Fair value per option £0.86 £1.34
During the period nil (2009: 38,922) under the 2007 SAYE Scheme and nil under the 2010 SAYE Scheme (2009: nil)
were forfeited and 1,583 options (2009: 36) were exercised under the 2007 SAYE Scheme. The weighted average share
price of the options exercised during the period was £6.53. 
The expected volatility is calculated by reference to historical volatility over the last three years. The expected life is the
average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero–coupon UK government bonds of a
term consistent with the assumed option life. The options under the 2010 SAYE Scheme have not yet vested.
The charge to the income statement in the period in respect of the SAYE Schemes was £0.1 million (2009: £0.2
million). All of which are equity based settled.
24 Net debt
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Net amounts owing on 2003 and 2006 Class A and B Secured Notes per financial statements (251.0) (258.6)
Add: unamortised issue costs (notes 16(a) and 16(b)) (13.4) (14.6)
Gross amounts owing on 2003 and 2006 Class A and B Secured Notes per financial statements (264.4) (273.2)
Net amounts owing on 2010 Class A and B Secured Notes per financial statements (80.3) –
Add: unamortised issue costs (note 16(c)) (4.4) –
Gross amounts owing on all Class A and B Secured Notes per financial statements (349.1) (273.2)
Net amounts owing on Crematoria Acquisition Facility per financial statements (9.9) (9.8)
Add: unamortised issue costs on Crematoria Acquisition Facility (note 16(f)) (0.1) (0.2)
Gross amounts owing (359.1) (283.2)
Accrued interest on Class A and B Secured Notes (paid 31 December) – (9.6)
Accrued interest on Crematoria Acquisition Facility (0.1) (0.1)
Cash and cash equivalents (note 15) 48.1 45.8
Net debt (311.1) (247.1)
In addition to the above, the consolidated balance sheet also includes finance lease obligations and other financial
liabilities which totalled £5.9 million (2009: £6.7 million). These amounts do not represent sources of funding for the
Group and are therefore excluded from the calculation of net debt. 
The Group’s primary financial covenant in respect of the Secured Notes requires EBITDA to total debt service to be at
least 1.5 times. At 31 December 2010, the actual ratio was 2.56 times (2009: 2.60 times).
These ratios are calculated for EBITDA and total debt service on a 12 month rolling basis and reported quarterly. In
addition, both terms are specifically defined in the legal agreement relating to the Secured Notes. As such, they cannot
be accurately calculated from the contents of this report.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
76 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 25 Reconciliation of cash generated from operations 
2010 2009
£m £m
Net profit for the period 29.0 26.6
Adjustments for:
Taxation 10.8 10.9
Net finance costs 20.6 20.0
Profit on disposal of fixed assets (0.5) (1.1)
Depreciation charges 9.0 8.3
Amortisation of intangibles 0.2 0.2
Inventories (1.0) (0.2)
Trade receivables (2.4) 1.4
Trade payables 5.0 (1.8)
Transaction costs 1.1 –
Changes in other working capital (excluding acquisitions) 1.7 –
Employee share option charges (note 23) 1.0 1.0
Cash generated from operations before transaction costs and exceptional pension contributions 74.5 65.3
Other non–cash transactions
Non–cash charges comprise amortisation of deferred debt issue costs, as discussed in note 16(a), (b) and (c).
26 Acquisitions 
(a) Acquisition of subsidiary and other businesses 
Provisional
fair value
£m
Tangible fixed assets 0.6
Intangible assets:
Trade names 3.7
Other working capital 1.3
Deferred taxation (1.7)
Net assets acquired 3.9
Goodwill arising 3.2
7.1
Satisfied by:
Cash paid on completion funded from internally generated cash flows 7.0
Deferred consideration 0.1
Total consideration 7.1
During 2010, the Group acquired the operational interest of six funeral locations. These transactions were either
acquisitions of trade and assets or acquisitions of the entire issued share capital of a limited company.
All these acquisitions have been accounted for under the acquisition method. None were individually material and
consequently have been aggregated.
All intangible assets were recognised at their respective fair values. The residual excess over the net assets acquired is
recognised as goodwill. This represents the value to the Group of the funeral locations.
The fair value adjustments contain some provisional amounts, which will be finalised in 2011. These adjustments
reflect the recognition of trade names and associated deferred taxation and adjustments to reflect the fair value of
other working capital movements such as debtors, inventories and accruals.
The businesses acquired have their assets and liabilities amalgamated within the existing business structure and as
such, it is impractical to determine, without undue expense and delay due to the immaterial size of each, the post
acquisition results.
It is also not possible to quantify the results of these businesses prior to acquisition as it represents confidential
information relating to the vendors, which the Directors do not have authority to disclose.
77 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 26 Acquisitions (continued)
(b) Reconciliation to cash flow statement
2010 2009
£m £m
Cash paid on completion 7.0 13.3
Cash paid in respect of deferred consideration obligations 0.1 0.1
Cash acquired on acquisition (1.3) (0.1)
Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses as reported in the cash flow statement 5.8 13.3
27 Employees and Directors
2010 2009
£m £m
Wages and salaries 57.7 56.4
Social security costs 4.6 4.5
Other pension costs 1.4 1.0
Employee share option charges (note 23) 0.1 0.2
Key management share option charges (note 23) 0.9 0.8
64.7 62.9
Key management are considered to be the Board of Directors only and thus no additional disclosures are presented
than that included in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration. The monthly average number of people, including
Directors, employed by the Group during the period was as follows:
2010 2009
Number Number
Management and administration 117 115
Funeral services staff 2,031 2,035
Crematoria staff 263 256
Pre–arranged funeral plan staff 56 49
2,467 2,455
Directors’ emoluments
Details of Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in the Report on Directors’ Remuneration on pages 34 to 36 which
form part of these consolidated financial statements.
28 Pension commitments 
Defined contribution plans
The Group contributes to certain individuals’ personal pension schemes. These contributions are accounted for as
defined contribution schemes.
The pension costs for defined contribution schemes are as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Defined contribution schemes 0.1 0.1
Defined benefit plans
In 2005, the Group operated two defined benefit plans in the UK. On 6 April 2006 the Dignity 1972 Pension Scheme
was merged into the Dignity Pension and Assurance Scheme. A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 6 April
2008. The valuation results of the merged scheme were updated to 31 December 2010 by a qualified independent
Actuary. 
For 2010, the employer’s contribution rate payable was 9.2 per cent of Pensionable Salaries (2009: 9.2 per cent
of Pensionable Salaries). The total monetary contribution paid by the employer for 2010 was £1.3 million
(2009: £1.3 million). In addition special contributions of £1.0 million have been paid to make the total contribution 
for the year £2.3 million.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
78 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 28 Pension commitments (continued) 
The principal assumptions used by the actuary were:
Assumptions 2010 2009
Discount rate 5.4% 5.7%
Expected long–term rate of return on assets 5.7% 5.5%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.75% 3.75%
Rate of increase in payment of post April 1997 pensionable service 3.4% 3.4%
Rate of increase in payment of post April 2005 pensionable service 2.5% 2.5%
RPI price inflation assumption 3.5% 3.5%
CPI price inflation assumption 3.0% n/a
Due to the Government announcement for future statutory rates of revaluation to be based on increases in CPI instead
of RPI and inline with pension scheme rules, an amount of £0.8 million has been credited to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income relating to this change. 
The underlying mortality assumption is PCA00 on a year of birth usage, with medium cohort future improvement
factors subject to a minimum annual rate of future improvement equal to one per cent and rated up by the addition of
four years to age for males and by the addition of one year to age for females (2009: same).
Pensions and other post–retirement obligations
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows:
2010 2009
£m £m
Fair value of plan assets 84.6 77.1
Present value of funded obligations (76.1) (68.0)
Net asset recognised in the balance sheet 8.5 9.1
Analysis of amount charged to income statement in respect of defined benefit schemes 
2010 2009
£m £m
Current service cost 1.1 0.8
Past service cost 0.2 0.1
Total included within cost of sales (staff costs) 1.3 0.9
Interest cost 3.9 3.5
Expected return on plan assets (4.3) (3.8)
Total included within finance income (0.4) (0.3)
Expected contributions to the Group’s pension scheme for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011 are
£1.3 million.
Analysis of fair value of plan assets
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m % £m % £m % £m % £m %
Equity and property 49.1 58.0 48.0 62.2 31.1 45.0 37.7 55.5 30.9 51.6
Debt 27.2 32.2 14.3 18.6 14.8 21.4 –– 5.7 9.5
Cash 8.3 9.8 14.8 19.2 23.2 33.6 30.2 44.5 23.3 38.9
Fair value of plan assets 84.6 100.0 77.1 100.0 69.1 100.0 67.9 100.0 59.9 100.0
At 31 December 2010 and 25 December 2009 the Pension Trustees did not hold, on behalf of the scheme, any direct
investments in the Group.
79 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 28 Pension commitments (continued)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Present value of obligation at beginning of period (68.0) (55.9) (61.1) (59.3) (57.8)
Current service cost (1.1) (0.8) (0.9) (1.0) (1.0)
Past service cost (0.2) (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) –
Interest cost (3.9) (3.5) (3.6) (3.0) (2.8)
Benefits paid 3.1 2.9 2.8 2.6 2.3
Contributions by participants (1.4) (1.3) (1.3) (1.3) (1.4)
Actuarial (losses)/gains (4.6) (9.3) 8.4 1.0 1.4
Present value of obligation at end of period (76.1) (68.0) (55.9) (61.1) (59.3)
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period 77.1 69.1 67.9 59.9 45.8
Expected return on plan assets 4.3 3.8 4.3 3.7 2.8
Contributions by Group 2.3 1.3 1.2 1.2 11.2
Contributions by participants 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.4
Benefits paid (3.1) (2.9) (2.8) (2.6) (2.3)
Actuarial gains/(losses) 2.6 4.5 (2.8) 4.4 1.0
Fair value of plan assets at end of period 84.6 77.1 69.1 67.9 59.9
Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet asset
2010 2009
£m £m
At beginning of period 9.1 13.2
Total expense as above (0.9) (0.6)
Actuarial losses (2.0) (4.8)
Contributions by Group 2.3 1.3
At end of period 8.5 9.1
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity 2010 2009
£m £m
At beginning of period 9.7 14.5
Net actuarial losses recognised in the period (2.0) (4.8)
At end of period 7.7 9.7
The actual return on plan assets was £6.9 million (2009: £8.3 million).
History of experience gains and losses 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets:
Amount (£m) (2.6) (4.5) 2.8 (4.4) (1.0)
Percentage of scheme’s assets 3.0% 5.8% 4.1% 6.5% 1.7%
Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) (1.1) (0.3) (1.0) (0.9) 0.5
Percentage of the present value of the scheme’s liabilities 1.4% 0.4% 1.8% 1.5% 0.8%
Present value of scheme liabilities (£m) (76.1) (68.0) (55.9) (61.1) (59.3)
Fair value of scheme assets (£m) 84.6 77.1 69.1 67.9 59.9
Surplus (£m) 8.5 9.1 13.2 6.8 0.6
Increase/
(decrease) in
Liabilities Assets Surplus surplus
Change in assumptions £m  £m £m £m
No change (76.1) 84.6 8.5 –
0.25% rise in discount rate (73.1) 84.6 11.5 3.0
0.25% fall in discount rate (79.2) 84.6 5.4 (3.1)
0.25% rise in inflation (78.3) 84.6 6.3 (2.2)
0.25% fall in inflation (74.0) 84.6 10.6 2.1
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
80 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 29 Pre–arranged funeral plans
(a) Contingencies and commitments
Dignity Pre–arrangement Limited, Dignity Securities Limited and Advance Planning Limited are fellow members of the
Dignity Group in the United Kingdom. These companies have sold pre–arranged funeral plans to their clients in the
past. All monies from these sales are held and controlled by three independent Trusts, being the National Funeral
Trust, the Dignity Limited Trust Fund and the Trust for Age UK Funeral Plans respectively. Further details of the
transactions can be found in the financial statements of these companies, which are available from 4 King Edwards
Court, King Edwards Square, Sutton Coldfield, B73 6AP .
The Group has given commitments to certain of these clients to perform their funeral. The agreed amounts payable to
either the Group or to third party funeral directors will be paid out of the funds held in the Trusts.
It is the view of the Directors that none of the commitments given to these clients are onerous to the Group.
(b) Pre–arranged funeral plan trust assets
The market value of the assets of the pre–arranged funeral plan trusts was £373.8 million at 31 December 2010
(2009: £318.6 million) in respect of 200,000 (2009: 184,000) unfulfilled pre–arranged funeral plans. The remaining
38,000 unfulfilled pre–arranged funeral plans related to those backed by Insurance Plans, as described in note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements.
The majority of the trustees of the pre–arranged funeral plan trusts are unconnected to the Group, as required by
current UK legislation. The trustees are required to have the Trusts’ liabilities actuarially valued once a year. The latest
valuations were performed as at 24 September 2010 (2009: 25 September 2009) using assumptions determined by
the trustees. These valuations showed the Trusts to have liabilities in respect of the pre–arranged funeral plan trusts of
£305.2 million as at 24 September 2010 (2009: £257.9 million). The corresponding market value of the assets of the
pre–arranged funeral plan trusts was £357.9 million (2009: £305.4 million) as at the same date. Consequently the
actuarial valuation recorded total surpluses of £52.7 million at 24 September 2010 (2009: £47.5 million).
(c) Accounting reporting date
The end of the reporting period of the financial statements of the Trusts is set at 31 December. This may be different
to the reporting period of the financial statements of Dignity plc, but by no more than 7 days.
30 Contingent liabilities 
(a) Securitisation
On 11 April 2003, the Group refinanced its debt by way of a whole business securitisation. On 21 February 2006 and
27 September 2010 further Secured Notes were issued on identical terms. As a result, the following guarantees and
charges were granted to BNY Corporate Trustee Services Limited in its capacity as Security Trustee in the
securitisation: 
• The Dignity (2002) Group have granted the Security Trustee fixed and floating charges over the assets and
undertakings of the Dignity (2002) Group;
• Dignity plc has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares (and any
monies receivable in respect of the shares) which it holds in Dignity (2004) Limited;
• Dignity (2004) Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares
(and any monies receivable in respect of the shares) which it holds in Dignity Holdings No.2 Limited and Dignity
(2002) Limited;
• Dignity Holdings No. 2 Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the
shares (and any monies receivable in respect of the shares) which it holds in Dignity Holdings Limited;
• Dignity Holdings Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares
(and any monies receivable in respect of the shares) which it holds in Dignity Mezzco Limited;
• Dignity Holdings Limited has also assigned to the Security Trustee by way of security with full title guarantee, its right
title and interest in the loans (both interest and non interest bearing) to Dignity (2002) Limited;
• Dignity Mezzco Limited has also assigned to the Security Trustee by way of security with full title guarantee, its right
title and interest in the loan to Dignity (2002) Limited.
At 31 December 2010, the amount outstanding in relation to these borrowings was £349.1 million 
(2009: £273.2 million).
81 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts 30 Contingent liabilities (continued)
(b) Crematoria Acquisition Facility
On 24 November 2008, the Group obtained a £10.0 million loan facility from the National Westminster Bank plc
(‘Nat West’), which is fully drawn. As a consequence of the legal structure of this facility:
• Dignity plc has granted Nat West, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares (and any monies
receivable in respect of the shares) which it holds in Dignity (2008) Limited;
• Dignity (2008) Limited has granted Nat West, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares (and any
monies receivable in respect of the shares) which it holds in Dignity Crematoria Limited;
• Dignity (2008) Limited and Dignity Crematoria Limited have granted Nat West fixed and floating charges over the
assets and undertakings of each of Dignity (2008) Limited and Dignity Crematoria Limited; and
• Dignity plc have acted as guarantor in the event that Dignity (2008) Limited fails to pay interest due on the facility.
In the opinion of the Directors no liability is likely to crystallise in respect of these guarantees.
At 31 December 2010, the amount outstanding in relation to these borrowings was £10.0 million
(2009: £10.0 million).
31 Related party transactions 
The ultimate controlling party of the Group is Dignity plc. 
On 19 May 2010, the Group entered into a contract with Bglobal to have smart meters fitted at some of its locations.
£26,500 has been charged for the period. James Newman is a Non–Executive Director of Bglobal and the transaction
has been formally approved by the Board and is at arm’s length.
Pre–arrangement trusts 
During the period the Group entered into transactions with the Trusts associated with the pre–arranged funeral plan
businesses. The nature of the relationship with the Trusts is set out in the accounting policies. Amounts may only be
paid out of the Trusts in accordance with the relevant Trust Deeds.
Transactions principally comprise:
• The recovery of marketing and administration expenses in relation to plans sold net of cancellations; and
• Receipts from the Trusts in respect of carrying out funerals.
Transactions also include: 
• Receipts from the Trusts in respect of cancellations by existing members;
• Reimbursement by the Trusts of expenses paid by the Group on behalf of the respective Trusts; and
• The payment of realised surpluses generated by the Trust funds as and when the trustees sanction such payments.
Related party transactions are summarised below:
Amounts due to the 
Transactions during the period Group at the period end
2010 2009 2010 2009
£m £m £m £m
Dignity Limited Trust Fund 0.3 0.3 – –
National Funeral Trust 21.2 16.8 1.1 1.5
Trust for Age UK Funeral Plans 25.0 17.9 1.3 2.1
32 Post balance sheet events 
The Group has acquired three funeral locations since the balance sheet date for a total consideration of £6.4 million.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements continued
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
82 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Group Accounts We have audited the parent company financial statements of Dignity plc for the 53 week period ended 31 December
2010 which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been
applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 27, the directors are responsible
for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair
view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2010;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010 for which the parent
company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to
you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not
been received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited are not
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of Dignity plc for the 53 week period ended
31 December 2010. 
Matthew Mullins (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Birmingham
10 March 2011 
Independent Auditors’ report to the members of Dignity plc
for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010
83 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Company Accounts 31 December 25 December
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments C2 135.2 134.2
Current assets
Debtors C3 94.5 72.4
Cash at bank and in hand 33.0 14.5
Total current assets 127.5 86.9
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year C4 (13.8) (14.4)
Net current assets 113.7 72.5
Total assets less current liabilities 248.9 206.7
Net assets 248.9 206.7
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital C5 5.7 5.7
Share premium account C5 17.4 35.8
Capital redemption reserve C5 99.3 80.0
Other reserves C5 1.1 1.1
Profit and loss account C5 125.4 84.1
Total shareholders’ funds C6 248.9 206.7
The financial statements on pages 84 to 88 were approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2011 and were
signed on its behalf by:
M K McCollum S L Whittern
Chief Executive Finance Director
Dignity plc Company balance sheet
as at 31 December 2010
84 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Company Accounts C1 Principal accounting policies 
Basis of preparation
These financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention and in
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). A summary of the principal accounting policies, which have been
consistently applied, is set out below.
In accordance with the concession granted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account
of the Company has not been separately presented in the financial statements. 
In the current period, the Company’s financial statements have been prepared for the 53 week period ended
31 December 2010. For the comparative period, the Company’s financial statements have been prepared for the
52 week period ended 25 December 2009.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided within FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose
transactions with subsidiary undertakings, whose voting rights are controlled within the Group.
Furthermore, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided within FRS 29, Financial Instruments and
Disclosures, not to disclose details of any financial instruments held.
Fixed assets investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at historical cost, less any provision for impairment.
Impairment of fixed assets
The carrying values of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment in periods where events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or at the end of the first full financial year following the
recognition. Any impairment in the value of fixed assets below depreciated historical cost is charged to the profit and
loss account within operating profit. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss account to
the extent that the original loss was recognised.
Employee share schemes
The Company operates two employee share schemes: The Save As You Earn Scheme (‘SAYE’) and Long Term Incentive
Plan Scheme (‘LTIP’). See note 23 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company applies UITF 44 in respect of share option schemes resulting in the charge for such schemes being
recognised in a subsidiary of the Company. The Company’s financial statements reflect the cost of the scheme as an
increase in the cost of investment in the subsidiary.
Employee share trust 
The assets of the employee share trust are held by a separate limited company, of which the directors consider that
Dignity plc has de facto control. In accordance with UITF 38, Accounting for ESOP Trusts and the substance of the
transaction, the trust’s assets and liabilities are recognised in the Company’s balance sheet within share capital
and reserves. 
Notes to the Dignity plc ﬁnancial statements
85 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Company Accounts C2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Cost and net book amount £m
At beginning of the period 134.2
Additions in respect of share–based payments 1.0
End of period 135.2
Number of shares at Percentage
Company name Principal activity 31 December 2010 held
Dignity Services Intermediate holding company 203,746,505 Ordinary at 1p each 100%
Dignity Funerals Limited Funeral services 577,376,905 Ordinary at 0.1p each 100%
Pitcher and Le Quesne Limited Funeral directors 100 Ordinary at £1 each 99%
Dignity Pre–Arrangement Limited Pre–arranged funeral plans 5,001,001 Ordinary at £1 each 100%
Dignity Securities Limited Pre–arranged funeral plans 19,801 Ordinary at £1 each 100%
750,000 Redeemable Preference
Shares at £1 each 100%
Advance Planning Limited Pre–arranged funeral plans 7,500 A Ordinary at £1 each 100%
2,500 B Ordinary at £1 each 100%
3,863,291 0.0000001 pence
Redeemable Preference 
Shares at £1 each 100%
Dignity Finance PLC Finance company 50,000 Ordinary at £1 each 100%
Birkbeck Securities Limited Intermediate holding company 1,102,271 Ordinary at £1 each 100%
Dignity Finance Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company 50,000 Ordinary at £1 each 100%
Dignity Holdings No. 2 Limited Intermediate holding company 2,000,000 Ordinary at £1 each 100%
Dignity Mezzco Limited Intermediate holding company 1,000 Ordinary at £1 each 100%
Dignity Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company 1,500,000 Ordinary at £1 each 100%
Dignity (2002) Limited Intermediate holding company 110,000,002 Ordinary at 0.01p each 100%
Dignity (2004) Limited Intermediate holding company 1,000 Ordinary at £1 each 100%
Dignity (2008) Limited Intermediate holding company 1 Ordinary at £1 each 100%
Dignity Crematoria Limited Construction and leasing of crematoria 10,000 A Ordinary at £1 each 100%
10,000 B Ordinary at £1 each 100%
10,000 C Ordinary at £1 each 100%
10,000 D Ordinary at £1 each 100%
10,000 E Ordinary at £1 each 100%
All of the subsidiaries are incorporated in the United Kingdom except for Pitcher and Le Quesne Limited which is
incorporated in Jersey and is effectively 100 per cent controlled. All of the above shareholdings are held indirectly, with
the exception of Dignity (2004) Limited. 
Additions in the period reflect the effect of capital contributions to subsidiaries as a result of share–based payment
schemes operated in those company’s over the shares of Dignity plc.
C3 Debtors
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Corporation tax – 0.2
Amounts due from group undertakings 94.5 72.2
94.5 72.4
C4 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 13.4 14.2
Accruals and deferred income 0.3 0.2
Deferred Dividend Option 0.1 –
13.8 14.4
Notes to the Dignity plc ﬁnancial statements continued
86 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Company Accounts C5 Share capital and reserves 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid Equity shares
54,757,002 (2009: 63,737,653) Ordinary Shares of £0.105 (2009: £0.09) each 5.7 5.7
From 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006 abolished the requirement for a company to have an authorised 
share capital. The Company’s articles have been updated to show there are no restrictions to the Company’s ability to
issue shares. 
Each Ordinary Share carries equal voting rights and there are no restrictions on any share.
During the period, the Group received £nil in relation to the 143,713 shares issued under the 2007 LTIP scheme.
Changes in issued share capital
On 10 October 2010, the Ordinary Share capital of the Company was consolidated such that shareholders received six
Ordinary Shares of £0.105 each in exchange for every seven Ordinary Shares of £0.09 each held at close of business
on 8 October 2010.
As a result of the Return of Value undertaken in the year bonus shares of 19,274,610 B Shares with a nominal value
of £1 per share and 44,607,017 C Shares were issued. The B Shares were issued on 8 October 2010 and redeemed for
cash on 11 October 2010. The C Shares were issued on 8 October 2010 and 44,500,715 were converted to Deferred
Shares on the same day.
As a result of the Return of Value undertaken in the year, the Group has 106,302 (2009: nil) C Shares in issue at the
period end. These C Shares have no voting rights and in accordance with the rights attached to the C Shares, the
Company may at any time after 1 May 2011 but before 31 July 2011 purchase the C Shares in issue for £1 per
C Share.
The Group also has 44,500,715 (2009: nil) Deferred Shares in issue at the period end. These Deferred Shares have no
voting rights and have a nominal value of £0.0001 per share, £4,500 in total. The Deferred Shares were purchased by
the Company on 2 February 2011 for £1 in aggregate and subsequently cancelled on the same date.
Share Capital
premium redemption Other Profit and
account reserve reserves loss account Total
Reserves and share premium account £m £m £m £m £m
At the beginning of the period 35.8 80.0 1.1 84.1 201.0
Profit for the period –– – 110.3 110.3
Share issue under 2007 LTIP scheme 0.9 –– – 0.9
Dividends paid on Ordinary Shares –– – (5.1) (5.1)
Effects of employee share options –– 0.9 – 0.9
Gift to Employee Benefit Trust –– (0.9) – (0.9)
Issue of B Shares in respect of Capital Option (19.3) –– – (19.3)
Redemption of B Shares in respect of Capital Option – 19.3 – (19.3) –
Dividend in respect of Special Dividend Option
and Deferred Dividend Option –– – (44.6) (44.6)
At end of period 17.4 99.3 1.1 125.4 243.2
The capital redemption reserve represents £80,002,465 B Shares that were issued on 2 August 2006 and redeemed
for cash on the same day and £19,274,610 B Shares that were issued on 8 October 2010 and redeemed for cash on
11 October 2010.
£3.8 million (2009: £2.8 million) in other reserves relates to investments in own shares and therefore reduces profit
available for distribution.
Company Accounts
87 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 C6 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds 
31 December 25 December
2010 2009
£m £m
Profit for the period 110.3 21.8
Dividends (5.1) (7.3)
Effects of employee share options 0.9 1.0
Gift to Employee Benefit Trust (0.9) (1.2)
Shares issued under 2006 LTIP Scheme – 1.2
Shares issued under 2007 LTIP Scheme 0.9 –
Issue of B Shares in respect of Capital Option (19.3) –
Dividend in respect of Special Dividend Option 
and Deferred Dividend Option (44.6) –
Net additions to shareholders’ funds 42.2 15.5
Opening shareholders’ funds 206.7 191.2
Closing shareholders’ funds 248.9 206.7
Amounts payable to the Group’s auditors relating to the Company are included in note 5 of the Group financial
statements and are not material to disclose separately.
C7 Staff costs
(a) Employees
There were no staff costs in the period (2009: £nil).
The average number of people, including Non–Executive Directors, employed by the Company during the period was:
2010 2009
Administration and managerial 4 4
Total 4 4
(b) Directors’ remuneration
The Directors are directors of the ultimate parent company, Dignity plc and details of their emoluments are included in
pages 34 to 36. They received no emoluments in respect of their services to the Company (2009: £nil).
Notes to the Dignity plc ﬁnancial statements continued
88 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Company Accounts Summarised consolidated income statement
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
Funeral services 143.3 138.5 137.2 126.3 120.0
Crematoria 37.5 34.4 29.2 25.7 23.2
Pre–arranged funeral plans 18.3 11.8 9.4 7.5 6.6
199.1 184.7 175.8 159.5 149.8
Underlying operating profit
Funeral services 49.3 47.3 46.3 42.1 39.3
Crematoria 19.9 17.6 14.6 14.0 12.1
Pre–arranged funeral plans 4.3 3.5 2.5 2.4 2.4
Central overheads (12.5) (12.0) (11.3) (10.9) (9.7)
61.0 56.4 52.1 47.6 44.1
Finance costs (22.5) (21.6) (21.6) (21.7) (22.1)
Finance income 1.9 1.6 3.8 4.2 5.9
Underlying profit before tax 40.4 36.4 34.3 30.1 27.9
Taxation (11.7) (10.6) (10.1) (9.1) (8.6)
Underlying profit after tax 28.7 25.8 24.2 21.0 19.3
Underlying earnings per share (pence) 46.4p 40.5p 38.2p 33.4p 26.6p
Operating profit 60.4 57.5 53.2 47.7 43.4
Profit after tax 29.0 26.6 24.6 21.6 18.8
Basic earnings per share (pence) 46.9p 41.8p 38.8p 34.4p 25.9p
Key performance indicators
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Total estimated number of deaths in Britain (number) 557,000 545,000 553,000 553,000 548,100
Number of funerals performed (number) 64,500 65,000 68,700 66,500 66,500
Funeral market share
1
(per cent) 11.4% 11.8% 12.3% 12.0% 12.1%
Number of cremations performed (number) 45,200 42,700 39,600 38,900 38,500
Crematoria market share (per cent) 8.1% 7.8% 7.2% 7.0% 7.0%
Unfulfilled pre–arranged funeral plans (number) 238,000 216,000 204,000 197,300 188,800
Cash generated from operations (£million) 74.5 65.3 62.3 57.5 41.0
Net debt 
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Net amounts owing on Class A and B Secured Notes 
per financial statements (331.3) (258.6) (263.0) (267.0) (268.4)
Add: unamortised issue costs on Secured Notes (17.8) (14.6) (15.9) (17.2) (18.6)
Net amounts owing on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 
per financial statements (9.9) (9.8) (7.2) ––
Add: unamortised issue costs (0.1) (0.2) (0.2) ––
Gross amounts owing (359.1) (283.2) (286.3) (284.2) (287.0)
Accrued interest on Class A and B Secured Notes 
(paid 31 December) – (9.6) (9.7) (9.9) –
Accrued interest on Crematoria Acquisition Facility (0.1) (0.1) –– –
Cash and cash equivalents 48.1 45.8 46.7 52.6 41.4
Net debt (311.1) (247.1) (249.3) (241.5) (245.6)
89 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Financial record Summarised consolidated balance sheet
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Non–current assets
Goodwill and intangible assets 182.4 175.6 163.1 144.3 123.4
Property, plant and equipment 133.6 116.8 110.9 91.1 89.1
Financial and other assets 12.0 9.4 4.5 4.5 5.6
Retirement benefit asset 8.5 9.1 13.2 6.8 0.6
336.5 310.9 291.7 246.7 218.7
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 48.1 45.8 46.7 52.6 41.4
Other current assets 29.2 25.6 26.3 26.1 22.2
77.3 71.4 73.0 78.7 63.6
Total assets 413.8 382.3 364.7 325.4 282.3
Current liabilities 47.0 48.6 47.6 43.3 27.9
Non–current liabilities 371.6 298.2 298.7 286.7 282.7
Total liabilities 418.6 346.8 346.3 330.0 310.6
Equity attributable to shareholders (4.8) 35.5 18.4 (4.6) (27.1)
Minority interest in equity – –– – (1.2)
Total equity (4.8) 35.5 18.4 (4.6) (28.3)
Total equity and liabilities 413.8 382.3 364.7 325.4 282.3
NOTES
(1) Market share excluding funerals performed in Northern Ireland.
Financial record continued
90 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 91 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Notice of Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the 2011 Annual General Meeting of Dignity plc (‘the Company’) will be held at DLA Piper UK
LLP , Victoria Square House, Victoria Square, Birmingham, West Midlands, B2 4DL on Thursday 9 June 2011 at 11.00am
for the following purposes:
Ordinary Resolutions
To propose the following as ordinary resolutions:
1. To receive and consider the Group’s financial statements, and the reports of the Directors and auditors thereon for
the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010.
2. To approve the Report on Directors’ Remuneration for the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2010 as set out on pages
30 to 36 of the Annual Report 2010.
3. To re-appoint Peter Hindley, as a Director of the Company.
4. To re-appoint Mike McCollum, as a Director of the Company.
5. To re-appoint Andrew Davies, as a Director of the Company.
6. To re-appoint Richard Portman, as a Director of the Company.
7. To re-appoint Steve Whittern, as a Director of the Company.
8. To re-appoint James Newman, as a Director of the Company.
9. To re-appoint Bill Forrester, as a Director of the Company.
10. To re-appoint Ishbel Macpherson, as a Director of the Company.
11. To re-appoint Alan McWalter, as a Director of the Company.
12. To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office from conclusion of the
meeting to the conclusion of the next meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the
Directors to fix their remuneration.
13. To approve the proposed dividend of 8.88 pence per Ordinary Share and to authorise its payments on 24 June 2011
to shareholders on the register of members on 27 May 2011; and
14. That, in substitution for all existing authorities to the extent unused, the Directors be and are hereby generally and
unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act’) to exercise all powers of
the Company to allot shares in the Company or to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares
in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,916,496 provided that (unless previously revoked, varied
or renewed) such authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting after passing this
resolution or on 8 September 2012 (whichever is earlier), save that the Company may before such expiry make an
offer or agreement which would or might require shares or grant such rights to be allotted after such expiry and the
Directors may allot shares or grant such rights in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority
conferred hereby had not expired.
This authority is in substitution for all existing authorities under Section 551 of the Act (which, to the extent unused at
the date of this resolution, are revoked with immediate effect).
Special Resolutions
To propose the following as special resolutions:
15. That subject to the passing of resolution 14 the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570 of
the Act to allot equity securities (within the meaning of Section 560 of the Act) for cash pursuant to the authority
conferred by resolution 14 as if Section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this
power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities:
a) in connection with an offer of equity securities (whether by way of a rights issue, open offer or otherwise):
(i)  to holders of Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company in proportion (as nearly as practicable) to the
respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them; and
(ii) to holders of other equity securities in the capital of the Company, as required by the rights of those securities
or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise consider necessary,
but subject to such exclusion or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation
to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or any legal or practical problems under the laws of
any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange; Notice of Meeting continued
92 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
b) to the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to sub paragraph (a) above) of equity securities up to an aggregate
nominal amount of £287,474;
and (unless previously revoked, varied or renewed) shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting
after passing this resolution or on 8 September 2012 (whichever is earlier), save that the Company may before such
expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted for cash after such
expiry and the Board may allot equity securities for cash in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the
authority conferred hereby had not expired.
This power is in substitution for all existing powers under Section 570 of the Act (which, to the extent unused at the
date of this resolution, are revoked with immediate effect).
16. That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the
Act to make market purchases (as defined in Section 693(4) of the Act) of Ordinary Shares, subject as follows:
a) the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares which may be purchased is 2,737,852;
b) the minimum price (including expenses) to be paid for each Ordinary Share shall be the nominal value of the
Ordinary Share and the maximum price is the higher of:
(i)  an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotation of the Company’s Ordinary
Shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange plc for the five business days
immediately prior to the day on which the purchase is made; and
(ii) an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an Ordinary Share and the higher
current independent bid for an Ordinary Share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
Unless previously revoked, varied or renewed the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at the conclusion
of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on 8 September 2012
(whichever is earlier), except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was entered into before the
expiry of such authority and such purchase will or may be executed or completed wholly or partly after such expiry
and accordingly the Company may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract as if this
authority had not expired. 
17. That a general meeting (other than an annual general meeting) may be called on with not less than 14 clear 
days notice.
Registered office: By order of the Board
4 King Edwards Court
King Edwards Square Richard Portman
Sutton Coldfield Company Secretary
West Midlands B73 6AP 10 March 2011
Notes
1.  The right to vote at the meeting is determined by reference to the register of members. Only those shareholders registered in the register of members 
of the Company as at 6.00pm on 7 June 2011 (or, if the meeting is adjourned 6.00pm on the date which is two working days before the date of the
adjourned meeting) shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time. Changes
to entries in the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote (and the number of
votes they may cast) at the meeting.
2.  A member of the Company entitled to attend and to vote may appoint, one or more proxies to attend and vote instead. A proxy need not be a member 
of the Company. A proxy form is enclosed. Completed proxy forms must be received by the Company’s Registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road,
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZX, no later than 48 hours before the time of the Annual General Meeting or in the event the meeting is adjourned, no later
than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting. A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting and should do so 
on a separate proxy form, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
Failure to specify the number of shares each proxy appointment relates to or specifying a number which when taken together with the numbers of shares
set out in the other proxy appointments is in excess of the number of shares held by the shareholder may result in the proxy appointment being invalid.
Additional proxy forms may be obtained by contacting the Company's registrar on 0871 384 2674* if calling from within the UK, or +44 (0) 121 415 7047
if calling from outside the UK or you may photocopy the proxy form. You will need to state clearly on each proxy form the number of shares in relation 
to which the proxy is appointed. You can only appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form. The right of 
a member under Section 324 of the Companies Act 2006 ("2006 Act") to appoint a proxy does not apply to a person nominated to enjoy information
rights under Section 146 of the 2006 Act.
*At the time of publication, calls to this number were charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline. The prices charged by BT and telephony
providers may change from time to time. Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
3.  The appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member of the Company from attending, speaking and voting in person at the meeting if he or 
she so wishes.
4.  In the case of shares held in uncertificated form, the Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that
only members registered on the register of members of the Company at 6.00pm on 7 June 2011 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in
respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time. Changes to entries on the register of members after 6.00pm on 7 June 2011 shall
be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend, speak or vote at the meeting. 93 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
5.  The following are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours on any weekday (excluding public holidays) and
will be available for at least 15 minutes prior to, and during, the Annual General Meeting:
• the register of Directors’ interests and those of their immediate families in the share capital of the Company;
• copies of the Directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment;
• a copy of the Company’s memorandum and articles of association.
6.  Biographical details of those Directors who are offering themselves for re-election at the meeting are set out on page 26.
7.  Total Voting Rights: As at 8 April 2011 (being the last practicable date before the publication of this notice), the Company's issued share capital consists
of 54,757,054 Ordinary Shares of 10.5 pence, (carrying one vote each) and 106,302 C shares of 0.0001 pence each (carrying no voting rights). The
Company does not hold any Ordinary Shares in treasury. Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 8 April 2011 are 54,757,054.
8.  Shareholders have the right to ask questions at the meeting relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting in accordance with Section 319A of
the 2006 Act. The Company must answer any such question unless:
(a) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or would involve the disclosure of confidential information;
(b) the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question; or
(c) it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
9.  The information required by Section 311A of the 2006 Act to be published in advance of the meeting, which includes the matters set out in this notice
and information relating to the voting rights of shareholders, is available at www.dignityfunerals.co.uk/corporate.
10.Members can appoint proxies electronically by logging on to the website www.sharevote.co.uk. You will need your voting reference numbers (the voting ID,
Task ID and shareholder reference number shown on your form of proxy). Alternatively, if you have registered for a Shareview portfolio, please access the
Equiniti shareview website at www.shareview.co.uk, by entering your portfolio identification particulars and click on the link ‘vote’ under your Dignity plc
holding details. For an electronic proxy appointment to be valid, the appointment must be received by no later than 11.00am on 7 June 2011.
11.CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures
described in the CREST Manual (available at www.euroclear.com/CREST). CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members and those
CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) who will be able to
take the appropriate action on their behalf. 
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy Instruction”)
must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s (formerly CRESTCo's) specifications and must contain the information
required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an
amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent
(ID RA 19) by no later than 11.00am on 7 June 2011. No such message received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted. For this
purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host) from
which the registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST . After this time, any change of instructions
to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider(s) should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not
make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the
input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal
member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such
action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.  In this connection, CREST
members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual
concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities
Regulations 2001.
12.Where a copy of this notice is being received by a person who has been nominated to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of the 2006 
Act ("nominee"):
(a) the nominee may have a right under an agreement between the nominee and the member by whom he was nominated, to be appointed, or to have
someone else appointed, as a proxy for the meeting; or
(b) if the nominee does not have any such right or does not wish to exercise such right, the nominee may have a right under any such agreement to give
instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of the shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 2, 3, 10 and 11 does not apply to a nominee. The rights
in such notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
13.A shareholder which is a corporation may authorise one or more persons to act as its representative(s) at the meeting. Each such representative may
exercise (on behalf of the corporation) the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual shareholder, provided that (where there
is more than one representative and the vote is otherwise than on a show of hands) they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
14.A shareholder or shareholders meeting the qualification criteria set out in note 17 below may require the Company to give shareholders notice of a
resolution which may properly be proposed and is intended to be proposed at the meeting in accordance with Section 338 of the 2006 Act.
A resolution may properly be proposed unless (i) it would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the
Company's constitution or otherwise), (ii) it is defamatory of any person, or (iii) it is frivolous or vexatious.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes a resolution circulated pursuant to this right.
Any such request must:
(a) identify the resolution of which notice is to be given, by either setting out the resolution in full or, if supporting a resolution requested by another
shareholder, clearly identifying the resolution which is being supported;
(b) comply with the requirements set out in note 18 below; and
(c) be received by the Company no later than six weeks before the meeting. 94 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
15.A shareholder or shareholders meeting the qualification criteria set out in note 17 below may require the Company to include in the business to be dealt
with at the meeting any matter (other than a proposed resolution) which may properly be included in the business in accordance with section 338A of 
the 2006 Act.
A matter may properly be included unless (i) it is defamatory of any person, or (ii) it is frivolous or vexatious.
Any such request must:
(a) identify the matter to be included in the business, by either setting out the matter in full or, if supporting a matter requested by another shareholder,
clearly identifying the matter which is being supported;
(b) set out the grounds for the request;
(c) comply with the requirements set out in note 18 below; and
(d) be received by the Company no later than six weeks before the meeting.
16.A shareholder or shareholders who meet the qualification criteria set out in note 17 below may require the Company to publish on its website a statement
setting out any matter that such shareholders propose to raise at the meeting relating to either the audit of the Company's accounts (including the
auditors' report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the meeting or any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company
ceasing to hold office since the last annual general meeting of the Company in accordance with section 527 of the 2006 Act.
Any such request must:
(a) identify the statement to which it relates, by either setting out the statement in full or, if supporting a statement requested by another shareholder,
clearly identifying the statement which is being supported;
(b) comply with the requirements set out in note 18 below; and
(c) be received by the Company at least one week before the meeting.
Where the Company is required to publish such a statement on its website:
(i) it may not require the shareholders making the request to pay any expenses incurred by the Company in complying with the request;
(ii) it must forward the statement to the Company's auditors no later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website; and
(iii) the statement may be dealt with as part of the business of the meeting.
17.In order to require the Company (i) to circulate a resolution to be proposed at the meeting as set out in note 14, (ii) to include a matter in the business 
to be dealt with at the meeting as set out in note 15, or (iii) to publish audit concerns as set out in note 16, the relevant request must be made by:
(a) a shareholder or shareholders having a right to vote at the meeting and holding at least five per cent of the total voting rights of the Company; or
(b) at least 100 shareholders having a right to vote at the meeting and holding, on average, at least £100 of paid up share capital.
For information on voting rights, including the total voting rights of the Company, see note 7 above and the website referred to in note 9 above.
18.Any request by a shareholder or shareholders to require the Company (i) to circulate a resolution to be proposed at the meeting as set out in note 14, 
(ii) to include a matter in the business to be dealt with at the meeting as set out in note 15, or (iii) to publish audit concerns as set out in note 16:
(a) may be made either:
(i) in hard copy, by sending it to Dignity plc, 4 King Edwards Court, King Edwards Square, Sutton Coldfield, B73 6AP; or
(ii) in electronic form, by faxing it to +44 (0) 121 321 5644, marked for the attention of the Company Secretary or  by e-mail to
CompanySecretary@dignityuk.co.uk (please state "Dignity plc: AGM" in the subject line of the email);
(b) must state the full name(s) and address(es) of the shareholder(s); and
(c) (where the request is made in hard copy form) must be signed by the shareholder(s).
19.Except as provided above, shareholders who wish to communicate with the Company in relation to the meeting should do so using the following means:
(a) calling our shareholder helpline on +44 (0) 871 384 2674; or
(b) by post, by sending it to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
20.You may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice of General Meeting or any related documents (including the Proxy form) 
to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
Notice of Meeting continued Shareholder information 
95 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
General enquiries may be addressed to the Company Secretary, Richard Portman, at the Company’s registered office.
Other useful information is as follows:
General information
The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and
domiciled in the United Kingdom. 
Company registrars
Enquiries concerning shareholdings, change of address or other particulars, should be directed in the first instance to the
Company’s Registrars, Equiniti. They also provide a range of online shareholder information services at www.shareview.co.uk
where shareholders can check their holdings and find practical help on transferring shares and updating personal 
details. Alternatively they can be contacted by telephone on +44 (0) 871 384 2674* if calling from within the UK, or 
+44 (0) 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the UK or by fax on +44 (0) 871 384 2100* if faxing from within the UK, 
or +44 (0) 190 369 8403 if faxing from outside the UK.
*At the time of publication, calls to these numbers were charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline. The prices
charged by BT and other telephony providers may change from time to time. Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday 
to Friday. 
Shareholder communications
Following a change to company law, and subsequent shareholder approval at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, shareholder
documents are only sent in paper format to shareholders who have elected to receive documents in this way. This approach
enables the Company to reduce printing and distribution costs and its impact on the environment. Shareholders who have
not elected to receive paper copies are sent a notification whenever shareholder documents are published to advise them
how to access the documents via the Group website at www.dignityfuneralsplc.co.uk. Shareholders may also choose to
receive this notification via email with a link to the relevant page on the website.
Shareholders who wish to receive email notification should register online at www.shareview.co.uk click on ‘Register’ under
the ‘Portfolio’ section. You will require your Shareholder Reference Number, which is given on your share certificate or tax
dividend voucher. Choosing email notification will result in you joining the Equiniti Shareview Service in accordance with 
its terms and conditions, which you can find at www.shareview.com/terms.
Share price information
The latest Dignity plc share price can be obtained via the Company’s investor website www.dignityfuneralsplc.co.uk. 
It can also be obtained in the UK on Ceefax.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is obliged by law to make its share register available upon request to the public and to other organisations
which may use it as a mailing list resulting in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail. Shareholders wishing to limit the
receipt of such mail should write to the Mailing Preference Service, Freepost 22, London W1E 7EZ or telephone 
+44 (0) 845 703 4599 for an application form. Calls to this number are charged at local rate.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held on 9 June 2011, at 11.00am at DLA Piper UK LLP , Victoria Square
House, Victoria Square, Birmingham, West Midlands, B2 4DL. Contact details and advisers
Registered Office:
Dignity plc
4 King Edwards Court
King Edwards Square
Sutton Coldfield
West Midlands B73 6AP
Tel: +44 (0) 121 354 1557
Fax: +44 (0) 121 321 5644
Email: enquiries@dignityuk.co.uk
www.dignityfuneralsplc.co.uk
Company Secretary:
Richard Portman FCA
Registered Number:
4569346
Registrars:
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Tel: +44 (0) 871 384 2674
Fax: +44 (0) 871 384 2100
www.shareview.co.uk
Auditors:
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Cornwall Court
19 Cornwall Street
Birmingham B3 2DT
Joint Brokers:
Panmure Gordon & Co
Moorgate Hall
155 Moorgate
London EC2M 6XB
Investec
A division of Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7EE
Principal Bankers:
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
West Midlands Corporate Office
2 St Philips Place
Birmingham B3 2RB
Legal Adviser:
DLA Piper UK LLP
Victoria Square House
Victoria Square
Birmingham B2 4DL
Financial calendar
10 March 2011
Preliminary announcement 
of 2010 results
9 June 2011
Annual General Meeting
1 July 2011
2011 financial half year end
24 June 2011 (subject to shareholder approval)
Payment of 2010 final dividend
27 July 2011 (provisional)
Announcement of interim results
24 October 2011 (provisional)
Payment of 2011 interim dividend
30 December 2011
Financial period end
96 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Acknowledgements
Dignity would like to thank all those who participated in producing this
Annual Report, particularly the members of staff for their contributions.
Designed & produced by Bexon Woodhouse 
www.bexonwoodhouse.com
Main photography by Martyn Woodhouse
Printed in the UK by Royle Print Ltd, a Carbon Neutral Printing Company 
which is ISO 14001 and FSC certified. This Annual Report is printed 
on material which is FSC certified, 100% Elemental Chlorine Free and
completely recyclable.
www.fsc.org www.fsc.org
MIX MIX
From responsible From responsible
sources sources
FSC  C0026 FSC  C00261 17 7
R
R Dignity plc
4 King Edwards Court
King Edwards Square
Sutton Coldfield
West Midlands B73 6AP
For more information on 
investor relations please visit:
www.dignityfuneralsplc.co.uk
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Serving local communities for generations 
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
