 Dimension Data
Annual Report 2007
a focused 
execution Contents
Financial Highlights 2
Group Facts 5
Who We Are 7
Chairman’s Letter 8
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 10
Chief Financial Officer’s Operating Review 16
Group Executive Committee 26
Board of Directors 28
Directors’ Report 30
Corporate Governance Report 34
Audit Committee Report 38
Corporate social responsibility Report 39
Remuneration Report 41
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 47
Independent Auditors’ Report 48
Annual Financial Statements 50
Shareholder Information 97
Notice of Annual General Meeting 98
Form of Proxy Attached
Contacts and Corporate Information ibc
Dimension Data
Annual Report 2007
www.dimensiondata.com Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 1
a clear 
vision
world leaders in the provision 
and management of specialist IT
infrastructure solutions that help our
clients achieve their business goals Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 2
Financial highlights
• Total revenue up by 23.0% to $3.8 billion
• Services revenue up 25.8% to $1.5 billion
• Gross margin 21.5% (2006: 21.1%)
• Operating profit
(1)
up 55.0% to $131.0 million (2006: $84.5 million)
• Operating margin
(1)
up by 0.7% to 3.5%
• Earnings per share
(1)
up by 180.0% to 5.6 cents (2006: 2.0 cents)
• Proposed dividend of 1.5 cents per share (2006: 1.0 cent)
• Cash generated from operating activities $177.1 million (2006: $12.5 million)
Restated
(2)
2007 2006
Financial summary $’000 $’000
Revenue 3,773,156 3,067,962
Operating profit 123,867 80,222
Margin 3.3% 2.6%
Operating profit (before exceptional items) 130,994 84,496
Margin (before exceptional items) 3.5% 2.8%
Effective tax rate (before exceptional items) 25.9% 37.7%
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 92,528 40,602
Profit attributable to equity shareholders 
(before exceptional items) 86,096 30,179
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents) 6.0 2.7
Earnings per ordinary share (before exceptional 
items) (US cents) 5.6 2.0
Proposed dividend per ordinary share (US cents) 1.5 1.0
Notes:
(1)
Before exceptional items. See reconciliation in Note 8 in the annual financial statements.
(2)
Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 4. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 3
highlights from the performance
on the ball Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 4
piece by piece
completing 
the picture Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 5
Dimension Data at a glance
• Founded in 1983
• 2007 revenues of $3.8 billion
• Listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Johannesburg
Securities Exchange Limited
• A client base that spans all industry sectors including financial
services, telecommunications, healthcare, manufacturing,
government and education
• Over 10,600 highly skilled employees
• Established global footprint coupled with unrivalled experience
in emerging markets
• Strategic partnerships with leading technology vendors,
including Cisco and Microsoft
• Recognised industry leader with 80 industry awards in 2007 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 6
the present
future
we were there at 
the beginning Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 7
Dimension Data was there, right at the start of networking
and communications. Founded in 1983 with a simple 
vision – to do great things – today we’re positioned at the
forefront of networking and communications in nearly
40 countries around the world.
By continually building on our knowledge and expertise 
in IT infrastructure technologies, we have evolved into 
a dynamic IT services and solutions provider. We are a 
recognised global leader in the provision and management 
of specialist IT infrastructure solutions. We plan, build, 
support and manage IT infrastructure solutions that help 
over 6,000 clients achieve their business goals. Drawing 
on our experience in network integration, security, 
converged communications, data centres and storage, 
contact centre and Microsoft technologies, we deliver a 
full lifecycle of IT services.
We constantly seek to improve and introduce innovations 
within our clients’ IT infrastructures, ensuring our solutions 
are structured to deliver benefits today and into the future. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 8
2007 was another year of excellent performance by the
Group. Every region delivered positive results
underpinned by increased margins and improved
Group cash holdings. Europe improved its financial
performance on all fronts. Africa experienced strong
growth driven by infrastructure expansion by
telecommunication service providers and government.
Americas experienced a strong second half after a
slow start to the year. Australia also delivered strong
profits.  In Asia we continued the positive trend toward
healthier margins by increasing IT services sales. 
On the back of this solid performance, we are pleased
to propose to shareholders that the Group increase its
dividend to 1.5 US cents per share.
While we maintained a steadfast focus on execution,
healthy market conditions also supported our growth
during the year. IT growth rates in all markets were
strong and our global footprint and local execution
capabilities continue to enhance our positioning.
Consolidation in the systems integration market also
provided opportunities for market share gains as
competitors focused on post-merger activities.  
The continued deregulation of telecommunications
within many countries offered new opportunities and will
continue to make this sector and service providers
highly attractive for the Group. 
While market opportunities remain robust, our ability to
convert these into revenue is reliant on our talented
employee base. Salary pressures and competition for
Chairman’s letter
Jeremy Ord Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 9
cause 
and 
effect
observing the
market and
acting fast
Subsequently we sold 60% to a group comprising a
Black Economic Empowerment consortium and
VenFin.
Our technology partnerships with industry leaders like
Cisco and Microsoft continue to benefit us and our
clients by providing early access to the latest technology
advancements and products. The strength of our
partnerships directly benefits our clients as we are well-
positioned to help them navigate through an ever
increasing array of technologies and vendors. 
We enter our 25th anniversary year in 2008 as a strong,
vibrant business. To have reached a quarter century in
the IT industry is a significant achievement. 
The future looks promising, the Group has maintained
excellent focus and our ability to deliver and provide
support continues to grow and prosper. Whilst market
conditions are robust at present, we are very aware of
the turbulence in some of our major market sectors and
are keeping a close watch on all the important indicators
in our business.
I’d like to thank our employees, executive management
team, clients, and technology partners for their ongoing
commitment and dedication to Dimension Data, without
which our success would not have been possible. 
I would also like to thank our Board for their continued
support in creating a Group that we can all be extremely
proud of.
Jeremy Ord
Chairman
talent contributed to a highly competitive employment
market – particularly for experienced, technical
employees – and recruitment and retention remained 
a top priority during the year. 
The alignment of our employee incentive programmes to
the financial performance of the Group is critical to
combating competitive pressures for top talent. To this
end, Dimension Data continued to invest in its Share
Appreciation Rights Scheme (SARS) and Long Term
Incentive Plan (LTIP). The first SARS and LTIP
instruments issued during 2005 are eligible for vesting at
the end of 2007, and I am pleased to report that the
performance criteria for the first SARS instruments,
based on the cumulative three year earnings of the
Group, have been met.  
While our primary strategy is one of organic growth, the
Group completed several joint venture agreements,
acquisitions and disposals. In Asia we entered into a
joint venture agreement with Sumisho Joho Corporation
in Japan. We opened offices in Saudi Arabia and United
Arab Emirates and subsequently renamed our Africa
region, Middle East and Africa.  We extended our North
American region into the Americas by acquiring a
controlling interest in our Brazilian partner and opening
offices in Mexico and Canada. In Europe, we opened
operations in the Czech Republic through the acquisition
of Unreal Technology and sold our operations in
Sweden. We established a new software holdings
company, Britehouse, and transferred our interest in
Pebbletree, 3Fifteen and Paracon into this company. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 10
Chief Executive 
Officer’s review
STRATEGIC DIRECTION BECOMES
OPERATIONAL RESULTS
Our accomplishments in 2007 were achieved by
successfully executing our business strategy and
harnessing growth opportunities created by major
changes in the market. The four components of
our business strategy – driving profitable growth,
offering a world class client experience, delivering
operational excellence to our clients, and
investing in our people and our culture – have
propelled us forward. Our focus, coupled with
strong execution across all geographies and client
segments, resulted in exceptional growth and
progress in our business.
The cornerstone of our profitable growth strategy is to
ensure we identify and then aggressively target growth
opportunities in the market. Several years ago we
identified a number of emerging market trends that we
believed would be significant for the industry, our
clients and our business. We summarised these trends
into three main opportunities for Dimension Data. 
Brett Dawson Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 11
We refer to these opportunities as the converged
network, the converged client and multisourcing. 
The converged network provides us the opportunity to
exploit the convergence of multiple services including
data, voice and video onto a common Internet Protocol
(IP)-based technology platform. The converged client
opportunity is about how we take advantage of the
emerging trends of unified communications and
collaboration, while multisourcing offers clients new
flexibility in IT sourcing. We aligned our business
strategy, investment strategy, competencies and
execution capabilities to capitalise on these market
opportunities. Today, it is rewarding to look back on our
consistent growth and the rapid market share gains we
have made by focusing on these three opportunities.
The record revenues and financial performance of 2007
continue to validate our strategic direction.
CAPITALISING ON MARKET TRENDS
In 2007 we have once again been successful in
converting the converged network opportunity.
Several factors are driving our growth. The basic
corporate communications network is in an
investment cycle where a refresh of many of its
foundation technologies such as routers and switches
is occurring. The increasing adoption of IP as a
standard is enabling our clients to drive
standardisation of their IT architectures, and thus
enable substantial consolidation and centralisation of
their overall IT infrastructure, providing improved
effectiveness and substantial ROI for their business. 
In addition, we see our clients preparing their
infrastructure for convergence and embedding
security into their IT infrastructure. 
Convergence of voice onto the data network has been
driven by the increasing adoption of voice over IP
(VOIP). We have over the past few years been
positioning our business to secure this opportunity.
The exceptional growth we have achieved in our
Converged Communications line of business is clear
evidence that the promise of the IP-based converged
network is becoming a reality. The operational cost
savings and productivity improvements of integrating
all the right
moves
maintaining a competitive edge will
enable us to win in the marketplace Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 12
Chief Executive Officer’s review
voice, video and data onto one infrastructure are now
leading our clients to large scale deployment of
converged communications-related technologies –
particularly IP telephony. 
We are starting to see early evidence of success
associated with clients adopting unified
communication and collaboration technologies.
Consumers are becoming more mobile and are
increasingly demanding access to any application,
using any device, from anywhere in the world, to be
more productive. They bring their personal productivity
expectations into the workplace and create new
requirements for the corporate IT infrastructure. Market
experts refer to this trend as the ‘consumerisation of
IT’. In order to provide end users with a seamless
experience we are focused on providing our clients
with services and solutions that enhance, integrate and
optimise their network, operating systems and
messaging infrastructures.
While the converged network is in a growth phase, the
converged client is still in an early phase of market
adoption. Our business is focused on exploiting these
opportunities. 
Our Services revenue expanded dramatically this year
reflecting increased market uptake of our Managed
and Professional Services. We are succeeding in our
intent to be more services-led. In addition, changes are
occurring in how clients source IT infrastructure and
services. Traditionally, many clients either managed IT
in-house or outsourced to an IT service provider.
Currently, clients are opting for a multisourcing
approach to IT sourcing. Multisourcing involves a
blended model where selected IT functions are
outsourced to specialists, while other functions are
maintained in-house. While the adoption of this model
is at an early stage, the business drivers that gave rise
to the need for new sourcing strategies, like the
ongoing skills shortage and the need for IT to show
greater alignment with business needs and outcomes,
are here to stay. Exploiting this opportunity is a key
opportunity for Dimension Data and we are starting to
see greater momentum on this front. 
PLAYING IN MARKETS THAT MATTER
In every market category – geography, client segment,
or vertical market – Dimension Data performed
exceptionally well this year. 
From a geographic perspective we performed strongly
across all five regions, with revenue growth and
expanded operating margins across the board.
Dimension Data’s presence in over 40 countries
around the world differentiates us from our
competitors. Having grown our business out of
developing markets into developed markets,
Dimension Data is often the partner of choice for global
and multinational clients. 
Robust revenue growth from our global and
multinational client segment during 2007 was
associated with international expansion, convergence
and standardisation projects. Our differentiation is not
merely in our footprint, but in our ability to provide
local, in-country expertise and delivery capabilities that
few competitors can match. 
The mid-sized market also contributed to growth.
While large enterprises have significant IT departments
in-house, our mid-sized clients rely on us to support
them more extensively in the building and management
of their IT infrastructure. A lack of internal resources
and difficulty in attracting and retaining IT professionals
were factors which often contributed to mid-sized
enterprises’ drive to partner with Dimension Data. 
Service providers including telecommunications
providers, mobile operators, internet service providers
(ISPs) and cable operators continued to represent a
large segment for the Group across most of our
regions. In 2007, Dimension Data helped service
providers build and develop their revenue-generating
networks to support new services and applications for
their consumer and business customers. Our expertise
across the service provider market is diverse. In Africa
we deployed and integrated a 120 site, turnkey GSM
infrastructure. For a Korean ISP, we took responsibility
for the maintenance of their entire IP backbone. In
Europe, we helped a large cable operator implement a
Euro-DOCSIS 2.0 platform. We also partnered with
(continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 13
international telecommunications providers to provide IT
implementation and support services for their global
enterprise customers in geographies where the
providers have little or no presence of their own. And
elsewhere in Africa, our additional capabilities through
Internet Solutions and Plessey drove growth associated
with the expanding market opportunity driven by
deregulation and increased telecommunications spend.
Dimension Data’s long-standing relationships with
many of the world’s leading financial services
companies have helped us grow revenues across
multiple lines of business within this segment. In 2007,
financial services companies focused their IT
investments on expanding and securing their core
network, consolidating and migrating data centres
and driving improved customer experience in the
contact centre. Globalisation, the implementation of
environmentally-friendly IT practices and a move
toward increasing client intimacy led these
investments in IT solutions and services. We refreshed
the core network across ten countries in Asia for one
of the world’s largest banks. We implemented a
storage area networking solution and disaster
recovery plan for a US-based financial services
company. In Africa, we renewed an operations
maintenance and support contract for a fully
outsourced financial services network. 
We made strong progress in providing services to the
public sector. In South Africa, we built an emergency
and disaster response centre to support provincial
response on a 24 x 7 basis. In Australia, we helped the
government expand their capabilities to deliver
emergency medical health services to residents in rural
locations. Within a large city in the US, we enhanced
the information-sharing capabilities of the criminal
justice department to improve judicial service delivery
to the citizenry. We believe strong investments in IT by
governments across the globe will continue to provide
opportunities for the Group. Government’s pursuit to
deliver innovative services, improve government
accessibility and gain cost efficiencies, requires a
partner with diverse yet deep domain expertise across
all aspects of IT infrastructure.
EXECUTING WITH EXCELLENCE 
Focused execution paves the way to exceptional
financial performance. In 2007 our revenues increased
23%, operating profit grew 55%
(1)
and earnings per
share rose 180%
(1)
. This performance could only be
achieved through the dedication and teamwork of our
10,600 talented employees. Our annual client
satisfaction survey echoes this sentiment, with many
clients commenting on the exceptional calibre of
committed Dimension Data employees. Attracting and
retaining the right employees who reflect our values
and the winning Dimension Data spirit was a priority
playing in markets 
that matter
Note:
(1)
Before exceptional items. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 14
Chief Executive Officer’s review
during the year. Our employees’ persistence to
exceed client expectations continued to set us apart in
the marketplace. 
Constantly striving to improve our execution also
brings excellence to our business. Extracting
operational improvements and efficiencies continued
to be a focus during the year. Several areas were
priorities for investment including our quote to delivery
cycle, sales automation and the systems supporting
service delivery. 
Driven by the globalisation trend within many large
enterprises, Dimension Data’s expertise and
capabilities to configure, source, ship, deliver, install
and maintain IT technology around the world remains
a key differentiator. Dimension Data Direct, the
Group’s e-procurement solution, experienced
exponential growth resulting in quotes to clients and in
purchase orders processed. Dimension Data Direct
simplifies the quote to invoice process through
integration and automation. It increases productivity
and reduces quote and order administration.
Dimension Data Direct also supports services
revenues by incorporating quotes for Professional,
Support and Managed Services into every product
sale. Although it is still completing a global roll-out,
Dimension Data Direct has already delivered large
operational efficiencies to the Group. 
To enhance clients’ order fulfilment, we improved our
systems to provide global visibility of the real-time
status and movement of orders from order placement
to the point of delivery. We also added features to
provide clients with better visibility of global purchase
patterns and to track the international shipment
documentation process. To simplify and streamline
communication about technology shipment status, we
also established a Client Services Centre.
From an internal perspective, our efforts to automate
our sales processes also advanced. All sales
employees now operate off one sales pipeline
management tool, allowing us to gain consistent
visibility across accounts and regions. We are now
able to track and align key sales performance metrics
across our regional businesses and to enhance
collaboration enabling cross-sell and international
opportunities. These improvements have also allowed
us to establish a platform for a globally consistent
client database. 
To improve our clients’ support we enhanced our
services platform with two upgrades to the Global
Service Operating Architecture (GSOA). These
upgrades improved functionality and platform stability
and allowed us to offer new managed services. 
A WINNING FUTURE
Our continued success in the marketplace is all about
our employees; their expertise and their
determination to deliver a world class client
experience. At Dimension Data, it is critical for us to
attract and retain the right individuals, who will
succeed in our high performance culture. During the
year we made several investments to improve the
employee experience at Dimension Data. We built
new systems to better attract candidates. Our
induction programmes were improved so that
employees can become more effective early in their
careers. The continued education of employees 
to improve their skills and gain new technical
competencies and certifications was a priority. A new
programme, to further develop the top leaders across
the globe and assist with succession management,
was also implemented. The yearly increase in our
annual employee survey scores indicate that, while
there are still areas for improvement, overall our
employees are very happy with their employee
experience at Dimension Data. 
We work hard at building and enhancing our
partnerships with the market leading IT technology
manufacturers whose technologies we integrate into
our clients’ IT infrastructures. Building winning
relationships with these market leaders and other
specialised manufacturers allows us to deepen our
technical competencies and integration experience.
Partnering with these leaders positions us to capture
the integration opportunities associated with market
changes. The opportunity provided by convergence
and, in the future, unified communications requires
(continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 15
integration across many disparate components of IT
infrastructure and technology. During 2007, we were
recognised for our breadth of technical expertise and
experience with over 80 awards from our partners.
OUTLOOK
This financial year was one of significant progress and
success on many fronts. Our diversified geographic
footprint and ability to provide technical expertise to
our clients in their local markets, continue to provide
significant competitive advantage for us. The Group is
benefiting from favourable macro IT industry trends,
and we continue to see a number of exciting
opportunities before us, such as the deregulation and
expansion of telecommunication services, the adoption
of a converged IP-based IT infrastructure, and the
emergence of unified communications. 
We have not been adversely impacted to date by
current macro economic uncertainties, although we
continue to monitor developments closely. We expect
to deliver strong organic revenue growth in the financial
year ahead, albeit at rates that are expected to
moderate somewhat from the exceptional growth
achieved in 2007. Supported by ongoing investment
and a strong balance sheet, we expect to achieve
growth across all lines of business and remain
confident that the Group is well positioned to drive
further operational leverage and profitable growth.
Brett Dawson
Chief Executive Officer Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 16
Chief Financial Officer’s
operating review
To review the underlying performance of the business, the following
adjustments have been made below:
• Unless otherwise indicated, exceptional items are excluded from
the analysis. 
• Growth percentages over FY2006 are adjusted for the impact of
currency movements. 
• No adjustment is made in the comparisons for acquisitions
made during the current or prior period as these are not
considered material to the comparisons.
• Revenue growth percentages are reflected before adjusting for
inter-company revenue.
INCOME STATEMENT SUMMARY
Revenue for the year to 30 September 2007 was
$3,773.2 million, an increase of 19.5% over the prior
year. This growth was predominantly organic, with
acquisitions having no material impact during the period.
Revenue growth from Asia, Europe and Middle East and
Africa was particularly strong.
Gross profit for the year was $813.0 million, up 23.4%,
displaying a 0.4% improvement in gross margin to
21.5%. Strong growth in Services revenue was the main
reason for the improved blended gross margin. In the
regions, gross margins in Asia and the Americas
strengthened, while Europe’s gross margins also
recovered compared to the prior year.
Dave Sherriffs Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 17
one and one
make many
our financial track record
speaks volumes about our
experience in the industry
Overhead growth of 18.7% to $682.0 million was partly
the result of the increased volumes in the business, and
also continued investment by the Group in skills,
systems and the expansion of its global footprint.
Variable overheads, including bonuses and sales
commission, were up by 28.2% to $118.5 million, while
fixed overheads grew by 16.8% to $563.5 million. 
Operating profit was strongly up on the prior period to
$131.0 million – a year on year increase of 56.2% – and
the operating margin improved from 2.8% to 3.5%.
The share of results from associates was up by 60.7%
to $6.2 million while net interest costs reduced to
$14.9 million.
Property revaluation and other gains and losses included
a gain of $22.2 million relating to the revaluation of a
portion of the South African property asset.
The Group tax charge was $37.2 million, an effective tax
rate on profit before tax of 25.9% (2006: 37.7%). 
This improvement was mainly the result of improved
profitability from those jurisdictions within the Group
which are not currently paying tax.
Earnings per share were 5.6 cents per share, an
increase of 180.0% on the prior year.
The net impact of exceptional items was to increase
profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by
$6.4 million.
TRADING AND OPERATIONS
2007 2007
$’000 Growth $’000 Growth
Lines of business Revenue streams
Network Integration 1,672,316 17.6% Product 2,249,325 16.0%
Global lines of business 1,206,109 23.9% Managed Services 950,694 18.7%
Regional 894,731 17.7% Professional Services 573,137 38.0%
Total 3,773,156 19.5% Total 3,773,156 19.5% Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 18
Chief Financial Officer’s operating
review
Regional performance
Middle
East & Central
$’000 Americas Asia Australia Europe Africa & Other * Total
2007
Revenue 579,882 580,829 791,452 960,822 849,238 10,933 3,773,156
Growth % 9.1 20.5 10.9 20.3 36.9 19.5
Product 440,272 374,834 607,266 593,387 225,943 7,623 2,249,325
Growth % 5.6 20.9 7.6 31.5 25.3 16.0
Services 139,610 205,995 184,186 367,435 623,295 3,310 1,523,831
Growth % 21.6 19.7 25.8 6.1 41.6 25.3
Gross margin % 17.8 19.1 18.0 20.7 28.2 21.5
Operating profit 17,398 36,456 29,169 8,522 70,877 (31,428) 130,994
Operating margin % 3.0 6.3 3.7 0.9 8.3 3.5
Restated **
2006
Revenue 532,977 482,157 660,585 734,715 653,869 3,659 3,067,962
Product 418,078 310,018 526,032 415,552 183,855 3,296 1,856,831
Services 114,899 172,139 134,553 319,163 470,014 363 1,211,131
Gross margin % 16.3 18.8 18.7 19.1 29.8 21.1
Operating profit 10,086 26,179 19,376 1,546 49,387 (22,078) 84,496
Operating margin % 1.9 5.4 2.9 0.2 7.6 2.8
The revenue and gross margin in the tables above are as reported, whereas the growth percentages are reflected before inter-company
revenue eliminations, and after adjusting for the impact of currency movements.
*Includes Campus, and net Central trading and management costs.
**Restated for the adoption of IFRIC 4, the reallocation of the Campus from Middle East and Africa to Central and Other and the reallocation
of certain Africa revenues from Product to Services. 
(continued)
service provider and financial services clients also
supported growth. 
Converged Communications growth of 47.8% reflects
market acceptance of IP as the de facto standard for
telephony. The strong growth was also the result of the
Group’s continuing investment in its delivery capabilities,
including enhancements to its global IP Telephony
deployment and managed service methodologies. 
We also started to see a higher adoption of visual
communication solutions such as IP Video Conferencing.
Security grew by 17.3%. Our clients are increasingly
expecting security to be embedded in all infrastructure
projects and the increased demand for a plethora of new
LINES OF BUSINESS
In the Group’s global lines of business, Network
Integration growth of 17.6% reflects an outstanding
year for the Group’s biggest line of business. 
The Group’s heritage is in Network Integration and we
further consolidated our leading global position this year.
Several factors contributed to strong demand for
network upgrades, including the convergence of data,
voice and video over the network. In addition, we saw
increasing central procurement by multinational
companies, where the Group with its global footprint, 
e-procurement solution and logistics capabilities is very
well positioned. Robust demand from the Group’s Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 19
Growth in Services revenues accelerated across all
geographies, up strongly by 25.3% to $1,523.8 million.
Excluding the impact of strong Services revenue
performances from Internet Solutions, Plessey and
Merchants (discussed in more detail below), the
Group’s core Services revenues were up by 20.8%,
with Managed Services up by 19.9% and Professional
Services up by 19.4%. Our Services strategy remains
focused on the lifecycle management of IT
investments, extending our traditional ‘Plan, Build and
Support’ model to include ‘Manage’, where we help
clients manage their IT assets to improve ROI and to
maximise business impact through improvement and
innovation. This strategy was supported during the
year by ongoing investment in our service delivery
models and platforms. Upgrades during the year to our
GSOA meant further functionality and robustness in
our Managed Services platform and offerings to 
our clients.
REGIONS
In the Americas region, which includes our operations in
the US, Canada, Mexico and Brazil, revenue grew by
9.1%, reflecting an acceleration in revenues in the
second half. Services growth of 21.6% was particularly
encouraging. Gross margins improved following a higher
services mix and improved product margins. Operating
profit was $17.4 million (up 72.5%) and the operating
margin improved by 1.1% to 3.0% for the year. During
the year, new offices were opened in Mexico and
Canada and we increased our interest in our Brazilian
partner to 51%.
The Group’s Asian subsidiary, Datacraft, had an
excellent year. Supported by strong revenue growth of
20.5%, gross margin expansion and overhead
management, operating profit expanded to
$36.5 million, or 6.3% of revenues. The Converged
Communications and CIS lines of business were
particularly strong, and investment in operational
efficiencies, including the consolidation of service
centres in Bangalore and Singapore, supported gross
margins. Overhead containment was the result of
ongoing focus on establishing a standard operating
environment across the region.
applications means that security solutions have become
ever more complex. In addition, government and
industry regulations around compliance and risk
management continue to support demand for secure IT
environments. 
In our Microsoft Solutions line of business, which grew
by 21.2%, we are taking a leadership position in helping
our clients integrate their existing network and telephony
platforms with their Microsoft infrastructures, to capture
the opportunities presented by unified communications. 
Our Data Centre and Storage (DCS) line of business
grew by 20.5%, as clients looked to virtualisation and
consolidation technologies to optimise performance
and reduce costs. This together with the Group’s focus
on business continuity and compliance solutions
supported growth.
The Client Interactive Services (CIS) line of business
was up by 24.5% (excluding the impact of the
downsizing in the prior year of Merchants in the UK).
The Group benefited from strong demand for its
contact centre solutions supported by ongoing
migration to IP contact centres. The results reflect very
strong performances in Asia and Europe, as well as
from Merchants in South Africa. Furthermore, the
Group’s interest in the TSYS partnership in Europe
performed well. 
In the Regional lines of business, Plessey, Internet
Solutions and Express Data grew revenues by 99.4%,
33.3% and 3.8% respectively. Their performances are
assessed in more detail below. 
REVENUE STREAMS
Product revenues, being 59.6% of total revenues, grew
by 16.0%. Growth was evidenced in most of the vertical
market segments, and in particular spending by our
service provider and global clients was robust.
Geographically, Product growth was particularly strong
in Asia (20.9%), in Europe (31.5%) and in Middle East
and Africa (25.3%). Our ability to deliver Product
efficiently and effectively to our clients remains a key
component of our integrated solutions offering. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 20
Chief Financial Officer’s operating 
review
In Australia, revenues grew by 10.9% and operating
profit by 38.4% to $29.2 million. Product revenues were
impacted by a stronger Australian dollar and slower
growth in Express Data in the second half, coming off a
high base in the prior period. Managed Services
revenues were up 17.9% and gross margins improved,
as a result of new client wins and low churn in the
existing Managed Services base. Professional Services
revenues also grew strongly by 33.3%, while margins
were lower due to increased reliance on sub-
contractors. Good control over overheads drove
improvement in the operating margin to 3.7% from 2.9%
in FY2006.
Europe recorded excellent revenue and gross profit
growth of 20.3% and 31.1% respectively, and gross
margin expanded by 1.6% to 20.7%. Overheads
increased by 26.9%, partly as a result of increased
variable overheads (commission and bonus payments)
but also as the region invested in systems, sales
capacity and skills. Operating profit grew to
$8.5 million at an operating margin of 0.9% from 0.2%
in the prior year. The improved performance of most
countries in the region was very pleasing, while there
remains room for improvement in others. During the
year, the Group acquired a 100% interest in a Czech
network integrator, and disposed of its operations 
in Sweden. 
Middle East and Africa’s revenues grew by 36.9% to
$849.2 million, and operating profit expanded to
$70.9 million at an operating margin of 8.3%. Growth
was supported by continuing geographic expansion on
the continent, with some 31% of revenues for the period
derived outside of South Africa. During the period, the
Group acquired a 51% interest in an IT infrastructure
business in Namibia and opened offices in the United
Arab Emirates and in Saudi Arabia. Revenue growth was
particularly strong within the telecommunications sector
and in the public sector. Important successes were
achieved at national, provincial and municipal levels of
government during the year. A significant portion of the
region’s successful performance is also attributable to
the positive contribution of the Black Economic
Empowerment (BEE) partnership, now in its fourth year
of involvement with the Group.
The four key components of the business – Dimension
Data, Plessey, Internet Solutions and Merchants – all
performed exceptionally well. 
The Dimension Data business recorded growth in all of
its key lines of business. The Network Integration,
Converged Communications and DCS lines of business
delivered very strong performances.
Plessey had an outstanding year, with revenues up
99.4%. This reflected strength in all three of Plessey’s
business units – mobile infrastructure, fibre rollout 
and wireless. 
Internet Solutions (IS), the Group’s market leading next-
generation service provider, grew revenues by 33.3% for
the period. The division’s core access and VPN
operations were solid, as was demand for its hosting
solutions. Growth was also driven by the African
operations outside of South Africa and by continuing
uptake of IS’ voice offerings.
Merchants South Africa had an excellent year, with
continued demand for its outsourced call centre
offerings leading to revenue growth of 21.5% for 
the year.
Central and Other includes the results of the property
asset in Johannesburg (the Campus) and net Central
trading and management costs. The Campus is for the
first time this year disclosed separately from the results
of Middle East and Africa. 
Within Central and Other, the operating profit
contribution from the Campus for the year was
$14.4 million. Of this, $13.1 million was net rental
income on the 81,000m
2
property, up 18.0% as a result
of improved occupation and firmer rental rates.
Net central trading and management costs increased
to $45.8 million from $33.6 million last year, reflecting
the Group’s increased investment in its services
(continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 21
strategies and in Group-wide systems and processes.
Variable overheads were also higher, and the costs of
the Group share incentive schemes were adjusted in
line with the increased Dimension Data Holdings plc 
share price. 
SHARE OF PROFIT OF ASSOCIATES
The share of profit of associates increased to
$6.2 million from $3.9 million in 2006. 
Good contributions were made by all of the Group’s
key associates, including Paracon, Healthbridge,
Automate, Marpless and TSYS. Britehouse also
contributed from June 2007 when the Group sold a
60% interest in the company to a consortium of BEE
partners and VenFin Limited (see Acquisitions and
Disposals below). 
INTEREST INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS
The Group earned interest of $15.4 million on its cash
holdings, which were $459.2 million at 30 September
2007. Total finance costs were $30.3 million, including
$23.3 million on the capitalised property finance lease in
South Africa. 
PROPERTY REVALUATION AND OTHER
GAINS AND LOSSES
From 1 January 2007, the Group changed its
accounting for the Campus from ‘owner-occupied’ to
‘investment property’ for the element (56.2%) of the
property which is let to third parties. Based on the
Directors’ assessment of fair value at 30 September
2007 a gain of $22.2 million was recorded for the year.
It should be noted that this includes a gain of
$13.6 million in respect of the period 1 January 2007 
to 31 March 2007 which, despite being disclosed in 
the interim report as exceptional, is now recorded as a
normal gain because it is likely that revaluations of 
the Campus will be a recurring feature of the 
Group’s results.
TAXATION
The income tax charge for the period was $36.0 million,
as a percentage of profit before tax improving from
37.7% in the prior period to 25.9%. The improvement
was largely the result of better profitability in those
jurisdictions in the Group which are not currently paying
tax because of accumulated assessed tax losses. 
MINORITY INTERESTS
Based on the results for the year, a further 5.0%
economic interest in a portion of the Group’s business in
Middle East and Africa vested at period end in favour of
our BEE partners, bringing their total economic interest
up to 14.2%. 
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS
During the period, the Group concluded a few small
acquisitions – in Brazil, the Czech Republic and Namibia
– none of which was material. In addition, in June 2007
we disposed of our interest in our Swedish operations to
a Scandinavian telecommunication services provider.
The most significant transaction was the disposal in
June 2007, to a consortium of BEE partners and VenFin
Limited, of a 60% interest in Britehouse, a company
which houses the Group’s interest in Paracon, an IT
resourcing company, and in two IT application
companies, Pebbletree and 3Fifteen.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Several matters were highlighted as exceptional during
the period.
In FY2006, we reported a $7.5 million exceptional profit
in respect of an unrealised foreign exchange gain flowing
from the intention to settle an inter-company loan. 
This and certain other related loans were settled during
the period, and a $6.6 million loss was recognised due
to changes in foreign exchange rates. 
A gain of $11.2 million (before capital gains taxes) was
recorded on the sale of 60% of Britehouse. In Britehouse
itself, a BEE expense of $0.5 million was incurred.
An expense of $3.7 million was incurred in respect of the
settlement and associated legal costs of a legal case
brought against the Group’s US operations.  Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 22
Chief Financial Officer’s operating 
review
A gain of $3.2 million was recorded in respect of a
refund of Australian withholding costs on royalties
previously overpaid. Tax on this gain amounted to
$1.0 million.
A deferred tax asset of $4.2 million was raised as a result
of a reassessment of the tax loss in South Africa. 
The cumulative impact of the above, net of minority
interests, was to increase profit attributable to equity
shareholders of the Group by $6.4 million.
(continued)
BALANCE SHEET
Non-current assets
The Group’s investment in property, plant and equipment reduced during the period to $165.0 million mainly as a
result of the reclassification as an investment property of a portion of the South African property capitalised under
finance lease. 
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (net of disposals) was $58.4 million, compared to $55.4 million
last year. A significant portion of this related to Internet Solutions, as that division invested in equipment for its
internet access clients, expanding its Virtual Private Network and establishing new data centre capacity.
Capex Depreciation
$ million 2007 2006 2007 2006
Americas 3 1 2 2
Asia 8 6 8 8
Australia 4 3 4 4
Europe 8 5 8 7
ME&A, excluding IS 4 3 3 3
Internet Solutions 31 28 16 11
Central – 9 6 7
Group 58 55 47 42
The Group’s $6.1 million investment in a venture with
TSYS Inc, together with the investment reallocation of a
$15.1 million interest in Britehouse to associates, offset
by the sale of Paracon for $11.7 million to Britehouse,
partly led to the increase in investments in associates
from $15.1 million to $30.4 million.
Current assets
The 12.0% growth in inventories to $192.7 million (2006:
$172.0 million) is a pleasing result given the much higher
revenue growth in the business. Trade and other
receivables grew by 29.9% to $1,003.6 million. Of this,
trade receivables increased by 23.9%, roughly in line
with the increased revenues for the period. 
Non-current liabilities
Obligations under finance lease of $149.9 million relate
predominantly to the property finance lease in South
Africa. Other long term liabilities of $31.2 million include
vendor financing for long term maintenance contracts in
the UK and the US. 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables amounting to $1,213.2 million,
were up 30.1% compared to $932.5 million at
30 September 2006. Trade payables were $448.8
million, up 20.8%. There were no material changes in the
underlying payment terms with our vendors.  Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 23
CASH FLOW
Net cash from operating activities increased to
$177.1 million from $12.5 million in the prior year. 
This included cash generated from a $19.1 million
reduction in working capital, an excellent result given the
volume growth in the business for the period. Income
taxes paid and interest paid were also lower than last year.
The Group used $83.3 million in investing activities,
including $60.5 million of capital expenditure on
property, plant and equipment and intangibles. In
addition, $32.3 million was invested in treasury shares,
most of which related to an amount of $25.5 million
where the Company purchased 22,033,259 of its own
shares, currently held in trust, to settle future SARS and
LTIP obligations.
At the end of the year, cash and cash equivalents 
were $459.2 million compared to $347.9 million at
30 September 2006, while bank overdrafts decreased
from $6.2 million to $3.4 million. 
PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS
In terms of the UK Companies Act 1985, a description
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group
is required. Set out below are some of the factors which
could have an impact on the Group’s long term
performance. These should not be regarded as a
complete and comprehensive range of all potential risks
and uncertainties facing the Group.
Professional liability (execution and delivery)
The design, support, and project management nature of
most client engagements requires application of high
standards of process control, compliance and delivery
ability. If the client’s expectations are not met, the
Group’s reputation could be damaged and the Group
could be subject to increased risk of litigation. The
Group could also be required to provide corrective
services to clients at no charge. The Group continues to
monitor its processes to ensure quality in its delivery and
project management. The Group also carries general
liability insurance coverage.
People retention
Failure to retain and recruit key personnel could harm
our ability to meet key objectives.
A key aspect of the Group’s strategy is to provide an
outstanding employment experience that offers
employees the opportunity to grow personally and
professionally and also attracts high quality employees
to the Group. 
The Group has implemented a comprehensive
programme to ensure employee retention, including;
promotion and support of career development, a
structured approach to employee incentives, discipline
and consistency in reward and recognition, and effective
communication with employees around strategy
execution.
and many make
more Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 24
Chief Financial Officer’s operating 
review
Currency risk
The Group has operations in over 40 countries and receives revenues and incurs costs in numerous foreign currencies,
the most material of which are the South African rand, the Australian dollar, Sterling and the Euro. 
It is not the Group’s policy to hedge foreign currency earnings and as a consequence, movements in exchange rates
can affect the Group’s results. When Dimension Data invoices in local currency and has a foreign currency exposure to
suppliers, it generally either uses forward exchange contracts to hedge the exposure, or adjusts the price charged to
clients to take account of exchange rate fluctuations. In particular, many of the products resold by the Group are paid
for in US dollars. 
The following table reflects the average and year end exchange rates against the US dollar of South African rand,
Australian dollar, Sterling and Euro:
2007 2006
Period Period
Average end Average end
Australian dollar 1.229 1.126 1.337 1.341
Euro 0.746 0.701 0.808 0.789
South African rand 7.142 6.871 6.691 7.764
Sterling 0.509 0.488 0.559 0.535
(continued)
Vendor risk
The Group forms close and mutually beneficial
partnerships with leading technology vendors. 
This enables it to provide its clients the most advanced
and flexible technology solutions. The Group’s
relationship with these key vendors is important to its
continued success.
Termination of a supply or services agreement or a
significant change in vendor terms or conditions of sale
could negatively affect our operating margins, revenue
or the level of capital required to fund our operations.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk management within the Group focuses on
working capital metrics, cash balances as well as the
adequacy of the Group’s borrowing facilities. The short
term liquidity needs of the Group are managed on a
daily basis to ensure that contractual cash flow
obligations, and potential cash flows arising from
undrawn commitments and other contingent
obligations, can be met as they arise. 
Business continuity risk
The ability to seamlessly provide clients with high
service levels is a critical element of the Group’s service
offering. This service delivery is dependent on people
and IT infrastructures to continue operating. The Group
has a business continuity programme in place to
address this risk.
New product and technology risk
The market for the products and services offered by 
the Group is characterised by rapid technological
developments, evolving industry standards, changes in
client requirements, frequent new product introductions
and enhancements and short product life cycles. 
The Group’s success depends upon its ability to
continue to adapt to these changes and to develop new
services in response. 
The Group invests in this area by understanding the
value propositions required, building its capabilities in
focused areas, and developing depth of skill and
competence in prioritised growth markets. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 25
RESTATEMENTS AND CHANGES IN
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The results for the year to 30 September 2006 have
been restated for the effects of adopting new
accounting policies, as well as certain classification
adjustments. 
The accounting interpretation IFRIC 4 ‘Determining
Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease’ was
adopted in the current financial year; the impact of this
on the results for the year to 30 September 2006 was to
decrease operating profit by $0.5 million and increase
investment income by $0.6 million, with a net increase in
profit before tax of $0.1 million.
The change in use of the Campus property, which is
detailed in Notes 1 and 15 to the annual financial
statements. The change in the accounting for the South
African property asset is accounted for prospectively. 
Product and Services revenues in the prior year have
been restated for the reallocation of $23.1 million of
Middle East and Africa’s revenue from Product to
Services. 
Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the annual financial
statements for further details on the impact of the
above items.
Dave Sherriffs
Chief Financial Officer Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 26
1 2
3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 27
Group Executive Committee
1 Jeremy Ord
Chairman of Dimension Data Holdings plc
2 Brett Dawson
Chief Executive Officer of Dimension
Data Holdings plc
3 Dave Sherriffs
Chief Financial Officer of Dimension 
Data Holdings plc
4 Connie de Lange
Group Executive Marketing
5 Jere Brown
Chief Executive Officer Americas
6 Adam Craker
Group Executive Sales
7 Bruce Watson
Group Executive Cisco Alliance
8 Ettienne Reinecke
Chief Technology Officer and Group
Executive Network Integration
9 Patrick Quarmby
Director: Corporate Finance
10 Russell Bolan
Chief Executive Officer Europe
11 Marilyn Williams
Group Executive Human Resources
12 Steve Joubert
Group Executive Global Solutions
13 Allan Cawood
Chief Executive Officer Middle East 
and Africa
14 Bill Padfield
Chief Executive Officer Asia
15 Scott Petty
Group Executive Services
16 Steve Nola
Chief Executive Officer Australia Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 28
Board of Directors
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Jeremy John Ord (50) 
■
Chairman
Jeremy Ord was appointed as Chairman of Dimension
Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and
Johannesburg in 2000. He held the combined role of
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 1 March
2004, when Brett Dawson was appointed as Chief
Executive Officer. Jeremy previously served as Executive
Chairman of Dimension Data Holdings Limited from
1987, as the Group’s Managing Director and in other
senior positions since the Group’s 1983 inception. 
Brett William Dawson (43) 
Chief Executive Officer 
Brett Dawson was appointed as Chief Executive Officer
of the Group and to the Board of Dimension Data
Holdings plc on 1 March 2004. Prior to this
appointment he served as Dimension Data’s Chief
Operating Officer from 2002. He joined the Group in
1997 as Financial Director of the Group’s joint venture,
OmniLink. He was instrumental in growing the
business, which exceeded all business plan objectives
and claimed a dominant market share in the South
African market. Following the merger of OmniLink and
Internet Solutions, Brett was appointed CEO of Internet
Solutions. In September 2001 he relocated to take on
the role of CFO of Dimension Data North America,
where he focused on integrating acquisitions in that
territory. Prior to joining Dimension Data, Brett was
responsible for corporate strategy and planning at
National Brands Limited and held corporate finance
positions at Anglovaal Limited and KPMG. He
graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand as
a Chartered Accountant (SA). 
Stephen Michael Joubert (49) 
Group Executive Global Solutions
Stephen Joubert was appointed to the Board of
Dimension Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in
London and Johannesburg in 2000. Prior to that
appointment he served as a director of Dimension 
Data Holdings Limited from 1998. He joined the 
Group in 1996 as Group Financial Director in Network
Services. Before that, he was a partner at
PricewaterhouseCoopers for a number of years. 
He graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand
as a Chartered Accountant (SA).
Patrick Keith Quarmby (53)
Director: Corporate Finance 
Patrick Quarmby was appointed to the Board of
Dimension Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in
London and Johannesburg in 2000. Prior to that
appointment he served on the Board of Dimension Data
Holdings Limited from 1996. He was appointed as
Chairman of Datacraft Asia in July 2002. Previously he
worked as a tax partner at Ernst & Young South Africa
and was a director of Standard Bank in London and
Hong Kong. He graduated from the University of Cape
Town and is a Chartered Accountant (SA). 
David Brian Sherriffs (44)
Chief Financial Officer 
David Sherriffs was appointed as Chief Financial Officer
on 1 March 2004, and was appointed to the Board of
Dimension Data Holdings plc on 9 June 2004. He joined
the Group in 1997 as a member of the finance team,
primarily involved in corporate finance activities. In 2000,
David was appointed Vice President of Business
Development for Europe and relocated to Germany.
From 2003, David served as Group Executive
Operations and was responsible for business case
assessments relating to strategic projects. Prior to
joining the Dimension Data Group, David served in
various financial, corporate finance and strategy roles for
Anglo American plc, including Executive Assistant to the
chairman. David is a Chartered Accountant (SA) and
received his MPhil in Management Studies at the
University of Oxford. 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Rupert George Barclay (50) 
•
Senior independent non-executive director
Rupert Barclay joined the Board of Dimension Data
Holdings plc as an independent non-executive director
with effect from 9 June 2004 and is a member of the
Audit Committee. Rupert is a partner of Cairneagle
Associates LLP and is a non-executive director of
Lowland Investment Company plc. He previously served
in an executive capacity as CFO of Lombard Risk
Management plc, director of Group Strategy
Development at Reuters plc and director of Group
Strategy at Allied Domecq plc. He is a graduate of
Cambridge University, has an MBA from INSEAD and is
a Chartered Accountant. 
Leslie Frank Bergman (63)
Independent non-executive director
Leslie Bergman joined the Board of Dimension Data
Holdings plc as an independent non-executive director
with effect from 14 August 2007.  Leslie was previously Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 29
with Accenture working in the United States, the United
Kingdom, South  Africa and in Central and Eastern
Europe.  At the time of his retirement from Accenture in
October 2001, he was Regional Manager Partner,
Emerging Markets. Leslie is a director of Foschini Limited,
The Super Group Limited and Leder & Schuh (Austria). 
He has a BSc in Engineering from the University of Cape
Town and an MBA from Carnegie-Mellon University.
Peter John Liddiard (42) 
•
Non-executive director 
Peter Liddiard was appointed to the Board of Dimension
Data Holdings plc as a non-executive director on
2 October 2006 and is a member of the Audit
Committee. He serves as an executive of VenFin Limited
and is on the board of Sail Group Limited, Britehouse
Holdings (Pty) Limited and CV Fibre Network Solutions
(Pty) Limited. He graduated from the University of Port
Elizabeth and is a Chartered Accountant (SA).
Wendy Lucas-Bull (54) 
*
Independent non-executive director
Wendy Lucas-Bull joined the Board of Dimension Data
Holdings plc as an independent non-executive director
on 1 July 2005 and is the Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee.  She is a member of the Eskom Holdings
Limited board and the Development Bank of Southern
Africa and is Chairman of Lafarge Industries South Africa
(Pty) Limited.  She graduated from the University of the
Witwatersrand with a Bachelor of Science degree.
Josua (Dillie) Malherbe (51) 
*
Non-executive director 
Dillie Malherbe was appointed to the Board of
Dimension Data Holdings plc in November 2003 as a
non-executive director and is a member of the
Remuneration Committee. He is the Deputy Chairman of
VenFin Limited. He also serves on the board of Datacraft
Asia and MidiTV (Pty) Limited (e-tv). He graduated from
the Universities of Stellenbosch and Cape Town and
qualified as a Chartered Accountant (SA). 
Moses Modidima (Moss) Ngoasheng (50) 
Independent non-executive director 
Moss Ngoasheng was appointed to the Board in
September 2002. He also serves as a non-executive
director on the board of Dimension Data (South Africa)
(Pty) Limited. He is executive chairman of investment
company Safika Holdings (Pty) Limited, and was
previously economic advisor to South African President
Thabo Mbeki. He also serves as a non-executive
director of The Kelly Group Limited. Moss graduated
from the University of South Africa and has an MPhil
from Sussex University.  Safika Holdings (Pty) Limited,
amongst its other activities, has formed a minority part
of the consortium involved in the BEE transaction with
Dimension Data (South Africa) and has purchased an
interest in Britehouse Holdings (Pty) Limited as disclosed
in Note 36 to the accounts on page 83. The Company
has reviewed this involvement, and considers that Moss
should continue to be considered as fully independent. 
Roderick (Rory) Michael Scott (48) 
•
*
Independent non-executive director
Rory Scott was appointed to the Board of Dimension
Data Holdings plc as a non-executive director at the
time of its listing in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
He had previously served as a non-executive director on
the Board of Dimension Data Holdings Limited, and
before that served as the Group Financial Director from
1987 to 1991. He is presently Managing Director of the
Scottish Knitwear Group SA (Pty) Limited. He is a
Chartered Accountant (SA) and serves as chairman of
the Audit Committee and a member of the
Remuneration Committee. Given the length of time that
has elapsed since his service as an executive director,
the Company considers him to be independent. 
Peter Dorian (Dorian) Wharton-Hood (68) 
■
Independent non-executive director
Dorian Wharton-Hood was appointed to the Board of
Dimension Data Holdings plc as a non-executive
director at the time of its listing in London and
Johannesburg in 2000. He is a member of the
Nomination Committee and the Treasury Committee. He
was vice-chairman of Liberty Life for eight years. 
He was chairman of the Life Office’s Association of SA
on three occasions and president of the Insurance
Institute of SA. He was also a member of the Council of
the SA Foundation and a director of Business Against
Crime. In 1998 he was chairman of the Governing Body
of Business SA of which he is now a trustee. 
He graduated from Stellenbosch University with a
Bachelor of Commerce degree.     
• Member of the Audit Committee.
*
Member of the Remuneration Committee.
■
Member of the Nomination Committee. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 30
Directors’ report
The Directors of Dimension Data Holdings plc 
(the Company) present their annual report and
audited financial statements for the year ended
30 September 2007.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is a holding company with various
interests in specialist IT services and solutions providers
that help clients plan, build, support and manage their IT
infrastructures. The ‘Group’ comprises the Company
and all its subsidiary and associated entities.  Details of
the principal subsidiary and associate entities are
provided on page 96.  The Group applies its expertise in
networking, security, operating environments, storage
and contact centre technologies and its unique skills in
consulting, integration and managed services to create
customised client solutions.  
There have not been any significant changes to the
Group's principal activities during the year under review
and the Directors are not aware, at the date of this
report, of any likely major changes in the Group's
activities in the new financial year.
Information about the development and performance of
the business of the Company during the financial year
that fulfils the requirements of S234ZZB of the
Companies Act 1985 (‘the Companies Act’) is included
in the Chief Financial Officer’s Operating Review on
pages 16 to 25.
As required by the Companies Act, the Directors’
Report should be read in conjunction with the
Chairman’s Letter, the Chief Executive Officer’s
Review and the Chief Financial Officer’s Operating
Review, which provide information about the Group’s
businesses, its financial performance during the year
and likely future developments. 
BUSINESS REVIEW
Position of the Group at year end
The full year results as at 30 September 2007 are
presented under International Financial Reporting
Standards (‘IFRS’), as adopted by the European Union.
For the year ended 30 September 2007, revenue was
$3,773.2 million, compared with $3,068.0 million for the
previous year. Operating profit was $123.9 million,
compared with $80.2 million for the previous year.
Earnings per share amounted to 6.0 US cents (2006:
2.7 US cents). 
Business performance indicators
The Group is primarily managed regionally. In addition,
the Group is focused on six global lines of business:
Network Integration, Converged Communications,
Security, Customer Interactive Solutions, Data Centre
and Storage and Microsoft Solutions. In assessing the
performance and financial position of its operations, the
Board uses various financial measures, including:
revenue growth, gross margin trends, operating profit
growth and operating margin, fixed and variable
overhead cost trends, trade receivables, days’ sales
outstanding  and ageing of working capital. Additional
disclosure regarding these financial measures is included
in the Chief Financial Officer's Operating Review.
The Board also reviews non-financial business
performance indicators, including client and employee
satisfaction survey feedback, productivity ratios,
employee attrition and retention statistics.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
The Group has identified certain risk factors and these
are discussed within the Chief Financial Officer’s
Operating Review. These are professional liability risk,
people retention risk, vendor risk, liquidity risk, currency
risk, business continuity risk, and new product and
technology risk. The Group’s results could also be
affected by other factors, and the factors outlined should
not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive
statement of all potential risks and uncertainties facing
the Group.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
Dimension Data continues to align its research and
development with its strategy of establishing world-class
expertise in its lines of business and in its service delivery
capabilities. The Group continues to invest to achieve
strategic alignment across all regions, facilitating the
leverage of intellectual property and adoption of best
practices. For example, the Group has completed some
ground breaking work in the development of a zero-
touch Microsoft desktop deployment offering, and the
value of this was illustrated with the Group receiving the
‘Technology Innovation Partner of the Year’ award at the
Global Microsoft Partner event in July 2007. The Group
has also been able to establish a leadership position for
the implementation methodology it has developed in the
fast growing IP-Telephony market.
DIVIDEND 
The Directors recommend the payment of a dividend of
1.5 US cents per share (2006: 1.0 US cent). Subject to
shareholders' approval at the Annual General Meeting
on Wednesday, 30 January 2008, the final dividend will
be paid on Friday, 14 March 2008 to shareholders on
the share register at the close of business on Friday,
15 February 2008. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 31
The dividend will be paid in sterling to shareholders on
the UK register and in South African rand to
shareholders on the South African register, converted
from US dollars as at the close of business on Thursday,
31 January 2008. The Directors will not be offering a
share alternative to the 2007 final dividend.
The following are the salient dates for the payment of the
proposed dividend:
Announcement of 
conversion rate Friday, 1 February 2008
Last day to trade on 
the JSE Friday, 8 February 2008
Date trading commences 
‘ex’ the dividend on the JSE Monday, 11 February 2008
Date trading commences 
‘ex’ the dividend on 
the LSE Wednesday, 13 February 2008
Record date on the JSE 
and LSE Friday, 15 February 2008
Payment of dividend Friday, 14 March 2008
No transfers between the UK and South African
registers may take place during the period Friday,
1 February 2008 and Friday, 15 February 2008 (both
days inclusive). Shareholders on the South African
register should note that, in accordance with the
requirements of Strate, no dematerialisation or
rematerialisation of shares will be possible from Monday,
11 February 2008 to Friday, 15 February 2008 (both
days inclusive).
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate
governance.  A report on Corporate Governance and
compliance with the Combined Code is set out on
pages 34 to 37.
EMPLOYEES
As at 30 September 2007, the Group employed
approximately 10,600 employees throughout the world.
Details of employee related costs are included in Note 7
to the financial statements.  
Employee consultation and communication
The Group looks to engage all employees in a shared
commitment to the success of the business and keep
them informed regarding the business environment and
matters of concern. The Group consults with them or
their representatives for views in matters affecting them,
including informing them of financial and economic
factors affecting the Group’s performance. The Group
undertakes an annual employee satisfaction survey to
generate constructive employee feedback on common
themes, such as Leadership, Learning and Development
and Communication.
Employee remuneration
Dimension Data offers long term incentives to selected
employees and performance related bonus payments.
Details of the long term incentives appear in the
Remuneration Report, and the outstanding share
options, Share Appreciation Rights and Long Term
Incentive Plan awards appear in Note 38 to the annual
financial statements on pages 83 to 87. The total
remuneration offerings are reviewed and benchmarked
annually and follow corporate governance approval
procedures.
Learning and Development
The Group continues to invest in developing its employee
base. For Leadership and Management development,
2007 saw its first deployment of the bi-annual Group
Leadership Development Programme, a continuation of
multiple management training offerings, and continuous
leadership engagement events. In addition, investments
are made in Sales and Technical Development, using
multiple learning interventions, such as boot camps, 
e-learning and classroom learning. Dimension Data’s
investment in its Human Capital has resulted in multiple
regional industry recognition awards.
Technology
Investment is made in technology to extract operational
efficiencies as well as improve user experience. 
An e-recruitment application is being deployed globally,
the intranet platform has been upgraded, and continuous
investment is made in automating transactional activities
such as documenting performance management,
recognition, career development and skills assessment.
Employee diversity 
It is the Group's policy to promote equal opportunities in
employment for both existing employees and applicants
for employment, regardless of gender, age, race,
national origin and sexual orientation. Efforts are made
to ensure that applications from disabled persons are
fairly considered and that disabled employees have
equal opportunities in career development. In the event
of an existing employee becoming disabled, effort is
made to ensure that their employment by the Group
continues and that appropriate adjustments are made to
their work environment. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 32
Directors’ report
(continued)
DIRECTORS 
The current Directors are listed on pages 28 and 29. Details of the members of the Board, who served throughout
the year except as listed, are given below: 
Name Position Appointed 
Jeremy Ord Chairman May 2000 
Brett Dawson Chief Executive Officer March 2004
Stephen Joubert Group Executive Global Solutions July 2000
Patrick Quarmby Director: Corporate Finance July 2000
David Sherriffs Chief Financial Officer June 2004 
Rupert Barclay Independent non-executive director June 2004
Leslie Bergman Independent non-executive director August  2007
Peter Liddiard Non-executive director October 2006 
Wendy Lucas-Bull Independent non-executive director July 2005
Dillie Malherbe Non-executive director November 2003 
Moss Ngoasheng Independent non-executive director September 2002
Rory Scott Independent non-executive director July 2000
Dorian Wharton-Hood Independent non-executive director July 2000
Gordon Waddell retired as an independent non-executive director in June 2007.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting,
Jeremy Ord, David Sherriffs, Rupert Barclay and
Moss Ngoasheng retire and offer themselves for 
re-election in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The Company's Articles of Association provide that every
director appointed to the Board during the year shall
automatically retire and seek election at the next general
meeting following appointment. Accordingly share-
holders will be asked to elect Leslie Bergman as a non-
executive director.
The Nomination Committee and Chairman confirm that
the directors up for re-election and election continue to
be effective in their roles as directors of the Company,
by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to
the Board.
Biographical details of those directors seeking 
re-election and election are set out on pages 28 and 29.
Directors’ memberships of Board Committees are set
out in the Corporate Governance Report. Details of
Directors’ service contracts, remuneration and interests
in shares are set out in the Remuneration Report. Details
of the Directors’ interests in any Group company can
also be found in the Remuneration Report. 
AUTHORISED SHARE CAPITAL
The authorised share capital of the Company is made up
of £50,000, divided into 50,000 deferred shares of
£1 each, and $30 million, divided into 3 billion ordinary
shares of 1 US cent each. 
The holders of the deferred shares have no right to
receive notice of any general meeting of the Company,
nor the right to attend, speak or vote at such general
meetings. The deferred shares have no rights to
dividends and on a return of assets in a winding-up,
entitle the holder to the repayment of the amounts paid
on the deferred shares after repayment of the capital
paid up on the ordinary shares plus the payment of
$10 million per ordinary share.
ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL 
As at 30 September 2007, the Company’s issued share
capital was 50,000 deferred shares of £1 each and
1,551,599,171 ordinary shares of 1 US cent each.
Details of interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary
share capital of the Company are shown in Shareholder
Information on page 97.
ACQUISITIONS
Details of acquisitions are set out in Note 31 to the
annual financial statements.
DISPOSALS 
Details of disposals are set out in Note 31 to the annual
financial statements.
ETHICS 
The Group embraces the highest standards in its
business activities, operating in accordance with an
ethical code that is distributed to employees via the
corporate intranet. A copy of the code is available on the
Group’s website www.dimensiondata.com  Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 33
CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY 
The Group is committed to maintaining a sound
commercial relationship with its creditors.  The Group
has no fixed payment policies but negotiates the best
possible terms with its suppliers.  
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end.
GROUP FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group's financial instruments comprise cash and
cash equivalents, as well as items such as trade
receivables and trade payables that arise directly from
the Group's operations.  In addition, the Group enters
into forward foreign currency contracts to manage some
of the currency risks arising from the Group's
operations. Details of the Group’s financial instruments
are provided in Note 39 to the financial statements.  
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
There were no material post balance sheet events.
GOING CONCERN 
After making due enquiry, the Directors consider that, as
at the date of the approval of the financial statements,
the Group has adequate resources to continue to
operate for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the Group’s financial statements. 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND
POLITICAL DONATIONS
Dimension Data’s support for communities and
charitable organisations is detailed in the Corporate
Social Responsibility Report set out on pages 39 and
40. Charitable donations and grants made during the
year amounted to  $162,000 (2006: $110,000). 
The Company made no political donations in the year
under review (2006: nil).  It is not proposed that the
Group’s longstanding policy of not making contributions
to any political party be changed.  
AUDITORS 
Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the
Group’s auditors and authorising the Directors to
determine their remuneration will be proposed at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
To the best of each of the directors' knowledge and
belief (at the date of approval of this annual report) and
having made appropriate enquiries of the officers of the
Group, all information relevant to enabling the auditors to
provide their opinion on the financial statements has
been provided. Each of the directors has taken
reasonable steps to ensure their awareness of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the
Company's auditors are aware of such information.  
This information is given and should be interpreted in
accordance with the provisions of S234ZA of the
Companies Act 1985.
COMPANY SECRETARY 
The Company Secretary is ML Taylor (details inside back
cover).
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
The notice convening the Annual General Meeting,
together with the proxy form and notes explaining the
various resolutions, is enclosed with this document. 
By Order of the Board
Michelle Taylor
Secretary 
13 November 2007 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 34
Corporate governance report
This report contains a summary of how the Board
has complied with the principles set out in the
Financial Reporting Councils (‘FRC’) Combined
Code on Corporate Governance.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2007 the
Company has been in compliance with the Code
provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code on Corporate Governance with the
exception that: 
Dillie Malherbe was appointed as a member of the
Remuneration Committee in September 2004 and is not
considered to be independent due to his executive role
at VenFin Limited. Peter Liddiard was appointed as a
member of the Audit Committee in September 2007 and
is also not considered to be independent due to his
executive role at VenFin Limited. 
The Board considered the implications of the roles of
both Dillie Malherbe and Peter Liddiard at VenFin Limited
and concluded that this would not compromise the
independence of their input to these committees. As at
30 September 2007 VenFin Limited held 18.2% of the
Company’s share capital. 
The Chief Executive Officer’s Review and the Chief
Financial Officer’s Operating Review summarise the
Group’s performance and financial position. The Board
considers these reviews, along with the Chairman’s
Letter and the Directors’ Report, to reflect, with
reasonable accuracy, the Group’s position and
prospects. The Directors’ responsibility for the financial
statements is described on page 47. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
The Board including the Chairman comprises five
executive directors and eight non-executive directors.
The Board considers all non-executive directors, with
the exception of Dillie Malherbe and Peter Liddiard, to be
independent. Rupert Barclay holds the position of senior
independent non-executive director. 
A table setting out members of the Board during the
period can be found on page 32. 
Biographical details for the current directors can be
found on pages 28 and 29. 
The Board met five times during the past year. A table
indicating attendance by directors at Board and
Committee meetings is set out at the end of this report.
The non-executive directors have met separately three
times during the year, and in addition communicate on a
regular basis. 
BOARD TRAINING AND EVALUATION 
On appointment each director receives an induction
programme into the Group together with guidance on
their responsibilities.
During the period under review, the performance of the
executive directors has been evaluated using the
performance management system implemented
throughout the Group. An evaluation of the effectiveness
of the Board and its principal committees was
undertaken during September 2007. The non-executive
directors, led by Rupert Barclay, the senior independent
director, reviewed the leadership and performance of the
Chairman. The assessment concluded that the structure
of the Board and its committees was robust and that the
contributions and the time commitments of the
members satisfied the present needs of the business.
In terms of the Articles of Association each director shall
retire and may be available for re-election in the third
calendar year following the year in which he or she was
elected or last re-elected by the Company.
BOARD OPERATION 
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the
conduct of the business of the Group, and decides upon
Group strategy. 
A corporate governance framework in the form of an
authorities matrix has been approved by the Board
defining the roles and responsibilities of the constituent
elements of the Group's management structure. This
enables the Board to plan, execute, control and monitor
the Group's activities so as to achieve its strategic
objectives.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board include:
• Approval of the Group's strategy and annual budget;
• Review of Group performance;
• Approval of major capital expenditure or disposals,
material contracts, material acquisitions and
developments; 
• Maintaining and monitoring the Group's system of
internal control and risk management;
• Changes relating to the Company's capital structure
and the Memorandum and Articles of Association;
• Recommendation of dividends;
• Communication with shareholders, including
approval of all circulars, prospectuses and major
public announcements; Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 35
• The terms of reference of Board committees;
• The appointment, removal and remuneration of
directors and the Company Secretary;
• Changes to retirement benefit schemes, employee
share plans and long term incentive programmes;
• Approval of the interim statement and annual report
and accounts (including the review of critical
accounting policies and accounting judgements and
an assessment of the Company's position and
prospects); and
• The appointment of the external auditors.
Financial reporting is performed according to a strict
schedule. The non-executive directors are provided
with information to enable them to reach independent
conclusions on the matters brought to their attention
at Board meetings. The Board ensures that each
director is provided with appropriate and timely
information in order to exercise his or her judgement.
All directors are able to obtain independent
professional advice at the Company’s expense. They
also have access to the services and advice of the
Company Secretary.
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has established four committees to which it
has delegated specific responsibility. All committees
operate within written terms of reference approved by
the Board which are available on request from the
Company Secretary and may be viewed on the
Company's website www.dimensiondata.com
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee, which meets fortnightly, has
responsibility for the day-to-day running of the business
and the execution of the Group’s strategy. It is chaired
by Brett Dawson. The other executive directors, with the
exception of Jeremy Ord, are also members. The
members of the Executive Committee are set out on
page 27.
Audit Committee
Rory Scott (Chairman)
Rupert Barclay
Peter Liddiard (appointed September 2007)
Gordon Waddell (retired June 2007)
Derek Irish 
The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive
directors, two of whom are independent, and Derek
Irish, a chartered accountant and a senior partner in an
independent accounting practice. The Audit Committee
met four times during the year and the Chairman has
met independently with the external auditors three
times during the year. In addition the Audit Committee
has met once with only management and once with
only the external auditors present. The Group’s external
and internal auditors attend the meetings and have
direct access to the Audit Committee to report the
findings of the external and internal audit work, as well
as any matters of concern. The Chief Financial Officer
attends the meetings at the request of the Audit
Committee. The report of the Audit Committee is
contained on page 38.
Remuneration Committee
Wendy Lucas-Bull (Chairperson)
Dillie Malherbe 
Rory Scott 
Gordon Waddell (retired June 2007)
The Remuneration Committee comprises three 
non-executive directors, two of whom are independent.
The Remuneration Committee met four times in the year
under review. It operates within defined terms of
reference, and recommends to the Board the
remuneration policies for the Group’s directors and
senior executives. No director is involved in determining
his own remuneration. The report of the Remuneration
Committee is contained on pages 41 to 46. 
Nomination Committee
Jeremy Ord (Chairman) 
Gordon Waddell (retired June 2007)
Dorian Wharton-Hood 
The Committee met twice during the year under
review. The Nomination Committee reviews the
composition of the Board and makes recommendations
to the Board regarding the appointment of new
directors. It also satisfies itself that succession plans
are in place for the Board and senior management 
of the Group, and reviews the performance of 
non-executive directors. 
The Nomination Committee considered the expertise
and knowledge Leslie Bergman has and recommended
his appointment to the Board as an independent non-
executive director. The Nomination Committee did not
consider it necessary to utilise an external consultant
regarding this appointment. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 36
Corporate governance report
(continued)
COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS 
The Group is committed to honest, open and regular
communication with all stakeholders on both financial
and non-financial matters. 
The Group reports its half year and full year results
formally to shareholders. Effective communication with
institutional investors, analysts and the media is
established throughout the period through presentations
by executives and senior management. Meetings are
held to update the market on the Group’s strategies,
operations and performance. Executive and senior
management attend these meetings on a regular basis.
All briefings and meetings are conducted in line with the
Group’s written guidelines to ensure control over price-
sensitive information and equality of disclosure. 
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity to
communicate directly with shareholders. The Chairmen
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees
are available at the meetings to answer questions from
shareholders. Notice of the Annual General Meeting is
enclosed within this Annual Report. Separate resolutions
are proposed on each substantially different issue. The
Company will publish on its corporate website details of
proxy votes together with a summary of the business
conducted at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition to the interim and annual reports, shareholders
can obtain information about the Group posted on the
corporate website www.dimensiondata.com
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL
CONTROL 
Ultimate responsibility for Risk Management and Internal
Control lies with the Board. This includes regular review
by the Board and management of the effectiveness of
the Risk Management and Internal Control systems and
functions. The Risk Management function, headed by
the Group Risk Manager, is supported by an Enterprise
Risk Management (‘ERM’) programme and the internal
audit function. The ERM programme provides
assurance to the Board on all matters concerning Group
Risk, including strategic, operational, financial and
compliance risks. The programme is structured in a way
that focuses on the risks relevant to Dimension Data’s
business objectives. During the year the risk
management process was subject to a detailed review
with a new risk management policy being approved.
This risk management process revealed certain control
weaknesses which are in the process of being rectified.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than
eliminate risks of failure to achieve business objectives,
and provide reasonable rather than absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss. The internal audit
function is a structured review of internal controls based
on risk assessment.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the work plan
and key findings of the internal and external audit
process and monitors developments to ensure that
areas of weakness are addressed. Responsibility for
implementing controls and improvements lies with
business unit or regional level management. The Group
Risk Committee provides an advisory function to the
Board and Audit Committee on all matters concerning
risk and internal control, and the Audit Committee has
delegated the day-to-day responsibility for review of the
Group Risk Register to this Committee and to the Group
Risk Manager.
The processes above have been in place for the year
under review up to the date of approval of the annual
report and accounts. The Audit Committee and the
Board regularly review the processes in place and are
satisfied that the system of Internal Control is in line and
in accord with the guidance as set out in ‘Internal
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code’
issued by the FRC in October 2005.
FINANCIAL REPORTING 
The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for determining
Group financial policy and, with the Chief Executive
Officer, for the execution thereof. The Chief Executive
Officer is also responsible for the integrity of forecast
information upon which executive decisions are based.
A budget process takes place annually, culminating in
review and approval by the Board. 
Each business unit reports revenue, profitability, cash
position and forecasts monthly to the Chief Financial
Officer. The Chief Financial Officer considers these
against forecasts and budget, and reports to the Board
quarterly. In addition, the Chief Financial Officer
distributes monthly management accounts to the
directors.   
Controls over business unit risks include reviews against
performance indicators and exception reporting.
Business units’ senior management are responsible for
identifying, evaluating and managing business risks.
There are channels of communication available to report
significant risks to the Board if necessary.  Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 37
QUALITY AND INTEGRITY OF PERSONNEL 
The Group is committed to aligning its employees with
its interests and values. It has an ethical code to which
employees are expected to adhere, and transgressions
are strictly dealt with. 
IT SYSTEMS 
The Group continued its consolidation of IT
infrastructure and applications across the Group. 
In most cases, this requires at the same time a focus on
system and process standardisation, and this remains a
big opportunity to extract efficiencies from the Group’s
operating model. In particular, the adoption of a
standard ERP application across Europe is almost
complete. Other important initiatives remain in place,
including contract management process standardisation
and the Group-wide adoption of the e-procurement
application, Direct.  
AUTHORITY AND REVIEW 
The Group has defined levels of authority for the
subsidiary boards and their directors for financial and
operational decision making, including major
investments, capital expenditure and contractual
engagements. The Group’s internal audit function
monitors compliance with these authority levels.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS DURING THE PERIOD UNDER REVIEW
Name Board (5) Audit (4) Remuneration (4) Nomination (2)
JJ Ord 5 – – 2
BW Dawson 5 – – –
SM Joubert 5 – – –
PK Quarmby 5 – – –
DB Sherriffs 5 4 – –
RGML Barclay 5 4 – –
LJ Bergman (appointed August 2007) 1– – –
PJ Liddiard* 5 1 – –
W Lucas-Bull 3 – 4 –
J Malherbe 5 – 4 –
MM Ngoasheng 5 – – –
RM Scott 5 4 4 –
GH Waddell (retired June 2007) 11 1 –
PD Wharton-Hood 5 – – 2
D Irish – 4 – –
*Appointed to Audit Committee September 2007. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 38
The Audit Committee presents its report on
activities during the period. 
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The members of the Audit Committee for the period
under review were as follows: 
Rory Scott (Chairman)
Rupert Barclay 
Peter Liddiard (appointed September 2007)
Gordon Waddell (retired June 2007)
Derek Irish
The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive
directors, of whom two are independent, and Derek
Irish, a senior partner in an independent accounting
practice. During the period under review Gordon
Waddell retired and Peter Liddiard was appointed. 
A table showing attendance at committee meetings is
available on page 37. All the current committee
members are qualified chartered accountants.
Biographical details for all directors can be found on
pages 28 and 29.
The Board of Directors has approved written terms of
reference for the Audit Committee. These terms of
reference are available on the Company’s website
www.dimensiondata.com 
The main duties and activities of the Committee in the
period under review can be summarised as follows: 
INTERNAL CONTROL 
Group risk
The Committee, supported by the Group Risk
Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s
internal controls, including financial, operational and
compliance controls, and procedures for identification,
assessment and reporting of risks. The terms of
reference for the Group Risk Committee, which reports
to the Audit Committee, are available on the Company’s
website www.dimensiondata.com 
Internal audit 
During the period under review the Group's internal
audit team was extended by the appointment of
additional resources in Europe and South Africa.
PricewaterhouseCoopers has continued to act as
internal auditor for the Group. The Committee confirms
the internal audit programme of work and reviews its
reports. The head of the internal audit function has direct
access to both the Chairman of the Audit Committee
and the Chairman of the Board. The Committee has met
with the internal auditors twice during the period under
review and the Chairman of the Committee has met
privately with them on two further occasions. 
External audit 
The Committee reviews the performance and
independence of the external auditors. When
considering their independence, the safeguards and
procedures undertaken by the external auditors are
reviewed to ensure their independence and objectivity.
Based on this review, the Committee has recommended
the continued appointment of the external auditors for
the coming financial year. During the period under
review the Committee reviewed the scope of the interim
review and year end audit including the Group
materiality level. With respect to independence,
approval must be obtained from the Committee at the
end of the financial year for audit, tax services and
agreed upon procedures in respect of audit services.
Non-audit services during the financial year exceeding
$50,000 on an individual basis or $250,000 in total
must be approved by the Committee.
Details of the split between audit and non-audit work
can be found in Note 6 of the annual financial
statements. The Committee considers that the
approvals required for audit and non-audit services,
together with the other controls in place within the
Group, are sufficient to ensure the objectivity and
independence of the external auditors. Non-audit work
during the period has comprised taxation and various
audit certificates. The Committee has met with the
external auditors four times and once without
management present during the period under review. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The Committee has reviewed the financial statements
for the period, and has considered matters such as the
appropriateness of the accounting policies, decisions
requiring a major element of judgement, compliance
with accounting standards, the going concern
assumption and the statement on internal control. 
OTHER MATTERS 
The ethical code and whistle-blowing policy is intended
to assist individuals who believe they have discovered
serious malpractice or impropriety to take the
appropriate action. The Committee is satisfied that these
arrangements provide for proportionate and
independent investigation of matters reported and for
appropriate follow up action. A copy of the ethical code
and whistle-blowing policy is available on the
Company’s website www.dimensiondata.com
Audit Committee report Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 39
Corporate social responsibility report
OVERVIEW
As our global business grows, our Corporate Social
Responsibility initiatives are keeping pace. Across the
globe, Dimension Data is engaged in diverse projects
which, despite regional differences, align to our culture
and deliver on our corporate values of integrity,
teamwork, personal commitment and professional
excellence. Our aim is for our Corporate Social
Responsibility initiatives, supported by our management
and people around the world, to be executed with the
same drive, energy and professional values we deliver in
the execution of our business. 
As environmental issues gain prominence, we face a
growing number of requests from our clients around
the world to develop and implement more
environmentally friendly IT solutions. Solutions which
consume less power and generate a smaller carbon
footprint are particularly important to large enterprises
and governments. We are working on ways to assist
our clients with this challenge as well as incorporate
more environmentally friendly processes into our own
business. 
We are conscious that each country within which we
operate has a diverse range of social issues relevant to
their own societies and environments. Our philosophy is
to drive initiatives which are most relevant to the unique
communities and social and economic circumstances in
these  countries. 
HIGHLIGHTS
In Africa, the Group leverages education and technology
to affect change and upliftment. The region’s flagship
initiative, the Dimension Data Saturday School, equips
learners with leadership, entrepreneurial and other vital
skills which not only uplift individual competencies, but
also contribute to the growing economy. Twelve partner
schools are involved, sending between 900 and 1,500
students to participate in the programme every week.
Dimension Data employees volunteer to mentor and
teach the students. The Saturday School Bursary
Programme also sponsors three exceptional students
from the programme, paying their living and tuition fees
while they attend the university of their choice.
Because of the outstanding success of our Saturday
School programme, we have taken the step of
introducing an e-Learning Management System into
government schools. Dimension Data’s vision is to reach
40,000 learners through the e-Learning Management
System by 2015. The region has already taken the first
steps with a rollout to a small learner sample, and plans
are underway to offer the benefits of the Saturday
School to a wider pool of learners, using technology to
give them access to tutorials, research material and
online libraries through video feeds. 
In the past year, we invested $235,000 in the
construction of classrooms and libraries for
underprivileged schools. The region continues to
support the CIDA City Campus, where our Internet
Solutions division provides technology infrastructure and
assistance with administration, the presentation of
lectures, as well as the compilation of the IT curriculum
and course material.
In keeping with our commitment to environmental
responsibility, we have rolled out a power and utility
saving system at our head office at the Campus in
Johannesburg. This enables motion and infrared
sensors to control the lights in all office, open plan and
basement areas. When there is no movement, the light
sensor turns off the lights it controls. In addition, we
focus on water conservation and recycling projects to
minimise our environmental impact at the Campus.
In Australia, Dimension Data focuses on children,
education and the environment, areas chosen by
employees when the region’s CSR programme, Heads
Hearts and Hands, was established in 2004. This year,
Dimension Data in Australia has achieved success with
the IT Fund for Kids, the Arwarbukarl Cultural Resource
Association, Hands On Learning, and Oz GREEN. 
We continue to promote the Workplace Giving Program
which raised over $60,000 in the past financial year. In
addition, $380,000 was raised for the IT Fund for Kids,
and we matched employees’ private donations to the
sum of a further $27,000.
In an exciting marriage of technology and corporate
social responsibility, Dimension Data in Australia
partnered with Microsoft to trial Microsoft Office
SharePoint Server 2007 with the Arwarbukarl Cultural
Resource Association (ACRA). ACRA was founded to
preserve and revive the Awabakal language, and the
programme is currently being extended to more than
250 indigenous languages. Dimension Data in Australia
provided its expertise to develop the application for
ACRA to store words, images and sounds. We were
recognised for this project and other CSR achievements
by Microsoft; nominated as one of three finalists for
‘Citizenship Partner of the Year’ in 2007; and received a
Microsoft Worldwide Partner Program award for
demonstrating the use of technology to empower and
deliver value in a practical and effective way. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 40
Through employee involvement in Living Communities,
a programme where employees learn to practise
sustainable environmental procedures, employees 
were able to significantly reduce their individual
environmental footprints. 
Across Europe, we support a range of diverse local
causes. For example, Luxembourg has a paper
recycling initiative and donates to Unicef. Belgium
supports Dynamo, an organisation which looks after
street children and vulnerable youngsters. The United
Kingdom supports havens for women and children who
are victims of domestic abuse. Employees in the UK
office are also actively encouraged to contribute
individually to charitable activities. 
In North America, our CSR programme is called
Network of Hope. In the past 12 months, Dimension
Data in America increased the number of regional
initiatives it participates in, as well as facilitating
employee contributions to two charities, City Year and
United Way, through payroll deductions. In addition,
each employee was allocated eight hours time off for the
year to volunteer for worthwhile projects.
The aim of Network of Hope is to support employees as
they offer their time and skills to the betterment of their
communities. There is a corporate team as well as local
field teams, and each office has a designated person
who initiates opportunities for which employees may
volunteer. These co-ordinators liase with the United Way
and City Year, as well as many regional charities. 
Examples of activities undertaken include renovation
and upgrading of two residential homes for mentally
and physically handicapped people; assisting at the
Mecklenburg County Special Olympics; the
renovation of Apostle’s House, a homeless shelter in
New York; volunteer work at the Miracle Kitchen,
which is run by the Salvation Army; donations of used
cell phones to women’s shelters; collection of food
and donations to the Second Harvest Food Bank;
and sponsorship of runners who took part in the
Susan G Komen Triangle Race for the Cure, which
raised money for cancer research.
Asia’s CSR programme is called Carecraft. All our
charitable efforts in the region are co-ordinated and
directed under the Carecraft banner. Highlights of the
past 12 months include volunteer work with
WorldVision, schools, kindergartens and educational
projects, as well as disaster relief work in partnership
with Unicef and the Red Cross.
For example, Carecraft China undertook extensive
sponsorship and volunteer work for WorldVision
sponsored schools in Ping Quan, Hebei Province. This is
one of the poorest regions in China, with low average
income and a compelling need for upliftment and further
education. Our Chinese office provided full year
scholarships for 15 junior high school students in Ping
Quan, and also committed to providing sports facilities
for the schools. We have also sponsored basic
stationery requirements for another school in the region.
Our Mentorship Programme enables employees to
support and encourage students, and we extend
support to their teachers too, by means of a computer
training centre set up by our partner WorldVision, where
we provide the IT training. Other examples include the
Philippines, where we donated money to three relief
organisations involved in relief work following Typhoon
Reming, and Malaysia where we assisted with material
relief for flood victims in Muar, Johor. 
Corporate social responsibility report
(continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 41
Remuneration report
The Remuneration Committee presents its
Remuneration Report, which was approved by the
Board of Directors on 13 November 2007. 
INTRODUCTION 
This report was prepared in accordance with the
Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. 
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and
describes how the Board applies the Principles of Good
Governance relating to directors’ remuneration. 
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve
the report will be proposed at the Annual General
Meeting of the Company, at which the financial
statements will be approved. The Regulations require
the auditors to report to the Company’s members on
certain parts of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and
to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report
have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 (as amended by the Regulations).
The report has therefore been divided into separate
sections for audited and unaudited information. 
UNAUDITED INFORMATION 
The Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee members for the period
under review were as follows:
Wendy Lucas-Bull (Chairperson) 
Dillie Malherbe 
Rory Scott 
Gordon Waddell (retired June 2007)
All the members of the Remuneration Committee are
considered by the Company to be independent 
non-executives, with the exception of Dillie Malherbe. 
The Board's explanation for Dillie Malherbe's appointment
to the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Corporate
Governance Report. All the members of the Remuneration
Committee are free from conflicts of interest in considering
matters relating to remuneration of executives. 
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the
period under review. A table showing attendance at
committee meetings is available on page 37.
A copy of the full terms of reference for the
Remuneration Committee is available on the Company’s
website www.dimensiondata.com 
The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter
for the executive members of the Board. No director or
manager is involved in any decisions as to his or her own
remuneration.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the
Group Executive Human Resources provide information
on current remuneration and performance of directors
and senior management, and are available to the
Remuneration Committee to answer any questions that
may arise. The Chief Financial Officer assists the
Remuneration Committee in ensuring the affordability of
the long term incentive schemes to the Group. 
The Company Secretary’s office provides assistance
and advice to the Remuneration Committee with respect
to governance, the operation of the long term incentive
schemes and regulatory compliance.
Policy on executive and non-executive directors’
remuneration 
The Remuneration Committee aims to provide
remuneration packages consistent with a global IT
services business. Our business depends on the
attraction, retention and motivation of high calibre
executives. The Remuneration Committee has
considered the following principles for 2008:
• All remuneration arrangements will be designed to
support the Group’s business strategy in line with
best practice standards. 
• Levels of total reward will be competitive within the
relevant market and location. 
• At an on-target level, the proportion of executive
remuneration that is performance linked will be not
less than 45% of total remuneration, including
awards under any long term incentive schemes
(being the Share Appreciation Rights Scheme
(‘SARS’) and the Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’)
valued at ‘fair value’. Market and non-market
conditions will be taken into consideration when
determining such a value.
• The fair value of combined grants under the SARS
and LTIP shall not exceed one times base pay per
individual.
• Performance conditions attaching to the long term
incentive schemes will be challenging. LTIP
conditions shall normally relate to performance
against a peer group of companies, while SARS
conditions shall normally relate to the normalised
earnings per share of the Group. The policy relating
to each component of remuneration for the directors
is summarised below: 
Base salary
The base salary of the executive directors is subject to
annual review and is set with reference to external
market data relating to similar companies based in Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 42
South Africa and the UK and taking into account the
primary location of the directors concerned.
Consideration is given to the size, market sector,
business complexity and international reach of the
comparator companies. 
Annual bonus plan
Each of the executive directors is entitled to participate
in an annual bonus scheme. The annual bonus should
be aligned with the interests of the Company’s
shareholders and consequently, for the financial year
2008, performance criteria are earnings per share,
Group and regional operating profit and other applicable
business metrics such as lines of business gross profit
and services gross profit, together with an amount
relating to the achievement of personal key performance
indicators (KPIs). In addition, the upper limit for the
annual bonus plan for directors is 150% of base salary
unless there is an overachievement on performance
targets, in which case the Remuneration Committee
may award a discretionary bonus.
Long term incentives
During the financial year 2007 awards under the LTIP
schemes were made to executive directors as detailed
on pages 43 and 44. No SARS were granted.
Pensions and other benefits
Pensions and other benefits such as life insurance
benefits for executive directors reflect the practice in the
countries in which they are primarily resident. The
executive directors each receive life insurance, disability
insurance and medical cover benefits. Other benefits
include payment of an annual club subscription, vehicle
expenses and income tax consultancy services. 
The cost to the Group is shown in the table on page 43.
Contributions are also made for the executive directors
to the Group’s provident fund, which is a defined
contribution pension scheme, in the amounts as set out
on page 43. 
Non-executive directors' fees
The executive directors determine the remuneration of
the non-executive directors annually. The fees were
reviewed and increased with effect from 1 October
2007, previously this was reviewed with effect 1 October
2005. Consideration is given to fees payable to 
non-executive directors for comparable companies.
Additional fees are paid to committee members and
chairmen of Board Committees to take account of the
additional work involved. Non-executive directors are
not eligible to participate in the Company’s long term
incentive schemes.     
Service contracts 
All executive directors have identical service contracts.
All executive directors’ contracts are rolling contracts,
and contain a three month notice period. On
termination, except by reason of cause, illness, death,
injury or retirement, the executive director will be entitled
to payments equal to 12 months’ base salary plus a pro-
rata portion of bonus (if all conditions and performance
criteria applicable to the bonus have been
proportionately achieved, as determined by the
Remuneration Committee). Both amounts will be
payable in equal amounts over the 12 months
subsequent to termination. This is subject to the
director’s obligation to mitigate such costs by seeking
alternative employment and the Company being entitled
to deduct, from the amounts payable, all remuneration
and fees received pursuant to such alternative
employment. 
Effective date Unexpired
of contract term
Jeremy Ord 1 January 2003 Indefinite
Brett Dawson 1 March 2004 Indefinite
Stephen Joubert 1 January 2003 Indefinite
Patrick Quarmby 1 January 2003 Indefinite
David Sherriffs 1 March 2004 Indefinite
All of the non-executive directors have letters of
appointment which contain a one month notice
provision and are of three year duration. There are no
compensation provisions for early termination of non-
executive director appointments. 
External appointments 
Executive directors are permitted to accept external
appointments, subject to Board approval. These
appointments are detailed in the Board of Directors
information on page 28. Patrick Quarmby has been
permitted to retain fees paid to him in respect of his
appointment to Unitrans Limited. For the financial year
ended 2007 he received director’s fees of $15,569 from
Unitrans Limited.
(continued)
Remuneration report Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 43
AUDITED INFORMATION 
Directors’ remuneration
Provident/ Life Disability
Directors’ Basic pension insurance insurance Medical Total Total
fees salary fund benefit benefit aid Other Bonus 2007 2006
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000
RGML Barclay 52 ––––––– 52 52
LJ Bergman 7 ––––––– 7 –
BW Dawson – 618 18 6376 1,236 1,894 1,444
SM Joubert – 373 15 4 2 10 15 388 807 714
PJ Liddiard 48––––––– 48 –
W Lucas-Bull 64 ––––––– 64 53
J Malherbe 52 ––––––– 52 52
MM Ngoasheng 48 ––––––– 48 48
JJ Ord – 610 44 7 3 7 65 707 1,443 1,334
PK Quarmby – 422 16 5 5 8 17 380 853 702
RM Scott 68 ––––––– 68 77
DB Sherriffs – 312 63236 400 732 585
GH Waddell 45 ––––––– 45 60
PD Wharton-Hood 56 ––––––– 56 63
440 2,335 99 25 15 35 109 3,111 6,169 5,184
For the financial year 2007, the Remuneration Committee has received assessments of the performance of each
executive director relative to their achievement against KPIs and against business targets as follows: 
• Earnings per share and total operating profit for Jeremy Ord and Brett Dawson;
• Earnings per share, total operating profit and working capital for David Sherriffs; 
• Earnings per share, total operating profit and Datacraft Asia operating profit for Patrick Quarmby; and 
• Total operating profit and Solutions gross profit for Stephen Joubert. 
Discretionary bonuses were agreed for executive directors as a result of overperformance against budgeted
operating profit.
Following these assessments, the directors will receive the bonus amount of $3.1 million, as set out under Directors’
Remuneration (2006 bonus: $2.2 million).
Long term incentives 
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Number of awards
Opening Closing
balance balance
Date LTIP September September
offered 2006 2007 Expiry date Performance conditions met
JJ Ord 15/02/2005 600,000 600,000 15/02/2008 Subject to performance condition
22/11/2005 920,000 920,000 22/11/2008 Subject to performance condition
22/11/2005 230,000 230,000 22/11/2008 Subject to minimum employment
08/03/2006 150,000 150,000 08/03/2009 Subject to minimum employment
01/12/2006 – 218,500 01/12/2009 Subject to minimum employment
01/12/2006 – 874,000 01/12/2009 Subject to performance condition
BW Dawson 15/02/2005 600,000 600,000 15/02/2008 Subject to performance condition
22/11/2005 920,000 920,000 22/11/2008 Subject to performance condition
22/11/2005 230,000 230,000 22/11/2008 Subject to minimum employment
08/03/2006 150,000 150,000 08/03/2009 Subject to minimum employment
01/12/2006 – 218,500 01/12/2009 Subject to minimum employment
01/12/2006 – 874,000 01/12/2009 Subject to performance condition Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 44
Remuneration report
(continued)
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) (continued)
Number of awards
Opening Closing
balance balance
Date LTIP September September
offered 2006 2007 Expiry date Performance conditions met
SM Joubert 15/02/2005 400,000 400,000 15/02/2008 Subject to performance condition
22/11/2005 615,000 615,000 22/11/2008 Subject to performance condition
22/11/2005 153,000 153,000 22/11/2008 Subject to minimum employment 
08/03/2006 75,000 75,000 08/03/2009 Subject to minimum employment
01/12/2006 – 145,350 01/12/2009 Subject to minimum employment
01/12/2006 – 584,250 01/12/2009 Subject to performance condition
PK Quarmby 15/02/2005 300,000 300,000 15/02/2008 Subject to performance condition
22/11/2005 460,000 460,000 22/11/2008 Subject to performance condition
22/11/2005 115,000 115,000 22/11/2008 Subject to minimum employment
08/03/2006 30,000 30,000 08/03/2009 Subject to minimum employment
01/12/2006 – 109,250 01/12/2009 Subject to minimum employment
01/12/2006 – 437,000 01/12/2009 Subject to performance condition
DB Sherriffs 15/02/2005 400,000 400,000 15/02/2008 Subject to performance condition
22/11/2005 615,000 615,000 22/11/2008 Subject to performance condition
22/11/2005 153,000 153,000 22/11/2008 Subject to minimum employment
08/03/2006 30,000 30,000 08/03/2009 Subject to minimum employment
01/12/2006 – 145,350 01/12/2009 Subject to minimum employment
01/12/2006 – 584,250 01/12/2009 Subject to performance condition
Share Appreciation Rights Scheme (SARS)
Number of awards
Opening Closing
balance balance Grant
Date SARS September September price Performance 
offered 2006 2007 (Sterling) Expiry date conditions met
JJ Ord 15/02/2005 600,000 600,000 0.39 15/02/2011 Yes
BW Dawson 15/02/2005 600,000 600,000 0.39 15/02/2011 Yes
SM Joubert 15/02/2005 400,000 400,000 0.39 15/02/2011 Yes
PK Quarmby 15/02/2005 300,000 300,000 0.39 15/02/2011 Yes
DB Sherriffs 15/02/2005 400,000 400,000 0.39 15/02/2011 Yes
Awards under the LTIP and the SARS were made to executive directors as detailed above. 
The performance criterion for the LTIP is Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) over a three year period compared to the
TSR of a Peer Group. Vesting will commence if the TSR ranks at the median TSR of the Peer Group, when 30% to
50% of the LTIP awards may vest. Vesting will progress linearly, as the rank of the TSR increases, until 100% vesting
when the TSR has upper quartile ranking. Details of the Peer Group are available on the Company's website
www.dimensiondata.com
The performance criterion for the SARS was cumulative normalised earnings per share (‘NEPS’) over the three year
performance period. NEPS was basic earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items. 
The target performance level for 100% vesting of the SARS award was a cumulative NEPS of 6.0 US cents.
Cumulative NEPS of 11.1 US cents was achieved resulting in the performance condition being met for the SARS
awards granted on 15 February 2005. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 45
Sterling options
Opening Closing
balance balance Grant
Date option September September price Performance 
offered 2006 2007 (Sterling) Expiry date conditions met
JJ Ord 21/11/2002 1,700,000 1,700,000 0.25 21/11/2012 Yes
11/12/2003 750,000 750,000 0.37 11/12/2013 Yes
BW Dawson 28/09/2001 300,000 300,000 0.70 28/09/2011 Yes
03/10/2001 100,000 100,000 0.70 03/10/2011 Yes
21/11/2001 200,000 200,000 0.25 21/11/2012 Yes
01/04/2003 500,000 500,000 0.16 01/04/2013 Yes
20/08/2003 1,000,000 1,000,000 0.26 20/08/2013 Yes
18/11/2003 900,000 900,000 0.36 18/11/2013 Yes
03/08/2004 1,200,000 1,200,000 0.28 03/08/2014 Yes
SM Joubert 21/11/2002 700,000 700,000 0.25 21/11/2012 Yes
11/12/2003 300,000 300,000 0.37 11/12/2013 Yes
PK Quarmby 21/11/2002 700,000 700,000 0.25 21/11/2012 Yes
11/12/2003 300,000 300,000 0.37 11/12/2013 Yes
DB Sherriffs 18/11/2003 700,000 700,000 0.36 18/11/2013 Yes
SA rand options
Opening Closing
balance balance Grant
Date option September September price Performance 
offered 2006 2007 (SA rand) Expiry date conditions met
JJ Ord 01/10/1998 1,625,000 1,625,000 22.00 01/10/2008 Yes
17/05/1999 1,360,000 1,360,000 24.00 17/05/2009 Yes
01/10/1999 2,222,222 2,222,222 24.30 01/10/2009 Yes
BW Dawson 03/05/2000 45,350 45,350 43.50 03/05/2010 Yes
20/07/2001 70,000 70,000 15.25 20/07/2011 Yes
01/10/2001 83,509 83,509 9.35 01/10/2011 Yes
SM Joubert 01/10/1998 811,363 811,363 22.00 01/10/2008 Yes
17/05/1999 625,000 625,000 24.00 17/05/2009 Yes
01/10/1999 662,551 662,551 24.30 01/10/2009 Yes
PK Quarmby 01/10/1998 604,545 604,545 22.00 01/10/2008 Yes
17/05/1999 725,000 725,000 24.00 17/05/2009 Yes
01/10/1999 766,255 766,255 24.30 01/10/2009 Yes
The Company's share price at 30 September 2007 was 59.50 UK pence and 840 SA cents. The high and low market
prices of the Company's shares during the year are reflected below. 
UK pence SA cents
High 67.50 894
Low 32.96 493 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 46
Directors' interests in ordinary shares
Total Total
Name Non-beneficial Beneficial 2007 2006
BW Dawson – 1,532 1,532 1,532
SM Joubert – 163,155 163,155 163,155
JJ Ord – 10,281,858 10,281,858 10,281,858
PK Quarmby – 394,625 394,625 394,625
RM Scott 481,830 – 481,830 481,830
G Waddell 7,581 75,000 82,581 82,581
PD Wharton-Hood – 150,000 150,000 150,000
Directors’ shareholdings are unchanged as at 13 November 2007. 
Other than the shareholdings listed above, the Directors hold no interests in other Group companies. 
Long term performance
In line with the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the graph below shows Dimension Data's total
shareholder return from 1 October 2002 to 30 September 2007, together with a comparator index.
Total shareholder return
This graph shows the value, at 30 September 2007, of £100 invested in Dimension Data Holdings plc on
30 September 2002 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE Software and Computer Services Index.
The other values plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
This index was chosen as the Company has been a constituent since listing and is considered appropriate.
By order of the Board
Wendy Lucas-Bull
Chairperson of the Remuneration Committee
13 November 2007
Remuneration report
(continued)
Dimension Data FTSE Software and Computer Services
Sept 2002 Sept 2003 Sept 2004 Sept 2005 Sept 2006 Sept 2007
100
150
200
250
300
350
400 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 47
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements. The Directors are required to prepare
financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and have also elected to
prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS. Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial
statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Company and Group’s
financial position, financial performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other
events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out
in the International Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements’.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting
Standards. Directors are also required to:
• Properly select and apply accounting policies;
• Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable
information; and
• Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and Group, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud
and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors’ report and Directors’ remuneration report which comply with the
requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 48
Independent auditors’ report
To the members of Dimension on Dimension Data Holdings plc
We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’) of Dimension Data Holdings plc
for the year ended 30 September 2007 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and parent Company Balance
Sheets, the Group and parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity
and the related Notes 1 to 41 and (a) to (e) for the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively. These financial
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, are set
out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our
opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the
Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented in the Chief Executive Officer’s Review and the Chief Financial Officer’s
Review of Operations that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors' Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are
not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is
consistent with the audited financial statements. The other information comprises only the Directors’ Report, the unaudited part of
the Directors’ Remuneration Report, the Chairman’s Letter, the Chief Executive Officer’s Review and the Chief Financial Officer’s
Review of Operations and the Corporate Governance Report. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any further
information outside the Annual Report.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed. Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 49
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. 
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. 
OPINION
In our opinion:
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state
of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended;
• the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union
as applied in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent Company’s affairs as at
30 September 2007;
• the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements.
SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRS
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Group’s affairs
as at 30 September 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended.
An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and
in particular on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.  These matters are the
responsibility of the Directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London, United Kingdom
13 November 2007 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 50
Restated
2007 2006 
Notes $’000 $’000 
Revenue 4 3,773,156 3,067,962
Cost of sales (2,960,169) (2,420,565)
Gross profit 812,987 647,397
Other operating income 27,142 35,385
Selling and distribution costs (250,631) (201,894)
Administrative expenses (441,726) (391,983)
Other operating expenses (23,905) (8,683)
Operating profit 6 123,867 80,222 
Share of results of associates 5,740 3,863 
Interest and investment income 9 15,446 13,578 
Finance costs 10 (30,315) (32,057)
Property revaluation and other gains and losses 11 35,767 (138)
Profit before tax 150,505 65,468
Tax 12 (36,034) (8,310)
Profit for the year 114,471 57,158
Attributable to: 
Equity shareholders of the parent 92,528 40,602
Minority interest 21,943 16,556
114,471 57,158 
US cents US cents 
Earnings per ordinary share 
Basic 13 6.0 2.7 
Diluted 13 5.6 2.6 
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 30 September 2007 Consolidated balance sheet
As at 30 September 2007
Restated
2007 2006 
Notes $’000 $’000 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 14 165,014 185,977 
Investment property 15 92,805 –
Goodwill 16 90,557 73,118 
Other intangible assets 17 16,914 13,482 
Investments in associates 18 30,381 15,053 
Other investments 19 6,971 7,218 
Deferred tax assets 27 41,248 30,737 
Trade and other receivables 21 36,804 26,862
480,694 352,447
Current assets
Inventories 20 192,658 171,970 
Trade and other receivables 21 968,336 745,255
Other financial instruments 2,505 4,580 
Taxation authorities receivable 32,713 22,692 
Cash and cash equivalents 459,197 347,909 
Assets classified as held for sale 22 – 11,365 
1,655,409 1,303,771
Total assets 2,136,103 1,656,218 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
Capital and reserves 
Share capital 23 15,371 15,475 
Share premium 180,794 199,454 
Total other reserves 24 261,703 200,597 
Retained earnings 104,079 22,022 
Equity attributable to equity shareholders of parent 561,947 437,548 
Minority interest 128,242 105,540 
Total equity 690,189 543,088
Non-current liabilities 
Bank overdrafts and loans 30 4,144 21,412 
Other long term liabilities 25 31,207 5,001 
Obligations under finance leases 26 149,919 125,803 
Deferred tax liabilities 27 2,295 2,048 
Provisions 28 9,517 6,195 
197,082 160,459 
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 29 1,080,486 830,745 
Other financial instruments 3,975 737 
Taxation authorities payable 128,692 101,004 
Bank loans 30 20,475 5,628 
Bank overdrafts 30 3,439 6,236 
Provisions 28 11,765 6,099 
Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 22 – 2,222 
1,248,832 952,671 
Total liabilities 1,445,914 1,113,130 
Total equity and liabilities 2,136,103 1,656,218 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 November 2007. 
Brett Dawson Dave Sherriffs
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 51 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 52
Restated
2007 2006 
Notes $’000 $’000 
Operating activities
Operating profit 123,867 80,222
Adjustments for: 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 46,858 42,144
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 795 982 
Amortisation of intangible assets 5,822 7,620 
Movement in provisions 9,492 (3,052)
Share-based payment expensed 24,457 13,893 
Other non-cash items 1,889 (2,782)
Cash generated before working capital movements 213,180 139,027
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 1,349 (50,715)
Increase in trade and other receivables (168,037) (138,245)
Increase in trade and other payables 185,837 127,506 
Cash generated from operations 232,329 77,573
Income taxes paid (30,619) (35,925)
Interest paid (24,609) (29,133)
Net cash from operating activities 177,101 12,515
Investing activities 
Interest received 15,445 10,784
Dividends received from associates 4,538 2,074 
Acquisitions of investments (180) (174)
Proceeds on disposal of investments 1,260 20,876
Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries 31 17,824 297 
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (60,459) (55,257)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 747 669 
Acquisition of intangibles (6,273) (11,004)
Movement in investment in associates (6,760) 2,240 
Acquisition/increase in holdings of subsidiaries 31 (12,683) (49,720)
Net cash acquired with subsidiary companies 1,034 17,470 
Held for sale subsidiary undertaking – (920)
Treasury share buy back undertaken by subsidiary and holding company (32,330) (17,690)
Deferred consideration paid (5,500) (8,597)
Net cash used in investing activities (83,337) (88,952)
Financing activities 
Repayment of borrowings (7,338) (29,876)
New bank loans and finance leases raised 16,476 36,483 
Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders (15,170) –
Dividends paid to minorities (10,602) (222)
Proceeds on issue of new shares net of expenses 6,712 3,590 
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities (9,922) 9,975 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 83,842 (66,462)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 341,673 410,558 
Exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents 30,243 (2,423)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 455,758 341,673 
Made up as follows: 
Cash and cash equivalents 459,197 347,909 
Bank overdrafts (3,439) (6,236)
455,758 341,673 
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 30 September 2007 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 September 2007
Attributable
to equity
Share Share Total other* Retained holders of Minority Total 
capital premium reserves earnings parent interest equity 
$’000 $'000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
1 October 2005 as 
previously reported 13,526 101,823 209,378 (22,581) 302,146 105,120 407,266 
Change in accounting 
policy ––(143)66952650576 
1 October 2005 restated 13,526 101,823 209,235 (21,912) 302,672 105,170 407,842 
Profit for the year – – – 40,602 40,602 16,556 57,158 
Items recognised directly 
into equity 1,949 97,631 (8,638) 3,332 94,274 (16,186) 78,088 
Share incentive schemes – – 11,980 – 11,980 – 11,980 
Currency adjustments – – (8,685) – (8,685) (1,149) (9,834)
Deferred tax arising on 
revaluation of loans – – (4,571) – (4,571) – (4,571)
Shares issued 69 3,521 – – 3,590 – 3,590 
Shares issued on 
conversion of bonds 1,880 94,999 – – 96,879 – 96,879 
Share issue expenses – (889) – – (889) – (889)
Subsidiaries acquired/
changes in holdings – – – – – (21,673)(21,673)
Vesting under BEE scheme – – (6,636) – (6,636) 6,636 –
Net gain on cash flow 
hedging – – 2,303 – 2,303 – 2,303 
Movement in investment 
valuations – – 358 – 358 – 358 
Other  – – (55) – (55) – (55)
Transfers – – (3,332) 3,332 – – – 
1 October 2006 restated 15,475 199,454 200,597 22,022 437,548 105,540 543,088 
Profit for the year – – – 92,528 92,528 21,943 114,471
Items recognised directly 
into equity (104) (18,660) 61,106 (10,471) 31,871 759 32,630
Share incentive schemes – – 15,581 – 15,581 – 15,581 
Deferred tax on share 
incentive schemes – – 7,336 – 7,336 – 7,336
Share option reserve 
utilised – – (1,020) – (1,020) – (1,020)
Currency adjustments – – 52,467 – 52,467 441 52,908
Deferred tax arising on 
revaluation of loans – – (471) – (471) – (471)
Dividends paid – – – (15,170) (15,170) (10,600) (25,770)
Shares issued 116 6,596 – – 6,712 – 6,712
Shares held in Employee
Trust (220) (25,256) – – (25,476) – (25,476)
Subsidiaries acquired/
changes in holdings – – 262 – 262 3,645 3,907 
Vesting under BEE scheme – – (8,260) – (8,260) 8,260 – 
Revaluation of investment 
property – – 5,756 – 5,756 – 5,756 
Deferred tax on revaluation 
of investment property – – (1,669) – (1,669) – (1,669) 
Movement in investment 
valuations ––255–255–255 
Transfers to income
statement – – (4,260) – (4,260) – (4,260)
Other  – – (172) – (172) (987) (1,159) 
Transfers ––(4,699)4,699–––
30 September 2007 15,371 180,794 261,703 104,079 561,947 128,242 690,189
*Refer to Note 24
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 53 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 54
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
as adopted by the EU, IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act
1985 applicable to those companies reporting under IFRS.
In the current year, the Group has adopted all of the new and revised Standards and Interpretations issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) of the IASB
that are relevant to its operations and effective for annual reporting periods beginning on 1 October 2006. The adoption of these
new and revised Standards and Interpretations has resulted in changes to the Group's accounting policies in the following areas
that have affected the amounts reported for the current or prior years:
– IFRIC 4 ‘Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease’ was adopted with effect from 1 October 2005. 
The change in accounting policy required by IFRIC 4 results in a restatement of prior year figures (‘Restated’).
– The amendments to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ as far as they relate to financial guarantee
contracts. This had no impact on the consolidated results at 30 September 2007.
– IFRIC 6 ‘Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market – Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment’. 
This had no impact on the consolidated results at 30 September 2007.
– IFRIC 7 ‘Applying the Restatement Approach’ under IAS 29 ‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’. 
This had no impact on the consolidated results at 30 September 2007.
– IFRIC 8 ‘Scope of IFRS 2’. This had no impact on the consolidated results for periods prior to 1 October 2006. 
In 2007, a charge of $0.5 million was incurred in an associate company.
– IFRIC 9 ‘Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives’. This had no impact on the consolidated results at 30 September 2007.
– IFRIC 10 ‘Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment’. This had no impact on the consolidated results at
30 September 2007.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the Directors to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at balance sheet date, and the
reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period. Whilst these estimates and assumptions are based on
the Directors' best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
Following a change in use of the Group’s Campus property located in South Africa, the Group has accounted for the portion
that is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation as investment property.  Investment property is carried at fair value and
changes in fair value are recognised in income.
Restatement and new accounting policies
IFRIC 4 ‘Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease’
IFRIC 4, which was adopted in the current financial year, provides guidance on whether complex arrangements include a lease.
As a result of this requirement, certain arrangements required reclassification as leases. In accordance with the transitional
provisions, this has resulted in the derecognition of $5.9 million of property, plant and equipment at 1 October 2005
(30 September 2006: $5.1 million) and $1.2 million of inventory at 30 September 2006, offset by the recognition of finance lease
receivables of $6.6 million at 30 September 2007 (30 September 2006:  $6.9 million). As a consequence, net assets as at
1 October 2005 were restated from $407.3 million to $407.8 million ($542.5 million to $543.1 million at 30 September 2006).
Operating profit for the year ended 30 September 2006 decreased by $0.5 million which was offset by a similar increase in
interest and investment income of $0.6 million. As a consequence, profit before tax for the year ended 30 September 2006
increased by $0.1 million.
Investment property
At 31 December 2006, following the change in use of the Campus property, the portion held to earn rentals or for capital
appreciation was classified as investment property. Investment properties are stated at fair value. When property is transferred
to investment property following a change in use, any differences arising at the date of transfer between net book value and
valuation are taken to equity. This resulted in a credit to equity of $4.1 million (net of deferred tax charge of $1.7 million). 
Any subsequent valuations are included in the income statement. This resulted in a credit to property revaluation and other gains
and losses in the income statement of $22.2 million and a deferred tax charge of $6.4 million.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been
applied in these financial statements, were issued but not effective:
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 Pronouncement Effective year end for Dimension Data
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures (and concurrent 
amendment to IAS 1 to add capital disclosures)’ 30 September 2008
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ 30 September 2010
IFRIC 11 ‘IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions’ 30 September 2008
IAS 23 Amendments 30 September 2010
The Directors are in the process of evaluating the measurement and disclosure requirements that the adoption of these
Standards and Interpretations will have in future periods when the relevant standards come into effect for the Group.
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies set out below have been used in preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the Company
financial statements where applicable. The consolidated financial information has been prepared on the historical cost basis,
except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and the investment property. The principal accounting policies adopted
are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities (including special
purpose entities) controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries). Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern
the financial and operating policies of an investee enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into
line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein.  Minority
interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minority’s share of
changes in equity since the combination. Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minority’s interest in the subsidiary’s
equity are allocated against the interest of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding legal obligation and is
able to make additional investment to cover the losses.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at the
aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments
issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of
acquisition, except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-
Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’, which are recognised and measured at fair value less cost to sell.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. 
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition)
is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minority’s proportion of the net fair value of the
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Investments in associates
An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control, through
participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of
accounting except when classified as held for sale (see below). Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at
cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in
the value of individual investments. Losses of the associate in excess of the Group’s interest in those associates are 
not recognised.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 55 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 56
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the
Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition (i.e. discount on
acquisition) is credited in the income statement in the period of acquisition. The goodwill is included within the carrying amount
of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of the investment.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s
interest in the relevant associate. Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred, in which case
appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value
less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a
sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as being met only when the sale is highly
probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be
committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date
of classification.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of the annual impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units
expected to benefit from the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for
impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount
of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the
carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not
subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss
on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts
subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP has not been reinstated and
is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods
and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Revenue from contracts is recognised in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy on contracts (see below).
Maintenance revenue and licence fees are brought to account over the relevant contract periods.
Where the Group acts as agent and is remunerated on a commission basis, the commission is included in revenue. Where the
Group acts as principal, the total value of business handled is included in revenue.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable,
which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that
asset’s net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
Contracts
Where the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of
completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date. This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative
of the stage of completion. Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is
probable that they will result in revenue, and they are capable of being reliably measured.
Where the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs
incurred that it is probable will be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they 
are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an 
expense immediately.
Contact centre revenue is recognised according to the stage of completion of the contract by reference to the value of work
performed. The amount by which revenue differs from payments on account is shown under receivables as accrued revenue,
or under payables as deferred revenue, as appropriate.
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group as lessor
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the amount of the Group’s net investment in the
leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Group’s
net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs
incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised
on a straight line basis over the lease term.
The Group as lessee
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in
the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the
lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged
directly in the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the
lease term.
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in the currency of primary economic environment in which
the entity operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial
position of each entity are expressed in US dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation
currency for the consolidated financial statements. The Group has elected to present its results in US dollars as this is the
currency predominantly used when the Group transacts.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on
the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign
currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair
value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was
determined. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for the period, except for exchange
differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in foreign currency are not retranslated.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts and options (see below
for details of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments).
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 57 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 58
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average
exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly. Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified
as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as
expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries and associates that report in the currency of a hyperinflationary economy are
restated in terms of the measuring unit current at the balance sheet date before they are translated into US dollars.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign
entity and translated at the closing rate.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets,
until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Investment income earned on the temporary
investment in specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible
for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Government grants
Government grants towards staff re-training costs are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the
related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income
statement over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Operating profit
Profit from operations is stated after charging restructuring costs but before the share of results of associates, investment
income and finance costs.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those items of financial performance that are material and non-recurring in nature that the Group believes
should be disclosed separately within the financial statements to assist in the understanding of the financial performance of the
Group.
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-
managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution plans where the Group’s obligations
under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit plan.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted
for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition
(other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the
accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates,
and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity,
in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment
losses. Depreciation is charged so as to write off the depreciable value of the assets over their estimated useful lives, using the
straight line method, on the following basis:
Capitalised property finance lease 2% per annum
Leasehold land, buildings and improvements Over the lease term
Computer and workshop equipment 14% – 33% per annum
Motor vehicles 25% per annum
Office furniture and equipment 10% per annum
Certain costs of purchase, development and installation of major information systems (including packaged software) are
capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives (generally three to five years) on a straight line basis.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where
shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds
and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation methods are reviewed at each year end, with the effect of any
changes in estimates accounted for on a prospective basis.
Investment property
Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and/or for capital appreciation, is measured initially at its cost,
including transaction costs.  Subsequent to initial recognition, investment property is measured at fair value.  Gains and
losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in the income statement for the period in
which they arise.
Intangible assets
Acquired intangible assets
Purchased intangible assets, which include customer lists and intellectual property, are capitalised and amortised over their
useful economic lives on a straight line basis.
Computer software
Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in value or
estimated loss on disposal.
Acquired computer software is capitalised on the basis of costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of assets on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives of between three
to five years. The SAP software is written off over seven years. Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer
software are recognised as an expense as incurred, unless they increase the future economic benefits of the asset, in which
case they are capitalised.
Internally generated computer software is capitalised at cost if the project is technically and commercially feasible and the
economic benefits that are expected to be generated exceed one year. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of
materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 59 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 60
increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific assets to which it relates. Amortisation is provided to write off
the cost of assets on a straight line basis between three and seven years.
Internally-generated intangible assets – research and development
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Group’s Solutions business is recognised only if all of the following
conditions are met:
• An asset is created that can be identified (such as software and new processes);
• It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and
• The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives, generally between three and
five years. Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an
expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Patents and trademarks
Patents and trademarks are measured initially at purchase cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated
useful lives.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation methods are reviewed at each year end, with the effect of any
changes in estimates accounted for on a prospective basis.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount
of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash
flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which
the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an
indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying
amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an
expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that
would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A
reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct
labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the weighted average method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in
marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest rate method. Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) statement when there is evidence that the asset is impaired. The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between
the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate
computed at initial recognition.
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract
whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially
measured at cost, including transaction costs.
At subsequent reporting dates, debt securities that the Group has the expressed intention and ability to hold to maturity (held-
to-maturity debt securities) are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment loss
recognised to reflect irrecoverable amounts. An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement when there is objective
evidence that the asset is impaired, and is measured as the difference between the investment’s carrying amount and the
present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
Impairment losses are reversed in subsequent periods when an increase in the investment’s recoverable amount can be related
objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, subject to the restriction that the carrying amount of the
investment at the date the impairment is reversed shall not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment
not been recognised.
Investments other than held-to-maturity debt securities are classified as either investments held for trading or as available for
sale, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value. Where securities are held for trading purposes, gains and
losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the income statement for the period. For available for sale investments,
gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is
determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income
statement for the period. Impairment losses recognised in the income statement for equity investments classified as available for
sale are not subsequently reversed through the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in the income statement for
debt instruments classified as available for sale are subsequently reversed if an increase in the fair value of the instrument can
be objectively related to an event occurring after the recognition of the impairment loss.
Investments in subsidiaries are carried in the parent Company balance sheet at cost less provisions for impairments.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short term highly liquid investments that
are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities and equities
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost,
using the effective interest rate method. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the settlement or
redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowings in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy for
borrowing costs (see above).
Convertible loan notes
Convertible loan notes are regarded as compound instruments, consisting of a liability component and an equity
component.  At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest
rate for similar non-convertible debt. The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible loan notes and the
fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the
Group, is included in equity.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible loan notes based on their relative
carrying amounts at the date of issue. The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar 
non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument. The difference between this amount and the interest paid is
added to the carrying amount of the convertible loan note.
On conversion of the instruments the value of the debt is transferred to equity reserves.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 61 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 62
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest
rate method.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments (primarily foreign currency forward contracts) to hedge its risks associated with
foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain firm commitments and forecasted transactions. Such derivatives are initially
recorded at fair value, if any, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates. The Group does not use derivative
financial instruments for speculative purposes. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s policies approved by
the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are
recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. If the cash flow hedge
of a firm commitment or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or
liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included
in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts
deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects the income
statement.
Changes in the fair value of designated fair value hedges and derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies
for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in
equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain
or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-derivative host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when
their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value
with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation, as a result of past events, for which it
is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made
for the amount of the obligation. Where the effect of discounting to present value is material, provisions are adjusted to reflect
the time value of money.
Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products, at the Directors’ best estimate of the
expenditure required to settle the Group’s liability.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been
communicated to affected parties.
Share-based payment
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS
2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are
measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based
payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the shares that will
eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on
management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of income, expenses, assets, liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Management uses all available information and the application of judgement is inherent in the formation of estimates. Actual
results in the future could differ from these estimates, and any subsequent changes are accounted for with an effect in income
at the time such information becomes available.
Revenue and profit recognition
Revenue and profit on contracts are generally recognised on a percentage of completion basis when the outcome of a contract
can be estimated reliably. Management is required to use judgement in determining whether a contract’s outcome can be
estimated reliably. Management also makes estimates of total contract costs, which are used in determining the value of
amounts recoverable on contracts. Refer to Note 21.
Share-based payment
The expense for the share schemes is determined by estimating the fair value of the options granted. Details of the valuation
methods and assumptions used are set out in Note 38.
Provision for bad debts
Provision is made for bad debts based on management’s estimate of the prospect of recovering the debt. Where management
has determined that a debt is no longer recoverable, the amount is written off. Refer to Note 39.
Provision for inventory
Inventory is counted at least once a year and any shortages and obsolete stock identified are written off immediately. 
An allowance is made for slow moving and obsolete inventory based on historical trends. Provision against slow moving and
obsolete stock at 30 September 2007 amounted to $90.0 million (2006: $80.5 million).
Impairment of goodwill
Management is required to estimate whether or not goodwill has been impaired. This requires estimation of the value in use of
the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation includes estimates about the future
financial performance of the cash-generating units, including management’s estimates of long term operating margins and long
term growth rates. Refer to Note 16.
Income taxes
Management makes estimates of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and events whose treatment
for tax purposes is uncertain. When the final outcome of such matters is different, or expected to be different, from previous
assessments made by management, a change to the tax provision will be recorded in the period when that decision is made.
Residual value on property, plant and equipment
In general no residual values are attached to the Group’s property, plant and equipment due to the nature of these items.
However, management have applied a residual value to the Campus asset. Residual value is an estimate of the amount that the
Group would currently obtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were
already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life.
Valuation of investment property
The portion of the Campus property held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation has been classified as investment property
and is stated at fair value. Management have carried out a valuation based on a rental income yield. Refer to Note 15.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 63 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 64
Restated
2007 2006
$’000 $’000 
4. REVENUE 
The Group’s revenue is analysed as follows: 
Sale of goods 2,249,325 1,856,831 
Services rendered 1,523,831 1,211,131 
3,773,156 3,067,962 
Other operating income 27,142 35,385 
Interest and investment income 15,446 13,578 
3,815,744 3,116,925
5. GEOGRAPHIC AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Geographic segments
For management purposes, the Group is organised regionally and these regions are the basis on which the Group reports its
primary segment information.
Geographic segment information about these regions is presented below.
Restated 
Segment Segment 
Revenue results Revenue results 
2007 2007 2006 2006 
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
Revenue and results 
Americas 585,043 17,398 536,223 10,086 
Asia 580,829 36,456 482,157 26,179 
Australia 912,004 29,169 756,470 19,376 
Europe 981,683 8,522 751,281 1,546 
Middle East and Africa 931,582 70,877 723,400 49,387 
Central and Other* 16,065 (31,428) 14,561 (22,078)
Inter-company sales/eliminations** (234,050) (196,130)
3,773,156 130,994 3,067,962 84,496
Exceptional items (7,127) (4,274)
Operating profit 123,867 80,222 
Share of results of associates 5,740 3,863 
Interest and investment income 15,446 13,578 
Finance costs (30,315) (32,057)
Property revaluation and other gains 
and losses 35,767 (138)
Profit before tax 150,505 65,468 
Tax (36,034) (8,310)
Profit after tax 114,471 57,158 
*Includes Campus, and net Central trading and management costs. Operating income from the Campus property in Johannesburg has been reallocated
from the Middle East and Africa segment and included in Central and Other in 2007. This resulted in an increase in Central’s segment result of
$12.4 million in 2006 and a corresponding decrease in Middle East and Africa. The 2006 figures have been adjusted accordingly.
**Inter-company sales are charged at prevailing market prices. 
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) Restated 
Depreciation Depreciation 
Capital and Capital and
additions amortisation additions amortisation
2007 2007 2006 2006 
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
5. GEOGRAPHIC AND BUSINESS 
SEGMENTS ( (c co on nt ti in nu ue ed d) )
Other information 
Americas 2,674 2,162 1,214 4,259 
Asia 8,648 7,772 6,223 7,915 
Australia 3,797 4,479 3,474 4,483 
Europe 8,158 8,803 4,726 8,233 
Middle East and Africa 35,141 21,486 30,360 18,309
Central and Other – 7,978 9,440 6,565
58,418 52,680 55,437 49,764
Restated 
Segment Segment Segment Segment
assets liabilities assets liabilities 
2007 2007 2006 2006 
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
Balance sheet 
Americas 228,495 (169,403) 198,841 (163,204)
Asia 355,504 (124,381) 323,445 (116,598)
Australia 363,998 (222,065) 194,060 (154,758)
Europe 397,061 (335,603) 250,515 (228,077)
Middle East and Africa 491,507 (263,831) 361,117 (206,118)
Central and Other 217,208 (249,310) 276,626 (175,774)
2,053,773 (1,364,593) 1,604,604 (1,044,529)
Interest in associates 30,381 – 15,053 –  
Unallocated assets and liabilities 51,949 (81,321) 36,561 (68,601)
2,136,103 (1,445,914) 1,656,218 (1,113,130)
Business segments 
Lines of business 
The Group is focused on six global lines of business. Network Integration is the Group’s most significant line of business. 
The other global lines of business focus on high growth markets where the Group is well positioned to compete. ‘Regional’
represents operations that are complementary to our other global lines of business in the territories in which they operate, but
are unique to those territories.
Revenue by lines of business 
Restated 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
Network Integration 1,672,316 1,493,734
Other global lines of business 1,206,109 941,850 
Regional 894,731 632,378 
3,773,156 3,067,962
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 65 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 66
Restated 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
5. GEOGRAPHIC AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS ( (c co on nt ti in nu ue ed d) )
Revenue streams*
The Group offers a full life cycle of IT Services to clients – including planning, 
building, support and management. This is reported as three streams of revenue: 
Product (the resale of non-proprietary product), Managed Services (of annuity or 
recurring nature) and Professional Services (project-based engagements).
Product 2,249,325 1,856,831
Managed services 950,694 792,858
Professional services 573,137 418,273 
3,773,156 3,067,962
These business segments are only managed at a revenue level. Therefore no segment asset information is available.
*2006 revenue streams have been restated for the reallocation of certain Middle East and African revenues from Product to Managed Services. In 2006
Product revenues decreased by $23.1 million with a corresponding increase in Managed Services revenue.
Restated 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
6. OPERATING PROFIT
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Net foreign exchange losses/(gains) 7,772 (5,915)
Government grants towards training costs – (275)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 46,858 42,144
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 795 982 
Reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment (2,283) (1,497)
Amortisation of intangible assets 5,822 7,620 
Operating lease expenses 
– Hire of property, plant and equipment 29,797 25,042 
– Other operating leases 5,619 5,518 
Staff costs (see Note 7) 710,981 580,674 
Share incentive costs 24,457 13,893 
Auditors’ remuneration 
– Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s 
annual accounts 465 544 
– The auditing of accounts of associates of the Company pursuant to legislation 
(including that of countries and territories outside Great Britain) 3,803 3,621 
– Total audit fees 4,268 4,165
– Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services: 
– Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 687 466 
– Other services relating to taxation 941 1,056 
– Services relating to litigation – 50 
– All other services 130 31 
– Total non-audit fees 1,758 1,603
6,026 5,768 
In the current year, as in the prior year, remuneration in the ‘All other services’ category relates to company secretarial services
and advisory services.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee report on page 38 and includes an explanation
of how auditors’ objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) 2007 2006 
7. STAFF COSTS 
Average number of persons employed by the Group (including executive directors) was: 
Americas 714 621 
Asia 1,329 1,208 
Australia 1,306 1,205 
Europe 2,099 2,478 
Middle East and Africa 4,614 3,915 
10,062  9,427 
Staff costs included in administrative expenses incurred during the year in 
respect of these employees were: 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
Wages and salaries 653,300 524,240 
Social security costs 37,409 37,220
Pension costs 20,272 19,214 
710,981 580,674 
Disclosures on Directors’ remuneration, pension entitlements, shareholding and share incentive schemes required by the
Companies Act 1985, the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and those specified for audit by the Financial
Services Authority, are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 46.
2007 2006 
Notes $’000 $’000 
8. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 
Exceptional operating income/(costs)
Foreign exchange (loss)/gain on loans a) (6,617) 7,519 
Legal settlement b) (3,726) –
Withholding costs refund c) 3,216 –
Other g) – (11,793)
Total exceptional operating items (7,127) (4,274)
Exceptional associate cost
BEE expense in Britehouse d) (469) –
Exceptional other gains
Profit on sale of Swedish operations e) 3,012 –
Profit on sale of Britehouse d) 11,193 –  
Total exceptional other items 14,205 –
Exceptional tax
Deferred tax credit f) 4,197 17,953  
Capital gains tax on sale of shares – Paracon d) (1,761) – 
Capital gains tax on sale of shares – Britehouse d) (294) –
Tax on withholding costs refund c) (965) –
Total exceptional tax 1,177 17,953 
Exceptional income after tax 7,786 13,679  
Minorities’ share of exceptional items (1,354) (3,256)
Net exceptional income 6,432 10,423 
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 67 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 68
8. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS (continued)
a) Foreign exchange losses previously included in Other Reserves, now recorded in the income statement as a result of the
settlement of certain loans. In addition foreign exchange losses were incurred on the revaluation of the loan designated as
short term in the prior year, which was settled in H2 2007.
b) In June 2007, the Group agreed to the settlement of a legal case brought against its US operations. The Group denied
wrongdoing but chose to settle to bring proceedings to an end. An amount of $3.7 million, inclusive of settlement costs
and legal fees, was paid.
c) Refund of withholding costs on royalties previously overpaid by the Australian operations. Tax of $1.0 million was
incurred as a result of this refund.
d) Profit on sale of 60% of Britehouse Holdings (Proprietary) Limited, a South African company holding certain applications
businesses in the Middle East and African segment. This sale resulted in a capital gains tax of $0.3 million. The shares in
Paracon Limited were transferred from within the Group to Britehouse prior to the sale and this resulted in a capital gains tax
of $1.8 million. In Britehouse itself, a BEE expense of $0.5 million was recorded on the acquisition of these companies. 
e) Profit on sale of 100% of the Dimension Data operations in Sweden.
f) A deferred tax asset of $4.2 million was created as a result of a reassessment of the tax loss in South Africa.
g) Other comprises, in respect of the prior year: $5.2 million in respect of the Asian insurance claim proceeds, a provision of
$12.8 million against work in progress and receivables in the UK cabling business and closure costs of $4.2 million in
respect of certain contact centre operations in Europe.
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
Reconciliation of statutory amounts to adjusted amounts 
Statutory operating profit 123,867 80,222 
Exceptional operating costs 7,127 4,274 
Adjusted operating profit 130,994 84,496 
Statutory attributable profit after tax  92,528 40,602
–  Exceptional operating costs 7,127 4,274 
–  Exceptional associate cost 469 –
–  Exceptional other gains (14,205) –
–  Exceptional tax items (1,177) (17,953)
–  Minorities’ share 1,354 3,256 
Adjusted attributable profit after tax 86,096 30,179
Restated 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
9. INTEREST AND INVESTMENT INCOME
Interest on bank deposits 12,487 11,004 
Other 2,959 2,574 
15,446 13,578 
Restated 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
10. FINANCE COSTS 
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans (6,630) (5,596)
Interest on convertible loan notes – (1,722)
Interest on obligations under finance leases (23,413) (23,944)
Total borrowing costs (30,043)  (31,262)
Less: amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets – 177 
(30,043)  (31,085)
Other (272) (972)
(30,315) (32,057)
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) Restated 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
11. PROPERTY REVALUATION AND OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES 
Revaluation of investment property 22,218 –
Profit on sale of subsidiaries and investments 13,080 545 
(Loss)/gain due to change in investment holding (73) 331 
Reversal/(raising) of impairment against carrying value of investment and loans 813 (2,596)
Revaluation of investments – 1,058 
Other (271) 524 
35,767  (138)
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
12. TAX 
Current tax 34,982 27,989 
Withholding and other taxes 1,797 3,258 
Adjustments to prior years’ tax provision 936 (210)
Total current tax 37,715 31,037 
Deferred taxation (refer to Note 27) 
Current 854 (1,651)
Recognition of deferred tax asset (refer to Note 8) (4,197) (17,953)
Adjustments to prior years 1,662 (3,123)
Total tax charge 36,034 8,310 
Corporate tax is calculated at 29% (2006: 29%) of the estimated assessable 
profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective 
jurisdictions.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income 
statement as follows: 
Profit before tax: 150,505 65,468
Expected tax charge at South African corporate tax rate 43,646 18,986
Expenses not deductible 11,028 10,480 
Short term temporary differences (6,537) 3,282
Net tax losses created 8,773 19,477 
Recognition of deferred tax asset (4,197) (17,953)
Adjustments with respect to prior years 2,598 (3,333)
Non-taxable profits/zero tax jurisdictions (18,490) (24,446)
International corporate tax differentials and other 878 2,745 
Share of associates’ tax (1,665) (928)
Actual tax charge 36,034 8,310 
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 69 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 70
Restated 
2007 2006 
US cents US cents 
13. EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Basic earnings per share 6.0 2.7 
Diluted earnings per share 5.6 2.6 
Earnings per share before exceptional items 5.6 2.0 
The calculation of earnings per share is based on the following data: 
Restated 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
Earnings 
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share being net 
profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 92,528 40,602
Earnings for the purpose of adjusted basic earnings per share being net profit 
attributable to equity holders of the parent 92,528 40,602
Exceptional items (6,432)  (10,423)
Earnings before exceptional items 86,096 30,179
2007 2006 
’000 ’000 
Number of shares 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings 
per share 1,545,306 1,490,167 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Share schemes 117,512 67,941 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings 
per share 1,662,818  1,558,108 
Leasehold Computer Office 
land, buildings and workshop Motor furniture and
and improvements equipment vehicles equipment Total 
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
Cost 
At 1 October 2005 165,097 213,808 1,488 73,176 453,569 
Change in accounting policy –  (6,799) –  –  (6,799)
At 1 October 2005 restated 165,097 207,009 1,488 73,176 446,770
Additions 6,190 44,096 868 4,283 55,437
Subsidiaries acquired –  2,159 821 496 3,476 
Disposals (including subsidiaries) (3,643) (23,752) (232) (15,205) (42,832)
Assets classified as held for sale –  (1,689) 10 (1,243) (2,922)
Exchange differences (26,875) (11,335) (97) (2,558) (40,865)
At 1 October 2006 restated 140,769 216,488 2,858 58,949 419,064
Additions 5,62745,3952,3215,07558,418
Subsidiaries acquired 292 2,791 20 231 3,334
Disposals (including subsidiaries) (467) (32,998) (349) (8,394) (42,208)
Transfer to investment property (67,066) – – – (67,066)
Investment property revaluation 994––– 994
Exchange differences 15,282 21,905 296 6,304 43,787
At 30 September 2007 95,431 253,581 5,146 62,165 416,323
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) Leasehold Computer Office 
land, buildings and workshop Motor furniture and
and improvements equipment vehicles equipment Total 
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND 
EQUIPMENT (continued)
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 October 2005 (32,236) (155,455) (924) (55,156) (243,771)
Change in accounting policy –  912 –  –  912
At 1 October 2005 restated (32,236) (154,543) (924) (55,156) (242,859)
Charge for the year (4,164) (31,881) (614) (5,485) (42,144)
Subsidiaries acquired –  (1,245) (511) (414) (2,170)
Disposals (including subsidiaries) 3,027 23,652 193 14,248 41,120 
Asset impairment reversal 1,497 –  –  –  1,497 
Assets classified as held for sale –  464 –  249 713 
Exchange differences 4,198 5,478 48 1,032 10,756
At 1 October 2006 restated (27,678) (158,075) (1,808) (45,526) (233,087)
Charge for the year (5,227) (35,668) (656) (5,307) (46,858)
Subsidiaries acquired –  (1,328) (9) (53) (1,390)
Disposals (including subsidiaries) 5,112 32,723 233 7,889 45,957
Investment property revaluation 4,762 – – – 4,762
Asset impairment reversal 2,283 –  –  –  2,283
Exchange differences (2,853) (14,677) (243) (5,203) (22,976)
At 30 September 2007 (23,601) (177,025) (2,483) (48,200) (251,309)
Net book value 
30 September 2007 71,830 76,556 2,663 13,965 165,014
30 September 2006 113,091 58,413 1,050 13,423 185,977
The portion of the Campus property held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation has been classified as investment property.
This resulted in a revaluation of assets of $5.8 million and a transfer to investment property of $67.1 million in 2007. 
The impairment loss reversed in 2007 was $2.3 million (2006: $1.5 million) and related to the Central segment.
2007 
$’000 
15. INVESTMENT PROPERTY 
Transferred from property, plant and equipment 67,066
Increase in fair value during the year 22,218
Exchange differences 3,521
Closing balance 92,805 
The element occupied by third party tenants of the Campus is classified as investment property. The fair value of the
Group’s investment property at 30 September 2007 has been carried out by management, based on a rental income
yield. Net rental income in 2007 of $13.1 million has been used for the entire Campus property valuation. A yield of 8% was
used, based on indications by independent property managers.
All of the Group’s investment property is held under finance lease. Details of the finance lease payable relating to the investment
property is contained in Note 26.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 71 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 72
Restated 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
16. GOODWILL
Cost
At 1 October 73,118 43,424 
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses 12,944 5,578 
Eliminated on disposal of subsidiaries (4,349) – 
Arising on change in holding in subsidiary companies – 34,525 
Exchange differences 8,844 (10,409)
At end of year 90,557 73,118 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash-generating 
units (‘CGUs’) that are expected to benefit from that business combination. 
The goodwill balance is allocated to the following regions: 
Americas 1,988 – 
Asia 8,738 6,433 
Australia 2,491 3,211 
Europe 7,166 4,430 
Middle East and Africa 70,174 59,044 
90,557 73,118 
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
There has been no impairment to goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use
calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes in selling prices and direct costs during
the period. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value
of money and risks specific to the CGUs. The growth rates are based on industry growth forecasts. Changes in selling prices
and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group has prepared forecasts based on the most recent financial budgets approved by the Board of Directors. The discount
rates used range between 10.1% and 15.1%. Growth factors applied to expected earnings were between 10% to 20%. These
rates are consistent with growth rates of the industry in which the Group operates.
Computer 
software Other Total 
$’000 $’000 $’000 
17. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Cost 
At 1 October 2005 10,745 2,895 13,640 
Additions 10,935 –  10,935 
Acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary 143 –  143 
Exchange differences (2,735) (37) (2,772)
At 1 October 2006 restated 19,088 2,858 21,946 
Additions 6,166–6,166
Acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary 3,028 – 3,028
Disposal (including disposal of subsidiaries) (2,842) (140) (2,982)
Exchange differences 1,798 360 2,158
At 30 September 2007 27,238 3,078 30,316
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) Computer 
software Other Total 
$’000 $’000 $’000 
17. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS (continued)
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 October 2005 (1,712) (190) (1,902)
Charge for the year (6,818) (802) (7,620)
Exchange differences 1,050 8 1,058 
At 1 October 2006 restated (7,480) (984) (8,464)
Charge for the year (4,993) (829) (5,822)
Disposals (including disposal of subsidiary) 1,842 58 1,900
Exchange differences (820) (196) (1,016)
At 30 September 2007 (11,451) (1,951) (13,402)
Net book value 
30 September 2007 15,787 1,127 16,914
30 September 2006 11,608 1,874 13,482 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
18. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES 
Quoted associates – 7,927 
Unquoted associates 30,381 7,126 
30,381 15,053 
The carrying amount is made up as follows: 
Cost of investment in associates 6,491 8,202 
Share of post-acquisition profits, net of dividends received (6,988) (2,449)
Loans, less provisions 30,878 9,300 
30,381 15,053 
Market value of quoted associates – 24,514 
Directors’ value of unlisted associates 47,959 18,165 
47,959 42,679 
Analysis of movements in investments in associates: 
At 1 October 15,053 29,633 
Investment in and loans to Britehouse 15,139 –
Disposal of listed associate (11,683) – 
Other acquisitions 4,026 227 
Associate converted to subsidiary (511) (14,677)
On acquisition of subsidiary – 3,241 
Share of current year’s profit 5,740 3,863 
Reversal/(raising) of impairment on carrying value of associates 778 (386)
Dividends received (4,538) (2,074)
Other disposals and transfers (922) (189)
Movement in loans to associates 4,851 (1,229)
Exchange differences 2,448 (3,356)
Balance at end of year 30,381 15,053 
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 73 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 74
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
18. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES (continued)
Summarised financial information in respect of the Group’s associates 
is set out below: 
Total assets 95,624 72,017 
Total liabilities (90,186) (50,892)
Net assets 5,438 21,125 
Group’s share of associates’ net assets 3,113 6,065 
Revenue 74,279 159,717 
Net profit for the year 4,423 7,482 
Group’s share of associates’ profit for the year 5,740 3,863 
Further details of associates are included on page 96. 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
19. OTHER INVESTMENTS
Investments held for trading 1,737 3,085 
Available for sale investments 5,234 4,133 
Total investments 6,971 7,218
The investments included above represent investments that present the Group with opportunities for return through dividend
income and trading gains. They have no fixed maturity or coupon rate. The investments are unlisted and the fair value is
determined by the Directors.
Restated 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
20. INVENTORIES 
Resale 128,283 120,646 
Work-in-progress 35,035 24,351 
Maintenance 29,340 26,973 
192,658  171,970 
Refer to note 35 for details of inventory pledged as security for loans. 
Value of inventory carried at net realisable value:  2007: $12.3 million (2006: $6.8 million). 
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) Restated 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
21. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Trade receivables  767,654 619,393 
Other receivables 83,476 51.631
Prepayments 131,741 77,343 
Accrued income 11,334 14,678 
Finance lease receivables 10,935  9,072
1,005,140 772,117
Analysed as follows: 
Long term portion 36,804 26,862
Short term portion 968,336 745,255
1,005,140 772,117
Refer to Note 35 for details of trade receivables pledged as security for loans. 
Restated 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
Trade receivables includes: 
Amounts due from contract customers included in trade and other receivables
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profit less recognised losses to date 16,112 12,570 
Less: progress billings (899) (3,816)
15,213  8,754 
Finance lease receivables is made up as follows: 
Minimum lease Present value of minimum 
payments lease payments 
Restated Restated 
2007 2006 2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
Within one year 4,069 5,609 3,637 3,192
Two to five years 7,649 3,749 6,887 4,367
Subsequent to five years 600 1,214 411 1,513
12,318 10,572 10,935 9,072
Less: unearned finance income (1,383) (1,500) n/a n/a 
10,935 9,072 10,935 9,072
Analysed as follows:
Non-current finance lease receivables 7,298 5,880
Current finance lease receivables 3,637 3,192
10,935 9,072
Refer to Note 1 for details of change in accounting policy relating to finance lease receivables.
The Group enters into finance lease arrangements for certain computer equipment. All leases are denominated in the functional
currency of the relevant lessor subsidiary. The average term of finance lease entered into is three years.
The interest rates inherent in the leases are fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term. The average effective interest rates
contracted are between 4% to 10%.
The fair value of the Group’s finance lease receivables approximates their carrying amounts at 30 September 2007.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 75 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 76
22. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE
The Group sold the Merchants Netherlands operations during the first half of the year. These operations were classified as a
disposal group held for sale in 2006 and presented separately in the balance sheet. 
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the group classified as held for sale were as follows: 
2006 
$’000 
Non-current assets 2,306 
Current assets 9,059 
Total assets 11,365 
Current liabilities (2,222)
9,143 
2007 2006
Number of Number of
shares $’000 shares $’000 
23. SHARE CAPITAL 
Authorised 
Deferred shares of £1 each 50,000 75 50,000 75 
Ordinary shares of 1 US cent each 3,000,000,000 30,000 3,000,000,000 30,000 
30,075 30,075 
Called up, allocated and fully paid up 
Deferred shares of £1 each 50,000 75 50,000 75 
Ordinary shares of 1 US cent each 1,551,599,171 15,5161,540,130,865 15,400 
15,591  15,475 
Shares held by Employee Trust (22,033,259) (220) ––
15,371 15,475
Ordinary shares issued 
Opening balance 1,540,130,865 15,400 1,345,050,505 13,451 
Employee share option schemes 11,468,306 116 6,958,382 69 
On conversion of bonds – –188,121,978 1,880 
1,551,599,171 15,516 1,540,130,865 15,400 
11,468,306 (2006: 6,958,382) ordinary shares were issued in terms of the Share Option Scheme, for a total consideration of
$6.7 million (2006: $3.6 million).
The shares held by the Employee Trust will be used to settle the Group’s obligations under its share incentive schemes.
The terms of the deferred shares appear in the Directors’ Report on page 32. 
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) Capital Translation Hedging Other Total Other
reserves reserve reserve reserves* reserves 
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
24. TOTAL OTHER RESERVES
1 October 2005 as previously reported 64,135 5,759 (62) 139,546 209,378 
Change in accounting policy (37) (106) (143)
1 October 2005 restated 64,098 5,653 (62) 139,546 209,235 
Items recognised directly into equity 5,316 (13,583) 2,303 (2,674) (8,638)
Share incentive schemes 11,980 – – – 11,980 
Currency adjustments –  (9,012) – 327 (8,685)
Deferred tax arising on revaluation of loans –  (4,571) – – (4,571)
Vesting under BEE scheme (6,636) – – – (6,636)
Net gain on cash flow hedging –  – 2,303 – 2,303 
Movement in investment valuations –  – – 358 358 
Other  (28) – – (27) (55)
Transfers –  ––(3,332)(3,332)
1 October 2006 restated 69,414 (7,930) 2,241 136,872 200,597 
Items recognised directly into equity 13,629 50,055 (1,993) (585) 61,106
Share incentive schemes 15,581––– 15,581
Deferred tax on share incentive schemes 7,336––– 7,336
Share option reserve utilised (1,020) – – – (1,020)
Currency adjustments – 52,384 – 83 52,467
Deferred tax arising on revaluation of loans – (471) – – (471)
Subsidiaries acquired/changes in holdings – 219 – 43 262
Vesting under BEE scheme (8,260) – – – (8,260)
Revaluation of investment property – – – 5,756 5,756
Deferred tax on revaluation of investment property – – – (1,669) (1,669)
Movement in investment valuations – – – 255 255
Transfers to income statement – (2,076) (2,184) – (4,260)
Other  (8) (1) 191 (354) (172)
Transfers –––(4,699)(4,699)
30 September 2007 83,043 42,125 248 136,287 261,703
*Other reserves principally comprise consolidation reserves arising prior to the unbundling of the underlying assets into the Company at the time of its
LSE listing in 2000. 
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 77 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 78
Restated 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
25. OTHER LONG TERM LIABILITIES 
Unsecured long term loans 26,977 106 
Deferred consideration 4,230 4,895 
31,207 5,001 
The major portion of the unsecured loans was used to fund prepaid vendor 
maintenance contracts in Africa, Europe and US. 
Deferred consideration liability is geographically allocated as follows:
Americas 500 –
Australia – 1,175 
Europe 1,212 –
Middle East and Africa 4,230 8,872 
5,942 10,047 
Long term portion 4,230 4,895 
Short term portion included in trade and other payables  1,712 5,152 
5,942 10,047 
The deferred consideration is unsecured and non-interest bearing and payment is dependent on the achievement of
predetermined targets.
Minimum lease Present value of minimum 
payments lease payments 
2007 2006 2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
26. OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES 
Amounts payable under finance leases: 
Within one year 21,895 16,683 1,973 795 
Two to five years 109,227 85,236 4,990 1,982
Subsequent to five years 229,179 229,279 144,929 123,821
360,301 331,198 151,892 126,598 
Less: future finance charges (208,409) (204,600) n/a n/a 
Present value of lease obligations 151,892 126,598 151,892 126,598 
Less: amounts due for settlement within 
12 months (shown as current liabilities) (1,973) (795)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 149,919 125,803 
The finance lease relates mainly to land and buildings in South Africa. The 15 year lease arrangement was entered into on
3 February 2003 and terminates on 31 January 2018. The lease incorporates interest at 16.79%. The current monthly lease
payments of $1.6 million are payable in advance and escalate at 11% per annum. The Company acts as surety and guarantor
against any default. In addition, the obligation under finance lease is secured by the lessor’s title over the leased assets.
The minimum lease payments do not service the interest until 2010. Accordingly, no capital will be repaid for the first 
seven years.
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) Asset Liability Total 
$’000 $’000 $’000 
27. DEFERRED TAX 
At 1 October 2005 9,590 (6,438) 3,152 
Credit/(charge) to income statement for the year 22,974 (247) 22,727 
Other movements (429) 429 –  
Credit to equity for the year 360 4,211 4,571 
Acquisition of subsidiary 1,977 –  1,977 
Exchange differences (3,735) (3) (3,738)
At 1 October 2006 restated 30,737 (2,048) 28,689 
Credit/(charge) to income statement for the year 1,699 (18) 1,681
Other movements 96 (244) (148)
Credit to equity for the year 5,091 105 5,196
Acquisition of subsidiary (561) (33) (594)
Exchange differences 4,186 (57) 4,129
At 30 September 2007 41,248 (2,295) 38,953
The amounts of deferred tax and temporary differences provided and unprovided are analysed as follows:
Restated 
2007 2006
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Provided Unprovided Provided Unprovided
Accelerated tax depreciation (254) (13) (260) (65)
Provisions 25,446 2,738 16,835 372
Deferred income 13,182 – 9,459 51
Prepayments (2,754) – (1,019) (9)
Losses 16,140 246,408 9,517 226,705
Other (12,807) 63,818 (5,843) 83,531
38,953 312,951 28,689 310,585
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have 
been offset in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policy. The following is the analysis 
of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for 
balance sheet purposes:
Deferred tax assets 41,248 30,737 
Deferred tax liabilities (2,295) (2,048)
38,953 28,689 
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of $845.8 million (2006: $787.6 million) available for offset against
future profits. A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of $55.2 million (2006: $32.8 million) of such losses. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining $790.6 million (2006: $754.8 million) due 
to the unpredictability of the future profit streams. Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of $15.3 million 
(2006: $10.1 million) that will expire within five years. The major portion of other losses expires in more than ten years.
There are tax consequences associated with the Company’s investment in subsidiaries and associates but these are not
practicably determinable.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 79 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 80
Onerous lease 
and restructuring Other Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 
28. PROVISIONS 
At 1 October 2005 7,249 6,498 13,747 
Charged in the income statement in the year 619 2,749 3,368 
Utilised in the year (2,115) (3,173) (5,288)
On acquisition of subsidiary –  1,344 1,344 
Exchange differences (942) 65 (877)
At 1 October 2006 restated 4,811 7,483 12,294 
(Released to)/charged in the income statement in the year (481) 9,996 9,515
Other – 3,943 3,943
Utilised in the year (1,472) (4,855) (6,327)
On acquisition of subsidiary 26 – 26
Exchange differences 449 1,382 1,831
3,333 17,949 21,282
Analysed as follows:
Short term portion 907 10,858 11,765
Long term portion 2,426 7,091 9,517
3,333 17,949 21,282
Restructuring provisions of $0.9 million (2006: $1.8 million) relate to Europe. Onerous operating lease provisions of $2.5 million
(2006: $3.0 million) relate to Africa and are expected to be settled over three years.
Other provisions include $2.7 million (2006: $3.0 million) in respect of pension and other similar employee obligations,
$1.4 million (2006: $2.3 million) for project losses and $5.2 million (2006: $1.6 million) for refurbishment provisions. A warranty
provision of $7.1 million exists in Africa. Previously the equivalent provision of $4.5 million was reported in work-in-progress.
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
29. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
Trade payables 448,828 371,598 
Other payables 172,607 106,175 
Accruals 266,741 195,649 
Deferred income 188,625 151,376 
Trading current liabilities 1,076,801 824,798 
Deferred consideration 1,712 5,152 
Current portion of obligations under finance leases 1,973 795 
Other current liabilities 3,685 5,947 
Total trade and other payables 1,080,486 830,745 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
30. BANK OVERDRAFTS AND LOANS 
Bank overdrafts   3,439 6,236 
Bank loans 24,619 27,040 
28,058 33,276 
Analysed as follows:
Long term portion 4,144 21,412 
Short term portion 23,914 11,864 
28,058 33,276 
In 2006 a working capital loan was raised in South Africa for $26.2 million. A loan of $4.3 million was raised to finance a new
building at the Campus. Details of the security for these loans are set out in Note 35.
Refer to Note 39 for additional information regarding bank overdrafts and loans. 
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) 31. ACQUISITIONS/INCREASE IN HOLDINGS OF SUBSIDIARIES AND DISPOSALS OF SUBSIDIARIES
During the year, the Group acquired a 100% holding in Unreal Technology a.s, a company incorporated in the Czech Republic
and a 51% holding in Dimension Data Namibia (Pty) Limited, a company incorporated in Namibia.
In May 2007, the Group acquired an additional 40.1% interest in Datacraft Americas Holdings Limited, the 100% holding
company of Datacraft do Brazil LTDA. This brings the Group’s shareholding to 50.1%. Datacraft do Brazil LTDA has expertise in
the networking, converged communications and security lines of business. 
The Group increased its holding in Automate (Pty) Limited, a company incorporated in South Africa from 46.15% to 92.3%
during the year.
In addition, the Group made a few smaller acquisitions in Africa and Asia.
None of the acquisitions had a material impact on the reported results and the balance sheet.
2007 
$’million
The carrying amounts of each class of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities relating 
to these acquisitions were determined in accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’. 
The amounts are as follows: 
Non-current assets 1
Inventories 2
Trade and other receivables 5
Cash and cash equivalents 2
Short term liabilities (11)
Net asset value of acquisition (1)
Purchase consideration 14
Goodwill and intangibles on acquisition 15
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition 
Cash consideration 13
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (1)
12
Due to the nature of the underlying businesses, intangible assets of $3.0 million were assigned to  intellectual property. 
During the year, the Group disposed of 60% of its holding in Britehouse Holdings (Proprietary) Limited. Cash of $14.5 million
was received.
The Group disposed of its interest in Didata Dimension Data Sverige AB, its Swedish based operations, for $3.3 million.
The carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities relating to these disposals amounted to:
$’million
Non-current assets 16
Current assets 13
Non-current liabilities (13)
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 81 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 82
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
32. OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
The Group as lessee 
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future 
minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall 
due as follows:
Within one year 34,458 29,031 
In the second to fifth years inclusive 57,337 52,149 
After five years 10,891 11,179 
102,686 92,359 
The Group as lessor 
Net property rental income earned during the year was $13.1 million (2006: $11.1 million) 
which is included in other operating income.
At balance sheet date, the Group had contracted with tenants for the following 
minimum lease payments:
Within one year 6,677 6,246 
In the second to fifth years inclusive 16,268 8,551 
After five years 5,344 11,017 
28,289 25,814 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
33. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
Guarantees 62,529 65,721 
Other 6,289 12,307 
68,818 78,028 
Other includes $1.5 million (2006: $4.5 million) in respect of contract performance.
The Group is subject to claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. Each claim is evaluated by management, together
with their legal advisers, and a decision made on whether financial settlement is probable, in which case appropriate provisions
have been made. The Directors believe that, subject to a reasonable outcome on the matters still to be determined, the
provisions are sufficient to meet the likely outcome of such claims.
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
34. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS 
Authorised, contracted for 14,246 14,570 
Authorised but not yet contracted for 69,890 42,376 
84,136  56,946 
35. CESSION OF ASSETS 
Trade receivables of $83.0 million (2006: $80.0 million) and bank balances amounting to $99.1 million (2006: $14.6 million)
in the South African business have been ceded to a financial institution as security for a working capital loan of $20.4 million
(2006: $23.2 million).
As security for the new building at the Campus, the Group has ceded sub-lease agreements of $8.0 million (2006: $8.5 million)
to the bank who funded the construction.
In the US business an amount of $121.3 million (2006: $127.5 million) of trade receivables and $3.4 million (2006: 
$10.4 million) of inventory were ceded as security in respect of a working capital facility.
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) 36. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Related parties are entities with common direct or indirect shareholders and/or directors. The principal shareholders of the Group
are listed on page 97. The Group and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business, enter into various sale, purchase,
service and investment transactions with associates and others in which the Group has an interest. These transactions are under
terms that are no more favourable than those arranged with third parties.
During the year, the Group sold 60% of its holding in Britehouse Holdings (Proprietary) Limited (‘Britehouse’). VenFin Limited, a
shareholder of the Group, holds an effective 30% interest in Britehouse. A BEE consortium owns an effective 30% interest in
Britehouse. Moss Ngoasheng, a director of the Group, is an indirect shareholder of the BEE consortium.
There were no other related-party transactions during the current year that require disclosure.
37. PENSION SCHEMES
In most countries, the employing company provides either defined contribution or insured retirement plans to their employees.
The relevant company, and in some cases employees, pay regular contributions to the plans. Once contributions are made, the
relevant company has no liability in respect of these plans.
Pension costs are disclosed in Note 7. 
Employees in France, Italy, Japan and Korea are entitled to lump-sum termination indemnity payments upon leaving. Provisions
have been established in respect of these liabilities.
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
38. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT 
The share-based payment expense by region is summarised below:
Americas 1,555 1,152 
Asia 2,017 1,537 
Australia 4,441 2,142 
Europe 5,967 2,904 
Middle East and Africa 3,915 3,179 
Central and Other 6,562 2,979 
24,457  13,893 
38(a)  Dimension Data’s schemes 
Dimension Data Holdings plc share option scheme (Post 2000) 
The Dimension Data Holdings plc share option scheme (Post 2000) provides for the grant of share options to employees. 
The share options granted vest in four tranches from the option grant date as follows:
–  A quarter of the options granted vest after one year; 
–  A further quarter of the options granted vest after two years; 
–  A further quarter of the options granted vest after three years; and 
–  The final quarter of the options vest after four years. 
The vesting of the options was subject to various non-market performance criteria, which have all been achieved. All options
expire after 10 years from grant date.
Number of options on ordinary shares in the Company outstanding in terms of the option schemes
2007 2006 
Opening balance 111,948,073 128,528,762 
Exercised and paid (11,468,306) (6,958,382)
Lapsed (6,439,276) (9,622,307)
Closing balance 94,040,491  111,948,073
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 83 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 84
38. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT  (continued)
38(a)  Dimension Data’s schemes (continued)
Total weighted average price for options exercised and paid was R6.71 and £0.29. 
Details of options outstanding at year end: 
Weighted Number of share options
Grant price Latest expiry date average price 2007 2006 
R17.95 – R30.00 29/07/2007 – 03/11/2009 R23.36 31,215,806 34,428,265 
R30.01 – R63.30 03/04/2008 – 05/06/2010 R41.60 408,972 509,508 
£0.16 – £0.30 01/08/2012 – 03/08/2014 £0.25 25,284,063 31,899,313 
£0.31 – £0.40 18/11/2013 – 24/05/2014 £0.36 18,963,579 25,038,145 
£0.41 – £0.55 04/04/2012 – 01/07/2012 £0.53 250,000 250,000 
£0.56 – £0.80 08/10/2006 – 03/05/2012 £0.70 14,501,449 15,781,871 
£0.81 – £6.33 02/10/2010 – 22/08/2011 £1.68 3,416,622 4,040,971 
94,040,491  111,948,073
Share Appreciation Rights
The Share Appreciation Rights (‘SARS’) provide the employees, at the date the rights vest, with the right to receive shares equal
to the appreciation in the share price since grant date. The share appreciation rights all vest three years after the grant date. 
The vesting of the options is subject to various non-market performance criteria.
All SARS expire six years from grant date. 
Number of SARS 
Grant price Grant date Latest expiry date 2007 2006 
£0.36 05/01/200505/01/2011 13,713,067 16,301,017 
£0.39 15/02/2005 15/02/2011 2,300,000 2,300,000 
£0.36 25/02/2005 25/02/2011 2,747,663 3,079,158 
£0.36 07/03/2005 07/03/2011 4,596,420 5,017,415 
£0.36 08/07/200508/07/2011 801,643 1,012,143 
24,158,793 27,709,733 
There is no amount payable by participants on exercise. The participants will receive an amount equal to the increase in value
between the grant date and the exercise date.
Long Term Incentive Plan 
The Long Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) provides the employees, at the date the rights vest, the right to receive shares as
stipulated by the grant certificate. The LTIPs vest in one tranche, approximately three years after the grant date. The vesting
of the majority of the LTIPs is subject to market performance conditions, based on the relative total shareholder return (‘TSR’)
of Dimension Data to that of each of a group of peer companies.
All LTIPs expire on vesting date, i.e. three years from date of grant. 
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) 38. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT (continued)
38(a)  Dimension Data’s schemes (continued)
Approximate Number of LTIPS
Grant price Grant date vesting date 2007 2006 
£0.36 05/01/2005December 2007 8,260,035 9,669,985 
£0.39 15/02/2005 December 2007 2,300,000 2,300,000 
£0.36 25/02/2005 December 2007 1,626,955 1,727,450 
£0.36 07/03/2005 December 2007 2,815,420 2,925,915 
£0.33 08/07/2005December 2007 217,490 296,490 
£0.36 22/11/2005 December 2008 45,431,434 50,457,323 
£0.49 23/02/2006 December 2008 – 2,470,600 
£0.46 08/03/2006 December 2008 435,000 435,000 
£0.37 20/06/2006 December 2008 2,265,782 2,501,782
£0.39 21/11/2006 December 2009 45,215,852 – 
108,567,968  72,784,545 
There is no amount payable on vesting. The participants will be awarded rights to ordinary shares in the Company. 
Valuation methods 
The fair value of the options granted in terms of the Dimension Data Holdings plc share option scheme and SARS are estimated
using an actuarial binomial option pricing model. 
The Monte Carlo Simulation process (for the LTIP valuation) is used to model a real life situation with stochastic properties. 
An example of such a process is the movement in share prices. Share prices have an underlying distribution, which can be
estimated and used to calculate likely distribution of future share prices. Taking into account the expected growth in share price,
assuming a log-normal distribution, the model projects the future share prices. 
Inputs into the model 
The following inputs were used to value the options, SARS and LTIPS granted: 
Weighted Exercise Expected Expected 
average price at option Expected dividend Risk-free
Financial years ended  share price grant date lifetime volatility yield interest rate
30 September years % % % 
Share Option Scheme 
(Post 2000) 2003 – JSE  R3.94 R3.71 7 59.2 – 62.4 –  10.06 – 11.12 
Share Option Scheme 
(Post 2000) 2003 – LSE £0.26 £0.25 7 59.2 – 63.7 –  3.80 – 4.56 
Share Option Scheme 
(Post 2000) 2004 – JSE  R4.03 R4.03 7 63.7 –  9.69 
Share Option Scheme 
(Post 2000) 2004 – LSE £0.34 £0.33 7 63.3 – 64.3 –  4.91 – 5.18 
SARS 2005 £0.37 £0.37 4 70.1 – 70.5 –  4.49 – 4.81 
LTIPs 2005 £0.37 3 78.7 –  4.51 
LTIPs 2006 £0.37 3 48.23 – 56.66 –  4.29 – 4.87 
LTIPs 2007 £0.39 3 43.26 – 4.79
No changes in assumptions were made to the Share Option Scheme (Post 2000) subsequent to 2004.
The expected option lifetime was arrived at based on management’s best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise
restrictions and exercise behaviour considerations. The estimated attrition rate for SARS and LTIPs was between 4% to 8%
(2006: 6% to 10%).
The expected volatility was determined based on the rolling historical volatility over the expected option lifetime that prevailed at
the grant date.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 85 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 86
38. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT (continued)
38(a) Dimension Data’s schemes (continued)
The risk-free interest rate used is the yield on the zero-coupon South African government bonds and a UK gilt strip of a term
consistent with the expected option lifetime.
Modifications to share-based payments 
For options which were originally granted on 21 November 2002 under the Dimension Data Holdings plc Share Option Scheme
(Post 2000), the vesting dates of 20,754,173 options were altered on 21 November 2003. These options vested over three
tranches, ending on 21 November 2006.
The incremental fair value of £1.8 million was the increase in the value under the new vesting terms as valued at the date of
modification. This incremental fair value was determined using the actuarial binomial model.
The principal inputs used in determining the incremental fair value are detailed in the table below: 
Exercise Expected Expected UK risk-free
price at option Expected dividend interest
Weighted average share price grant date lifetime volatility yield rate
£ £ Years % % % 
0.35 0.25 7 63.7 –  4.99 
38(b) Datacraft Asia’s (‘Datacraft’) schemes 
Datacraft Asia has two share option schemes, namely the Previous Scheme and the Scheme 2003. The Previous Scheme was
adopted in 1996. During the financial year ended 30 September 2003, the Previous Scheme was terminated and replaced by
the Scheme 2003. The termination of the Previous Scheme does not affect the rights of outstanding options granted under the
Previous Scheme. However, upon the termination of the Previous Scheme on 27 February 2003, no further options were granted
under the Previous Scheme.
Details of the share options under the Previous Scheme outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2007 2006 
Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average
share options exercise price share options exercise price 
$ $ 
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 13,097,000 1.993 14,991,000 1.941 
Exercised during the year (1,606,000) 0.725 (789,000) 0.725 
Lapsed during the year (837,000) 2.565 (1,105,000) 2.193 
Outstanding at the end of the year 10,654,000 2.139 13,097,000 1.993 
Exercisable at the end of the year 10,654,000 2.139 11,215,500 2.206 
The weighted average share price at the date of the exercise for share options exercised during the year was $1.174
(2006: $1.028). The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of
4.2 years (2006: 5.4 years).
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) 38. SHARE-BASED PAYMENT (continued)
38(b) Datacraft Asia’s (‘Datacraft’) schemes (continued)
Details of the share options under the Scheme 2003 outstanding during the year are as follows: 
2007 2006 
Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average
share options exercise price share options exercise price 
$ $  
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 15,736,000 1.048 11,884,000 0.982 
Granted during the year 7,853,000 1.080 6,565,000 1.140 
Exercised during the year (1,521,000) 0.963 (455,000) 0.835 
Lapsed during the year (2,367,000) 1.087 (2,258,000) 1.012 
Outstanding at the end of the year 19,701,000 1.062 15,736,000 1.048 
Exercisable at the end of the year 5,244,750 1.071 3,348,250 1.060 
The weighted average share price at the date of the exercise for share options exercised during the year was $1.197 
(2006: $1.050).  The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.3 years
(2006: 7.2 years).
In FY2007, options were granted on 15 March 2007. The estimated fair values of the options granted on 15 March 2007 were
between $0.24 and $0.35. In FY2006, options were granted on 20 February 2006. The estimated fair values of the options
granted on 20 February 2006 were between $0.25 and $0.42.
These fair values were calculated using the binomial option pricing model. The inputs into the model were as follows: 
2007 2006 
Share price at date of grant 1.10 1.11 
Exercise price 1.08 1.14 
Expected volatility 38% 43%
Contractual life 7 years 7 years 
Risk-free rate 4.51% to 4.68% 4.60% to 4.71% 
Expected dividend yield 3% 1.20%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of Datacraft’s share price over the previous
three years. 
It was assumed that employees who voluntarily resign would have exercised their options before they resign if the share price
at the point of exercise exceeds the exercise price. It was further assumed that employees will only exercise their options if the
share price at that moment exceeds the exercise price by 15% (2006: 15%).
Performance Share Plan 
On 20 January 2006, the shareholders of Datacraft approved a new performance share plan (‘Datacraft Asia Performance
Share Plan’) under which awards of fully paid-up shares will be granted, free of payment, to selected employees, when and
after pre-determined performance targets and/or service conditions are accomplished. The awards may be settled with new
shares, treasury shares or cash or combinations thereof at the sole discretion of Datacraft. No such performance shares were
granted during the financial year.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 87 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 88
39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
Trade and other receivables 
The average credit period taken on sale of goods was 60 days (2006: 62 days). An allowance of $31.9 million (2006:
$25.9 million) for irrecoverable trade receivables has been determined on specific receivables and by reference to past default
experience. No interest is charged on outstanding receivable balances.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. 
Bank balances and cash 
These comprise cash held by the Group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. 
The carrying amounts of these assets approximate their fair value.
Trade and other payables 
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. 
The average credit period taken for trade purchases was 51 days (2006: 52 days).
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade payables to approximate their fair value.
Credit risk
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of
allowance for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on
previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because counterparties are banks with high credit
ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and
customers.
Currency derivatives 
The Group hedges its transactional foreign exchange risk, using forward exchange contracts, as soon as there is a firm
contractual commitment. Speculative use of financial instruments or derivatives is not permitted and none has occurred during
any periods presented.
At balance sheet date, total notional amounts outstanding in respect of forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group
has committed are as below: 
2007 2006 
$’000 $’000 
Forward foreign exchange contracts
These arrangements are designed to address significant exchange exposures for 
the first half of FY2008, and are renewed on a revolving basis as required. 
Fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts: 
Assets 2,505 4,580 
Liabilities (3,975) (737)
(1,470) 3,843 
These amounts are based on market values of equivalent instruments at balance sheet date. 
The fair value of currency derivatives that are designated and effective cash flow hedges amounting to $0.2 million 
(2006: $2.3 million) has been deferred in equity.
Financial assets comprise: investments held for trading, available for sale investments, long and short term trade and other
receivables (excluding the provision for bad debts), tax authorities receivable, cash and cash equivalents, current asset portion
of assets classified as held for sale and other financial instruments.
Financial liabilities comprise: other long term liabilities, bank loans and overdrafts, trade and other payables, tax authorities
payable, liabilities held for sale and other financial instruments.
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) 39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
39(a) Maturity profile of financial liabilities 
Bank loans Finance 
and overdrafts leases Other Total 
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
2007 
Within one year or less or on demand (23,914) (1,973) (1,211,180) (1,237,067)
Within two to five years (1,134) (4,990) (27,170) (33,294)
More than five years (3,010) (144,929) (4,037) (151,976)
(28,058) (151,892) (1,242,387) (1,422,337)
2006 Restated 
Within one year or less or on demand (11,864) (795) (933,913) (946,572)
Within two to five years (18,828) (2,673) (5,001) (26,502)
More than five years (2,584) (123,130) –  (125,714)
(33,276) (126,598) (938,914) (1,098,788)
Details of deferred consideration included in Other are set out in Note 25.
39(b) Interest rates and currency profiles 
The main functional currency of the Group is the US dollar, being the currency in which the majority of purchases are
denominated and to which most of the selling prices are linked. Other major currencies are the South African rand, Sterling,
Australian dollar and the Euro. Monetary assets and liabilities are generally economically hedged and therefore there are limited
transactional exposures that would give rise to net currency gains and losses in the income statement.
The interest rate profiles of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 
Restated 
2007 2006 
Financial Financial Financial Financial
assets liabilities assets liabilities 
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
Floating interest rates 381,417 (24,497) 127,839 (45,815)
Fixed interest rates 71,918 (195,192) 86,307 (125,542)
Non-interest bearing 1,085,123 (1,202,648) 977,673 (927,431)
1,538,458 (1,422,337) 1,191,819 (1,098,788)
Floating rate financial assets include cash at bank and in hand and cash equivalents. Interest on floating rate bank deposits is
based on the relevant interbank rate.
The fixed rate financial liabilities include the capitalised finance lease. 
Floating rate financial liabilities relate to bank loans, overdrafts and loans. Interest is based on the relevant interbank rate.
Included in non-interest bearing financial liabilities is deferred consideration.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 89 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 90
39. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
39(b) Interest rates and currency profiles (continued)
The currency profiles of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are as follows:
Restated 
2007 2006 
Financial Financial Financial Financial
assets liabilities assets liabilities 
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 
Australian dollars 202,005 (223,146) 147,267 (157,117)
Euro 237,411 (146,332) 186,564 (190,394)
Sterling 168,184 (117,102) 102,423 (61,358)
US dollars 421,085 (489,942) 405,256 (318,685)
SA rand 218,934 (352,170) 144,424 (270,253)
Other 290,839 (93,645) 205,885 (100,981)
1,538,458 (1,422,337) 1,191,819 (1,098,788)
39(c) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
With the exception of the Campus lease liability, the fair value of the gross financial liabilities amounting to $1,422.3 million 
(2006: $1,098.8 million) equates to the carrying amount.
The carrying value of the Campus lease liability is $144.9 million (2006: $123.3 million), whilst the fair value of the liability is
$201.1 million (2006: $172.9 million).
Gross financial assets 
The carrying value of the gross financial assets amounting to $1,538.5 million (2006: $1,191.8 million) approximates the
fair value. 
39(d) Undrawn facilities 
The Group has undrawn facilities at 30 September 2007 of $70.7 million (2006:  $52.5 million). 
40. DIVIDEND 
A final dividend of 1 cent per share was paid on 16 March 2007. 
The proposed dividend of 1.5 cent per share is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not
been included as a liability in these financial statements. In terms of the definition of a dividend for SA tax purposes, there is not
expected to be any tax liability attached to this dividend.
41. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS 
There have been no material events after balance sheet date and up to the date of approval of these financial statements that
require disclosure. 
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 30 September 2007 (continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 91
2007 2006 
Notes $'000 $'000 
ASSETS 
Non-current assets 
Property, plant and equipment (a) 28 32 
Investment in subsidiaries (b) 525,362 461,019 
Trade and other receivables (c) 882 780 
526,272 461,831 
Current assets 
Trade and other receivables (c) 1,793 19 
Cash and cash equivalents – 6,530 
1,793 6,549 
Total assets 528,065 468,380 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
Capital and reserves 
Share capital 23 15,591 15,475 
Share premium 206,050 199,454 
Capital reserves 42,353 28,745 
Translation reserves 30,942 1,191 
Retained earnings 216,793 222,434 
Total equity 511,729 467,299 
Non-current liabilities 
Deferred tax liabilities 821 927 
821 927 
Current liabilities 
Payables 4,303 154
Bank overdraft 11,212 – 
15,515 154 
Total liabilities 16,336 1,081 
Total equity and liabilities 528,065 468,380 
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 November 2007.
Brett Dawson Dave Sherriffs
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Company balance sheet
As at 30 September 2007 Company cash flow statement
For the year ended 30 September 2007
2007 2006 
$'000 $'000 
Operating activities
Operating loss (2,109) (3,954)
Adjustments for: 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4 5 
Other non-cash items – valuation of open FEC contracts (1,764) –
Operating cash flows before working capital movements (3,869) (3,949)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (112) 72 
Increase/(decrease) in payables 3,504 (319)
Movement on inter-company loan accounts (21,090) 6,352 
Cash (used in)/generated from operations (21,567) 2,156 
Income taxes paid – (119)
Interest paid (1,342) (170)
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (22,909) 1,867 
Investing activities 
Interest received 2,275 499 
Dividends received 11,350 – 
Net cash from investing activities 13,625 499 
Financing activities 
Proceeds on issue of new shares net of expenses 6,712 3,590
Dividend paid (15,170) – 
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities (8,458) 3,590 
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents (17,742) 5,956 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 6,530 574 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (11,212) 6,530 
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 92 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 93
Share Share Capital Translation Special Retained Total
capital premium reserves reserves reserve earnings equity
$'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000 $'000
1 October 2005 13,526 101,823 17,404 (2,375) 342,439 (116,379) 356,438 
Loss for the year ––––– (3,626) (3,626)
Items recognised directly into equity 1,949 97,631 11,341 3,566 (342,439) 342,439 114,487 
Share incentive schemes – – 11,341 – – – 11,341 
Currency adjustments – – – (645) – – (645)
Deferred tax arising on revaluation of loans – – – 4,211 – – 4,211 
Shares issued 69 3,521 –––– 3,590 
Shares issued on conversion of bonds 1,880 94,999 –––– 96,879 
Share issue expenses – (889) –––– (889)
Release of special reserve on issue of new shares ––––(96,879)96,879 –
Release of special reserve   ––––(245,560)245,560 –
1 October 2006  15,475 199,454 28,745 1,191 – 222,434 467,299 
Profit for the year – – – 9,529 9,529
Items recognised directly into equity 116 6,596 13,608 29,751 – (15,170) 34,901
Share incentive schemes – – 13,608 – – – 13,608
Currency adjustments – – – 29,646 – – 29,646
Deferred tax arising on revaluation of loans – – – 105 – – 105
Shares issued 116 6,596 –––– 6,712
Dividends paid ––––– (15,170) (15,170)
30 September 2007 15,591 206,050 42,353 30,942 – 216,793 511,729 
Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 30 September 2007 Notes to company balance sheet
As at 30 September 2007
2007 2006 
$'000 $'000 
(a) PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Cost at 1 October 46 46 
Accumulated depreciation at 1 October (14) (9)
Depreciation charge for the year (4) (5)
Accumulated depreciation at 30 September (18) (14)
Net book value 28 32 
The Company's only property, plant and equipment comprise office furniture and fittings.
2007 2006 
$'000 $'000 
(b) INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES 
Shares in subsidiaries 675,127 263,846 
Amounts due (to)/from subsidiary undertakings (149,765) 197,173 
525,362 461,019 
Analysis of movement in shares in subsidiaries 
Balance at beginning of year 263,846 252,505 
Net acquisitions and recapitalisation of subsidiaries 397,673 –
Share incentive cost 13,608 11,341 
675,127 263,846 
Investments in subsidiaries represents the investments in Spectrum Holdings Inc, Dimension Data (South Africa) (Pty) Limited,
Dimension Data Network Services Limited, Dimension Data Global Management Services (Pty) Limited, Dimension Data (South
Africa) Holdings (Pty) Limited, Dimension Data Australia Pty Limited and the preference share in Dimension Data Commerce
Centre Limited.  Details of the principal subsidiaries appear on page 96.
2007 2006 
$'000 $'000 
(c) TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Long term trade and other receivables – Investment income receivable 882 780 
Current trade and other receivables 1,793 19
– Prepayments 29 19
– Other financial instruments 1,764 –  
2,675 799 
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 94 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 95
2007 2006 
$'000 $'000 
(d) DEFERRED TAX 
At 1 October  (927) (5,137)
Income statement release/(charge) 1 (1)
Deferred tax as a result of translation movements 105 4,211 
At 30 September (821) (927)
The deferred tax balance arose mainly as a result of foreign currency translation movements.
(e) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has elected not to present its own income statement
for the year.  The Company reported a profit for the year of $9.5 million (2006: Loss $3.6 million).  Principal subsidiaries and associates
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 96
Effective Effective
Country of interest interest
incorporation/ 2007 2006 
Name operation Activity % %
Subsidiaries
Automate Dealer Management Systems 
(Pty) Limited South Africa IT Solutions and Services 92.30 46.15
Bellerephon Group Pty Limited Australia IT Solutions and Services 51.00 51.00
Comtech Holdings SA Belgium Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Datacraft Americas Holdings Limited Bermuda IT Solutions and Services 50.10 10.00
Datacraft Asia Limited Singapore IT Solutions and Services 54.01 53.37
Datacraft Comercio e Servicos LTDA Brazil IT Solutions and Services 50.10 –
Datacraft do Brasil LTDA Brazil IT Solutions and Services 50.10 –
Dimension Data Limited Nigeria IT Solutions and Services 43.75 46.30
Dimension Data (Pty) Limited South Africa IT Solutions and Services 85.78 90.78
Dimension Data Advanced Infrastructure Limited Great Britain IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Algeria Spa Algeria IT Solutions and Services 70.00 70.00
Dimension Data Australia Pty Limited Australia IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Australian Holdings SA Belgium Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Belgium SA Belgium IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Botswana (Pty) Limited Botswana IT Solutions and Services 43.75 46.30
Dimension Data Canada Inc Canada IT Solutions and Services 100.00 –
Dimension Data Commerce Centre Limited Isle of Man IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Czech Republic s.r.o. Czech Republic IT Solutions and Services 100.00 –
Dimension Data Deutschland Holdings GmbH Germany Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Espana SL Spain IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Facilities (Pty) Limited South Africa IT Solutions and Services 85.78 90.78
Dimension Data Finance Limited Isle of Man Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data France SA France IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Germany AG & Co Germany IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Global Management 
Services Limited Isle of Man Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Holdings France SA France Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Holdings Nederland BV Netherlands Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Hungary Limited Hungary IT Solutions and Services 100.00 –
Dimension Data International Limited Malta Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Italia SRL Italy IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Luxembourg SA Luxembourg IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Management Services 
(Pty) Limited South Africa Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Africa and Middle East
(Pty) Limited South Africa Investment Holding and Management 85.78 90.78
Dimension Data Namibia (Pty) Limited Namibia IT Solutions and Services 43.75 –
Dimension Data Network Services Limited Great Britain IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Nederland BV Netherlands IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data North Africa Holdings Limited Belgium Investment Holding and Management 70.00 70.00
Dimension Data North America Inc United States of America IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Protocol BV Netherlands Protocol 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Solutions Limited Kenya IT Solutions and Services 43.75 46.30
Dimension Data (South Africa) Holdings 
(Pty) Limited South Africa Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data Switzerland SA Switzerland IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data (US) Inc United States of America Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Dimension Data (US) II Inc United States of America Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Euricom SA Belgium IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Howper 266 Limited Great Britain Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
Internet Solutions (Pty) Limited South Africa IT Solutions and Services 85.78 90.78
Merchants SA (Pty) Limited South Africa IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Planet CTI Belgium IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Plessey (Pty) Limited South Africa IT Solutions and Services 85.78 90.78
Protocol (A&NZ) Pty Limited Australia Protocol 100.00 100.00
Protocol Venture Capital (Pty) Limited South Africa Protocol 100.00 100.00
Spectrum Holdings Inc British Virgin Islands Investment Holding and Management 100.00 100.00
The Merchants Group Limited Great Britain IT Solutions and Services 100.00 100.00
Associates
Britehouse Holdings (Pty) Limited South Africa IT Solutions and Services 40.00 –
Dataflo SA (Pty) Limited South Africa IT Solutions and Services 42.89 45.39 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 97
SHAREHOLDERS’ DIARY
Financial year end 30 September
Annual profit announcement November 2007
Dividend declaration November 2007
Dividend payable March 2008
Annual Report December 2007
Annual General Meeting January 2008
Interim profit announcement May 2008
DIVIDENDS
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.5 US cents.  Subject to shareholders' approval at the Annual General
Meeting on 30 January 2008, the final dividend will be paid on 14 March 2008 to shareholders on the share register at the close of
business on 15 February 2008.
CORPORATE WEBSITE
This report and other information on the Group’s activities and financial information are available on the website at
www.dimensiondata.com
ANALYSIS OF ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2007
Number of Number of Percentage of
Size of shareholding shareholders shares issued capital
1 – 1,000 12,392 3,928,218 0.25
1,001 – 5,000 5,550 14,227,033 0.92
5,001 – 10,000 1,541 12,013,179 0.77
10,001 – 25,000 975 15,779,607 1.02
25,001 – 50,000 421 15,361,225 0.99
50,001 – 100,000 231 17,247,140 1.11
100,001 – 250,000 215 35,246,294 2.27
250,001 – 500,000 148 54,165,202 3.49
500,001 – 1,000,000 110 79,055,927 5.10
Over 1,000,000 207 1,304,575,346 84.08
Total 21,790 1,551,599,171 100.00
SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS
As at 30 September 2007 the Company has been notified, in accordance with sections 198 and 208 of the Companies Act 1985,
of the following interests in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company:
Number of Percentage of
Shareholder shares issued capital
VenFin Limited 282,092,463 18.18
Allan Gray Investment Council 277,532,852 17.89
Sanlam Investment Managers 116,822,870 7.53
Public Investment Corporation 87,650,391 5.65
Old Mutual Asset Managers 64,849,412 4.18
Legal and General Investment Management Limited 64,411,556 4.15
Shareholder information Notice is hereby given that the ninth Annual General Meeting of Dimension Data Holdings plc will be held at Cazenove & Co,
20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA at 15h00 (UK time), 17h00 (SA time) on 30 January 2008 to transact the following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following ten resolutions, each of which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution:
1. To receive and adopt the annual financial statements comprising the consolidated financial statements of the Dimension Data
Group and the financial statements of Dimension Data Holdings plc incorporated therein, and the reports of the Directors and
the auditors for the year ended 30 September 2007.
2. To declare a final dividend of 1.5 US cents per share, in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, payable on
14 March 2008 to the holders of ordinary shares registered at the close of business on 15 February 2008. 
3. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2007.
4. To re-elect as Chairman Jeremy John Ord who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
5. To re-elect as an executive director David Brian Sherriffs who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
6. To re-elect as a non-executive director Rupert George Maxwell Lothian Barclay who is retiring in accordance with the Articles
of Association.
7. To re-elect as a non-executive director Moses Modidima Ngoasheng who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
8. To elect Leslie Frank Bergman as a non-executive director.
9. To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting
at which financial statements are laid before the Company.
10. To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors.
SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution:
11. That the authority conferred on the Directors pursuant to Article 10.2 of the Company’s Articles of Association to allot relevant
securities be renewed until the date of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2009 or 30 April 2009, whichever is the earlier
and for such period (without taking into account for this purpose any allotment of relevant securities pursuant to an offer or
agreement made prior to such period) the Directors shall be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of
the Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of $1,551,599 or 155,159,900 ordinary shares.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following three resolutions, each of which will be proposed as a special resolution:
12. That, subject to the passing of resolution 11 above, the authority and power conferred on the Directors pursuant to Article 10.3
of the Company’s Articles of Association to allot equity securities wholly for cash as if Section 89(1) of the Companies Act 1985
did not apply to such allotment, be renewed until the date of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2009 or 30 April 2009,
whichever is the earlier, and for such period (without taking into account for this purpose any allotment of relevant securities
pursuant to an offer or agreement made prior to such period) the Directors shall be empowered to allot equity securities wholly
for cash pursuant to and within the terms of the authority in Article 10.2 of the Company’s Articles of Association:
• In connection with a rights issue (as defined in Article 10.5 of the Company’s Articles of Association); and 
• Otherwise than in connection with a Rights Issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of $775,799 or 77,579,900 ordinary
shares as if Section 89(1) of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to any such allotment.
13. That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to
make one or more market purchases (within the meaning of Section 163(3) of the Act) on the London or Johannesburg Stock
Exchanges of ordinary shares of one US cent each in the capital of the Company of up to a total of 77,579,900 shares, and may
hold such shares as treasury shares, provided that:
• The maximum number of shares held in treasury will never exceed 5% of the issued share capital of the Company;
• The maximum price which may be paid for such ordinary shares shall not be more than 5% above the average of the market
values for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange’s Daily Official List for the five business days
immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary shares are purchased;
Notice of annual general meeting
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 98 • The minimum price which may be paid for such shares is one US cent per ordinary share; and
• The authority conferred by this resolution shall expire on the date of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2009 or
30 April 2009, whichever is the earlier (except in relation to any purchase of shares the contract for which was concluded
before such date and which would or might be executed wholly or partly after such date).
14. That the alterations to the Articles of Association of the Company, as set out in the draft amended Articles of Association as
produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be approved with effect from the
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting. Full details of the proposed changes to the Articles of Association are set out in the
Explanatory Notes and Appendix to this notice.
By order of the Board
ML Taylor
Secretary
13 November 2007
NOTES
1. Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to
attend, speak and vote instead of him. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. A form of proxy is enclosed for your
use if desired.
2. Completion and return of a form of proxy does not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting in person.
3. To be valid, the enclosed form of proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed,
must be lodged with Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH in
the UK (for members registered on the Company’s principal register of members) or Computershare Investor Services 2004
(Proprietary) Limited, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 or PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107 (for members registered on
the Company’s South African register of members) not later than 15h00 (UK time), 17h00 (SA time) on 28 January 2008.
4. The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those
shareholders on the register of members as at 15h00 (UK time), 17h00 (SA time) on 28 January 2008 or, if the Annual General
Meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend
or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that relevant time. Changes to
entries on the register of members after 15h00 (UK time), 17h00 (SA time) on 28 January 2008 or, if the Annual General Meeting
is adjourned, on the register of members less than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in
determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
5. Mobile phones may not be used in the meeting hall, and cameras, tape or video recorders are not allowed in the meeting hall.
6. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company. The total number of issued
ordinary shares in the Company on 30 September 2007, which is the latest practicable date before the publication of this
document, is 1,551,599,171. On a vote by show of hands every member who is present shall have one vote. On a poll vote
every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share of which he is the holder. 
7. Documents available for inspection – the following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company
and at The Wanderers, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston, Sandton, South Africa, during normal business hours from
the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting:
– Copies of the contracts of service of the directors employed by the Company and of the letters of appointment of the 
non-executive directors; and
– A marked copy of the Articles of Association showing the differences between the existing Articles of Association and the
proposed new Articles of Association.
These documents will also be available for inspection during the Annual General Meeting and for at least fifteen minutes
before it begins.
Members may view (but not participate in) the Annual General Meeting from South Africa via a video link which will be available
at The Wanderers, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston, Sandton, South Africa from 14h45 (UK time), 16h45 (SA time) on
30 January 2008.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 99 EXPLANATORY NOTES
The purpose of each of the resolutions proposed at the Annual General Meeting is as follows:
Resolution 1
To receive and adopt the Annual Financial Statements for the financial year which ended on 30 September 2007. The Chairman will
take questions from shareholders after proposing resolution 1.
Resolution 2 – Authority to pay dividend
The Directors recommend the payment of a dividend of 1.5 US cents per share to be paid on 14 March 2008 to shareholders
registered on the share register at the close of business on 15 February 2008.
Resolution 3
To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2007. In line with the Directors’ Remuneration
Regulations 2002 and Section 241A of the Companies Act 1985, the Company is required to put a resolution to approve the
Directors’ Remuneration Report for the financial year to shareholders in a general meeting. The report for the year ended
30 September 2007 is set out on pages 41 to 46 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 4 to 7 – Reappointment of Directors
These resolutions will be proposed reappointing Jeremy John Ord, David Brian Sherriffs, Rupert George Maxwell Lothian Barclay and
Moses Modidima Ngoasheng who retire at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association. 
Biographical details of each of the above directors and the rest of the Board are set out on pages 28 and 29 of the Annual Report,
and other relevant information is contained in the Directors’ Report, the Corporate Governance Report and the Directors’
Remuneration Report. 
Resolution 8 – Appointment of Director
A separate resolution will be proposed appointing Leslie Frank Bergman as a non-executive director.
Biographical details for Leslie Bergman are set out on page 28 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 9 and 10 – Auditors
Resolution 9 will, if passed, reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company and resolution 10 will authorise the Directors
to determine their remuneration. Company law requires that, at each general meeting at which accounts are laid, the Company should
appoint auditors who will remain in office until the next general meeting at which accounts are laid.
Resolution 11 – Authority to allot shares
This gives Directors the general authority to allot up to 155,159,900 ordinary shares or other relevant securities (being an amount
approximately equal to one tenth of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 30 September 2007 exclusive of treasury
shares held by the Company). The Company did not hold treasury shares at 30 September 2007. The Directors have no present intention
to exercise the authority, other than to satisfy share options under the existing share option scheme. This authority, if given, will expire at
the next Annual General Meeting or 30 April 2009, whichever is earlier. This resolution will be proposed as an ordinary resolution. 
Resolution 12 – Authority to allot the shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis
Shares allotted for cash must normally be first offered to shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings. However,
resolution 12 renews an existing authority given to the Directors to allot shares or other equity securities for cash to persons other
than existing shareholders without first offering them to existing shareholders up to a maximum of the authority granted under
resolution 11. Where the allotment is made otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, the shares allotted shall be up to a
maximum of 5% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital as at 30 September 2007. The authority, which will terminate on the
date of the next Annual General Meeting or 30 April 2009, whichever is earlier, gives the Directors flexibility to take advantage of
business opportunities which may arise and the 5% limit ensures that existing shareholder interests are protected. This resolution will
be proposed as a special resolution.
Resolution 13 – Purchase of own shares
This resolution enables the Company to purchase up to 77,579,900 of its ordinary shares, being 5% of the issued share capital as
at 30 September 2007 in the market, either for cancellation, or to hold as treasury shares. The total number of outstanding options
to subscribe for equity shares in the Company at 30 September 2007 is 94,040,491 which represents 6.1% of issued share capital
of the Company (excluding treasury shares). If the authority to buy back shares is fully exercised, these would represent 6.4% of
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 100
Notice of annual general meeting
(continued) issued share capital of the Company (excluding treasury shares). The Directors would only use this authority after careful
consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels
and the overall position of the Company. The Directors would only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on
earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders. This authority, if given, will expire at the next Annual General Meeting or 30 April
2009, whichever is earlier. This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution.
Resolution 14 – Amendment to the Articles of Association
The new Articles of Association that are proposed reflect significant amendments to English company law which are being made by
the Companies Act 2006. The changes are being implemented in phases. 
Certain changes have already taken effect. The Directors believe it is in the best interests of the Company to take immediate
advantage of these new provisions by amending the Articles of Association as set out in this resolution with effect from the end of
this meeting. 
The principal changes introduced in the new Articles of Association are summarised in the Appendix. Other changes, which are of a
minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act
2006 have not been noted in the Appendix. The new Articles of Association showing all the changes to the current Articles of
Association are available for inspection. 
Further changes will be implemented under the Companies Act 2006 which will come into effect at future dates. The Directors
propose that further amendments to the Articles of Association to reflect these further changes will be considered at future Annual
General Meetings. 
RECOMMENDATION
Your Directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the
Company and its shareholders as a whole. They recommend that you vote in favour of the proposed resolutions. The Directors
intend to vote their own shareholdings in the Company in favour of the proposed resolutions.
ATTENDANCE AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting is being held in London. Shareholders unable to attend the meeting may appoint one or more proxies
to attend and vote instead of him or her. A proxy need not be a shareholder. A Proxy Form is enclosed with this Notice. Details of
proxy votes received will be displayed at the meeting, and will be available to shareholders following the meeting. Should the results
of a vote by show of hands at the meeting produce a result that would be materially different to that according to the proxy votes
held, a poll will be called. A video-conference facility to view the meeting in London from South Africa will be set up at The Wanderers,
The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston, Sandton, South Africa. Shareholders attending at the viewing facility will be able to view
but will not be able to participate in the meeting. Immediately following the meeting the Directors present in London will be available
via the video-conference facility to answer questions from shareholders attending the South African video-conference.
ACTION TO BE TAKEN
You will find enclosed with this document a Proxy Form for use at the Annual General Meeting. Members who are registered on the
principal register of members in the UK and certificated and own name dematerialised shareholders who are registered on the South
African register are requested, whether or not they intend to be present at the Annual General Meeting, to complete the Proxy Form
in accordance with the instructions printed on it and return it to Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions,
Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH in the UK (for members registered on the Company’s principal register of members in the UK) or
Computershare Investor Services 2004 (Proprietary) Limited, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 or PO Box 61051, Marshalltown
2107 (for members registered on the Company’s South African register of members), as soon as possible, but in any event so as to
be received not later than 15h00 (UK time), 17h00 (SA time) on 28 January 2008. The return of the completed form will not prevent
you from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person, should you so wish.
DEMATERIALISED SHARES IN STRATE ON THE SOUTH AFRICAN REGISTER
Members who have dematerialised their Dimension Data shares in Strate must instruct their CSDP or broker of their voting
instructions. Members should contact their CSDP or broker with regard to the cut-off time for receiving their instructions. If, however,
such members wish to attend the Annual General Meeting in person, then they will need to request their CSDP or broker to provide
them with the necessary authority in terms of the custody agreement entered into between the dematerialised shareholder and the
CSDP or broker.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 101 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 102
Notice of annual general meeting
APPENDIX
EXPLANATORY NOTES OF PRINCIPAL CHANGES TO THE COMPANY’S ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
1. Electronic and web communications
Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate with
members by electronic and/or website communications. The new Articles of Association continue to allow communications to
members in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take advantage of the new provisions relating
to website communications. Before the Company can communicate with a member by means of website communication, the
relevant member must be asked individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or
information to him by means of a website, and the Company must either have received a positive response or have received
no response within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the request was sent. The Company will notify the
member (either in writing, or by other permitted means) when a relevant document or information is placed on the website and
a member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information.
2. Age of directors on appointment
Under the current Articles of Association, any statutory age limit on appointment and election of a director would not apply to
the Company. Since the statutory age limit has been removed by the Companies Act 2006 with effect from April 2007, the
provision concerning the statutory age limit has been removed from the new Articles of Association. 
3. Directors’ indemnities and defence funding
The provisions in the current Articles of Association have been clarified to provide that the Company has the power, but not
the obligation, to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the indemnifying powers of a company, with effect from
October 2007, and the new Articles of Association have been amended to reflect the widening of this scope. In particular, a
company that is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme can now indemnify a director against liability incurred in
connection with the company’s activities as trustee of the scheme. In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company
to provide money for the purpose of funding a director’s defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory
proceedings and applies to associated companies. 
4. Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings
The provisions in the current Articles of Association dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice
required to convene general meetings are being amended to conform to new provisions in the Companies Act 2006. In particular
an extraordinary general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days’ notice whereas previously
21 days’ notice was required. 
5. Votes of members
The rights that may be granted to proxies have been expanded under the new Companies Act 2006. The time limits for the
appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered by the Companies Act 2006 so that the articles cannot
provide that they should be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours
after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being
permitted to be excluded for this purpose. Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to
exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder. The new Articles of Association reflect all of these
new provisions. 
6. Extraordinary resolutions
References to extraordinary resolutions have been deleted in the new Articles of Association to prevent confusion, as under the
Companies Act 2006 shareholder decisions can only be made by means of an ordinary or special resolution, and the concept
of extraordinary resolution will cease to exist.
7. General
Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the new Articles of Association, to amend provisions to
allow for updated technology and in some areas to conform the language of the new Articles of Association with that used in
the model articles for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
(continued) Form of proxy
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007
Dimension Data Holdings plc
(Incorporated in England and Wales
under the Companies Act 1985 with
registered number 3704278)
Please read this Proxy Form and the notes below before completing this form.
I, hereby appoint:
the Chairman of the Meeting or in respect of all of my shares;
in respect of shares; and
in respect of shares
as my proxy/ies to attend and speak* and vote* on my behalf at the Annual General Meeting of Dimension Data Holdings plc to be held at
15h00 (UK time), 17h00 (SA time) on 30 January 2008 and at any adjournment of it.
Please indicate with an ‘X’ in the appropriate boxes how you wish the proxy or proxies to vote or if you wish them to abstain from voting. 
If you appoint multiple proxies and wish to give them separate instructions to vote or abstain from voting, please indicate how you wish each
proxy to vote or abstain from voting by writing in each appropriate box the name of the proxy and the number of shares to be voted or withheld
from voting by him or her.
For Against Vote withheld
Ordinary resolutions
1. To receive and adopt the annual financial statements for the year ended 
30 September 2007.
2. To approve the declaration and payment of a dividend of 1.5 US cents per share.
3. T o approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2007.
4. To re-elect as Chairman Jeremy John Ord who is retiring in accordance with 
the Articles of Association.
5. To re-elect as an executive director David Brian Sherriffs who is retiring in 
accordance with the Articles of Association.
6. To re-elect as a non-executive director Rupert George Maxwell Lothian Barclay 
who is retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
7. To re-elect as a non-executive director Moses Modidima Ngoasheng who is 
retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association.
8. To elect as a non-executive director Leslie Frank Bergman.
9. To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office 
until the conclusion of the next general meeting.
10. To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors.
11. To renew the Directors’ authority and power to allot securities in accordance 
with Article 10.2 of the Articles of Association of the Company until the period 
ending on the date of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2009 or 
30 April 2009, whichever is the earlier.
Special resolutions
12. To renew the Directors’ authority and power to allot securities in accordance 
with Article 10.3 of the Articles of Association of the Company until the period 
ending on the date of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2009 or 
30 April 2009, whichever is the earlier.
13. To authorise the Company to make one or more market purchases (within the 
meaning of Section 163(3) of the Companies Act 1985) on the London or 
Johannesburg Stock Exchanges of ordinary shares of one US cent each in the 
capital of the Company of up to a total of 77,579,900 shares, which may be 
held by the Company as treasury shares.
14. To alter the Articles of Association of the Company.
Signed Date Dimension Data Annual Report 2007
NOTES
The proxy or proxies are to vote as instructed in respect of the resolutions specified above.
In the absence of instructions the proxy or proxies may vote or abstain from voting the shares with respect to which he or she has been
appointed as he or she thinks fit on both:
• The resolutions specified above; and
• Unless instructed otherwise, on any other business (including amendments to resolutions) which may come before the Annual
General Meeting.
The ‘vote withheld’ option is to allow you to instruct your proxy or proxies to abstain from voting on any of the specified resolutions. Please
note that an abstention has no legal effect and will not be counted in the votes ‘For’ or ‘Against’ a resolution.
Any alterations to this Proxy Form should be initialled.
If you complete and return the Proxy Form this will not prevent you from attending in person and voting at the Meeting should you
subsequently decide to do so.
When you have completed and signed this form, please return it to the relevant address.
To be valid the Proxy Form or other instrument appointing a proxy or proxies must be received by post or (during normal business hours only)
by hand at the relevant address no later than 15h00 (UK time), 17h00 (SA time) on 28 January 2008.
INSTRUCTIONS
1. If you cannot attend the Annual General Meeting, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your rights to attend and to
speak and vote on your behalf at the meeting. If you want to appoint a proxy please complete, sign and return the Proxy Form above after
carefully reading the Proxy Form and the instructions below.
2. You can appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or anyone else to be your proxy at the Annual General Meeting. You can also, if you
wish, appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares
held by you.
3. To appoint the Chairman as your sole proxy in respect of all of your shares insert your name at the top of the form and fill in any voting
instructions and sign and date the Proxy Form, but leave all other proxy appointment details blank.
4. To appoint a single proxy in respect of all your shares other than the Chairman, cross out only the words ‘the Chairman of the Meeting’
and insert the name and address of your proxy (who need not be a member of the Company). Then complete the rest of the Proxy Form,
but leave all other proxy appointment details blank.
5. To appoint more than one proxy:
• Cross out the words ‘the Chairman of the Meeting/ in respect of all of my shares’;
• Fill in the names and addresses of each of your proxies in the blanks provided. If you wish to appoint the Chairman as one of your
multiple proxies you can just write ‘the Chairman of the Meeting’; and
• Make sure that for each proxy appointed in this way you fill in, alongside the proxy’s details, the number of shares in respect of which
each proxy is appointed.
6. The Proxy Form gives your proxy or proxies full rights to attend, speak and vote. If you wish to restrict the rights of your proxies please
cross out either or both of the words ‘speak’ or ‘vote’ as you feel appropriate where indicated by an asterisk.
7. If the Proxy Form is signed by someone else on your behalf, their authority to sign must be returned with the Proxy Form. In the case of
a joint holding, any holder may sign. If the shareholder is a corporation, the form must be executed under its common seal or signed by
an officer, attorney or other person duly authorised by the corporation.
8. To be entitled to vote at the meeting (and for the purpose of determining the number of votes you may cast), you must be entered on the
Company’s register of members at 15h00 (UK time), 17h00 (SA time) on 28 January 2008 or, if the meeting is adjourned, you must be
entered on the register not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
9. Full details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, with explanatory notes, are set out in the Notice of Annual
General Meeting at pages 98 to 102 of the Annual Report and Accounts. Contacts and corporate information
DIMENSION DATA HOLDINGS PLC
(Incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies
Act 1985 with registered number 3704278)
(Registered as an external company in the Republic of
South Africa with registration number 2000/009053/10)
COMPANY SECRETARY
ML Taylor
michelle.taylor@za.didata.com
REGISTERED OFFICE
Fleet Place House
2 Fleet Place
London EC4M 7RT
United Kingdom
HEAD OFFICE
The Wanderers
The Campus
57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
Sandton 2191, South Africa
Telephone:  +27 11 575 0000
Postal Address
Private Bag X127
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
AUDITORS
Deloitte & Touche LLP
London
United Kingdom
UK TRANSFER SECRETARIES
Computershare Investor Services PLC
PO Box 82, The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 7NH
United Kingdom
SOUTH AFRICAN TRANSFER SECRETARIES
Computershare Investor Services 2004 (Pty) Limited
70 Marshall Street
Johannesburg 2001, South Africa
(PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107)
SOUTH AFRICAN LEGAL ADVISERS
Routledge Modise
22 Fredman Drive
Sandton, South Africa
UK LEGAL ADVISERS
Linklaters & Alliance
One Silk Street
London EC2Y 8HQ
United Kingdom
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Karen Cramér
karen.cramer@uk.didata.com
Telephone:  +44 20 7651 7000
DIMENSION DATA WEBSITE
www.dimensiondata.com REGIONAL HEAD OFFICE CONTACT DETAILS
Americas
One Penn Plaza, Suite 1600, New York, NY 10119
Tel: +1 212 613 1220 Fax: +1 212 563 7279
Asia*
6 Temasek Boulevard, #26-01/05 
Suntec Tower Four, Singapore 038986
Tel: +65 6322 6688 Fax: +65 6323 7933
*trading as Datacraft Asia Limited
Australia
121-127 Harrington Street, The Rocks, NSW 2000 Australia
Tel: +61 (0)2 8249 5000 Fax: +61 (0)2 8249 5369
Europe
Dimension Data House, Building 2, Waterfront Business Park 
Fleet Road, Fleet, Hampshire GU51 3QT, United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1252 779000 Fax: +44 (0)1252 779010
Middle East and Africa
The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston, Sandton, 2191, South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)11 575 0000 Fax: +27 (0)11 576 0000
www.dimensiondata.com
