 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     1
Dimension Data 
Annual Report 2009
Our people 
Making a difference Table of contents
Financial highlights 3
Business overview 4
Chairman’s letter 9
Strategy 12
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review 15
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s review 23
Principal risks 36
Executive Committee 38
Board of Directors 40
Directors’ report 42
Corporate governance report 47
Corporate responsibility report 55
Remuneration report 62
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 69
Independent auditors’ report 70
Annual ﬁnancial statements 72
Shareholder information 125
Notice of annual general meeting 126
Contacts and corporate information ibc Dimension Data’s 
solutions are changing 
the world as we know it 2     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Enabling Africa’s greatest 
sporting event
When South Africa was announced as the host country 
for the 2010 Soccer World Cup, the country was given 
an exceptional opportunity to show that it was ready to 
deliver on a global stage. More than 400,000 international 
soccer fans are expected to attend the event, alongside 
billions of television viewers, all of whom will get a 
preview of South Africa’s unique heritage and culture. 
The Soccer World Cup has proven to be the catalyst for 
massive infrastructure investment across both country 
and continent. The Group has enabled the event across 
different sectors of the economy, including safety and 
security, transportation, venues, accommodation and 
intelligent border control. Internet Solutions and Plessey 
have worked to ensure pervasive connectivity throughout 
the country, implementing extensive broadband 
capabilities, multiple hotspots and laying over 500 km of 
ﬁbre optic cable. 
The most high proﬁle of the projects will be the sporting 
stadiums themselves; these needed to incorporate 
the latest ‘intelligent building’ technology, as well 
as being economically, socially and environmentally 
sustainable. Dimension Data was appointed Master 
Systems Integrator for ICT Systems at the Green Point 
Stadium in Cape Town and shortly thereafter at the 
now complete Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port 
Elizabeth. We were subsequently awarded contracts 
at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban, the Loftus 
Versfeld Stadium in Pretoria, the Vodacom Park Stadium 
in Bloemfontein and the Orlando Stadium in Soweto.
Dimension Data brought together an integrated solution 
covering voice, video and data, building automation 
systems such as heating, ventilation and air conditioning, 
and the physical security aspects of access control 
and surveillance. The solution is based on a central 
IP backbone which allows for a centrally monitored 
and controlled environment and has resulted in two  
multi-purpose stadiums – acknowledged to be amongst 
the most technologically sophisticated in the world. 
South Africa
Systems Integration
› Network Integration
› Converged Communications
› Security Solutions
Plessey
› Infrastructure
› Connectivity
Internet Solutions
› Connectivity
› Communications
Dimension Data’s solutions - changing the world as we know it Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     3
Financial highlights
 Revenue of $4.0 billion (up 0.4% in constant currency
(2)
)
 Services revenue growth of 13.0%
(2)
 Excellent performance from managed services, up 21.2%
(2)
 Revenue mix drives gross margin expansion to 22.5% (2008: 21.6%)
 Operating proﬁt
(1)
 up 25.4% in constant currency to $194.4 million
 Operating margin
(1)
 expansion to 4.9% (2008: 4.0%)
 Cash balance $600 million, strong cash generation during the year
Financial summary
$’000 2009 2008
Revenue 3,973,078 4,510,640
Operating proﬁt (before exceptional items) 194,365 182,214
Operating proﬁt 192,893 182,214
Operating margin (before exceptional items) 4.9% 4.0%
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents) (before exceptional items) 7.6 7.4
Earnings per ordinary share (US cents) 8.0 7.7

(1)
$ million
0
50
100
150
200
09 08 07 06 05
57
85
131
182
194
0
1
2
3
4
5
09 08 07 06 05
2.1
2.8
3.5
4.0
4.9
0
2
4
6
8
09 08 07 06 05
0.8
2.0
5.6
7.4
7.6
Operating margin
(1)
Percent
Earnings per share
(1)
US cents
Notes:
(1) Before exceptional items. See reconciliation in Note 8 to the annual ﬁnancial statements.
(2) Before eliminating intercompany revenue and adjusted for the impact of currency movements. 4     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
81%
Systems
Integration
4%
Plessey
9%
Express
Data
6%
Internet
Solutions
59%
Product
41%
Services
15%
Professional
services
26%
Managed
services
Business overview
Systems Integration
The Group’s Systems Integration (SI) business comprises 81% of our Group revenue and provides solutions 
and services around core IT infrastructures, including the network, voice and data communications 
(incorporating telephony and video), data centres, contact centres, operating systems and business 
productivity applications. 
We offer our clients a full lifecycle of IT services, drawing on the experience and expertise embedded in our 
Network Integration, Security Solutions, Data Centre and Storage Solutions, Converged Communications, 
Customer Interactive Solutions and Microsoft Solutions lines of business. Furthermore, we constantly seek 
to improve the performance of our clients’ IT infrastructures, ensuring our solutions are structured to deliver 
real business beneﬁts, today and into the future. 
The SI business has a well established multi-national footprint; we have a direct presence in 48 countries 
and we extend our services beyond that through our preferred partner programme. We are a leading 
Global Cisco Gold Partner and a Microsoft Gold Partner on ﬁve continents, which emphasises the value 
we put on strong collaborative relationships with the leaders in our industry. 
The Group operates in the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) 
industry. We are a recognised global leader in the provision and management of 
specialist IT infrastructure solutions and services, where we seek to differentiate 
through exceptional client service.
Businesses by revenue
Systems 
Integration 
Breakdown Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     5
Build Support Improve Innovate Plan Manage
Identify Business 
 Consult
Design
Implement
Product
Procure
Deploy
Integrate
Break Fix and 
Monitoring
Maintain
Monitor
Full Lifecycle Support of 
Infrastructure and Systems
Service Delivery 
Service Support
Strategy and 
Evolution
IT Alignment 
Service
Benchmarking
Commercialisation 
of New Ideas
Breakthrough  
Use of 
Technology
Lifecycle of services
We provide a full lifecycle of services to our clients, incorporating the professional services, product fulﬁlment 
and managed services that are required to deliver the optimum performance of their IT operations. The 
Services Continuum describes the lifecycle of services, incorporating six critical stages of service delivery.
Services Continuum
Our professional services incorporate the plan and build service functions, and range from high value 
consulting and assessment services to technical design and architecture through product deployment 
and integration.  In addition, we ensure that we manage the global supply chain and logistics requirements  
for our clients around the world.
Our product procurement services are a key component of the Systems Integration business. 
Supported by long standing relationships with market leading vendors and world class logistical capabilities, 
we successfully procure product for clients across the globe.
Our managed services incorporate the support, manage, improve and innovate services functions and 
extend from pure maintenance services (including device moves, adds, changes and deletes, performance 
assessments and licence renewals) to more advanced services where we take responsibility for monitoring 
and managing our clients’ IT infrastructure. 
At a maintenance level we offer our clients service level agreements, which is a value-added support.  
Our managed services are supported by our ﬁve Global Service Centres using our delivery platform, 
the Global Services Operating Architecture, which ensures that we deliver a consistent service to clients  
around the world.
The lines of business
To pursue the market opportunity from a technology perspective we have six lines of business, of which 
Network Integration is the largest and the core around which the Systems Integration business has 
been built. We have an extensive track record of implementing and managing some of the most complex 
Internet Protocol (IP) networking projects in the world. The network is increasingly accepted as a critical 
business platform and is at the heart of the communication and interaction that deﬁnes today’s business 
landscape. This line of business is centred on creating a secure, manageable and optimised infrastructure, 
incorporating the local and wide area network and wired and wireless technologies, and focuses on 
ensuring excellence in end user experience and network performance.  6     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
The Converged Communications line of business helps clients integrate traditional communication 
tools, like telephony and email, with collaboration technologies, such as instant messaging and video 
conferencing, to provide new ways to communicate from any location, using any device and accessing 
any application. 
The Microsoft Solutions line of business provides licencing solutions, professional services and managed 
services around ﬁve related areas: uniﬁed communications, collaboration, desktop and server infrastructure, 
systems management and software asset management. The business supports our uniﬁed communications 
offering through its ability to integrate and support core Microsoft productivity and desktop applications, 
including Exchange, Ofﬁce Communication and SharePoint. 
The Data Centre and Storage Solutions line of business provides services around the data centre, 
including storage, archiving, backup and recovery, virtualisation and consolidation. 
Our Customer Interactive Solutions line of business designs and builds contact centre solutions, 
leveraging the experience and skills resident in Merchants, the Group’s outsourced contact centre business.  
Finally, the Security Solutions line of business designs and supports security solutions across all of our 
clients’ IT infrastructure, helping them to minimise threats to IT assets ranging from information theft to 
malicious code and unauthorised access.
Internet Solutions
Internet Solutions provides IP-based connectivity, communications, data centre and carrier services 
throughout Africa. We serve large public and private sector organisations, medium-sized organisations 
and, through our channel programme, smaller organisations and consumers.
Business overview (continued)
58%
Connectivity
10%
Communications
 V 21%
Data Centre
 11%
Carrier
 T Lines of business by revenue
Internet Solutions’ connectivity solutions include corporate Internet access, virtual private networks, 
community-based connectivity services and broadband.
The business uses its IP-enabled network to facilitate person-to-person communications, with services 
including voice, messaging, facsimile, mobility, and ﬁxed-mobile convergence. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     7
Our data centre services provide both physical computing infrastructure and applications in the cloud, 
primarily though the use of services such as lodging, hosting, and virtualisation of servers and storage. 
Internet Solutions’ carrier offerings include the self-provision of physical connectivity services in cases 
where we are unable, through normal supplier relationships, to source these services at a competitive price 
or service level, or where attractive niche opportunities exist. Existing solutions include self-provisioning 
of wireless, satellite and local loop services and participation in undersea, national and metropolitan  
ﬁbre networks.
Plessey
Plessey provides project management, engineering and logistical services to African telecommunications 
service providers. We have regional ofﬁces in 12 African countries from which we deliver a range of 
services, from core base station infrastructure to connectivity solutions. 
Base station infrastructure solutions include the provision of civil works, equipment shelters, towers and 
masts, rectiﬁer systems, generators, site electriﬁcation, solar systems and site fencing and security. These 
services ensure permanent uptime for service providers, particularly in regions where easy access to 
utilities can be challenging.  
Plessey offers a number of connectivity solutions. Firstly, our broadband wireless solutions enable service 
providers to reach businesses and consumers in areas which are poorly serviced by ﬁxed line networks. 
Secondly, we provide cable installation - both copper and ﬁbre - for telecommunication network operators, 
as well as for water and power utility companies. 
Plessey’s optical solutions are typically applied to transmission backbones and metro networks, although  
we also provide solutions for security monitoring, industrial control and highway communication. Finally, 
we offer broad geographic satellite coverage capabilities, particularly into remote areas where terrestrial 
networks are inadequate.
Express Data
Express Data is a distributor in Australia and New Zealand, distributing ICT technologies from a range of 
leading vendors. For many of these vendors, Express Data represents their largest channel to market in 
the region.
Express Data operates a world class distribution system and is recognised as a leader in networking 
infrastructure, uniﬁed communications, Software as a Service (SaaS), data centres, security, storage and 
server-centric computing. Typically, the technologies represented by Express Data are relatively complex 
to implement and support. This allows us to add value by managing the needs of the reseller channel at 
a lower cost than the vendors could achieve themselves. In addition, many resellers have migrated to a 
services led model in recent years, outsourcing more of the product fulﬁlment tasks to Express Data. 
The rationale for vendors selling through the channel is further strengthened by the market trend away 
from capital expenditure towards utility based models. Here Express Data acts as an aggregator for the 
reseller channel, and provides billing, administration and collection services across multiple software 
and service providers. 8     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Scaling new heights
Standing at a commanding height of 165 metres, the 
Singapore Flyer – a giant observation wheel with 28 
ﬁxed, fully air-conditioned passenger capsules – is 
set to become one of Asia’s biggest iconic tourist 
attractions. 
During the leisurely 30 minute ride, passengers on 
the Singapore Flyer are treated to a panoramic view 
of the city and the breathtaking sights of neighbouring 
Indonesian islands. In addition to the impressive 
hardware and awesome vista, the passengers enjoy 
an in-capsule, state-of-the-art audio and video 
entertainment system which plays continuously 
during the ride. This is linked to an advanced 
wireless local area network (WLAN) infrastructure 
for which the builder - Mitsubishi Heavy Industries 
(MHI) - turned to Datacraft to design, develop and 
install. The WLAN solution had to ensure a smooth 
connection between the Flyer’s operation room, the  
IP phones and  monitoring web cameras in each of the 
individual capsules. 
However, the situation presented signiﬁcant technical 
challenges. Typical WLAN deployments and signal 
strength propagation are horizontal in nature and due 
to the structure of the Singapore Flyer, normal methods 
to survey and implement the WLAN could not be used. 
Furthermore, the effective range of a typical WLAN 
network is 100m, which is insufﬁcient to cover the 
entire observation wheel. 
Datacraft’s ability to conceptualise a new technological 
idea and translate it into a reality was critical to the 
successful implementation of the Singapore Flyer 
project. Through detailed planning and evaluation, 
technical expertise and innovative project management, 
Datacraft succeeded in designing, developing and 
deploying a WLAN solution that is ﬂexible, scalable 
and standards based. The WLAN deployment project 
on the Singapore Flyer marks the ﬁrst time that any 
vendor has implemented a wireless solution for such 
a massive and continuously moving structure. As a 
result of the success, MHI is able to gain competitive 
advantage as the ﬁrst manufacturer to build a fully 
functional landmark moving object.
Singapore
Systems Integration
› Network Integration
Dimension Data’s solutions - changing the world as we know it Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     9
Dimension Data delivered an excellent performance for ﬁnancial year to September 2009 and 
continued to make good progress in its strategic journey towards becoming a world leader in the 
provision and management of specialist IT infrastructure solutions. The Group’s performance and 
progress are even more commendable given the severe recessionary environment of the past year, 
during which we saw signiﬁcant falls in technology spend by governments and businesses around 
the world. Despite this, the Group has been able to meet its ﬁnancial objectives - measured in 
constant currency terms revenues and proﬁts have increased, the quality of revenue and returns 
have improved, and the balance sheet has continued to strengthen, ending the year with a cash 
balance of $600 million.
A number of key strengths within the Group have enabled us to continue to perform strongly, 
despite the underlying economic environment. Firstly, our geographic diversity and emerging market 
exposure have been important factors in our ability to grow revenues. Our Systems Integration (SI) 
business held up well despite the headwinds faced in the US and Asia, where a sharp slowdown 
in demand from our ﬁnancial services, global and multinational clients took its toll. Slower growth 
in these regions was offset by strong growth in other regions, most notably Africa and Australia. 
In addition, overall Group revenues beneﬁted from the strong performances in Express Data and 
Internet Solutions. 
Integral to the Group’s success over the past year has been the ongoing execution of our services 
strategy. This strategy, which has centred on the Group’s evolution from IT infrastructure supplier 
to strategic IT partner, has enabled us to improve returns through increasing the value add in our 
offerings to clients. We have invested in executing on this strategy for a number of years now and 
in FY2009, it contributed to services revenue growth of 13.0%, which has substantially enhanced 
overall Group returns.
Finally, our ﬁnancial strength has been reassuring to clients and vendors alike in an environment of 
immense economic uncertainty and has been a contributing factor to the market share gains that 
we have enjoyed over the past twelve months.
Jeremy Ord
Chairman
Chairman’s letter 10     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Chairman’s letter (continued)
To buffer the impact of the market slowdown, the Group adopted a conservative approach to the 
management of costs and acted quickly to cut costs in order to protect proﬁtability in speciﬁc areas. 
Whilst we have been keenly focused on protecting short term performance we have continued to 
invest in areas which are important to the Group’s strategy, longer term positioning and growth 
prospects. Our working capital management has been strong, and when combined with the 
generation of healthy proﬁts, has resulted in excellent cash generation for the year.
Dimension Data started paying dividends for the ﬁrst time in the Group’s history in 2006 and over the 
past three years has balanced the need to invest in the business with our shareholders’ requirement 
for a cash yield on their investment. The strong growth that Dimension Data has delivered over the 
past three years, combined with the ﬁnancial strength of the Group, has enabled us to increase the 
dividend payment by 70% over this period. For the FY2009 ﬁnancial year the Board has proposed 
a dividend of 1.9 cents per share. 
There are four cornerstones to the Group’s strategy: driving proﬁtable growth, offering a world class 
client experience, delivering operational excellence and investing in our people and culture. I like 
to think of these strategies as the pillars that support the success of the Group; it is only through 
delivering on each of them that we will maintain our position at the forefront of our industry and 
continue to deliver superior returns to shareholders. 
Dimension Data’s commitment to our four strategies is resonating with our clients, vendor partners, 
employees and shareholders. We continue to be encouraged by the progress that we are making, 
as measured by client retention and satisfaction rates, our share of their IT spend, our share of 
key vendor partners’ revenues, and the awards and accolades that we have won during the past 
twelve months. As part of the process of continually improving our market position, we monitor 
and benchmark our performance against both the industry and established best practice and work 
closely with our key vendor partners to deepen our understanding of their offerings, to ensure that 
we are able to deliver the solutions needed and demanded by our clients. 
Our employees across the Group are aligned and incentivised to deliver on our strategies and we 
measure their success through Key Performance Indicators. Our people are the life force of our 
business and it is vital to acknowledge and thank the Dimension Data employees for their dedication 
in what has been a tough economic environment. Many of our employees are familiar with the  Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     11
machinations of economic downturns, most notably the IT industry downturn of the early 2000s, 
and therefore are well equipped in both experience and attitude to deal with adverse conditions. 
We are fortunate that our immediate industry has matured and lacks the excess capacity that 
made the last downturn so traumatic. Even so, our people’s dedication to operational excellence, 
delivering a superb client experience and protecting and developing the culture of the Group, has 
undoubtedly been a key factor in helping Dimension Data to continue to achieve its ﬁnancial and 
strategic objectives. 
In November 2008, we completed the buy out of the minority shareholders in Datacraft Asia, one of 
the leading IT services and solutions providers in Asia-Paciﬁc. Dimension Data has held a majority 
stake in Datacraft Asia since 1997, during which time there has been an increasing alignment of 
the strategic and operating models of the two companies. As a result, no integration challenges 
or management changes arose following the completion of the transaction. Full ownership of 
Datacraft Asia has increased the Group’s exposure to attractive growth markets. Datacraft Asia’s 
position has been strengthened, providing it with the opportunity to leverage more effectively the 
resources of the wider Group and capitalise on opportunities in the market, with the result that 
returns in the year under review improved despite the tough trading environment.
In the year under review, the Board has remained unchanged and all committees have been 
reviewed and strengthened. Dorian Wharton-Hood, who has been a director of Dimension Data 
for nine years, will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting in February 2010. I would like to thank 
him for his dedicated service and invaluable advice over his time with the Group and wish him a 
very happy retirement. 
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank our clients for their enduring loyalty to Dimension 
Data, our partners for continuing to collaborate and innovate with us and our employees for their 
unwavering commitment to excellence. 
Jeremy Ord
Chairman 12     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Strategy
Four cornerstones of Dimension Data’s strategy are integral to the realisation of the Group’s vision and overall success – proﬁtable 
growth; client experience; operational excellence and people and culture. We are committed to excellence in each of them, across all 
Group businesses. The Group manages performance against these strategic objectives with reference to a range of key performance 
indicators, some of which are highlighted in the table below.
Proﬁtable growth 
We aim to keep our businesses aligned with growth opportunities so that we can increase market share, build scale and grow 
revenues.  We are focused on delivering growth which is proﬁtable, enabling us to invest in our future and ensure that the Group 
continues to prosper and deliver to all stakeholders.
Key focus points:


businesses
 existing clients



Key performance indicators Objectives Analysis
Services revenue To grow services revenues organically 
ahead of the market and increase the 
contribution from services in the overall 
revenue mix.
During 2009, services revenue grew 
13.0%* driven by good demand for our 
managed services and strong growth in 
Internet Solutions.
Gross margin To maintain a stable gross margin. The gross margin in 2009 increased 
to 22.5% from 21.6% in 2008 due to a 
change in the revenue mix in favour of 
services.
Operating margin To continue to extract operating leverage 
and improve the Group operating margin.
The operating margin in 2009 increased 
to 4.9% from 4.0% in 2008 as a result 
of a higher gross margin and good 
management of overheads.
 To deliver superior year on year growth 
 items increased by 2.7% in reported 
currency, a good performance given 
the strength of the US dollar against the 
basket of our trading currencies.
*Before eliminating intercompany revenue and adjusted for the impact of currency movements. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     13
Client experience
We aim to deliver a world class client experience and to move the Group up the services value curve, from IT infrastructure supplier 
to strategic IT partner.  This requires commitment to building long term client relationships, consistent quality delivery and an 
understanding of our client’s business requirements.
Operational excellence
We aim to ensure that we go to market with client centric offerings, that we have the technical skills to execute on our offerings, 
that our processes and systems are world class and that we ultimately meet or exceed client expectations.
People and culture
Our people and culture are of pivotal importance. By attracting, developing and retaining the right people and skills, we will be able 
to deliver a world class experience to our clients.
Key focus points Key performance indicators








Key focus points Key performance indicators







Key focus points Key performance indicators



the Group values of teamwork, commitment, professional 

satisfaction and retention



 14     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Cutting edge technology for a 
cutting edge company
Virgin Media is a company for whom innovation 
comes as standard. In 2007 they became the ﬁrst 
‘quadplay’ media company in the United Kingdom, 
bringing together a service consisting of television, 
broadband, mobile and ﬁxed-line telephone services. 
For a company at the forefront of ultrafast broadband 
and cutting edge entertainment solutions for UK home 
and businesses, it is to be expected that they would 
look to adopt a high deﬁnition video conferencing 
solution to enable them to enhance their business 
operations.
With regular calls and conferences with ﬁnancial 
analysts and investors between London and New 
York, Virgin Media looked to implement an effective 
video conferencing solution that would allow them to 
conduct these key business meetings as efﬁciently and 
effectively as possible. 
Dimension Data implemented the TelePresence 
video conferencing solution to power a network of 
internal conference rooms in six locations across three 
countries. This solution provides Virgin Media with 
fully-ﬁtted meeting rooms, high deﬁnition screens large 
enough to provide life-size images, lighting, speakers, 
microphones and cameras, and offers the interactivity, 
spontaneity and nuanced communications experience 
of an in-person meeting. 
Above and beyond the immediate beneﬁts to business 
operations, the solution has enabled Virgin Media to 
harness the productivity gains associated with having 
to spend less time travelling. An improved work/life 
balance and lower carbon footprint per employee 
meets their commitment to be a company people feel 
good about and really want to work for.
 
In fact, Virgin Media have been so impressed by the 
TelePresence solution and its utilisation rates that they 
are now looking to expand video conferencing to their 
employee desktops, as well as using the solution to 
interoperate with their suppliers and partners. 
United Kingdom
Systems Integration
› Converged Communications
Dimension Data’s solutions - changing the world as we know it Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     15
Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer’s review
In this review, growth rates are in relation to 2008 and are, unless otherwise indicated, calculated before 
eliminating intercompany revenue and adjusted for the impact of currency movements (i.e. are constant 
currency growth rates). Unless speciﬁcally indicated, exceptional items are excluded from the analysis.
Overview
The Group’ s robust performance over the past ﬁnancial year has resulted in improved returns 
and strong growth in proﬁtability. Given the extremely challenging economic conditions that 
prevailed over the period we did well to report ﬂat revenues overall in constant currency. 
Strong growth of 13.0% in services revenues drove an improvement in the gross margin 
and this, when combined with tight cost management, resulted in operating proﬁt growth 
of 25.4%. The Group’s operating margin grew to 4.9%, an excellent increase on FY2008’s 
4.0%. A further highlight of the results is good working capital management and strong 
cash generation, which resulted in a closing cash balance of $600 million. 
Dimension Data’s strong ﬁnancial results are testament to the ongoing progress with the 
Group’s proﬁtable growth strategy, which was introduced in FY2005. The key elements of 
this strategy have been to grow revenues ahead of the market, to maintain gross margins 
and to reduce overheads as a percentage of revenues, thereby driving an improvement 
in the operating margin and proﬁtability. Much progress has been made over the past 
four years. Over this period we have grown revenues ahead of the market, achieving 
a compound annual growth rate of 12.3%, our gross margin has moved up to 22.5% 
from 21.0%, costs as a percentage of revenues have reduced to 17.6% from 18.9% and 
operating proﬁt has more than tripled to $194.4 million from $56.7 million in FY2005. The 
Group’s operating margin is now 4.9% compared to 2.1% in FY2005.
A key feature of the FY2009 results is the excellent growth in services revenues. This 
was driven primarily by 19.3% growth in managed services in our Systems Integration 
(SI) business and by revenue growth of 27.9% in Internet Solutions. Professional services 
revenues (within SI), which tend to be more closely correlated with product revenues, 
increased by a pleasing but more modest 2.3%. Growth in services revenues offset a 
decline of 7.5% in total product revenues, a commendable achievement in a tough 
market where demand was impacted by sharp cuts in capital expenditure in several of our 
traditional client segments.
Brett Dawson
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
20
21
22
23
09 08 07 06 05
21.0
21.1
21.5
21.6
22.5
Gross margin
Percent 16     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
At the ﬁrst signs of the global slowdown affecting our business in late 2008, we moved quickly 
to counteract the impact of a slower demand environment by managing and cutting costs in 
speciﬁc areas where action was warranted, most notably in the US and Asia. These measures 
protected proﬁtability and helped drive the operating leverage that the Group achieved during the 
year. Notwithstanding the signiﬁcant focus on short term cost management, we have continued 
to invest in areas important to the Group’ s longer term positioning and growth prospects. 
We achieved good performances across the majority of the Group’s businesses. Our SI 
business, which accounts for 80.6% of total revenues, performed particularly well. The SI 
business strengthened its competitive position, successfully harnessing market trends from 
both a technology and client sourcing perspective. The SI business in particular beneﬁted 
from strong growth in managed services which drove higher gross and operating margins 
for the Group. 
Within the SI business, the Converged Communications, Security Solutions and Microsoft 
Solutions lines of business all delivered good growth as our clients embraced uniﬁed 
communications and focused on technologies which could optimise existing infrastructure 
and reduce costs. Growth in these areas compensated for a slowdown in Network Integration, 
Data Centre and Storage Solutions and Customer Interactive Solutions, following cuts and 
delays to more capital intensive projects.
Looking at our SI business from a regional perspective and in the context of an environment 
where product revenues came under enormous pressure, particularly in the US and Asia 
where product declined 34.5% and 23.7% respectively, it is gratifying to be able to report that 
all ﬁve regions delivered growth in services revenues, and that four out of ﬁve regions achieved 
signiﬁcant operating proﬁt expansion and improved operating margins. The performance of 
the Americas region started to show a recovery in the fourth quarter of the year. Strong 
operating leverage was achieved in the SI business following the mix driven improved gross 
margin and tight control over costs.
Internet Solutions performed well over the period, with outstanding revenue growth of 27.9%. 
The excellent performance was driven by a clear focus on protecting and growing Internet 
Solutions’ core connectivity and data centre based services whilst successfully building our 
competitive position in our newer communications and carrier services. Some pressure at the 
gross margin level was offset by cost efﬁciencies and operating leverage. 
Plessey’s revenues declined marginally, impacted by the slow-down in capital expenditure 
and infrastructure rollouts by telecommunications service providers in Africa due to the 
prevailing economic conditions. Operating proﬁt was impacted by some gross margin 
pressure and the increased overhead base introduced in FY2008 in order to secure future 
growth opportunities. In response to the market changes Plessey has adjusted its cost base. 
Express Data strengthened its position as a premier value added distributor in Australia and 
New Zealand during the period. Revenue growth of 7.6% combined with stable margins and 
careful cost control resulted in strong expansion of operating proﬁt.
We achieved good 
performances across 
the majority of the 
Group’s businesses. 
Our SI business, 
which accounts 
for 80.6% of total 
revenues, performed 
particularly well. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     17
Services progress
While Internet Solutions and Plessey have always been services-led businesses, Dimension 
Data’s focus over the years on transitioning the SI business to a services-led organisation has 
been a key contributor to success in building our client experience strategy, enhancing our brand, 
driving competitive differentiation and in delivering on the Group’ s proﬁtable growth strategy. 
Our SI business journey 
Over the past few years the SI business has made signiﬁcant progress in evolving both its 
professional and annuity managed services offerings. Our professional service methodology 
and offerings have expanded signiﬁcantly to include numerous assessment services, planning 
and design services, and implementation and consulting services. In our annuity services, our 
journey has been one of increasing our capabilities beyond basic maintenance towards offering 
clients true managed services where we pro-actively monitor and manage their IT assets and 
processes. During the period we also secured some encouraging wins in several geographies 
where we are taking responsibility for the management of our clients’ entire IT operations. 
In FY2009 we continued to reap the beneﬁts of our investment in services. Over the past 
four years the Group’s services revenues have grown by a compound annual growth rate of 
17.3% and services revenues now represent 43.6% of Group revenue compared to 38.1% 
in FY2005.
Operational Excellence
Strategic 

Strategic
Manage IT Operations
Managed services
Service led
Service attach
Technical expertise
Product fulﬁlment
IT 
Infrastructure 
Supplier 18     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
Our clients 
Continued focus on operational excellence remains a key tenet of the Group strategy around 
delivering a superior client experience, and during the year we were involved in multiple 
initiatives aimed at further enhancing this experience. 
The key areas of client demand in FY2009 from a technology perspective have been around 
network optimisation, visual communications, IP telephony, virtualisation and consolidation of 
data centres and Windows 7 for Microsoft. Clients have focused on maintaining and optimising 
their existing IT infrastructure as capital budgets reduced. We have also beneﬁted from a 
general trend towards standardisation and centralisation of IT to reduce costs and centralise 
control. This trend provides us with good managed services opportunities as multinational 
clients consolidate services suppliers and move to partners that can support multi-vendor 
technologies on a multinational basis. 
Within our client segments, we experienced weakness in demand in our top 30 global clients, 
which make up 15% (18% in FY2008) of revenues, particularly in global ﬁnancial services 
clients in North America and Asia. Financial services revenues overall were, nevertheless, 
relatively stable, with a strong performance in the regional and domestic ﬁnancial services 
client base. We reacted to the slow-down in spend in our global client sector by broadening 
our exposure to clients in the large regional enterprise and commercial segments of the 
market where we saw relatively better opportunities. 
The service provider vertical was quite resilient and our revenues increased due to our 
focus on services rather than technology fulﬁlment in this vertical. We have beneﬁted from 
subcontracting opportunities in large service provider clients who have partnered with us 
to execute global contracts. We have also secured good business through partnering with 
second tier and mobile service providers.
The public sector vertical has been another area of focus and one in which we have performed 
well in FY2009. Our public sector business has been particularly strong in Australia and South 
Africa. We have also seen good contract wins across the Americas, Europe and Asia. We are 
planning further investment during FY2010 in this vertical across our regions. 
People and culture
Dimension Data has always believed that our people and culture are key differentiators in the 
market and essential to the success of the Group. We work hard at cultivating a winning, high 
performance culture. The success of our efforts has been reﬂected in widespread recognition 
from industry leaders and the winning of a number of exceptional awards. These include the 
Australia and New Zealand Hewitt Best Employer for 2009 for Express Data, a ranking of 9th 
place in the Corporate Research Foundation’s 2009/2010 Best Employers in Middle East and 
Africa as well as 9th position for Datacraft India in Dataquest’s ‘Top 10 Best IT Employers in 
2009’ award.
The total number of employees across the Group was 11,032 at year end which is ﬂat on the 
prior year. Whilst our people and culture strategy is a key cornerstone of our Group strategy, 
it was necessary to respond to the prevailing economic environment during the year. Our 
approach was to take rapid action early in the year to reduce costs where necessary due 
to a reduced demand. In contrast, we also invested and sought to maximise opportunities 
for growth wherever possible. This dual approach resulted in head count reductions in some 
geographies and businesses, and growth in others.
We work hard at 
cultivating a winning, 
high performance 
culture. The success 
of our efforts has 
 in widespread 
recognition from 
industry leaders 
and the winning 
of a number of 
exceptional awards.  Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     19
In addition, we invested in building people strength during the course of the year, adding to 
our Microsoft skills organically and through the Teksys acquisition, and increasing head count in 
Internet Solutions and our SI business through acquisitions in Angola, Mozambique and Australia.
During the year the Group made a number of investments in enabling, developing and 
retaining excellence in our people. We deployed Leading Talent, a tailored programme for 
all line managers aimed at further developing our key leaders in the Group. We continued to 
drive the Dimension Data Job Framework project, which helps employees identify and plot 
their optimal career paths. With the recent stabilisation that we have seen in some of our end 
markets and in anticipation of some growth in FY2010, we are once again looking at modest 
additions to our key technical and sales skills in select areas of the business.
Partners
The Group enjoys unrivalled relationships with our key vendor partners. These have 
strengthened over the past year as we have continued to work closely with and invest in 
keeping our go-to-market strategies aligned. Key differentiators for Dimension Data are 
the breadth of technical talent within the Group and its unparalleled ability to execute with 
multiple partners. 
Dimension Data received a record number of awards and accolades over the past 
year, which are testament to our partners’ recognition of the breadth of the Group’s 
technical skills and experience. Key awards included Cisco Technology Excellence 
Partner along with 19 other Cisco awards, and Microsoft Global Partner of the Year in 
the three categories. In addition, we won awards from HP, Avaya, Tandberg, VMWare, 
BlueCoat, McAfee, Symantec, EMC, RSA and Nuance. Dimension Data achieved 21st 
place in Business Week’s Info Tech 100 list, which recognises top-performing technology 
companies across the globe. 
Investing for growth
Dimension Data’s healthy balance sheet, strong cash balance and excellent cash 
generating abilities, enable the Group to continue to invest to position the business for 
long term growth. 
The continued execution of our services strategy will be a priority for our SI business. 
We have made tremendous progress over the past few years and are excited about our 
prospects as we continue the journey. During the year we embarked upon a services 
acceleration programme with ﬁve key projects aimed at further enhancing our global 
services offerings. We will continue to invest in systems, processes and people to 
enhance our services offerings for our clients and improve our execution capabilities.
Our regional SI businesses are at varying levels of maturity along our services led strategy 
and we still have a way to go before our objective of offering a full lifecycle of services in 
all geographies is realised. It is however, clear to us that our services strategy is working 
and that we are on track to derive further beneﬁts from its ongoing implementation in the 
years ahead.
We constantly seek to align our go-to-market offerings with current and upcoming 
market trends, to ensure that we offer our clients solutions relevant to their business 
issues. From a technology market trend perspective, we will look to invest further in our 
capabilities and offerings in the network (as the core business infrastructure enabler),   20     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
uniﬁed communications and collaboration (including visual technologies) and virtualisation. 
For medium term opportunities we will be expanding our competence in cloud and 
service based infrastructure models. 
Internet Solutions is well positioned to benefit from market trends, and to build on the 
strong market position established over the years. Internet Solutions was awarded 
two telecommunications licences in South Africa which provide additional market 
opportunity. We have also embarked upon the application process to acquire licensed 
wireless spectrum, which would enable us to connect to our clients using both fixed 
and wireless links. 
We will continue to invest in Internet Solutions to secure our desired positioning as Africa’s 
leading internet-technology based service provider, offering a superior customer service 
experience. Our strategic priorities are, ﬁrstly, to invest in the required people, processes and 
capital expenditure required to secure the growth opportunity. We will also invest to enhance 
the customer service experience and we will expand our existing services offerings. Finally, 
we will continue to invest to secure lower input costs, such as our acquisition this year of local 
ﬁbre capacity to service our clients, and our commitment during the year to a new submarine 
cable bringing enhanced bandwidth capacity to the continent.
The Group’s proﬁtable growth strategy will largely be driven by organic growth in existing 
markets. We still have signiﬁcant opportunity to increase our market share in existing 
geographies and we intend to expand into several cities in Brazil and China next year. We will, 
in addition, target two types of acquisitions - the ﬁrst to expand our footprint and the second 
where we need additional skills to enhance the Group’s IP and hasten our route to market. 
In addition to the purchase of the minority shareholding in Datacraft Asia, we made a few 
small acquisitions during the year. In Africa, we completed an acquisition in Mozambique 
and are currently in the process of completing two further acquisitions whereby we will be 
expanding our capability and presence in Angola and Morocco. 
In November 2008 we made a strategic investment in Blueﬁre, a Sydney based IT services 
company which provides Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) services. In February 2009 we 
purchased Teksys, a UK based Microsoft infrastructure and licencing services business 
which has given us scale and Large Account Reseller status in Europe. 
Outlook
A key factor behind the resilience that Dimension Data has shown in the face of the challenging 
economic environment is the Group’s high performance culture, one in which our people are 
consistently encouraged to maximise opportunity whatever the prevailing market conditions. 
In addition, our chosen positioning in the global Information Technology market and the 
execution of our strategy have been successful.
We believe that Dimension Data is positioned in the sweet spot of IT and communications 
spend, and that the trends that have been driving superior growth in the Group over the 
past few years, have the momentum to continue to drive growth into the medium and longer 
term. Our network centric offerings are vital for our clients to be able to operate effectively in 
today’ s IP and convergence powered environment, where the network is increasingly the core 
platform for all forms of IT and telecommunications. Our strengthening position in areas such 
as uniﬁed communications, collaboration, virtualisation and managed services position us for 
medium term growth. In the longer term, market developments such as cloud computing and 
services based models such as IaaS, provide additional opportunities for growth. 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
We believe that 
Dimension Data is 
positioned in the 
sweet spot of IT and 
communications
spend. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     21
The opportunity to deliver on Dimension Data’s proﬁtable growth strategy, which is premised 
on both growth and leverage, lies across all our businesses. The opportunity to drive the 
SI margin higher lies in four factors. The ﬁrst of these is the ongoing effective rollout of our 
services strategy; the second lies in harnessing the beneﬁts of additional scale in a number 
of key markets; the third involves securing additional efﬁciency improvements; and the 
fourth relates to recovery in a few under-performing geographies. The low working capital 
requirements of the SI business make its return on assets the highest of all of the Group’s 
businesses.
We are optimistic that the ongoing deregulation of the telecommunications market in 
South Africa and the growth opportunities on the African continent will provide signiﬁcant 
opportunities for Internet Solutions.
Plessey is well placed to beneﬁt from the opening up of the African continent to growth 
in telecommunication services and we remain conﬁdent that the business has attractive 
medium term growth prospects. Express Data is a premier value added distributor with solid 
prospects.
We are encouraged by the recent stabilisation in our end markets, however much uncertainty 
remains over the resilience of the global recovery. We anticipate that the market segments 
in which Dimension Data operates will perform better in FY2010 and that the Group will be 
able to deliver modest constant currency revenue growth. Dimension Data is well placed 
to capitalise on long term market trends. Growth in excess of prevailing market rates and 
medium term operating leverage remain our key ﬁnancial objectives.
Brett Dawson
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
The opportunity to 
deliver on Dimension 
 growth strategy, which 
is premised on both 
growth and leverage, 
lies across all our 
businesses. 22     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 22     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Delivering quality care services
Blue Care, an agency of UnitingCare, employs over 
9,800 staff and consists of more than 260 care centres 
across Queensland and northern New South Wales. 
Blue Care staff and volunteers provide care for more 
than 12,500 people every day through nursing, allied 
health, personal care, domestic assistance, respite, 
social support, pastoral and volunteer services.
In order to execute on its strategic objectives and exploit 
competitive advantages, Blue Care identiﬁed in 2008 
that it would need to invest and develop its capabilities 
over a three year period. Part of this capability is the 
establishment and operation of core systems that 
support the objectives of Blue Care’s business at an 
enterprise level, with common applications rolled out 
organisation-wide.
Dimension Data has deployed a second data centre to 
support the rollout of common applications, as well as 
providing Blue Care with enhanced disaster recovery 
capabilities.
To undergo this transformation Blue Care required a 
different suite of skills and expertise to that which it 
had available in-house. To meet this requirement Blue 
Care signed a ﬁve year managed services contract 
with Dimension Data in November 2008 that combines 
both ongoing support for Blue Care’s existing IT 
infrastructure, as well as the requirement to identify 
opportunities and establish a programme of works 
for IT service level enhancement over the next two to 
three years.
Blue Care’s existing IT skill base will continue to support 
front-line care delivery, IT strategy and new capability 
delivery, while Dimension Data will provide operating 
service support to manage Blue Care’s data centre, 
network, email services and end user devices.
Prior to signing the managed services contract 
Dimension Data was engaged to provide a range 
of products and services aimed at strengthening 
Blue Care’s IT backbone including enterprise system 
management, SQL database consolidation, hierarchical 
storage management and server virtualisation.
More recently, we were able to devise a solution to 
achieve the best possible outcomes as Blue Care 
moved to a new Microsoft Enterprise Agreement for 
software licencing. 
Australia
Dimension Data’s solutions - changing the world as we know it
Systems Integration
› Network Integration
› Converged Communications
› Microsoft Solutions
› Data Centre and Storage Solutions
› Customer Interactive Solutions
› Security Solutions Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     23
In this review, growth rates are in relation to 2008 and are, unless otherwise indicated, calculated before 
eliminating intercompany revenue and adjusted for the impact of currency movements (i.e. are constant 
currency growth rates). Unless speciﬁcally indicated, exceptional items are excluded from the analysis.
Revenue for the year was $4.0 billion, a constant currency increase of 0.4% on 2008. The 
Group’s reported results were impacted by the appreciation in the average exchange rate 
for the year of the US dollar against most of the local currencies in which the Group trades, 
resulting in a decline in reported currency revenues of 11.9%. 
Product revenues in constant currency were down by 7.5%, while services revenues grew by 
13.0%. The major contributor to this services growth was 19.3% growth in managed services 
in the Systems Integration business and 27.9% growth in Internet Solutions.
Product margins were ﬁrm, while services margins reduced slightly reﬂecting some margin 
pressure in Internet Solutions and a weaker performance from Plessey. The excellent growth 
in services revenues (accompanied by higher gross margins than product) resulted in a 0.9% 
expansion in the Group’s overall blended gross margin to 22.5%. Gross proﬁt expanded by 
4.8% to $892.8 million. 
Overheads of $698.5 million were ﬂat on 2008 (up by 0.2%). The Group’s cost base was 
carefully managed over the period, with prioritisation given to revenue generation and client 
support. Discretionary spend was reduced, while strategic projects, such as the rollout of the 
upgraded Global Services Operating Architecture (GSOA) platform, continued to receive focus 
and investment. Furthermore, investments made in technologies such as video conferencing 
and integrated collaboration reduced travel and associated costs. Although Group head count 
did not reduce as a whole, there were targeted head count reductions where appropriate.
This cost containment, coupled with the growth in gross proﬁt, meant continued operating 
leverage for the Group, and a 0.9% expansion in the Group’s operating margin to 4.9% for the 
period. Operating proﬁt increased by 25.4% to $194.4 million.
Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer’s review
Dave Sherriffs
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
The major contributor 
to this services growth 
was 19.3% growth 
in managed services 
in the Systems 
Integration business 
and 27.9% growth in 
Internet Solutions. 24     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
The share of results from associates increased to $7.8 million for the period (2008: $7.1 million). 
Interest and investment income was $8.1 million (2008: $17.5 million) mainly as a result 
of much reduced interest rates during the period, and ﬁnance costs were $29.9 million  
(2008: $31.0 million). 
Property revaluation and other gains and losses include a gain on revaluation of the investment 
portion of the Campus property asset of $4.5 million (2008: $8.5 million).
The effective tax rate, excluding exceptional items, was 26.7% (2008: 25.9%). The Group 
recorded an $11.0 million exceptional tax credit (and a $1.5 million exceptional operating 
expense) ﬂowing from the restructuring of the funding facility associated with the Campus land 
and buildings in South Africa.
Earnings per share before exceptional items were 7.6 cents, compared to 7.4 cents last year. 
Trading and operations
Revenue analysis
The revenue in the table below is as reported, whereas the growth rates are calculated before eliminating 
intercompany revenue and adjusted for the impact of currency movements.
$ million
Systems
Integration
Internet 
Solutions Plessey
Express  
Data Total
Product 1,894.6 - - 344.8 2,239.4
Growth (10.6%) - - 7.6% (7.5%)
Managed services 824.2 255.0 - - 1,079.2
Growth 19.3% 27.9% - - 21.2%
Professional services 484.5 - 168.4 1.6 654.5
Growth 2.3% - (0.7%) 32.7% 1.6%
Total 3,203.3 255.0 168.4 346.4 3,973.1
Growth (2.1%) 27.9% (0.7%) 7.6% 0.4% Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     25
Systems Integration
Revenue streams (SI)
Product revenues reduced by 10.6%, reﬂecting general caution in purchasing decisions as our 
clients elected to defer discretionary expenditure. The Americas were most severely impacted 
with product revenues down by 29.2%, as multinational corporation clients in general, and 
ﬁnancial services industry clients in particular, reduced spend. Asia’s product revenues were 
similarly impacted, down by 23.7%.
Managed services grew by 19.3%. This excellent performance highlights the strength of our 
Uptime branded maintenance and support service, as well as our global focus on delivery 
excellence. Growth was supported by our clients’ focus on rationalising their own sourcing 
strategies, including the aggregation of support partners (particularly on a multinational level) 
and in selectively out-tasking IT functions. 
Professional services (PS) revenues grew by 2.3%. This was a pleasing performance, with 
growth coming despite the fact that some components of PS revenues are highly correlated to 
product revenues.
The change in mix in revenues in favour of higher margin managed services meant gross 
margin expansion and - combined with good cost containment described elsewhere - strong 
operating leverage for the SI business.
Lines of business (SI)
In the largest line of business, Network Integration, revenues declined by 8% driven mainly 
by a reduction in Asian and North American product revenues as a result of exposure to 
multinational corporations and ﬁnancial services clients. In Middle East and Africa and Australia 
however, product revenues performed well due to demand for performance optimisation, 
wireless and mobility services. Services revenues showed good growth overall, led by a strong 
performance from managed services and this ensured a robust gross proﬁt performance for this  
line of business.
Continuing strong demand for IP telephony and visual communications ensured growth of 
9% in our Converged Communications line of business. Both product and services showed 
growth with managed services being the best performer as clients sought to outsource the 
management of the associated infrastructures to specialist providers. 
The Microsoft Solutions line of business grew revenues by 28% or, excluding the impact of 
the Teksys acquisition in the UK, by 8%. Growth was supported by good license revenues in 
Australia and South Africa and solid demand for our consulting and deployment offerings in all 
regions as clients sought to exploit their existing investments in Microsoft technologies during 
times of budgetary cuts.
The change in mix 
in revenues in favour 
of higher margin 
managed services 
meant gross margin 
expansion and - 
combined with good 
cost containment 
described elsewhere 
- strong operating 
leverage for the
SI business. 26     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
Data Centre and Storage Solutions declined by 6%, largely due to much lower revenues in 
North America. Elsewhere, the business performed well, with strong services growth supporting 
gross proﬁt expansion. The growth in these regions was driven mainly by ongoing demand for 
server virtualisation and increased demand for Cisco UCS solutions.
We experienced a 15% decline in our Customer Interactive Solutions line of business, as 
organisations worldwide delayed large capital expenditure projects, impacting demand for our 
call centre solutions. Nonetheless, Merchants grew revenues by beneﬁting from wins in South 
Africa during the year, and improved traction associated with its hosted call centre technology 
solutions in the UK. 
Security Solutions revenues increased by 5%. While traditional network security products 
declined in sync with network product revenues, we saw good growth in advanced security 
revenues. This growth supports our focus on building a multi-vendor capability, positioning 
us well to support organisations looking to consolidate complex vendor relationships in the 
security environment.
Internet Solutions
Internet Solutions revenues grew by 27.9%, reﬂecting ongoing demand across the business’s 
range of services. Growth in internet access, in virtual private networks, in voice trafﬁc  
(‘Voice over Internet Solutions’) and in hosting services was particularly strong. Gross margins 
remained under pressure in a very competitive environment, with the stronger US dollar also 
adding pressure to input costs. The business continued to focus on operational efﬁciencies 
– for example the centralisation of its client services centre.
In January 2009, Internet Solutions was awarded two telecommunications licences allowing 
it to self-provide telecommunications infrastructure services in competition with incumbent 
operators. Internet Solutions can now, in circumstances where it makes commercial sense, 
build its own network. In response, we have commenced rolling out some ﬁbre access for 
our top clients. 
During the course of the year, Internet Solutions invested in the new Seacom undersea cable 
which provides enhanced international bandwidth capacity to the continent, connecting South 
Africa, Mozambique, T anzania, Uganda and Kenya to Europe via an undersea ﬁbre optic system. 
We acquired 16 STM1s from Seacom for $24.7 million, of which $14.3 million was paid this year 
with the balance due over the next two years. 
During the year, Internet Solutions announced the acquisition of a 38.5% equity stake in Intra, 
a Mozambique based ISP , in partnership with Convergence Wireless Networks, providing an 
excellent base from which to deliver services to various landlocked East African countries. 
This acquisition will also enable us to leverage our investment in the Seacom cable.
Internet Solutions 
revenues grew by 
 ongoing demand 
across the business’s 
range of services. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     27
Plessey
Plessey had a difﬁcult year, with ﬂat revenues accompanied by some gross margin pressure. 
Plessey’s primary client base is African telecommunications service providers and the global 
ﬁnancial crisis led to a downturn in capital expenditure with network roll outs being delayed 
or cut back, and margins coming under pressure. This also led to a change in the way our 
clients are procuring, with network sharing, outsourcing and managed services becoming 
much more prevalent. Furthermore, merger and acquisition activity led to a reduction in spend 
by some of our clients during the period. However, the medium term prospects for mobile 
infrastructure rollout in Africa remain ﬁrmly in place.
In South Africa, the deregulation in the telecommunications market led to an increase in 
demand for ﬁbre deployment services. In anticipation of this deregulation, Plessey invested 
in its ﬁbre rollout capability, entrenching its position as the premier African provider of end to 
end ﬁbre deployment. Plessey was awarded the contract to lay the ﬁrst route of the MTN/
Neotel National Long Distance (NLD) ﬁbre network from KwaZulu-Natal to Gauteng, a total 
of 592km. 
Express Data
Express Data grew revenues by 7.6%. This growth, in the face of the effects on the Australian 
ICT sector of the economic slowdown, was achieved through market share growth, as well 
as the extension of Express Data’s product range through the addition of some new vendor 
lines. Despite competitive pressures and exchange rate volatility, the business managed to 
maintain gross margin levels through value differentiation, and managing its product and 
customer mix. Express Data’s position within the market was acknowledged during the year 
with various industry awards. 28     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Americas Asia (trading as Datacraft) Australia


 Revenue
$528.2m
Number of employees
833
Operating countries
 Revenue
$605.6m
Number of employees
1,473
Operating countries
 Revenue
$846.1m
Number of employees
1,551
Operating countries
 Our regional operations
Growth % 2009 2008
 (22.4%) 528,177 686,393
 (29.2%) 377,123 536,385
 1.2% 151,054 150,008
 17.9% 16.8%
 5,473 19,570
 1.0% 2.9%
Growth % 2009 2008
 (10.5%) 605,630 719,601
 (23.7%) 353,752 488,409
 18.5% 251,878 231,192
 22.1% 18.5%
 52,984 44,203
 8.7% 6.1%
Growth % 2009 2008
 8.8% 846,058 974,035
 9.6% 644,746 731,352
 5.9% 201,312 242,683
 18.5% 18.5%
 39,664 40,376
 4.7% 4.1%
*Adjusted for the impact of currency movements. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     29
Europe Middle East and Africa
 Revenue
$1,002.0m
Number of employees
2,276
Operating countries
 Revenue
$964.3m
Number of employees
4,899
Operating countries





Growth % 2009 2008
 3.5% 1,002,001 1,120,566
 (1.9%) 577,621 676,599
 11.6% 424,380 443,967
 20.8% 20.7%
 31,688 21,902
 3.2% 2.0%
Growth % 2009 2008
 11.9% 964,350 1,000,672
 0.6% 266,676 297,267
 16.7% 697,674 703,405
 28.8% 28.4%
 84,458 88,442
 8.8% 8.8% 30     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
Regional performance
Americas
Revenues in the Americas declined by 22.4% and gross proﬁt reduced by 17.6%. Very strong 
revenue performances from Brazil, Mexico and Canada could not compensate for a 27.4% 
revenue decline in the US, where product revenues were down by 34.5% as multinational 
and ﬁnancial services clients scaled back on non-discretionary infrastructure spend. While 
professional services revenues in the Americas reduced by 10.6%, managed services 
revenues grew by 16.9% with good contract wins in Network Integration and Converged 
Communications.
In the lines of business, Network Integration was most impacted by the reduced demand, 
while the Converged Communications and Microsoft Solutions recorded good growth, 
supported by the region’s infrastructure optimisation and integrated collaboration solutions, 
supported particularly by demand for video. 
Cost reduction programmes ensured that, despite the revenue pressures, the Americas 
generated a $5.4 million operating proﬁt for the period.
Asia
Asian revenues declined by 10.5% for the year, with services growth of 18.5% unable to 
offset product declines of 23.7%, following challenging economic conditions in the region and 
lower product demand from multinational and ﬁnancial services clients. Across the region, 
projects were deferred and decision makers delayed capital expenditure commitments. 
Managed services posted very good growth, supported by market share gains in some 
territories and some important multi-year outsourcing deals. This meant that gross proﬁt 
increased by 7.8% for the year. 
Within the lines of business, Network Integration and Customer Interactive Solutions were the 
hardest hit by the reduced demand, while Microsoft Solutions and Data Centre and Storage 
Solutions recorded solid growth.
Datacraft implemented a rigorous cost reduction programme during the year, and this 
together with the trading performance, resulted in a strong expansion in operating margin to 
8.7% and in operating proﬁt, up 28.9% to $53.0 million for the period.
Australia
The Australia Systems Integration business had a very good year, with revenues up by 
9.8% supported by good growth in all lines of business. The business beneﬁted from the 
Federal Government stimulus package, and from market share gains on the back of ongoing 
consolidation in the Australian IT services industry. 
The investments made over the last 12 to 18 months in managed services delivered revenue 
growth as well as strong operational leverage. Managed services were up by 17.8%, 
supported by some good multi-year contracts as the market continued to move towards 
multisourcing as a preferred IT sourcing option. Professional services declined by 4.4%, 
impacted in particular by the termination of a Customer Interactive Solutions contract.  

$ million
0
10
20
30
40
50
09 08 07 06 05
17.6
19.4
29.2
40.4
39.7
 $ million
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
09 08 07 06 05
15.5
26.2
36.5
44.2
53.0
 $ million
0
5
10
15
20
09 08 07 06 05
7.5
10.1
17.4
19.6
5.4 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     31
During the period, the business took a majority shareholding in Blueﬁre, a company 
specialising in hosted infrastructure management, or Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS).
This trading performance, together with good cost management, meant that the business, 
together with Express Data, grew operating proﬁt for the year by 23.6% to $39.7 million. 
Europe
In the face of challenging economic conditions, our European business recorded an excellent 
performance for the year, with revenue growth of 3.5%. Managed services were up by 18.0%, 
reﬂecting a focus on contract renewal and solutions delivery operational efﬁciencies for our 
clients. Product was down by 1.9% and professional services up by 1.3%. 
Focused cost saving initiatives bore fruit across the region. These initiatives included the 
adoption of workﬂow systems and integrated working practices, and the extensive use of our 
internal uniﬁed communications infrastructure and visual communications facilities. 
As a result, Europe’s operating proﬁt expanded by 64.5% to $31.7 million, and operating 
margin increased to 3.2%. 
During the period, we acquired Teksys, a UK based Microsoft solutions and services provider, 
which will support the region’s ability to provide Microsoft solutions on a pan-European basis.
Middle East and Africa
The Middle East and Africa Systems Integration business had a very good year, with revenues 
up by 8.8%. Product revenues grew by 0.6 %, with declines in South Africa supported by 
growth in Emerging Africa. In South Africa, muted private sector demand (in particular the 
ﬁnancial services and mining sectors) was offset by public sector demand for infrastructure 
investment generally and in particular in anticipation of the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Services 
revenues were up by 18.4%, supported in particular by very strong managed services. 
Within the lines of business, Network Integration, Converged Communications and Microsoft 
Solutions all recorded growth. Teamsource, Middle East and Africa’s outsourcing business, 
had an excellent year recording some signiﬁcant contract wins and contract renewals. The 
Advanced Infrastructure business, which offers cabling, data centre infrastructure, wireless 
connectivity, portable facilities and physical security solutions also recorded a very good 
performance, on the back of infrastructure roll out for the World Cup. 
Together with Plessey and Internet Solutions, the region grew operating proﬁt by 12.9% to 
$84.5 million.

$ million
 Middle East and Africa
$ million
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
09 08 07 06 05
14.8
1.5
8.5
21.9
31.7
0
20
40
60
80
100
09 08 07 06 05
43.4
49.4
70.9
88.4
84.5 32     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
Central and Other
Costs
Central management costs, net of central trading income, reduced from $47.6 million to $35.2 million. This reﬂected several factors: 
ﬁrstly the beneﬁts of local currency weakness, particularly the Rand in which a signiﬁcant portion of the Group’s central costs are 
incurred; secondly reduced bonus provisions and other accruals at period end, and ﬁnally a sharp focus on cost management at 
Group level during the period. We continued to invest centrally in our core strategic initiatives, including in lines of business and in the 
development of the Group’s services offerings. 
Property
The Campus Ofﬁce Park, situated in Johannesburg, houses the Group’s head ofﬁce operations, several of the Group’s South African 
operations, as well as a wide range of third party tenants. The Group occupies some 45% of the useable space and third party tenants 
the balance. Designed as a leading technology park, the Campus occupies 22 hectares of land and comprises 81,000m
2
 of Grade 
A+ ofﬁces and conference facilities. 
The Campus increased net rental income by 17.5% for the period to $15.3 million, reﬂecting some growth in underlying rental rates, 
as well as the renewal of longer dated contracts at more favourable rates. While the facility experienced some vacancies during the 
year, the Campus was back to near capacity by period end. 
The overall impact of the Campus on the Group income statement for the year was as follows:
$ million
Rental income (Disclosed in Other operating income) 15.3
Revaluation of investment portion (Disclosed in Property revaluation and other gains and losses) 4.5
Finance costs (21.8)
Loss before tax (2.0)
This impact does not take account of any growth in the valuation of the non-investment portion of the Campus, namely the 45% of 
the property utilised by the Group. Based on the valuation of the investment portion, this growth in value was $3.9 million and is not 
reﬂected in the income statement.
Share of results of associates
The share of results of associates was $7.8 million (2008: $7.1 million). Britehouse was the largest contributor with $4.1 million. 
Interest income and finance costs
Interest and investment income was $8.1 million (2008: $17.5 million). The reduction was the result of much lower prevailing interest 
rates during the year, an increased proportion of the Group’s cash being centralised in US dollars as opposed to higher yielding 
currencies, as well as the payment in cash during the year for the purchase of the minority interest in Datacraft Asia.
Total ﬁnance costs were $29.9 million (2008: $31.0 million), of which $21.8 million (2008: $22.6 million) related to funding the Campus 
property in Johannesburg. The balance of the ﬁnance costs related to swap costs in respect of intercompany funding ($3.8 million), 
interest costs on vendor loans, and interest on bank overdrafts.
Property revaluation and other gains and losses
Property revaluation and other gains and losses include a $4.5 million (2008: $8.5 million) gain on revaluation of the investment portion of 
the Campus property asset in South Africa, based on the Directors’ assessment of fair value at 30 September 2009. The valuation was 
determined with reference to the budgeted rental income for 2010 and based on a yield of 9.5%.  Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     33
Income tax
The Group’s effective rate of tax on proﬁt before tax, excluding exceptional items, increased slightly to 26.7% (2008: 25.9%). 
This change reﬂects the impact of the lower contribution from the US for the period where the Group pays a lower rate of tax, 
offset by the beneﬁcial impact of some prior year adjustments.
During the year the Group, in conjunction with the lending banks and in agreement with the South African tax authorities 
(‘SARS’), restructured the ﬁnancing arrangement underpinning the Campus land and buildings in South Africa. SARS allowed 
Dimension Data a once off tax deduction of $44.7 million as part of the settlement which resulted in the Group reporting, 
as an exceptional gain, a deferred tax asset of $11.0 million during the period. The effect of the restructure was to replace the 
ﬁnance lease with secured bank loans. While this led to a change in the assessed tax position relating to the funding, there was 
no signiﬁcant change to the reported asset and liability, nor any change to the underlying cash ﬂows or reported ﬁnance costs. 
Minority interests
The minority interest in the result for the period reduced to $10.2 million (2008: $22.6 million) as a result of the acquisition of the 
remaining minority shares in Datacraft Asia in November 2008.
The bulk of the remaining interest relates to the Black Economic Empowerment consortium’s (‘the Consortium’) 16.02% interest 
in the Group’s African operations, through its shares in Dimension Data Middle East and Africa (Pty) Limited (‘DDMEA’). Based 
on the performance of DDMEA in 2009, with effect from 1 October 2009 a further estimated 2.02% vested to the Consortium, 
bringing their total interest to 18.04%. 
Between 1 October 2009 and 30 September 2011, the Consortium has the option to sell (subject to the achievement of certain 
internal transformation objectives – as yet not achieved), and the Group has the option to acquire, any of its shares in DDMEA 
at fair value (as determined by an independent valuer). The Group would be entitled to settle the purchase price in either cash 
or Dimension Data Holdings plc shares.
If neither option is exercised then the Consortium will continue to vest shares in DDMEA (subject to performance targets) until 
30 September 2011 whereafter the Consortium will have the option, subject to the Group’s pre-emptive right, to sell their shares 
subject to the Group’s approval of the purchaser.
Exceptional items
During 2009, the Group, in conjunction with the lending banks and in agreement with the South African taxation authorities 
(‘SARS’) restructured the ﬁnancing arrangement underpinning the Campus land and buildings in South Africa. In concluding the 
restructuring, the Group made payment to the lending banks of $1.5 million, which refunded certain rebates received in prior 
periods. Pursuant to the restructuring, SARS allowed Dimension Data a once off tax deduction of $44.7 million. This deduction, 
net of temporary differences raised previously on the structure, resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset to the Group 
of $11.0 million.
Acquisitions and disposals
During the period, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining minority shares in Datacraft Asia Limited. In terms of the transaction, 
shareholders were offered $1.33 per share, at a total cost of $282.1 million. Goodwill on acquisition amounted to $183.8 million.
The Group concluded three other acquisitions, none of which was material. In Australia, we acquired Blueﬁre, a company specialising 
in outsourced infrastructure management. In the UK, we acquired Teksys, a company specialising in Microsoft solutions and services, 
and Internet Solutions acquired a 38.5% interest in Intra Lda, an internet services provider (ISP) based in Mozambique. 34     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
Balance sheet
The Group retained a solid balance sheet position throughout the period, ﬁnishing the period with equity attributable to equity 
shareholders of the parent of $849.6 million, and cash, net of overdrafts, of $599.8 million. The retention of a strong cash position 
was and is expected to remain an important sign of strength and resilience to our global trading partners and clients, particularly in 
the current difﬁcult economic conditions.
Minority interests reduced during the period from $138.2 million to $56.7 million as a result of the acquisition of the outstanding 
minority shares in Datacraft Asia.
Non-current assets of $767.7 million included investment property of $95.9 million. This relates to the 55% of the Campus property 
asset in South Africa occupied by third party tenants (the balance of the Campus is included in property, plant and equipment). The 
Campus was revalued at the end of the period, resulting in a revaluation gain to the investment property portion through the income 
statement of $4.5 million.
Non-current liabilities included bank loans which increased to $140.6 million mostly as a result of the termination of the Campus lease 
structure, and its replacement with secured bank loans. Obligations under ﬁnance leases reduced accordingly.
Net current liabilities (current liabilities less current assets, excluding net cash) were $253.3 million (2008: $119.2 million).
Cash flow
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period were $599.8 million (2008: $682.4 million). 
Cash generated from operations was $319.0 million (2008: $336.2 million), including cash generated from a reduction in working 
capital of $45.5 million (2008: $79.2 million). The Group’s working capital management remained strong for the period, with a slight 
increase in Trade Receivable days sales outstanding to 47 days (2008: 46 days) and an increase in Trade Payable days outstanding 
to 77 days (2008: 70 days). The Group managed to secure improved trading terms with some of its vendors and, despite the 
difﬁcult economic conditions, experienced no material bad debts during the period. Inventory levels reduced, largely as a result of 
lower product volumes. 
Net cash used in investing activities was $345.3 million, including $282.1 million in respect of the acquisition of the minority interests 
in Datacraft Asia.
Capex amounted to $83.4 million (2008: $91.6 million). Internet Solutions invested $62.9 million during the period, up from  
$46.1 million in 2008. The increase related to a $24.7 million acquisition of international bandwidth in the form of 16 STM1s from 
Seacom, thereby securing undersea cable capacity off the east coast of Africa. Elsewhere, the Group’s capex reduced relative to the 
prior year, partly reﬂecting an emphasis on reducing discretionary spend, but also the fact that 2008 saw a relatively high investment 
in the Group’s GSOA services platform.
Dave Sherriffs
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     35
regional purchasing. As a result, the company was 
attempting to manage over 150 separate IT service 
contracts with over 50 different partners around the world. 
In addition, the client was burdened with a variety of 
legacy PBX systems and wished to upgrade to a Cisco IP 
telephony solution.
The company was conscious that it was not extracting 
maximum value from its sourcing arrangements 
and decided to engage the services of an objective, 
independent third-party with speciﬁc expertise, in 
order to validate its plans to move forward with a 
consolidation and rationalisation exercise. 
Through a consulting engagement, Dimension Data 
worked with the company to evaluate its existing service 
contracts and restructure its multiple IT departments so 
that only one proﬁt and loss centre would exist at its 
US headquarters. This was followed by a consolidation 
exercise, which involved reducing the number of service 
contracts to just eight, all of which are now overseen 
by Dimension Data. The new support service, Uptime 
powered by Cisco Services, is a solution offered by 
Dimension Data through its Global Services Alliance 
with Cisco. Dimension Data serves as the single point 
of accountability, but the client has the additional 
assurance of easy access to Cisco’s technical and 
product expertise. Furthermore, success on this front 
prompted the client to hand over responsibility for its 
global IP telephony rollout to Dimension Data.
Information technology 
geared for growth 
Our client, a US-based global manufacturer of equipment, 
has a dealer network that services customers in more than 
200 countries and offers rental services through more than 
1,000 outlets worldwide.
Like many forward-thinking organisations, our client 
recognised the opportunity for converging technologies 
to drive business change and improve efﬁciencies, but 
lacked the knowledge of where and how to go about 
rationalising and consolidating its existing infrastructure, 
while introducing new technologies. 
At the time, the company operated hundreds of different 
proﬁt and loss centres throughout the world and lacked 
appropriate controls and governance with respect to 
United States of America
Systems Integration
› Network Integration
› Converged Communications
Dimension Data’s solutions - changing the world as we know it 36     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
As required by the UK Companies Act 2006, the following table provides a list of some of the principal risks and uncertainties facing 
the Group. It should not be seen as comprehensive. The Group’s process for managing these risks and uncertainties is detailed in the 
Corporate Governance report.
Risk description Impact Mitigating factors
Macroeconomic risk: The Group 
derives a signiﬁcant portion of its 
revenue from clients in certain market 
sectors, including the ﬁnancial services 
sector, the telecommunications sector 
and multinational or global clients. As 
a consequence, it is exposed to any 
adverse macroeconomic impact in any 
of these sectors.
To the extent that our 
clients in these sectors 
are impacted by the 
current economic 
downturn, the Group 
is exposed to the risk 
of revenue declines 
or working capital 
deterioration.
Many of the Group’s solutions are mission critical to its 
clients, and in addition are often used to reduce their 
costs and improve their productivity. 
Certain revenue streams from these clients are 
contracted on an annuity basis which provides 
insulation to economic downturn.
No single client accounts for more than 5% of the 
Group’s revenue and therefore the risk of the loss of an 
individual client is contained.
Exposure to country risk: The 
Group operates across a wide range 
of political and economic environments 
and as a result is exposed to adverse 
developments in these environments. 
Countries to which the Group is 
materially exposed include South Africa, 
Australia, the United Kingdom, India and 
the United States.
Political or economic 
disruption in any of the 
Group’s major trading 
territories could impact 
the Group’s proﬁtability. 
The Group operates in a large number of countries, 
both developed and developing, which to a certain 
extent provides a hedge against this exposure. With 
regard to containing exposure in any one territory, 
the Group monitors developments closely, and also 
focuses on maintaining strong local management 
capability. 
Vendor risk: The Group has close and 
mutually beneﬁcial partnerships with 
leading technology vendors, enabling 
it to provide its clients with the most 
advanced and ﬂexible technology 
solutions. The Group’s relationship 
with these partners is important to its 
continued success.
Any changes to the 
terms and conditions 
of purchase from key 
vendors may result in 
lower market share or 
lower proﬁtability. 
The Group’s geographic footprint and local client 
relationships make it an important channel to market 
for its partners, and there is a mutual dependency 
on promoting stable and long term relationships. The 
Group also invests substantial time and resources in 
promoting and managing its vendor relationships. 
Deal complexity risk: The growth 
in global business, the Group’s drive 
towards services-led solutions, the 
industry’s trend towards annuity based 
or cloud computing arrangements, 
are some of the factors contributing 
to the increasing complexity of client 
engagements.
This risk could result in 
the Group’s failure to 
deliver against contractual 
obligations, which in turn 
would result in reduced 
proﬁtability, regulatory 
repercussions or 
reputational damage.
The Group has bid and commercial management 
methodologies, which are managed through deﬁned 
governance processes. This has led to a relatively low 
incidence of failure in the past, supported by the quality 
and skill of employees involved in deal construction and 
negotiation.
Principal risks Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     37
Risk description Impact Mitigating factors
Regulatory risk: The Group operates 
in many different countries, and 
the complexities of cross border 
transactions contribute to the risk of 
regulatory non-compliance, especially in 
relation to transfer pricing and taxation.
Risks include possible 
legal sanction, inefﬁcient 
taxation and damage to 
reputation.
The Group invests signiﬁcant resource in understanding 
the relevant transfer pricing and regulatory 
environments, and in ensuring that it is fully compliant 
with the laws and regulations of all territories within 
which it operates. 
Employee retention risk: The risk of 
not being able to attract, develop and 
retain key employees.
Inability to attract and 
retain key talent would 
harm the Group’s ability 
to execute its strategy. 
The Group places a heavy emphasis on attracting 
and retaining world class employees. Key initiatives 
include; a consistent and effective recruitment process 
to enhance candidate experience, effective induction 
programmes to ensure rapid assimilation into the 
Group, development of enhanced people management 
capabilities to engage, motivate, and retain talent. 
Further information on employees is set out in the 
Corporate Responsibility report. 
Business continuity risk: An
element of the Group’s managed 
services revenue depends on remote 
infrastructure management, which in 
turn depends on resilient systems and 
internal IT infrastructure.
Business continuity 
risks associated with 
operational or IT systems 
and data security failure 
could have a signiﬁcant 
impact on our business.
Our business continuity plans are constantly being 
reﬁned, including ensuring that alternative solutions are 
in place to adapt to unforeseen disruption to critical 
business processes. 
Balance sheet risk: Risks relating to 
the management of the Group’s balance 
sheet include liquidity risk, credit risk and 
currency risk.
Liquidity risk is the 
risk that the Group will 
be unable to meet its 
ﬁnancial obligations when 
they fall due.
Credit risk refers to the 
risk that a counterparty 
will default on its 
obligations to the Group. 
Currency risk refers to 
the risk that the value of 
assets and liabilities may 
ﬂuctuate due to changes 
in exchange rates.
Liquidity risk management within the Group focuses on 
working capital metrics, cash balances and cash ﬂow 
planning, coupled with funding facilities.
With regard to trade receivables, Group policy is only 
to deal with counterparties with an appropriate credit 
rating. Our clients are also spread across diverse 
industries and geographical areas and tend to be high 
quality organisations.
Financial assets and liabilities are generally economically 
hedged using forward exchange contracts, limiting 
transactional exposures that would give rise to currency 
gains and losses in the income statement. The Group 
does not hedge ﬂuctuations in earnings and in the 
balance sheet as a result of translation of subsidiaries 
into the reporting currency of the Group. 38     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Executive Committee
1. Jeremy Ord
Executive Chairman
Dimension Data Holdings plc
2. Brett Dawson
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Dimension Data Holdings plc
3. David Sherriffs
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Dimension Data Holdings plc
4. Steve Nola
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Dimension Data Australia 
5. Allan Cawood
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Dimension Data Middle East & Africa
6. Stephen Joubert
Group Executive 
Global Solutions
7. Russell Bolan
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Dimension Data Europe*
8. Jere Brown
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Dimension Data Americas
9. Andrew Briggs
Group Executive 
Sales
10. Marilyn Williams
Group Executive 
Human Resources
11. Patrick Quarmby
Director 
Corporate Finance
12. Ettienne Reinecke
Chief Technology Ofﬁcer and 
Group Executive Network Integration Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     39
13. Bruce Watson
Group Executive 
Cisco Alliance
14. Bill Padﬁeld
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Datacraft Asia Ltd
15. Connie de Lange
Group Executive 
Marketing
1 2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
*to 30 September 2009  40     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Executive directors
Jeremy John Ord (52) Executive Chairman
 Johannesburg in 2000. He held the combined role of 
 Brett William Dawson (45)
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
 the Group and to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings 
 He joined the Group in 1997 as Financial Director of the 
 growing the business, which exceeded all business plan 
objectives and claimed a dominant market share in the 
 Solutions. In September 2001 he relocated to take on the 
 joining Dimension Data, Brett was responsible for corporate 
 He graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand and 
 Stephen Michael Joubert (51)
Group Executive: Global Solutions
Stephen Joubert was appointed to the Board of Dimension 
 1998. He joined the Group in 1996 as Group Financial 
 graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand and is a 
 Patrick Keith Quarmby (55)
Director: Corporate Finance





Board of Directors





David Brian Sherriffs (46)
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
 of Dimension Data Holdings plc on 9 June 2004.  
He joined the Group in 1997 as a member of the ﬁnance 
team, primarily involved in corporate ﬁnance activities.  
 was responsible for business case assessments relating 
 Group, David served in various ﬁnancial, corporate ﬁnance 
 Studies at the University of Oxford.
Non-executive directors
 Senior independent non-executive director
Rupert Barclay joined the Board of Dimension Data Holdings 
 boards of a number of private companies. He previously 
 Independent non-executive director

 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     41
 Non-executive director

 Wendy Lucas-Bull (56) *
Independent non-executive director
 She graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand 
with a Bachelor of Science degree.
Josua (Dillie) Malherbe (53) *
Non-executive director
 Moses Modidima (Moss) Ngoasheng (52)
Independent non-executive director

 continue to be considered as fully independent.
Roderick (Rory) Michael Scott (50) 
 *
Independent non-executive director
Rory Scott was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data 




served as the Group Financial Director from 1987 to 1991. 





of time that has elapsed since his service as an executive 

Peter Dorian (Dorian) Wharton-Hood (70) * 
 Independent non-executive director

 which he is now a trustee. He graduated from Stellenbosch 
 42     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Directors’ report
 statements for the year ended 30 September 2009.
Principal activities
 infrastructure technologies, we have become a recognised 
global leader in the provision and management of specialist 
IT infrastructure solutions. Details of the principal subsidiary 
and associated entities are provided on page 124.
There have been no signiﬁcant changes to the Group’s 
activities during the year under review and the Directors are 
not aware, at the date of this report, of any likely signiﬁcant 
changes in the Group’s activities in the new ﬁnancial year.
Business review
Introduction
The business and ﬁnancial reviews, as required by the 
 Directors’ report, which provide information about the 
Group’s operations, its ﬁnancial performance during the 
year and expected future developments.
Position of the Group at year end
The full year results as at 30 September 2009 are presented 
 Information about the performance of the business of the 

 Business performance indicators
The Group focuses on various businesses, including:
 distributor of enterprise networking technologies.
The Board uses various ﬁnancial measures to assess the 
ﬁnancial position and overall performance of its operations, 
including revenue and gross proﬁt growth, gross margin, 
operating proﬁt growth, operating margin, ﬁxed and variable 
overhead costs, as well as trade receivables days and other 
measures to determine the effectiveness of working capital 
 also reviewed, including client and employee satisfaction 
surveys, productivity ratios and employee attrition and 
retention statistics. 
Information and analyses using ﬁnancial key performance 
indicators and other business key performance indicators 
 included on pages 12 and 13.
Trends impacting future development, performance 
and position of the business 
Trends impacting future development, performance and the 

Ofﬁcer’s review.
Contractual arrangements essential to the business
 within the Group and between Group companies and their 
vendors, clients and other stakeholders. While there are 
many contracts entered into on an almost daily basis, all 
of which are important to the Group, the contracts that 
are essential to the Group are the global contracts entered 
 Systems. In the aggregate, its agreements with its clients 
are essential, although no single client accounts for more 
than 5% of the Group’s revenue.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risk factors affecting the Group’s prospects 
are discussed on pages 36 and 37 and further discussed  

vendor/supply chain risk, macroeconomic risk, country 
risk, deal complexity risk, retention risk, business continuity 
risk, regulatory risk and balance sheet risk. The Group’s 
performance could be affected by other risks, and those 
identiﬁed in this report should not be regarded as complete 
or comprehensive.
Fixed assets
The only ﬁxed assets where market value differs materially 
from book value are land and buildings, reﬂected at a book 
 plant and equipment and investment property in the balance 
sheet, compared to the market value of approximately 
 buildings at the estimated market value would give rise to a 
tax liability of approximately $12.4 million. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     43
Group ﬁnancial instruments
The Group’s ﬁnancial instruments comprise cash and cash 
equivalents, as well as items such as trade receivables 
and trade payables that arise directly from the Group’s 
operations. Details of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are 
 Signiﬁcant acquisitions, disposals, ﬁnancing 
transactions, investments and material 
developments during the year
 statements. There were no signiﬁcant disposals, ﬁnancing 
transactions or investments during the year.
Post balance sheet events
 statements.
Capital structure 
Authorised share capital
 $30 million, divided into 3 billion ordinary shares of 
1 US cent each.
The holders of the deferred shares have no right to receive 
 right to attend, speak or vote at such general meetings. 
The deferred shares have no rights to dividends and on a 
 repayment of the amounts paid on the deferred shares, 
after repayment of the capital paid up on the ordinary 
shares plus the payment of $10 million per ordinary share.
Issued share capital

 During the year ended 30 September 2009, options were 
 schemes, resulting in the allotment of 4,321,488 new 
 allotted under these schemes since the end of the ﬁnancial 
year to the date of this report.
Acquisition of own shares
 for cancellation or to hold as treasury shares. During the 
 of 1 US cent each at an aggregate purchase consideration 
of $18.7 million to meet obligations in terms of the Group’s 
 disposed of 6,674,164 ordinary shares of 1 US cent each 
 Share Trust awarded 46,487,978 shares to employees 
in settlement of obligations in terms of the Group’s share 
 Trust held 10,531,897 ordinary shares, representing 0.62% 
 Rights and restrictions attaching to shares
 ordinary shares are entitled to participate in the payment of 
dividends pro rata to their holding. The Board may propose 
and pay interim dividends and recommend a ﬁnal dividend 
 declared by the shareholders in general meeting by ordinary 
resolution, but no dividend may be declared in excess of 
the amount recommended by the Board.
 be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is properly 
demanded. On a show of hands every member who is 
present in person or by proxy shall have one vote. On a 
poll every member who is present in person or by proxy 
shall have one vote for every ordinary share of which they 
are the holder.
 of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
securities or voting rights.
Restrictions on transfer of shares
 their absolute discretion, to refuse to register the transfer of 
a share in certiﬁcated form which is not fully paid. They may 
also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certiﬁcated form 
unless the usual form of transfer is lodged, duly stamped, at 
 as the Directors may appoint and is accompanied by the 
share certiﬁcate to which the transfer relates and such other 
evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show 
the right of the transferor to make the transfer. 44     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Directors’ report 
(continued)
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a share 
 is entitled to refuse under the Uncertiﬁcated Securities 
Regulations to register the transfer. The Directors may also 
refuse to register any transfer in favour of more than four 
transferees.
 appoint any person to execute on behalf of the holders of 
the deferred shares a transfer of the deferred shares of an 
agreement to transfer and/or to acquire the deferred shares 
 and subject to the minimum capital requirements contained 
 to or obtaining the sanction of the holders of the deferred 
 as custodian of the deferred shares and, pending such 
transfer and/or acquisition, to retain the certiﬁcate for the 
deferred shares.
Major shareholders
Details of the shareholders holding 3% or more of the issued 
 Dividend
The Directors recommend the payment of a dividend of 
 on Wednesday, 3 February 2010, the ﬁnal dividend will 
 the share register at the close of business on Friday, 
19 February 2010.
The dividend will be paid in Sterling to shareholders on the 
 the close of business on Thursday, 4 February 2010. 
The following are the salient dates for the payment of the 
proposed dividend:

conversion rate Friday, 5 February 2010

Date trading commences  

Date trading commences  




 may take place during the period Friday, 5 February 
 that, in accordance with the requirements of Strate, share 
certiﬁcates may not be dematerialised or rematerialised 
 Powers of directors
The Directors have the power to manage the business of 
 Change of control
The Group’s share incentive schemes contain provisions 
relating to a change of control. Outstanding options 
under the share option schemes would normally vest 
and become exercisable on a change of control. 


become exercisable on a change of control subject to the 
satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time 
and pro rata to the proportion of the performance period 
that has expired.
 with its clients and vendors contain provisions that entitle, 
but not oblige, the other party to terminate the speciﬁc 
 these provisions are further restricted to instances where 
the change of control is to a competitor of the other party 
and not just a mere change of control. However, the 
aforementioned contracts are conﬁdential and subject to 
 be disclosed in this Directors’ report. 
Trade payables payment policy
The Group is committed to maintaining a sound commercial 
relationship with its creditors. The Group has no ﬁxed 
payment policies but negotiates the best possible terms 
with its suppliers. 
 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     45
Directors
The current Directors and their biographical details are set out on pages 40 and 41. Details of the members of the Board, all 
of whom served throughout the year, are given below:
Name Position Appointed
Jeremy Ord Brett Dawson Stephen Joubert July 2000
 July 2000
David Sherriffs June 2004
Rupert Barclay June 2004
 October 2006
 July 2005
 September 2002
Rory Scott July 2000
 July 2000
 the Board for nine years, are required to retire annually in 

 experience and contribution to the Board. Biographical 
 on pages 40 and 41. Reasons for and recommendations 
 directors’ service contracts, remuneration and interests in 
shares are set out in the Remuneration Report. Details of 
the directors’ interests in any Group company can also be 
found in the Remuneration Report.
Reasons for and recommendations regarding the  



page 49. 
 indemnity provisions for the beneﬁt of its directors and 
ofﬁcers, which remain in force at the date of this report.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
 the Group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing 
 includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes 
for managing capital, details of ﬁnancial instruments and 
hedging activities, as well as exposures to credit and 
liquidity risk. 
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to 
 enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate 
for the foreseeable future, despite the current uncertain 
 the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the 
annual ﬁnancial statements. 
IT systems
The Group made progress during the period regarding 
the implementation in its Systems Integration business 
of an upgrade to its Global Services Operating 


the Group continued to invest in enhancing IT systems 
capabilities, and to review the opportunities for the 
extraction of scale efficiencies across the Group’s 
operating model.  46     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Directors’ report 
(continued)
Research and development
The Group does not incur research and development 
expenditure in the conventional sense. However, it 

class expertise in the lines of business and service 
delivery capabilities in its Systems Integration business.
Corporate responsibility
Dimension Data’s policies for environmental, social, ethics 
 donations and grants made during the year amounted to 
 Employees
 11,032 employees. Details of employee related costs are 
 information on the Group’s employees is included in the 
 Auditors
 auditors and authorising the Directors to determine their 
 report conﬁrms that: 
 unaware; and 
 to have taken as a director in order to make himself/
herself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
 information.
This information is given and should be interpreted in 
 Annual General Meeting
 explanatory notes on the proposed resolutions is enclosed 
with this document.
 and 127.
Donation of shares
 register who hold very small numbers of shares that may 
be uneconomical to sell, by facilitating donation of such 
shares to charity. ShareGift aggregates and sells such 
donated shares and passes the proceeds on to a wide 
 income tax deduction on the value of the donation. Whilst 
the service is generally free, there may be an indemnity 
charge for lost or destroyed share certiﬁcates. Further 
 or email help@sharegift.org.uk, or from their website  
www.ShareGift.org.



Strate for the speciﬁc purpose of enabling shareholders 
to turn small holdings to good account by donating 
them to charity. The scheme has the full support of 



and the proceeds distributed to selected charities 

charities engaged in the care of children, the elderly 




Company Secretary
 By Order of the Board
Sanet Heydenrych
Secretary
 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     47
Corporate governance report
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards 
of corporate governance, which it regards as critical to 
business integrity and maintaining shareholders’ trust. 
This report, together with the Directors’ Report and the 

 contain the information required by Section 7 of the Financial 
 www.frc.org.uk. 
Structure, governance and operation of the 
Board of Directors
Composition
 all of whom served throughout the 2009 ﬁnancial year. 
Directors’ biographies are provided on pages 40 and 41. 


executive director.
Operation of the Board
The Board is accountable to shareholders for determining 
strategy and the overall conduct of the business of the 
Group. The Board has ﬁnal responsibility for the management 
and performance of the Group and its businesses and is 
required to exercise objective judgement, independent from 
management, on corporate matters. 

authorities matrix deﬁnes the roles and responsibilities 
of the constituent elements of the Group’s management 
structure. This enables the Board to plan, execute, 
control and monitor the Group’s activities in accordance 
with strategic objectives. The Group authorities matrix 
determines levels of authority for subsidiary boards and 
their directors in respect of ﬁnancial and operational 
decision making, including major investments, capital 
expenditure and contractual engagements. The Group’s 
internal audit function monitors compliance with these 
authority levels.
In addition to the delegation of authority in terms of the 
Group authorities matrix, the Board has delegated speciﬁc 
responsibilities to a number of committees which operate 
within terms of reference approved by the Board. 
The Board has reviewed and approved revised terms 
 a board charter, in terms of which a number of matters are 
reserved for the Board, including:
 material contracts, material acquisitions and 
developments;
 Group’s internal controls and risk management system;
 of all circulars, prospectuses and major public 
announcements;
 committees;
 incentive programmes;
 policies and judgements and assessment of the 
 Division of responsibilities



for leadership, promoting the highest standards of 
governance and effectiveness of the Board. He facilitates 






ensures that the Board is at all times properly informed 
and consulted on all matters reserved for it. Through the 

ensures that the Board comprises individuals with an 
appropriate mix of skills, knowledge and experience. The 

with shareholders, represents the Group at the highest 

develops and maintains strategic key customer and 
vendor relationships. 48     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Corporate governance report
(continued)


operations of the Group, its business environment, 
executive management and to make them aware of their 
ﬁduciary duties and responsibilities, applicable legislation 
and regulations. Directors are continually updated on 
the Group’s businesses and the regulatory and industry 
speciﬁc environment in which the Group operates. The 
same applies to corporate governance and regulatory 
issues, either by means of written brieﬁngs or presentations 
by executives or external sources. Individual directors 
are expected to identify any additional individual training 
needs and to take the necessary steps to ensure that 
they are adequately informed. Directors are able, at the 

advice on Board matters. 

agreements, the details of which are reported in the 



subject to retirement by rotation and are subject to review 



Evaluation and independence
 executive directors and committees is conducted annually 
by means of a series of self evaluation questionnaires 
 and improving effectiveness of the Board, its committees 
and individual contributions. Results of the evaluation 
identify potential knowledge and skills gaps on the Board 
or its committees and provide a basis for continuous 
improvement of the Board’s procedures and objectives 
 using the performance management system implemented 
 reviewing the executive directors’ performance and 
 performance. Based on the annual evaluations undertaken 
in September 2009, the Board is satisﬁed that all directors 
are committed to their roles and that the Board and its 
committees are effective. 

leadership and operational management of the Group 


management structures and a management team to 
effectively implement the Group’s objectives, strategy 
and business plans and brings to the Board’s attention 
all matters that materially affect or are capable of affecting 
the performance of the Group and the achievement of its 
strategy. 
The Senior Independent Director is available to 
shareholders if they have concerns which have not been 


such contact is inappropriate. 
 ensures that the rules and procedures applicable to the 
conduct of the affairs of the Board are complied with and 
 Secretary provides the Board as a whole and directors 
individually with advice and guidance as to how their 
responsibilities should be properly discharged in the best 
 matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Meetings
The Board has at least four scheduled meetings annually. 
In addition to the four scheduled meetings, the Board met 
on four further occasions during the past year to discuss 
speciﬁc matters of importance. Over and above these 
meetings, the Board devoted one full day to overall strategic 
 six times during the year, without the other executive 
directors present. 
Appointments, induction and development

directors is a matter for consideration and approval 
by the Board as a whole, upon recommendation by 

procedures for appointments to the Board are formal, 
 an Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     49
reached their ninth year of appointment as independent 



 recommended.
Conﬂict of interest
During the year the Board reviewed its procedures in 

procedures for the review of actual or potential conﬂicts 
of interest and authorisation by the Board if deemed 
appropriate. During the 2009 ﬁnancial year, none of the 

proposed transactions.
 Solutions has acquired a 20 year Indefeasible Right of Use 

 Board committees
The Board delegates speciﬁc responsibility to three 


within written terms of reference available on request 


are authorised to engage services of external advisors at 

Executive Committee
 Audit Committee
Membership
Rory Scott (Chairman)
Rupert Barclay
 is not regarded as independent given his association 

directors are required to be independent of judgement and 
character and free from business or other relationships 
that could materially interfere with the exercise of their 

contribution and evidence of continued display of 
independent judgement should be the point of reference 
for determining tenure of Board members, rather than 
subjective term limits. 
 executive director since July 2000, it is the view of the 
 independent. He continues to act in the interests of the 
Group, with the primary aim to maximise shareholder return 
and to grow the Group in line with its strategic goals. His 

ability to maintain his independent judgement and character 
or his ability to effectively execute his responsibilities as 
 and long term perspective on the Group’s business, he 
continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board, the 

 are not regarded as independent, given their association 
 committees on which they serve as beneﬁcial to both 
 continue to constructively challenge strategy proposed by 
 the Group, assess risk and integrity of ﬁnancial information 
and ensure that remuneration and succession planning 
arrangements are appropriate.
Retirement by rotation

to retire in the third calendar year following the year in which 









executive directors that have served for a period exceeding 
nine years are obliged to retire annually and may be 

Hood and Rory Scott are required to retire annually as they  50     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Corporate governance report
(continued)
 should act as engagement partner on an account for 
more than ﬁve years. The partner currently responsible 
for the Group audit has held that position for ﬁve years 
and, accordingly, following the completion of the audit 
of the 2009 ﬁnancial year, a new audit partner has been 
selected for the 2010 ﬁnancial year.
Following consideration of the performance and 
 to the Group will be put to shareholders at the upcoming 
 listing in 2000. The audit has not been put out to tender 
 to review the position annually. There are currently no 
contractual obligations that restrict the Group’s choice 
of external audit ﬁrm. 

discusses and reviews the scope of the audit, 
particular areas of focus or concern and the Group 
materiality level with the external auditors. The 


  To ensure independence, approval must be obtained 


services exceeding $50,000 on an individual basis or 
$250,000 in total must be separately approved by the 



of the opinion that the approvals required for audit 

in place within the Group, are sufficient to ensure 
the objectivity and independence of the external 

met with the external auditors four times, once 


occasions.
 knowledge, skill and experience he contributes to the 
 that Rory Scott has been a member of the Board for a 
 considered his independence and are of the opinion that he 
is sufﬁciently independent of judgement and character to 
remain independent of management despite his long tenure 
 knowledge and recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience 
 updated its terms of reference, incorporating the changes 
 Meetings

external auditors without management present on at least 
 next meeting of the Board and minutes of meetings are 
circulated to all members of the Board. 
Role and activities
 2009 ﬁnancial year can be summarised as follows:
 reappointment, resignation or dismissal of external 
auditors and makes recommendations to the Board for 
appropriate action. It also reviews the performance and 
independence of the external auditors and considers and 
approves the proposed audit fees. When considering 
their independence, the safeguards and procedures 
undertaken by the external auditors are reviewed 
to ensure their independence and objectivity. The  Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     51
 ﬁnancial statements for the period, and considers 
matters such as the appropriateness of accounting 
policies, decisions requiring a major element of 
judgement, compliance with accounting standards, 
a review of business and key performance indicators, 
the going concern assumption and the statement on 
internal control.
 effectiveness as part of the formal annual Board 
evaluation process. Self evaluation questionnaires are 
utilised for this purpose. Based on the results of the 
 complies with its terms of reference.
Remuneration Committee
Membership
 (Chairman)
 Rory Scott
 contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 68.
Nomination Committee
Membership
Jeremy Ord (Chairman)
 Rupert Barclay 
Role and activities

recommending board appointments and considering 
succession planning to ensure that the Board and its 

directors with an appropriate balance of experience, 
knowledge and skills to deliver the strategic direction and 
leadership required for the Group’s success. Whilst Jeremy 

considered to be the most appropriate person to chair 




 and 
its committees as well as Board succession. It furthermore 
  The Group’s internal audit work is performed by the 
 scope, effectiveness and results of the internal audit 
programme within the Group. It also considers and 
makes recommendations to the Board with regard 
to the resource requirements within the internal audit 
department.

internal controls, including ﬁnancial, operational and 
compliance controls, as well as its procedures and 
systems for identiﬁcation, assessment and reporting 
of risks. It reviews and considers reports on risk 
management processes and procedures to ensure 
that material business risks, including IT security 
and fraud, are identiﬁed and appropriately managed. 

recommendations of the internal audit function is also 
closely monitored. 
 the risk of fraud and the design and implementation 
of internal controls to prevent and detect fraud. The 
 statements may be materially misstated as a result of 
fraud.

dealing with complaints and submissions in terms 



and submissions are sufﬁciently and independently 


who believe they have discovered serious malpractice 

is satisﬁed that these arrangements provide for 
proportionate and independent investigation of matters 


during the year, all having been thoroughly investigated 
and satisfactorily resolved. 
 and the Board. The internal audit teams met with the 
 52     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Corporate governance report
(continued)
 communicate directly with shareholders. The chairmen 
 are available at the meeting to answer questions from 
 are proposed on each substantially different issue. The 
 together with a summary of the business conducted at 
 Board committees are required to attend to answer relevant 
questions from shareholders.
In addition to the interim and annual reports, and interim 
management statements, shareholders can obtain 
information about the Group posted on the website 
www.dimensiondata.com.
 shareholders. Shareholders have subsequently been given 
the opportunity to indicate whether they wish to receive 
 other shareholder communications. Shareholders who had 
not indicated a preference to receive hard copies, receive 
notiﬁcation of the availability of shareholder communications 
 via email or post. Shareholders may at any time revoke a 
previous instruction.
Ethics and whistleblowing
The Group embraces the highest standards of professional 
and ethical conduct in its business activities, operating 
 employees via the corporate intranet. Our business approach 
is competitive but also characterised by integrity, frankness 
and goodwill. Trust and openness are vital components 
 www.dimensiondata.com.
 employees, clients, vendors and other stakeholders to 
voice concerns in a responsible and effective manner. 
It ensures that any suspicions or misgivings that arise 
can be actioned and resolved without fear of reprisal or 
prejudice. Harassment or victimisation of whistleblowers 
 reviewed the contributions made to the Board by 




as independent given their association with VenFin 

valuable contribution to the experience, knowledge and 
effectiveness of the Board and committees of which they 
are members. 
Given that Rory Scott has completed his ninth year as 
 considered his independence and concluded that he 
remains sufﬁciently independent of judgement and 
character to be considered independent of management. 




executive director, at least one of whom would be required 
to have industry speciﬁc knowledge and experience. 
Discussions with potential candidates are still in progress 

external search consultancy nor open advertising has 
been considered at this stage.
Communication with shareholders
The Group is committed to honest, open and regular 
communication with shareholders on ﬁnancial and  
 The Group reports its half year and full year results 
formally to shareholders and provides interim 

communication with institutional investors, analysts 
and the media is maintained through presentations 

held to update the market on the Group’s strategies, 

management attend these meetings on a regular basis. 
Briefings and meetings are conducted in line with the 

sensitive information and equality of disclosure. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     53
 Risk management and internal control
 setting the Group’s risk appetite lies with the Board.
 distinct areas:
 overall responsibility for the management of risk.
 Group Risk and Regional Risk functions.
 systems throughout the Group.

to the Board on all matters concerning Group Risk, 
including strategic, operational, ﬁnancial risk and 
compliance, focusing in particular on the risks to the 
achievement of Dimension Data’s business objectives. 
During September 2009, Group executives participated 
in a formal risk identiﬁcation and evaluation process 
to refresh the Group Risk Register, which describes 
and rates risks and mitigation strategies. The Group’s 

uncertainties on pages 36 and 37.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than 
eliminate risks, and to provide reasonable, rather than 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The internal audit function performs a structured review of 
internal controls based on risk assessment.

key ﬁndings of the internal and external audit process and 
monitors progress to ensure that areas of weakness are 
addressed. Responsibility for implementing controls and 
improvements lies with business unit or regional level 



team.
The Board is satisﬁed that the necessary actions that are 
reasonable in the circumstances have been or are being 
taken to remedy minor failings and weaknesses identiﬁed 
from review of the system of internal control. 
The processes described above have been in place for the 
 regularly review these and are satisﬁed that the system 
 Financial reporting

 responsible for the integrity of forecast information upon 

takes place annually, culminating in review and approval by 
the Board.
 previous forecasts and budget, and reports to the Board 
 monthly management accounts to the directors.
 performance indicators and exception reporting. Business 
units’ senior management are responsible for identifying, 
evaluating and managing business risks. There are channels 
of communication available to report signiﬁcant risks to the 
Board if necessary.
Financial reporting is performed according to a strict 
 information to enable them to reach independent 
conclusions on matters brought to their attention at Board 
meetings. The Board ensures that each director is provided 
with appropriate and timely information in order to exercise 
his or her judgement. 54     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Corporate governance report
(continued)
 The Board considered the implications of the roles of both 


not compromise the independence of their input to these 
committees. Given their representation of a major shareholder, 

shareholder concerns, particularly with regard to remuneration. 


Political donations
The Group made no political donations during the year. 
 Group will make contributions in cash or in kind to any 
political party. 
Compliance statement
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2009 the 
 Attendance at meetings during the period
Name Board (8) Audit (4) Remuneration (4) Nomination (1)
JJ Ord 8 – – 1
BW Dawson 8 1* – –
 DB Sherriffs 8 4* – –
 *By invitation
By Order of the Board
Sanet Heydenrych
Secretary
 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     55
Corporate responsibility report
Overview
Dimension Data operates globally, spanning ﬁve 
continents and over 48 countries. The Group is aware of 
 to deliver value and proﬁt to shareholders, but also to 
adhere to a code of ethical conduct; to provide a fair and 
unprejudiced employment framework for its employees; 
to deliver solutions that answer the environmental 
requirements of our clients; and to ensure that we operate 
as sustainably as is practical. 
During the year ended 30 September 2009 we have 
continued to review our corporate responsibility programme, 
including the risks to the value of the Group associated with 
ethical, environmental and social issues. 
Our responsibility to our employees is one of our key 
responsibilities, and the enthusiasm and dedication of our 
people is essential for our continued success. Information 
on our policies in relation to our people and culture is 
included in this report.
 Responsibility programme into the Group’s values, 
operations and business decisions at all levels, promoting 
an ethical and sustainable corporate culture. This report 
focuses on the progress made during the year in relation to 
our people, our environmental and our social programmes. 
Further details on ethics and governance can be found in 
 People and culture
 differences that every employee brings to the Group, 
recognising that a workforce which reﬂects the diversity 
of the clients it serves, is better able to understand their 
expectations and more likely to have the skills and 
knowledge needed to deliver innovative products and 
services.
Global employment policies
The Group’s employment policies are developed to reﬂect 
local legal, cultural and employment requirements. The 
Group seeks to maintain high standards wherever we 
operate, so as to ensure that we are recognised as an 
employer of choice. 
Human rights
Dimension Data’s operations globally support the principles 
as outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
In particular:
 minimum age for employment should be no less than 
the age for completing compulsory schooling.
 week unless contractually agreed otherwise with 
employees because of the online service nature of their 
employment.
 opportunities policy, and there is a global policy of 
freedom of association.
Equal opportunities and diversity
Dimension Data is committed to providing a working culture 
 promote equal employment opportunities to all applicants 
for employment and to all employees throughout their 
period of employment with the company, regardless of 
their race, colour, sex, sexual orientation, religion, creed 
or national origin. The Group recognises its obligations 
to ensure that people with disabilities are afforded equal 
opportunities and progress within the company. Should 
existing members of staff become disabled, steps will 
be taken, through appropriate adjustments to their work 
environment or retraining or redeployment if necessary, 
to enable them to remain in employment within the Group 
wherever possible.
Health, safety and wellbeing
The Group takes responsibility for the health and safety of 
its members of staff and of all visitors to its sites. It aims to 
create a ﬂexible, ordered environment which facilitates and 
supports its business and in which it maintains, so far as 
is practicable, safe and healthy conditions, equipment and 
systems of work for everyone. In pursuing this objective, it 
provides its members of staff with the relevant information, 
training and supervision, which they need to ensure their 
health and safety at work. The Group has a continuous 
focus on the implementation of wellbeing initiatives across 
the business. 
Ethical Code
 its business activities. It is open, honest and considerate in 
its dealings with clients, suppliers, employees, associates  56     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Corporate responsibility report
(continued)
and all groups and individuals with whom it has contact 
and dealings. The Group will observe the laws of any 

should take adequate measures to ensure that, in the 
areas of their involvement, the company complies with 
all legal requirements and regulations, including but 
not limited to tax and exchange laws and regulations. 
Whenever possible, and excluding contracts drawn 
up under a global contract arrangement, contracts will 
be drawn up under the law of the country in which the 



the utmost conﬁdentiality. The Group does not participate 

Our employees
The Group employed an average of 10,915 people 
 ﬁnancial statements.
The Group’s people and culture strategy aims to attract, 
engage, develop and retain the best people by providing 
a stimulating and safe working environment, offering 
attractive performance based incentives and rewarding 
career opportunities. 
Attract
We believe that talent drives competitive advantage. During 
the year ended 30 September 2009 we completed a project 
 employment offer, to attract more candidates with a better 
ﬁt to the Group culture and to enhance retention through 
 a range of emotive posters and a variety of electronic and 
print materials have been developed and deployed both 
internally and in the marketplace to communicate our 
value proposition. Our careers site on our external website,  
www.dimensiondata.com, has been updated to feature our 
 ended 30 September 2009 has been the deployment of the 
 To date we have rolled out the Taleo system for our Group 
staff and to four of our regions.
Engage
We believe that a common value system encourages the 
positive behaviours that help us to achieve our vision and 
which make Dimension Data a great place to work. Our 
values serve as a guide to how we treat our clients, our 
people, our shareholders and our associates. The values 
that we aspire to are: 
 Teamwork – working together and sharing ideas, 
knowledge and resources across teams and borders 
so as to achieve the desired objectives;

dedicated and driven, and ensuring we get the job 
done;

relationships on a solid foundation of trust and pride 
and consistently delivering the highest quality service;
 and continually improve performance;
 stakeholders based on integrity and honesty; and
 leveraging the diversity of opinions and cultures so that 
we can learn from others.
We regularly communicate information to our employees 
on matters of concern, including ﬁnancial and economic 
 through regular face to face meetings, quarterly reviews, 
 feedback and questions on matters that affect them are 
always invited in these communications. 
 employee engagement. The Dimension Data performance 
 organisation through setting and measuring agreed 
goals and rewarding sustained and improved levels of 
performance. We operate a globally consistent performance 
management process, which is formalised, understood, 
fair and consultative, and which requires each individual’s 
performance to be reviewed formally with his or her manager 
every six months. In the year ended 30 September 2009, 
93% of employees completed a performance promise 
 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     57


goals are set at the beginning of the ﬁnancial year and 

employee short term incentives. We also have long term 
incentives in the form of share incentive schemes which 
extend beyond the Board to include key talent throughout 
the organisation. Details of these incentive schemes 


Develop
Dimension Data is committed to helping its people 
reach their full potential through ongoing training and 
 of development resources that encourage professional 
and personal development at every level throughout the 
organisation. DDU provides a broad range of initiatives, 
including technical and sales training, management, 
leadership and personal development. 
DDU online is our repository of all online learning, both 
licensed and custom built. During the year ended 
30 September 2009 we signiﬁcantly increased the number 
of online titles available to all employees from 62 to 135 
titles – providing employees with ﬂexible access to a world 
of knowledge. During the year ended 30 September 2009 
$8.0 million was spent on training and 19,549 module 
registrations were received on DDU online.
Within the Group, career development is supported by a well 
deﬁned career process and a global career development 
centre. 
During the period under review the Dimension Data Job 
Framework was executed against the majority of our 
technical job families within the Group. The Job Framework 
is a structure of job deﬁnitions and sets out competency 
requirements for different jobs, roles, and the training, 
 and vertical career development.
Retain
Succession planning and the identiﬁcation and development 
of our leadership talent remains a key priority for the Group. 
 group of approximately 500 of our key leaders around the 
world, with the objective of identifying and growing leaders 
within the business. During the year ended 30 September 
 Deploy’ methodology to further the leadership abilities of 
participants.
In order to support and develop our managers, and to 
 Talent @ Dimension Data’ focuses on the role and impact 
managers have on the rational and emotional commitment 
of our people, thereby driving high performance and 
retention. This programme has become Dimension Data’s 
ﬂagship management development programme and was 
rolled out to 969 managers globally.
Dimension Data’s aim is to embed a culture of recognition 
throughout the organisation by means of a variety of global 
and local recognition programmes. These range from 
 to formal quarterly or annual programmes such as the 
 and long service awards, celebrating long term commitment 
to the Group. 
During the year ended 30 September 2009 we  
launched the worldwide Dimension Data Hall of Fame, 
a recognition programme which acknowledges the 
outstanding contributions of our top technical talent.  58     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Corporate responsibility report
(continued)
Employee Key Performance Indicators
Key performance indicator Current status Priorities for 2010
 Taleo system deployed for Group staff and 
four of ﬁve regions
 optimisation in all regions
 System for performance management 
launched
 93% across all employees
 process as driver of high performance 
culture, maintaining high completion rates 
 Reviews
 in an annual employee satisfaction survey
Develop 19,549 DDU online module registrations
 from 62 to 135
 project
Dimension Data Job Framework deployed 
with over 2,000 employees mapped
 of which 3,400 are full certiﬁcations at an 
 Further increases in DDU online 
 on DDU online
Implement Dimension Data Job 
Framework across all countries globally 
and map all operational employees against 
the Framework
 Retain Hall of Fame launched
 than 5%
 Talent @ Dimension Data’ management 
development programme
Environmental programme
 resources, Dimension Data is committed to responsible 
environmental stewardship and sustainable business 
 we recognise that our operations have an impact on the 
environment. In the interest of our stakeholders, including 
our employees, clients, shareholders and suppliers, we 
are ﬁrmly committed to minimising this impact through 
continual improvement of our own business practices and 
to developing, promoting and implementing IT solutions 
and services that assist in preventing pollution and reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions. Our commitment to continual 
improvement extends across the entirety of the IT business 
chain that we are a part of. This includes our business 
operations, our clients and client services, our partners and 
suppliers, and our employees.
 relatively low environmental impact compared to similar 
 we acknowledge that climate change is a global problem 
and we are committed to responsible environmental 
practices throughout our business. With this in mind, our 
 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     59
Licence to Operate:
This aspect of our environmental policy covers our 
compliance with local and international environmental 
legislation and our commitment to measuring, monitoring 
and ultimately reducing our carbon footprint. In 2009, 
 including transparent reporting of our global Greenhouse 
 14001 framework and provides a platform for developing 
programmes to manage our energy consumption, business 
travel and waste management.
Go-to-Market:
Dimension Data offers a range of solutions and services that 
can signiﬁcantly reduce business energy consumption and 
business travel for our clients. These offerings support our 
clients’ requirements to reduce their environmental impact 
and include: data centre virtualisation and consolidation, 
data centre power and cooling, data centre design and 
architecture, virtual meeting options using a variety of 
 network assessment tools.
Employee Engagement:

employees take seriously. In response to requests from 
employees for further information, and as a method to 
facilitate information sharing, we deployed Greenpoint, an 
environmental site on our intranet which contains white 
papers, presentations and general environmental education. 


from employees on the beauty of our environment, as well 
as evidence of its destruction through human behaviour. 
We also established environmental thinktanks in all of 
our regions where employees volunteer from all divisions 
within Dimension Data to meet on a regular basis with the 
charter to ensure the enhancement of our environmental 
strategy in their region. In 2010, Dimension Data will launch 

development tool which will provide all employees with an 
overview of our sustainability strategy.
Environmental Key Performance Indicators
Key performance indicator Current status Priorities for 2010
 professional services ﬁrm to manage our 
 14001 framework
 with the potential to expand to further 
geographies
 carried out in our own data centres with 
ongoing reductions in numbers of servers 
 be hosted in two data centres with a 
signiﬁcant commitment to consolidation 
and virtualisation
 network devices
 through emissions reduction programmes 
 60     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Corporate responsibility report
(continued)
Key performance indicator Current status Priorities for 2010
Business travel Deployment of 140 Tandberg and eight 
 costs and increase efﬁciency
 policies in reduction of business travel
Internal communications and education on 
the use of collaborative tools
 Focus on the management of electronic 
 Workshops held in each of the three pilot 
geographies to identify current process, 
gaps and required improvements
Develop robust programmes to ensure the 
responsible disposal of electronic waste 
internally as well as on behalf of our clients
in their communities and assisting disabled students. 

volunteered during the year ended 30 September 2009. 
The volunteering programme there is organised in each 

activity, ensuring that the volunteering programme makes 
a meaningful difference to local communities, and affords 
staff with the opportunity to develop their skills and talents 


children, where, following on from the refurbishment of a 

centre every Thursday afternoon to supervise and engage 
with the children.
Charitable donations

examples of charitable giving throughout the Group. The 
programme has operated in partnership with World Vision 
since 2005 and in January 2009 achieved the objective of 
one child sponsored per nine employees, exceeding the 
target of one child sponsored per ten employees set in 
September 2008. Total charitable donations for the Group 
for the year ended 30 September 2009 were $281,000 

Black Economic Empowerment (‘BEE’) in South 
Africa





further strides to achieving our transformation targets through 
a continued focus on equity ownership, management 
control, employment equity, skills development, preferential 

Social and community
Our social and community engagement initiatives are 
regionally organised and employee inspired. Regional 


Hands programme ensure that the activities undertaken 
are sensitive to local legal frameworks, respect local 
sensibilities and social mores, and reﬂect community 

volunteering projects and to a lesser extent, charitable 
donations, including donations through workplace giving, 
are all promoted under these regional programmes, with 


Community initiatives


was established in 1995 and has now expanded to 

Dimension Data Bursary Scheme. In the ﬁnancial year 
ended 30 September 2009, 51 learners attended the 
Saturday school while 50 schools and 5,000 learners 

11,000 learners have participated in these schemes since 
their inception and the Bursary scheme has now assisted 
13 underprivileged learners to study at University.
Volunteering
Throughout the Group employees are encouraged to take 

per annum per employee are allotted for volunteering 
activities, with employees having the ability to volunteer 
in a planned ofﬁce activity or their own personal choice 

employees have volunteered over 680 hours to activities 
such as working in homeless shelters, providing painting, 
landscaping and fencing work to assist the less fortunate  Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     61
development. During the ﬁnancial year our suppliers were 



Dimension Data does business with. This ﬁnancial year also 

Development Forum whose mission includes promoting 
the equitable representation of employees from designated 
groups through recruitment, training, retention strategies and 
support mechanisms. Dimension Data has always believed 
in empowering up and coming entrepreneurs and through 
our enterprise development initiatives we have successfully 
done so. 
 proﬁle at every level, as per our employment equity plan, 
 across race and gender; and
 facilitating skills development from secondary, and 
specialised training to tertiary level and capacity creation 
through preferential procurement and enterprise 
development, joint ventures and investments.
Details of Dimension Data’s rating in terms of the 

www.dimensiondata.com.
Highlights of the advances we have made in the year ended 
30 September 2009 include:


41.6% black owned and its percentage female 
ownership is 3.23%. In the year ended 30 September 




 exceeded our commitment to achieving a set target of 
 year ended 30 September 2009, 54% of the executive 
 Data is to have a demographic proﬁle that is reﬂective 
of our areas of operation. This proﬁle includes both 
racial and gender complements. For the year ended 
 employees:
º
 level;
º
 level; and
º
 level.
 development forms the bedrock of transformation, and 
is an imperative for any company aiming to develop a 
competitive edge. Dimension Data recognises the long 
term beneﬁts of keeping employees motivated and more 
adept. During the year ended 30 September 2009,  
 opportunities for further education, learning and 
development activities.

place, including preferential payment terms for black 
exempted micro enterprises and qualifying small 





is vetted through a veriﬁcation agency accredited by the 


status.
 the regional realities of the countries we work in. One of 
 companies capable of supporting large enterprise and 
public sector clients. We are committed to addressing 

contributed 20.1% of net proﬁt after tax from Dimension 



spend on initiatives that focus on education and access to 



spent over 5.8% of net proﬁt after tax on these initiatives. 62     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Remuneration report
 Report, which was approved by the Board of Directors on 
 Introduction
This report has been prepared in accordance with 
 of Good Governance relating to directors’ remuneration. 
 approved. The Regulations require the auditors to report to 
 Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, 
those parts of the report have been properly prepared in 
 therefore been divided into separate sections for audited 
and unaudited information.
The Group’s remuneration policy aims, via an equitable and 
fair remuneration approach, to encourage a commitment 
to the Group and personal growth, to focus on business 
objectives and to encourage high performance. In the 
course of this year several enhancements to the Directors’ 
 executive directors;
 monitored;
 of routine awards and will only be made in exceptional 
circumstances; and
 opinion that this encourages retention and a focus on 
sustained performance. The Dimension Data Deferred 
 Unaudited information
The Remuneration Committee
 for other employees of the Group is determined by regional 
remuneration committees. However, the remuneration 
philosophy and principles applicable to the directors 
summarised in this report are applied consistently to those 
employees.
 under review were as follows:
 (Chairman)
 Rory Scott





considered to be independent due to his association with 

The Board considered the implications of the role of 

not compromise the independence of his input to the 


with shareholder concerns, particularly with regard to 

are free from conﬂicts of interest in considering matters 
relating to remuneration of executives. The Remuneration 



www.dimensiondata.com.
 relating to his or her own remuneration. The Remuneration 
 it to assist in the performance of its duties.
 current remuneration and performance of directors and 
senior management, and are available to the Remuneration 
 operation of the long term incentive plans and regulatory 
compliance.
 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     63
Policy on executive and non-executive directors’ 
remuneration
The Group’s business depends on the attraction, retention 
and motivation of high calibre executives and staff. With 
a presence on ﬁve different continents the Group’s 
international scope is much greater than many companies 
 multinational organisations to attract and retain top staff. 
 principles in setting remuneration:
 business strategy in line with best practice standards. 
In particular, the performance measures inﬂuencing 
variable pay are aligned with the key outcomes of the 
Group’s strategy: proﬁtable growth, effective working 
capital management and encouragement of value 
creation which translates into competitive shareholder 
returns;
 relevant market and location; 
 performance related element; 
 total annual cost to the company including beneﬁts, but 
excluding the annual bonus plan and long term incentive 
 to performance against a peer group of companies.
In setting the remuneration policies referred to in this report, 
 reﬂect the Group’s environmental, social and governance 
responsibilities and do not encourage executives to take 
 addition, the principles applied by the Remuneration 
 executive directors are consistent with those used to set 
the remuneration of employees within the Group.
The policy relating to each component of remuneration for 
the executive directors is summarised below:
Base salary
The base salary provides a ﬁxed annual remuneration for 
the executive director’s service and is set with reference to 
the executive’s role and responsibility. The base salary of 
the executive directors is subject to benchmarking review 
and is set with reference to external market data relating to 
 and the US and taking into account the primary location of 

market sector, business complexity and international reach 
 available benchmarks the current levels of base salary for 
the executive directors are in the lower quartile based on 
 Annual on-target bonus plan
 designed to ensure that directors’ remuneration is aligned 
 stakeholders. During the 2009 ﬁnancial year, awards under 
 directors. For the 2009 ﬁnancial year, performance criteria 
included earnings per share, Group and regional operating 
proﬁt and working capital management, together with 
an amount relating to individual performance. Individual 
performance is measured with reference to General Role 
 base salary, and the targets are related to the achievement 
 the opinion that the Budget represents a genuine challenge 
in the context of the prevailing business environment and 
achievement thereof warrants receipt by the directors of the 
 target bonus for each executive director relative to business 
and individual measures:
Measure JJ Ord BW Dawson SM Joubert PK Quarmby DB Sherriffs
Group operating proﬁt 37.5% 37.5% 50% 40% 37.5%
 37.5% 37.5% – 15% 18.75%
Working capital –––– 18.75%
Solutions group proﬁt – – 25% – –
 – – – 20% –
Individual performance 25% 25% 25% 25% 25%
Maximum on-target bonus % 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 64     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Remuneration report
(continued)
Additional bonus
In the case of exceptional performance, in the context of 
the prevailing business environment, the Remuneration 
 is substantial in relation to base salary, a portion will be 
 will vest only after three years, subject to the participant’s 
continued employment within the Group. The grant of 
deferred bonus shares is subject to the approval of the 
 Long term incentives
The purpose of the Group’s long term incentives is 
to provide awards to the executive directors and to 
other key talent within the Group that recognises their 
continued contribution to the Group, aligns management 
and shareholders’ objectives and provides a reward for 
performance. The Group has four long term incentive plans. 
 schemes, although the executive directors have options 
outstanding under these schemes. The two current long 
 to the annual ﬁnancial statements.
SARS awards
 to receive shares equal in value to the difference between 
the share price on the date of exercise and the share price 
on the date of award of a particular number of shares, i.e. 
the share price appreciation, subject to the satisfaction of 
 30 September 2009. 
LTIP awards

subject to their continued employment, and satisfaction 
of a performance condition. The awards vest after three 
years provided that the employment condition has been 
met and to the extent that the performance condition 
has been satisﬁed. The expected value of annual awards 
is compared to benchmarks and the number of such 
awards is determined accordingly. The performance 


peer group of sixteen companies, compared to that 





50% of the award vests, with linear vesting from median 
to upper quartile performance. Details of the peer group 
 the corporate website: 
www.dimensiondata.com. When the peer group is 

selected. In the event that one of the peer companies can 
no longer be utilised due to a market transaction such as 
a merger, takeover or delisting, then a reserve company 
will be substituted. The TSR for this company will be 
measured over the entire performance period. The use 
of TSR as the only performance condition governing the 

due to the signiﬁcant correlation between earnings and 
share price experienced over the preceding years, and 
the focus on ﬁnancial and operational measures which 

Unconditional LTIPs
 were made where the awards vest only on the basis of 
the participants’ continued tenure and not subject to the 
satisfaction of the TSR condition speciﬁed above. These 
awards will only be made in exceptional circumstances in 
 current ﬁnancial year.
Deferred bonus shares 
In line with emerging international practice, the Remuneration 

portion of the additional bonus into deferred bonus shares 
where this is substantial relative to base salary. This practice 
encourages retention and a focus on the sustainability of 




1,140,000 deferred bonus shares to Brett Dawson, related 
to performance in the 2008 ﬁnancial year and deferred bonus 
shares to the value of $750,000 related to performance in the 
2009 ﬁnancial year. These awards are subject to shareholder 




Pensions and other beneﬁts
The executive directors each receive life insurance, disability 
insurance, medical cover beneﬁts and certain other beneﬁts 
which reﬂect the practice in the countries in which they are 
primarily resident. The cost to the Group is shown in the 

the executive directors to the Group’s provident fund.
Service contracts
The executive directors have identical service contracts. 
These contracts are rolling and contain a three month notice 
period. On termination, except by reason of cause, illness, 
death, injury or retirement, the executive director will be 
entitled to payments equal to 12 months’ base salary plus  Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     65
 bonus have been proportionately achieved, as determined 
 payable in equal amounts over the 12 months subsequent 
to termination, subject to the director’s obligation to 
mitigate such costs by seeking alternative employment and 
 payable, all remuneration and fees received pursuant to 
such alternative employment.
Effective date Unexpired
of contract term
JJ Ord 1 January 2003 Indeﬁnite
 of three years duration, and containing a one month notice 
provision. There are no compensation provisions for early 
 Shareholding guidelines
 deliver shares to individuals, to increase the alignment, the 
 means that the executive directors are encouraged to hold 
 recommends the level of shareholding for each executive 
director. This recommendation is reviewed on an annual 
basis. The executive directors are given a reasonable time 
period in which to accumulate the shares.
Non-executive directors’ fees    

the executive members of the Board. The executive directors 

annually. The fees were reviewed and increased with effect 


 plans.
External appointments
 subject to Board approval.
Long term performance
In line with the Regulations the graph below shows Dimension 
Data’s total shareholder return from 1 October 2004 to 
30 September 2009, together with a comparator index. 
Total shareholder return
0
50
100
150
200
250
Sep 2009 Sep 2008 Sep 2007 Sep 2006 Sep 2005 Sep 2004
Dimension Data FTSE Software and Computer Services

is considered appropriate. 66     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Remuneration report
(continued)
Audited information
Directors’ remuneration
 Total Total
fees salary fund beneﬁt beneﬁt aid Other Bonus 2009 2008
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
 110 67
 80 61
BW Dawson – 637 12 5372 1,413* 2,079 1,921
 778 728
 80 65
 90 77
 80 65
 70 61
JJ Ord – 587 42 4 2 9 27 764 1,435 1,310
 777 742
 100 81
DB Sherriffs – 337 6 2131 532 882 818
 90 69
Totals 700 2,285 90 17 9 38 42 3,470 6,651 6,065
*An additional bonus of $750,000 to be settled in deferred bonus shares, subject to approval of the Dimension Data Deferred Bonus Plan at the Annual General 
Meeting, has been approved by the Remuneration Committee.
 made up of emoluments of $2.1 million and gains on long term incentives of $750,000.
Annual bonus
 Long term incentives 
The outstanding awards under the Group’s long term incentive plans, and the movements during the ﬁnancial year, are 
tabulated below.
  Opening Closing
balance balance Grant Value on
Date of 1 October 30 September 2009 JJ Ord Options 01/10/1998 1,625,000 – Options 17/05/1999 1,360,000 – Options 01/10/1999 2,222,222 2,222,222 R24.30 – 01/10/2009 Satisﬁed
Options 21/11/2002 1,700,000 1,700,000 Options 11/12/2003 750,000 750,000 600,000 – – 563 22/11/2008 Satisﬁed
 – – 113 22/11/2008 Satisﬁed
 – – 74 08/03/2009 Satisﬁed
 218,500 – – 01/12/2009 Subject to continued 
employment
 874,000 825,000 1,500,000 Total  750 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     67
  Opening Closing
balance balance Grant Value on
Date of 1 October 30 September 2009 BW Dawson Options 03/05/2000 45,350 45,350 R43.50 – 03/05/2010 Satisﬁed
Options 20/07/2001 70,000 70,000 R15.25 – 20/07/2011 Satisﬁed
Options 28/09/2001 300,000 300,000 Options 01/10/2001 83,509 83,509 R9.35 – 01/10/2011 Satisﬁed
Options 03/10/2001 100,000 100,000 Options 21/11/2002 200,000 200,000 Options 01/04/2003 500,000 500,000 Options 20/08/2003 1,000,000 1,000,000 Options 18/11/2003 900,000 900,000 Options 03/08/2004 1,200,000 1,200,000 600,000 – – 563 22/11/2008 Satisﬁed
 – – 113 22/11/2008 Satisﬁed
 – – 74 08/03/2009 Satisﬁed
 218,500 – – 01/12/2009 Subject to continued
employment
 874,000 621,518 – – 10/12/2010 Subject to continued 
employment
 825,000 1,500,000 Total  750
 – Options 17/05/1999 625,000 – Options 01/10/1999 662,551 662,551 R24.30 – 01/10/2009 Satisﬁed 
Options 21/11/2002 700,000 700,000 Options 11/12/2003 300,000 300,000 400,000 – – 377 22/11/2008 Satisﬁed 
 – – 75 22/11/2008 Satisﬁed 
 – – 37 08/03/2009 Satisﬁed
 145,350 – – 01/12/2009 Subject to continued 
 employment
 584,250 550,000 1,000,000 Total  489
 – Options 17/05/1999 725,000 – Options 01/10/1999 766,255 766,255 R24.30 – 01/10/2009 Satisﬁed 
Options 21/11/2002 700,000 700,000 Options 11/12/2003 300,000 300,000 300,000 – – 282 22/11/2008 Satisﬁed 
 – – 56 22/11/2008 Satisﬁed 
 – – 15 08/03/2009 Satisﬁed
 109,250 – – 01/12/2009 Subject to continued 
 employment
 437,000 415,000 750,000 Total  – 353 68     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
  Opening Closing
balance balance Grant Value on
Date of 1 October 30 September 2009 DB Sherriffs Options 18/11/2003 700,000 700,000 400,000 – – 377 22/11/2008 Satisﬁed 
 – – 75 22/11/2008 Satisﬁed 
 – – 15 08/03/2009 Satisﬁed
 145,350 – – 01/12/2009 Subject to continued 
 employment
 584,250 550,000 1,000,000 Total  467
 shares during the year are reﬂected below. 
Sterling SA rand
High 0.65 8.16
 Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
Name Non-beneﬁcial Beneﬁcial 
Total
2009
Total
2008
RG Barclay – 60,000 60,000 60,000
BW Dawson – 1,352,532 1,352,532 457,532
 – 1,038,555 1,038,555 455,955
JJ Ord – 11,596,858 11,596,858 10,701,858 
 – 1,019,125 1,019,125 598,625
DB Sherriffs – 659,238 659,238 –
 179,319 – 179,319 181,830
 – 200,000  200,000 200,000
 Other than the shareholdings listed above, the Directors hold no interests in other Group companies.
By Order of the Board
Wendy Lucas-Bull
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
 Remuneration report
(continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     69
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
 accordance with applicable law and regulations.
 transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the deﬁnitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income 
 Financial Statements’.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs. However, Directors 
are also required to:
 understandable information; 
 understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial 
performance; and
 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
 reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the 
 may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We conﬁrm to the best of our knowledge:
 the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
 a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
 Brett Dawson Dave Sherriffs
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 70     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Independent auditors’ report
To the members of Dimension Data Holdings plc
We have audited the ﬁnancial statements of Dimension Data Holdings plc for the year ended 30 September 2009 which 
 to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose.  To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Group and the Group’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
 ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view.  Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁnancial 
 Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
 assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.  This includes 
 and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made 
by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion:
 30 September 2009 and of the Group’s proﬁt for the year then ended;
 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 consistent with the ﬁnancial statements. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     71
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
 received from branches not visited by us; or
 agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 Peter O’Donoghue FCA
Senior Statutory Auditor
 Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
 72     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
2009 2008
Notes $’000 $’000
Revenue 4 3,973,078 4,510,640
 (3,080,257) Gross proﬁt 892,821 973,293
Other operating income 27,311 36,895
Selling and distribution costs (254,388) (437,869) Other operating expenses (34,982) Operating proﬁt 6 192,893 182,214
Share of results of associates 7,814 7,113
Interest and investment income 9 8,105 17,516
Finance costs 10 (29,915) 4,895 13,194
Proﬁt before tax 183,792 189,012
Tax 8,12 (38,422) Proﬁt for the year 145,370 141,039
Attributable to:
 135,175 118,410
 10,195 22,629
145,370 141,039
US cents US cents
Earnings per ordinary share
Basic 13 8.0 7.7
Diluted 13 7.7 7.3
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 30 September 2009 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     73
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 30 September 2009
2009 2008
Notes $’000 $’000
Assets
Non-current assets
 190,231 170,560
Investment property 15 95,911 81,208
Goodwill 16 291,500 95,820
Other intangible assets 17 48,102 18,856
Investments in associates 18 42,509 34,426
Other investments 19 4,133 3,602
Deferred tax assets 27 47,730 31,862
Trade and other receivables 21 47,571 38,163
767,687 474,497
Current assets
Inventories 20 169,013 181,885
Trade and other receivables 21 997,709 1,023,984
Other ﬁnancial instruments 108 12,173
Taxation authorities receivable 22 26,617 23,390
 601,129 686,499
1,794,576 1,927,931
Total assets 2,562,263 2,402,428
Equity and liabilities
Capital and reserves
Share capital 23 16,958 16,675
Share premium 319,984 288,115
Total other reserves 24 251,458 222,884
Retained earnings 261,194 182,527
 849,594 710,201
 56,653 138,211
Total equity 906,247 848,412
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans 30 140,553 3,841
Other long term liabilities 25 45,571 38,574
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 26 14,099 139,906
Deferred tax liabilities 27 1,021 715
 6,678 6,186
207,922 189,222
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 29 1,281,396 1,202,104
Other ﬁnancial instruments 12,755 10,269
Taxation authorities payable 22 123,073 134,740
Bank loans 30 23,321 2,256
Bank overdrafts 1,313 4,146
 6,236 11,279
1,448,094 1,364,794
Total liabilities 1,656,016 1,554,016
Total equity and liabilities 2,562,263 2,402,428
 Brett Dawson Dave Sherriffs
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 74     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
2009 2008
Note $’000 $’000
Operating activities
Operating proﬁt 192,893 182,214
 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 46,499 52,151
 416 1,559
 (188) –
 6,428 7,444
 (756) –
Impairment of intangible assets 1,627 –
 536 885
 20,052 16,726
 6,080 273,587 256,979
Decrease in inventories 18,875 2,403
 46,915 (20,328) 176,140
 319,049 336,188
Income taxes paid (47,957) Interest paid (28,977) Net cash from operating activities 242,115 273,550
Investing activities
Interest received 8,105 17,516
Income from associates 1,268 1,129
 (336) – 3,002
 194 –
 – 6,472
 (50,137) 868 500
 (24,600) 923 –
 4,232 3,162
 (4,294) (280,051) –
 (7) 525
 – Treasury share buy back of own shares by a subsidiary – Deferred consideration paid (1,488) Net cash used in investing activities (345,323) Financing activities
 (18,697) 3,847 –
Share options exercised by employees of a subsidiary company (2,961) –
 2,040 121,034
Repayment of borrowings (21,564) 60,943 22,570
Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders (28,505) Dividends paid to minorities (159) Net cash (used in)/from ﬁnancing activities (5,056) 56,230
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (108,264) 247,553
 682,353 455,758
 25,727 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 599,816 682,353
Made up as follows:
 601,129 686,499
Bank overdrafts (1,313) 599,816 682,353
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
for the year ended 30 September 2009 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     75
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Attributable
to equity
Share Share Total other Retained holders of Minority Total
capital premium reserves* earnings parent interest equity
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
1 October 2007 15,371 180,794 261,703 104,079 561,947 128,242 690,189
 Items recognised directly  
 Share incentive schemes – – 14,982 – 14,982 – 14,982
Deferred tax on share  
 Deferred tax arising on  
revaluation of loans – – 702 – 702 – 702**
 Shares issued 1,429 119,605 – – 121,034 – 121,034
 Subsidiaries acquired/ 
 Other deferred tax – – 56 – 56 – 56**
 1 October 2008 16,675 288,115 222,884 182,527 710,201 138,211 848,412
 Items recognised directly  
 Share incentive schemes – – 17,451 – 17,451 – 17,451
Deferred tax on share  
incentive schemes – – 5,646 3,195 8,841 – 8,841**
 Shares issued 43 1,997 – – 2,040 – 2,040
 Hedging losses capitalised to
other intangible assets – – 2,856 – 2,856 – 2,856
Transfers to income statement 30 September 2009 16,958 319,984 251,458 261,194 849,594 56,653 906,247
*Refer to Note 24.
 **The aggregate deferred tax charged/credited to equity amounts to $8.8 million (2008: $2.7 million).
***Aggregate proﬁt for the year and items recognised in equity is $57,835 (2008: $158,223). 76     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
1. Basis of preparation
 The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the Directors 
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at balance sheet date, and 
the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period. Whilst these estimates and assumptions are 
based on the Directors’ best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
Restatement of the Company results

restated to account for the effects of exchange differences. This has resulted in an increase to the opening retained 
earnings at 1 October 2007 of $30.9 million and a decrease in the proﬁt for the year ended 30 September 2008 of 
$41.8 million. These exchange differences were previously recorded in equity. This restatement does not impact the 

position.
New Accounting Standards
In the current year, the Group has adopted all of the new and revised Standards and Interpretations issued by the 
 1 October 2008. The adoption of these new and revised Standards and Interpretations has resulted in changes to the 
Group’s accounting policies in the following areas but has not affected the amounts reported for the current or prior years:
 These amendments are effective for reclassiﬁcations of ﬁnancial assets after 1 July 2008 and have had no 
material impact on the ﬁnancial statements of the Group.
 the ﬁnancial statements of the Group:
 been applied in these ﬁnancial statements, were issued but not effective:
 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     77
 The Directors are in the process of evaluating the measurement and disclosure requirements that the adoption 
of these Standards and Interpretations will have in future periods when the relevant standards come into effect for  
the Group.
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been used in preparation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and 
 historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain ﬁnancial instruments and the investment property. The principal 
accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation

govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of an investee enterprise so as to obtain beneﬁts from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement 
from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used 
in line with those used by other members of the Group.
 interest in the subsidiary’s equity are allocated against the interest of the Group except to the extent that the minority has 
a binding legal obligation and is able to make additional investment to cover the losses.
Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured 
at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity 
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the 
business combination.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the 
 lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. 78     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
 The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minority’s proportion of the net fair value 
of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
When there is a change in shareholding in a subsidiary, the assets and liabilities are not remeasured to reﬂect their fair 
values at the date of the transaction. The entire difference between the purchase amount and the change in minority 
interests is reﬂected as goodwill.
Investments in associates
 participation in the ﬁnancial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these ﬁnancial statements using the equity method 
 associates are not recognised.
 of acquisition below the Group’s share of the fair values of the identiﬁable net assets of the associate at the date of 
 included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of the investment.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, proﬁts and losses are eliminated to the extent of 
 which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Non-current assets held for sale
 fair value less costs to sell.
 a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as being met only when the sale is highly 
 committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the 
date of classiﬁcation.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value 
of the identiﬁable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment 
losses.
 impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable 
 reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the 
 and is not subsequently reversed.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     79
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the proﬁt 
or loss on disposal.
 reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent proﬁt or loss on disposal.
Settlement of share obligation of Group employer companies
 obligations under its share incentive schemes. When such purchases occur, these amounts are deducted from share 
 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for 
 Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
 Where the Group acts as agent and is remunerated on a commission basis, the commission is included in revenue. 
Where the Group acts as principal, the total value of business handled is included in revenue.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate 
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the ﬁnancial 
asset to that asset’s net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been 
established.
Vendor rebates are offset against cost of sales.
Contracts
 Where the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage 
of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date. This is measured by the proportion that contract costs 
incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs. Variations in contract work, claims and 
incentive payments are included to the extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue, and they are capable of 
being reliably measured.
Where the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract 
 they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an 
expense immediately. 80     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
 balance sheet. Revenue relating to these maintenance contracts is recognised on the straight line basis over the relevant 
period of the contract. Related maintenance contract costs which the Group pays for in advance are expensed in the 
 Leasing

ownership to the lessee.
 The Group as lessor
 in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reﬂect a constant periodic rate of return 
on the Group’s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct 
costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and 
recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
The Group as lessee
 of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor 
 and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. 
Finance charges are charged directly in the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant 
lease.
Beneﬁts received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis 
over the lease term.
Foreign currencies
The individual ﬁnancial statements of each Group entity are presented in the currency of primary economic environment 
 presentation currency for the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The Group has elected to present its results in US dollars 
as this is the currency predominantly used when the Group transacts.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing 
 carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when 
the fair value was determined. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for the 
 recognised directly in equity.
 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     81
For the purpose of presenting consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’ s foreign operations 
are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the 

are classiﬁed as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as 
income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
 planned nor likely to occur, which form part of the net investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the translation 
reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange rates
 2009 2008
Average Period end 1.382 1.136 1.098 1.251
 0.735 0.682 0.659 0.699
 8.828 7.388 7.518 8.290
Sterling 0.647 0.621 0.507 0.553
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets 
that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those 
assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Investment income earned 
on the temporary investment in speciﬁc borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the 
borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
 Government grants
 with the related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income 
statement over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Operating proﬁt
 income, ﬁnance costs, and property revaluation and other gains and losses.
Exceptional items
 believes should be disclosed separately within the ﬁnancial statements to assist in the understanding of the ﬁnancial 
performance of the Group.
Retirement beneﬁt costs
 obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt plan. 82     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁt for the year. Taxable proﬁt differs from net proﬁt as reported in the 
income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it 
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities in the ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt, and 
is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised 
to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against which deductible temporary differences can 
be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial 
 proﬁt nor the accounting proﬁt.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and 
associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary 
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly 
to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against 
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to 
settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment 
losses. Depreciation is charged so as to write off the depreciable value of the assets over their estimated useful lives, 
using the straight line method, on the following basis:
 Ofﬁce furniture and equipment 10% per annum
 where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     83
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation methods are reviewed at each year end, with the effect of any 
changes in estimates accounted for on a prospective basis.
Investment property
Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and/or for capital appreciation, is measured initially at its cost, 
including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment property is measured at fair value. Gains and 
losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in the income statement for the period 
in which they arise.
Intangible assets
Acquired intangible assets
 and amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line basis.
Computer software
 value or estimated loss on disposal.
 computer software are recognised as an expense as incurred, unless they increase the future economic beneﬁts of the 
asset, in which case they are capitalised.
Internally generated computer software is capitalised at cost if the project is technically and commercially feasible and 
the economic beneﬁts that are expected to be generated exceed one year. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost 
of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when 
 write off the cost of assets on a straight line basis between three and seven years.
Right of use asset
 asset on a straight line basis over twenty years.
Internally-generated intangible assets – research and development
 conditions are met:
 as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Patents and trademarks
 estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation methods are reviewed at each year end, with the effect of any 
changes in estimates accounted for on a prospective basis. 84     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
 whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the 
 the asset does not generate cash ﬂows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable 
 projections used for purposes of impairment testing do not exceed ﬁve years.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
 assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ﬂows 
have not been adjusted.

expense immediately.
 the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
 Inventories
 direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and 
 in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost 
 the income statement when there is evidence that the asset is impaired. The allowance recognised is measured as the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ﬂows discounted at the 
effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a 
contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and 
are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
 when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, and is measured as the difference between the investment’s 
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ﬂows discounted at the effective interest rate computed 
at initial recognition.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     85
Impairment losses are reversed in subsequent periods when an increase in the investment’s recoverable amount can be 
related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, subject to the restriction that the carrying 
amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed shall not exceed what the amortised cost would have 
been had the impairment not been recognised.
 available for sale, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value. Where securities are held for trading 
purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the income statement for the period.  
For available for sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, 
until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period. Impairment losses recognised in the income 
statement for equity investments classiﬁed as available for sale are not subsequently reversed through the income 
statement. Impairment losses recognised in the income statement for debt instruments classiﬁed as available for sale are 
subsequently reversed if an increase in the fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring 
after the recognition of the impairment loss.
For investments where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques. Such techniques 
include using recent arm’s length market transactions, reference to the current market value of another instrument that is 
substantially the same, discounted cash ﬂows analysis or other valuation models.
 values thereof.
Investments in subsidiaries are carried in the parent company balance sheet at cost less provisions for impairments.
Cash and cash equivalents
 that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities and equities
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classiﬁed according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into.

liabilities.
Bank borrowings
 settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowings in accordance with the Group’s 
 Trade payables
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective 
interest rate method.
Equity instruments
 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments

associated with foreign currency ﬂuctuations relating to certain ﬁrm commitments and forecasted transactions. Such 
derivatives are initially recorded at fair value, if any, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates. 
The Group does not use derivative ﬁnancial instruments for speculative purposes. The use of ﬁnancial derivatives is 
governed by the Group’s policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of 
ﬁnancial derivatives. 86     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
 cases, the change in the fair value is recognised as part of operating proﬁt.
 ﬂows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. If 
 that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For hedges 
that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income 
statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
 accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer 
 retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net 
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
 when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not 
carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Provisions
 which it is probable that an outﬂow of economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate 
can be made for the amount of the obligation. Where the effect of discounting to present value is material, provisions are 
adjusted to reﬂect the time value of money.
 of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s liability.
 been communicated to affected parties.
Share-based payment
 2005.
 payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the shares that 
will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on 
 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     87
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management is required to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of income, expenses, assets, liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. 
 effect in income at the time such information becomes available.
Revenue and proﬁt recognition
Revenue and proﬁt on contracts are generally recognised on a percentage of completion basis when the outcome of a 
 Share-based payment
The expense for the share schemes is determined by estimating the fair value of the options granted. Details of the 
 Provision for bad debts
 Provision for inventory
Inventory is counted at least once a year and any shortages and obsolete stock identiﬁed are written off immediately. 

 Impairment of goodwill
 Income taxes
 treatment for tax purposes is uncertain. When the ﬁnal outcome of such matters is different, or expected to be different, 
from previous assessments made by management, a change to the tax provision will be recorded in the period when that 
decision is made.
Residual value on property, plant and equipment
In general no residual values are attached to the Group’s property, plant and equipment due to the nature of these items. 
 that the Group would currently obtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal, if the 
asset were already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life.
Valuation of investment property
 Litigation
 together with their legal advisers, and a decision made on whether ﬁnancial settlement is probable, in which case 
appropriate provisions are made. 88     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Restated*
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
4. Revenue
The Group’s revenue is analysed as follows:
Sale of goods 2,239,372 2,735,941
Services rendered 1,733,706 1,774,699
3,973,078 4,510,640
Other operating income 27,311 36,895
Interest and investment income 8,105 17,516
4,008,494 4,565,051
*Revenue of $36.6 million has been reclassiﬁed from services to product in the Asia Region.
5. Geographic and business segments
Geographic segments
For management purposes, the Group is organised regionally and these regions are the basis on which the Group reports 
its primary segment information, which is based on the location of assets.
Geographic segment information about these regions is presented below.
Segment Segment
Revenue results Revenue results
2009 2009 2008 2008
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Revenue and results
 532,446 5,473 690,835 19,570
 605,630 52,984 719,601 44,203
 990,576 39,664 1,146,094 40,376
 1,027,418 31,688 1,152,860 21,902
 1,062,916 84,458 1,112,067 88,442
 34,255 (19,902) (280,163) 3,973,078 194,365 4,510,640 182,214
 (1,472) –
Operating proﬁt 192,893 182,214
Share of results of associates** 7,814 7,113
Interest and investment income 8,105 17,516
Finance costs (29,915) 4,895 13,194
Proﬁt before tax 183,792 189,012
Tax (38,422) Proﬁt after tax 145,370 141,039
*Inter-company revenues are charged at prevailing market prices.
**88% of associate income is derived from the Middle East and Africa region.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     89
Capital Other and Depreciation signiﬁcant and Depreciation signiﬁcant
intangible and non-cash additions amortisation expense* additions amortisation expense*
2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
5. Geographic and business 
segments (continued)
Other information
 2,703 2,941 2,208 2,368 2,488 1,607
 1,212 7,540 2,048 7,650 8,371 1,700
 3,113 3,301 2,746 5,158 4,809 2,675
 2,620 5,423 3,877 7,571 7,312 2,121
 68,210 31,555 4,994 59,218 33,567 4,515
 5,556 2,167 4,179 9,670 3,048 4,108
83,414 52,927 20,052 91,635 59,595 16,726
* Share-based payment.
Segment Segment Segment Segment
assets liabilities assets liabilities
2009 2009 2008 2008
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Balance sheet
 282,035 208,088 301,108 229,022
 618,409 205,317 396,464 148,283
 297,577 254,011 266,623 224,806
 444,688 346,211 401,472 369,977
 578,211 357,141 536,311 224,906
 236,504 211,690 422,818 273,946
2,457,424 1,582,458 2,324,796 1,470,940
Investments in associates 42,509 – 34,426 –
Unallocated assets and liabilities* 62,330 73,558 43,206 83,076
2,562,263 1,656,016 2,402,428 1,554,016
* Includes income and deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Business segments
Revenue streams
 and other smaller regional businesses.
The Group also offers a full life cycle of IT Services to clients – including planning, building, support and management. 
 90     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
5. Geographic and business segments (continued)
Business segments (continued)
Revenue streams (continued)
Systems Internet Express
Integration Solutions Plessey Data Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
2009
Product 1,894,581 – – 344,791 2,239,372
Managed services 824,245 255,015 – – 1,079,260
Professional services 484,450 – 168,396 1,600 654,446
Total 3,203,276 255,015 168,396 346,391 3,973,078
2008 Restated*
Product 2,341,062 – – 394,879 2,735,941
Managed services 797,295 224,951 – – 1,022,246
Professional services 553,203 – 199,250 – 752,453
Total 3,691,560 224,951 199,250 394,879 4,510,640
*The items previously disclosed in other have been reclassiﬁed to Systems Integration.
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
6. Operating proﬁt
Operating proﬁt has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Net foreign exchange losses/(gains) 4,842 (4,782)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 46,499 52,151
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 416 1,559
Net impairment of property, plant and equipment (188) (529)
Amortisation of intangible assets 6,428 7,444
Proﬁt on disposal of intangible assets (756) –
Impairment of intangible assets 1,627 –
Operating lease expenses
– Hire of property, plant and equipment 34,391 39,076
– Other operating leases 6,865 6,935
Write-down of inventories 2,092 44
Staff costs (Note 7) 793,868 834,261
Share incentive costs (Note 5) 20,052 16,726
Auditors’ remuneration
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s  
annual accounts 473 413
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 4,265 4,125
Total audit fees 4,738 4,538
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 420 540
– Other services relating to taxation 475 1,220
– Corporate ﬁnance services 208 333
– All other services 57 190
Total non-audit fees 1,160 2,283
5,898 6,821
In the current year, as in the prior year, remuneration in the ‘All other services’ category relates to company secretarial 
services and advisory services in certain overseas countries.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance report on pages 50 and 51 
and includes an explanation of how auditors’ objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are 
provided by the auditors.
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued) Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     91
7. Staff costs
 Staff costs incurred during the year in respect of these employees were:
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
Wages and salaries 719,310 764,914
Social security costs 51,181 48,169
 23,377 21,178
793,868 834,261
Disclosures on Directors’ remuneration, pension entitlements, shareholding and share incentive schemes required by the 
 2009 2008
 $’000 $’000
8. Exceptional items
Exceptional operating costs
 (1,472) –
Total exceptional operating costs (1,472) –
Other exceptional gains – 4,064
Exceptional tax
 10,976 –
Total exceptional tax 10,976 –
Exceptional items after tax 9,504 4,064
 (1,647) –
Net exceptional income 7,857 4,064
 deduction of $44.7 million. This deduction, net of temporary differences raised previously on the structure, resulted 
in the recognition of a deferred tax asset to the Group of $11.0 million.
 2009 2008
$’000 $’000
Reconciliation of statutory amounts to adjusted amounts
Statutory operating proﬁt 192,893 182,214
 1,472 –
 194,365 182,214
Statutory attributable proﬁt after tax 135,175 118,410
 1,472 –
– Other exceptional gains – (10,976) –
 1,647 –
 127,318 114,346 92     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
9. Interest and investment income
Interest on cash and cash equivalents 6,806 14,075
Interest earned on ﬁnance lease receivables 298 43
Other investment income 1,001 3,398
Total 8,105 17,516
10. Finance costs
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 19,436 4,037
Interest on obligations under ﬁnance leases 8,713 24,288
Other interest 1,766 2,700
29,915 31,025
11. Property revaluation and other gains and losses
 4,535 8,528
 174 5,269
Other 186 4,895 13,194
12. Tax
 42,860 42,886
Withholding and other taxes 3,907 2,973
 (5,560) 1,510
Total current tax 41,207 47,369
 (614) 1,678
 (2,171) Total deferred tax (2,785) 604
Total tax charge 38,422 47,973
The tax charge for the year is reconciled to the proﬁt before tax using the  
 is domiciled.
 183,792 189,012
 51,462 52,923
 6,753 7,147
Short term temporary differences (2,935) 4,791 4,962
 (10,976) –
 (7,731) 436
 (11,826) International corporate tax differentials and other 8,716 3,917
 – 915
 2,359 1,189
Share of associates’ tax (2,191) 38,422 47,973 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     93
2009 2008
US cents US cents
13. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share 8.0 7.7
Diluted earnings per share 7.7 7.3
Basic earnings per share before exceptional items 7.6 7.4
Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items 7.2 7.1
The calculation of earnings per share is based on the following data:
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
Earnings
 attributable to equity holders of the parent 135,175 118,410
 attributable to equity holders of the parent 135,175 118,410
 (7,857) 127,318 114,346
2009 2008
’000 ’000
Number of shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of  
basic earnings per share 1,683,829 1,540,733
 74,455 75,469
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted  
earnings per share 1,758,284 1,616,202
JSE Limited requirements
 result, the Group has calculated and presented the headline earnings reconciliation below. Headline earnings are arrived 
 2009 2008
’000 ’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares:
– for headline earnings per share 1,683,829 1,540,733
– for diluted headline earnings per share 1,758,284 1,616,202
$’000 $’000
 135,175 118,410
 (2,003) Headline earnings 133,172 109,796
US cents US cents
Headline earnings per share 7.9 7.1
Diluted headline earnings per share 7.6 6.8
 94     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
Freehold Computer
and leasehold and Ofﬁce
land, buildings workshop Motor furniture and
and improvements equipment vehicles equipment Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
14. Property, plant and equipment
Cost
 Subsidiaries acquired 99 2,350 153 163 2,765
 Transfer from investment property 3,799––– 3,799
 Subsidiaries acquired 546 4,244 9 138 4,937
 Transfer from investment property 530––– 530
 At 30 September 2009 96,794 325,509 6,351 65,552 494,206
Accumulated depreciation
 Subsidiaries acquired 39 74 20 58 191
 Subsidiaries acquired 444 2,781 – 104 3,329
 At 30 September 2009 27,800 221,008 4,122 51,045 303,975
Net book value
30 September 2009 68,994 104,501 2,229 14,507 190,231
30 September 2008 63,491 89,057 3,067 14,945 170,560
 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     95
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
15. Investment property
 81,208 92,805
Transferred to property, plant and equipment (530) 4,535 8,528
 10,698 At 30 September 2009 95,911 81,208
 Group’s investment property at 30 September 2009 has been carried out by management, based on a forward rental 



2009 2008
$’000 $’000
16. Goodwill
 95,820 90,557
 7,599 17,076
 183,399 3,910
 – 4,682 At 30 September 2009 291,500 95,820
The goodwill balance is allocated to the following regions:
 3,069 2,444
 200,845 17,041
 6,980 3,943
 13,543 7,626
 67,063 64,766
291,500 95,820
 might be impaired. There has been no impairment to goodwill recorded in 2009 or 2008.
 value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes in selling prices 

 the market.
The Group has prepared forecasts based on the most recent ﬁnancial budgets approved by the Board, which look 
one year hence. The discount rates used range between 7.3% and 15.0%. Growth factors applied to expected 
earnings were between 5% to 25%. These rates are consistent with growth rates of the industry in which the  
Group operates.
 in respect of that goodwill was determined using management’s budget for 2010, thereafter applying a growth rate of 
15% to 25% with a terminal growth rate of 15% at an equivalent discount rate for six years after which a growth rate of 
15% is extrapolated into perpetuity.
 applying a growth rate of 10% to 15% with a terminal growth rate of 14% at an equivalent discount rate for ﬁve years after 
which a growth rate of 14% is extrapolated into perpetuity.
 exceed their recoverable amounts. 96     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
Computer Right
software of use Other Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
17. Other intangible assets
Cost
 At 30 September 2009 42,388 27,628 2,890 72,906
Accumulated amortisation
 At 30 September 2009 21,930 116 2,758 24,804
Net book value
30 September 2009 20,458 27,512 132 48,102
30 September 2008 18,471 – 385 18,856
 from investment in the Group’s IT service management platform. The additions of $24.7 million in the right of use category 
represents the purchase of an indefeasible right of use in the subsea ﬁbre optic communications system from Seacom 
 2009 2008
$’000 $’000
18. Investments in associates
Unquoted associates 42,509 34,426
The carrying amount is made up as follows: 
 7,936 6,412
 6,236 37,398 36,446
Deferral of unearned proﬁt (9,061) 42,509 34,426
Directors’ value of unlisted associates 69,298 63,124
 34,426 30,381
 1,005 943
Deferral of unearned proﬁt – Share of current year’s proﬁt 7,814 7,113
Impairment on carrying value of associates – Dividends received (1,268) Other disposals and transfers (252) (2,515) 7,210
 3,299 At 30 September 42,509 34,426 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     97
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
18. Investments in associates (continued)
Summarised ﬁnancial information in respect of the Group’s associates is  
set out below:
Total assets 137,939 125,627
Total liabilities (113,909) 24,030 20,127
Group’s share of associates’ net assets 9,736 8,079
Revenue 155,827 170,026
 8,453 9,597
Group’s share of associates’ proﬁt for the year:  
Share of associates’ trading proﬁts 5,017 4,208
Income from preference shares held in associate 2,797 2,905
Total Group’s share of associates’ proﬁt for the year 7,814 7,113
Further details of associates are included on page 124.
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
19. Other investments
Investments held for trading 1,730 1,763
 2,403 1,839
Total investments 4,133 3,602
The investments included above represent investments that present the Group with opportunities for return through 
dividend income and trading gains. They have no ﬁxed maturity or coupon rate. The investments are unlisted and the fair 
value is determined by the Directors.
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
20. Inventories
Resale 99,419 119,692
 38,374 38,887
 31,220 23,306
169,013 181,885
 98     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
21. Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables, net of provisions 679,546 766,797
Unbilled trade receivables 81,281 37,879
Other receivables 58,727 59,995
 157,658 149,374 
Other prepayments 56,585 35,435
Finance lease receivables 11,483 12,667 
1,045,280 1,062,147
 47,571 38,163 
Short term portion 997,709 1,023,984
1,045,280 1,062,147
Interest is not typically charged on outstanding receivable balances. 
 2009 2008
Provision for impairment of trade receivables $’000 $’000
Balance as at 1 October 32,597 27,363
 10,585 16,459
Utilised in the year (2,229) Unused amounts reversed (3,741) Other movements 1,024 864  
 898 Balance as at 30 September 39,134 32,597
 be good and the carrying amount to approximate fair value. The Group considers these collectible and fairly stated at 
 Trade receivables past due date (refer to credit risk in Note 38.3.2) 
Of the year end trade receivables balance, net of impairments, the following were past due at 30 September:
Middle
East & Central
$’000 Americas Asia Australia Europe Africa & other Total
2009
Trade receivables that are 
neither past due nor impaired 54,859 82,265 95,444 128,122 82,189 4,198 447,077
Trade receivables that are 
past due but not impaired 28,861 21,696 26,336 67,057 87,301 1,089 232,340
 20,402 7,268 18,805 39,175 32,700 770 119,120
31 to 60 days 7,085 9,408 6,477 20,195 13,886 296 57,347
61 to 90 days 403 1,395 1,054 6,403 10,586 23 19,864
Over 90 days 971 3,625 – 1,284 30,129 – 36,009
83,720 103,961 121,780 195,179 169,490 5,287 679,417
Individually impaired trade
receivables not provided for 129
Total 679,546 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     99
21. Trade and other receivables (continued)
Middle
East & Central
$’000 Americas Asia Australia Europe Africa & other Total
2008
Trade receivables that are 
neither past due nor impaired 85,897  61,974  84,035  168,360  97,823  6,760  504,849 
Trade receivables that are 
past due but not impaired 37,571  70,715  28,124  56,473  54,625  1,582  249,090 
 31 to 60 days  3,997  20,564  4,524  15,993  11,284  491  56,853 
61 to 90 days  4,322  9,326  2,451  5,726  7,816  274  29,915 
Over 90 days  792  12,811  842  2,842  10,818  368  28,473 
123,468 132,689 112,159 224,833 152,448 8,342 753,939
Individually impaired trade
receivables not provided for   12,858
Total 766,797 


generally high quality companies and local conditions determine that receivables in these countries take longer to settle 
than elsewhere.
 These receivable are from high quality companies and the Group believes that no provision is required. 
 similar proportion from business with service providers. Trade receivables reﬂect a similar exposure to clients within these 
market sectors.
Finance lease receivables 
 denominated in the functional currency of the relevant lessor. The average term of ﬁnance leases entered into is  
three years.
The interest rates inherent in the leases are ﬁxed at the contract date for all of the lease term at an inherent rate of between 
 The Group considers the fair value of ﬁnance lease receivables to approximate their carrying amounts at 
30 September 2009.
Payment proﬁle of ﬁnance lease receivables 
Present value 
Minimum lease of minimum 
payments lease payments
2009 2008 2009 2008
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Within one year 5,304 4,743 4,993 4,716
Two to ﬁve years 7,493 9,082 6,490 7,779
Subsequent to ﬁve years – 306 – 172
12,797 14,131 11,483 12,667
Less: unearned ﬁnance income (1,314) n/a n/a 
11,483 12,667 11,483 12,667 100     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
22. Taxation authorities receivable and payable
Receivable
Income taxes 14,600 11,344
Indirect taxes 7,763 7,197
 21 4
Other 4,233 4,845
26,617 23,390
Payable
Income taxes 72,537 82,361
Indirect taxes 35,847 39,796
 13,274 11,447
Other 1,415 1,136
123,073 134,740
2009 2008
Number of shares $’000 shares $’000
23. Share capital
Authorised
 50,000 75 50,000 75
Ordinary shares of 1 US cent each 3,000,000,000 30,000 3,000,000,000 30,000
30,075 30,075
Called up, allocated and fully paid up
 50,000 75 50,000 75
Ordinary shares of 1 US cent each 1,698,781,169 16,988 1,694,459,681 16,945
17,063 17,020
 (10,531,897) (105) 16,958 16,675
Ordinary shares issued:
Opening balance 1,694,459,681 16,945 1,551,599,171 15,516
 –– 136,121,909 1,361
 4,321,488 43 6,738,601 68
1,698,781,169 16,988 1,694,459,681 16,945
Shares held by The Employee Share Trust:
Opening balance 34,504,928 345 22,033,259 220
Share purchases 29,189,111 292 30,183,055 302
Share awards in terms of share incentive schemes (46,487,978) (465) Share sales (6,674,164) (67) 10,531,897 105 34,504,928 345
 schemes. These shares have been set off against share capital and share premium in the Group balance sheet, as the 
Trust has been consolidated.
The terms of the deferred shares appear in the Directors’ Report on page 43. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     101
Capital Translation Hedging Other Total other
reserves reserve reserve reserves* reserves
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
24. Total other reserves
1 October 2007 83,043 42,125 248 136,287 261,703
 Share incentive schemes 14,982––– 14,982
 Deferred tax arising on revaluation of loans – 702 – – 702
 Other deferred tax – – – 56 56
 Transfers – – – 1,546 1,546
 Share incentive schemes 17,451––– 17,451
Deferred tax on share incentive schemes 5,558 88 – – 5,646
 Hedging losses capitalised to other
intangible assets – – 2,856 – 2,856
 30 September 2009 *Other reserves principally comprise consolidation reserves arising prior to the unbundling of the underlying assets into the Company at 
the time of its LSE listing in 2000.
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
25. Other long term liabilities
Unsecured long term loans 17,647 11,877
Deferred income relating to customer maintenance contracts 18,894 24,057
Trade payables 6,750 –
Deferred consideration 2,280 2,640
45,571 38,574
Unsecured long term loans include trade loans bearing interest at rates of 4% to 4.25%. These loans are repayable 
 Trade payables relate to the long term portion of the deferred payment on the purchase of other intangible assets, refer 
 102     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
Present value 
Minimum lease of minimum 
payments lease payments
2009 2008 2009 2008
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
26. Obligations under ﬁnance leases
 Within one year 10,117 25,262 9,092 6,278
Two to ﬁve years 14,874 113,200 14,099 15,963
Subsequent to ﬁve years – 164,826 – 123,943
24,991 303,288 23,191 146,184
Less: future ﬁnance charges (1,800) n/a n/a
 23,191 146,184 23,191 146,184
Less: amounts due for settlement within
 (9,092) 14,099 139,906
 Asset Liability Total
$’000 $’000 $’000
27. Deferred tax
 Other movements 20 28 48
 At 30 September 2009 47,730 (1,021) 46,709
Deferred tax components
Campus    Share-   
  revalu-Deferred Prepay- Provi- based Tax  
$’000 ation income ments sions payments losses Other Total
  Income statement 
charge – in respect of  
  Income statement 
charge – in respect of  
 period –––– 8,841 – – 8,841
 At 30 September 2009  (7,826) 13,839  (8,174) 38,207 11,725 1,774 (2,836) 46,709 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     103
27. Deferred tax (continued)
The amounts of deferred tax and temporary differences provided and unprovided are analysed as follows:
2009 2008
Provided Unprovided $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
 (7,826) – 38,207 4,286 24,383 3,671
Deferred income 13,839 2,180 12,276 –
 (8,174) – 11,725 – 6,652 –
 1,774 234,980 951 217,090
Other (2,836) 47,256 46,709 288,702 31,147 279,631
 been offset in accordance with the Group’s 
accounting policy. The following is the analysis 
 balance sheet purposes:
Deferred tax assets 47,730 31,862
Deferred tax liabilities (1,021) 46,709 31,147
 expires in more than ten years.
 Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised for taxable temporary differences totalling $712.9 million  
 a position to control the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such temporary differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. 104     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
Onerous Pension
 lease and and other
 restruc- employee
Litigation Warranty turing obligations Other Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
28. Provisions
 On acquisition of a subsidiary – – – 236 – 236
 At 30 September 2009 1,548 1,457 4,079 2,985 2,845 12,914
 Short term portion 1,238  1,457  2,092 – 1,449  6,236 
 1,548  1,457  4,079  2,985  2,845  12,914
 of three to eleven years.
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
29. Trade and other payables
Trade payables 483,196 536,213
Other payables 169,714 127,783
 319,561 299,791
Deferred income 299,833 231,004
Trading current liabilities 1,272,304 1,194,791
Deferred consideration – 1,035
 9,092 6,278
Other current liabilities 9,092 7,313
Total trade and other payables 1,281,396 1,202,104
Deferred income relates predominantly to customer maintenance contracts.
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.  
 The Directors consider the carrying value of trade payables to approximate their fair value. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     105
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
30. Bank loans
 163,874 6,097
Less: amounts due for settlement within 12 months (23,321) 140,553 3,841
 The loan incorporates ﬁxed interest at 17.37%. The current monthly loan repayments are $1.5 million payable in advance 

secured by the title over the property. The loan agreement terminates on 31 January 2018.
 31. Acquisitions and changes in holdings of subsidiaries
Changes in holdings of subsidiaries
On 22 July 2008 Dimension Data and Datacraft jointly announced that they had entered into an agreement whereby 
 voted in favour of the offer by Dimension Data to purchase the remaining 44.9% interest that it did not already own.  
 whereafter the cash consideration was settled.
 were offered $1.33 per share, a 34% premium to Datacraft’s closing share price of $0.99 on 21 July 2008. The total 
cost of the acquisition was $282.1 million, and was ﬁnanced by cash, part of which was raised by an equity issuance. 
 Group. In addition, cost reductions and improved efﬁciencies will be gained through the acquisition. Following the 
acquisition of the minorities, a share ownership scheme was established covering 4.75% of the entity over a period of 
four years. This is considered to be an equity settled scheme and accordingly the share based expense at grant date 
amounted to $1.8 million. The acquisition of these shares has been funded by the Group. The appreciation in this equity 
interest will be determined by a valuation, which will be reduced by the outstanding ﬁnancing. 
In arriving at the value of the award, the Black Scholes optic model was applied using the following inputs:
– risk free interest rate 3.9%
– expected volatility 30%
– dividend yield of 4.9%
Transaction costs capitalised to the cost of the investment were $4.2 million. 
Other immaterial changes in holdings in subsidiaries during the year amounted to a net payment of $2.1 million.
Acquisitions
 aggregate consideration of $4.3 million, and $5.1 million for the assumption of a shareholder’s loan. This resulted in  
$7.6 million being recognised as goodwill on acquisition. The net assets and liabilities for these acquisitions amounted to 
$1.2 million and $0.6 million respectively. Teksys and Blueﬁre were acquired effective January 2009 and October 2008 
respectively. Since the date of acquisition, Teksys and Blueﬁre have contributed revenue of $22.5 million and $6.8 million
and loss for the period of $0.5 million and proﬁt of $0.5 million, respectively. Had these acquisitions taken place at 
1 October 2008, additional revenue of $27.8 million and proﬁt for the period of $0.8 million would have been recognised. 106     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
31. Acquisitions and changes in holdings of subsidiaries (continued)
The carrying amounts of each class of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities
 The amounts are as follows:
 1,608 2,574
Other intangible assets 312 –
Inventories 342 7,466
Trade and other receivables 12,415 14,595
 (7) 525
Other long term liabilities (2,138) –
Short term liabilities, including minorities (10,691) 1,841 17
 9,440 17,093
 7,599 17,076
Net cash outﬂow arising on acquisition
 4,294 15,754
 (7) 4,287 15,229
 4,294 15,754
Deferred consideration – 1,339
Shareholder’s loan 5,146 –
 9,440 17,093
The carrying amounts of the acquired assets equate to the book values. The acquisition of Blueﬁre and Teksys have been 
accounted for on a provisional basis because the fair values assigned to the acquiree’s intangible assets can only be 
provisionally determined at 30 September 2009.
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
32. Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee
 as follows: 
Within one year 45,375 35,938
Two to ﬁve years 87,200 68,459
Subsequent to ﬁve years 21,245 14,021
153,820 118,418
The Group as lessor
 minimum lease payments:
Within one year 6,531 5,472
Two to ﬁve years 12,968 13,171
Subsequent to ﬁve years 1,353 4,274
20,852 22,917 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     107
33. Contingent liabilities
 respect of guarantees given to banks and other third parties, which are primarily in respect of performance guarantees 
for contracts.
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
34. Capital commitments
 113,725 67,751
 48,691 62,979
162,416 130,730
35. Related-party transactions
Related parties are entities with common direct or indirect shareholders and/or directors. The principal shareholders of 
the Group are listed on page 125. The Group and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business, enter into various 
sale, purchase, service and investment transactions with associates and others in which the Group has an interest. These 
transactions are under terms that are no more favourable than those arranged with third parties. For details on loans to 

 36. Pension schemes
In most countries, the employing company provides either deﬁned contribution or insured retirement plans to their 
employees. The relevant company, and in some cases employees, pay regular contributions to the plans. Once 
contributions are made, the relevant company has no liability in respect of these plans.

have been established in respect of these liabilities.
37. Share-based payment
37(a) Dimension Data’s schemes
Dimension Data Holdings plc share option scheme
The Dimension Data Holdings plc share option scheme provides for the grant of share options to employees. 
 2009 2008
Opening balance 84,669,225 94,040,491
 (4,301,488) (19,079,781) 61,287,956 84,669,225
 108     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
37. Share-based payment (continued)
37(a) Dimension Data’s schemes (continued)
Dimension Data Holdings plc share option scheme (continued)
Details of options outstanding at year end:
Weighted average Number of share options
Grant price Latest expiry date grant price 2009 2008
 32,241,123 36,958,523
 13,324,576  14,115,886 
 3,053,117  3,160,890 
R24.30 – R29.80 01/10/2009 – 03/11/2009 R24.33  12,375,096  30,137,881 
R38.50 – R58.10 31/01/2010 – 05/06/2010 R44.05 294,044  296,045 
 61,287,956  84,669,225
Share Appreciation Rights
 Number of SARS
Grant price Grant date Latest expiry date 2009 2008
 7,416,058 9,081,533
 2,300,000 2,300,000
 1,127,848 1,830,333
 2,777,720 3,279,955
 458,153 537,393
14,079,779 17,029,214
 amount equal to the increase in value between the grant date and the exercise date.
Long Term Incentive Plan

 the grant date.
 that of a group of peer companies.
 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     109
37. Share-based payment (continued)
37(a) Dimension Data’s schemes (continued)
Long Term Incentive Plan (continued)
Approximate Number of LTIPs
Grant price Grant date vesting date 2009 2008
 – 43,901,449
 – 435,000
 – 1,444,391
 40,225,902 43,040,498
 3,786,518 3,786,518
 25,357,111 27,174,075
 42,820,000 –
 6,890,000 –
119,079,531 119,781,931
There is no amount payable on vesting. The participants will be awarded rights to ordinary shares in the 
 Valuation methods
 distribution, which can be estimated and used to calculate likely distribution of future share prices. Taking into 
 share prices.
Inputs into the model
 Weighted
average Exercise Expected Expected Risk-free
Financial share price at option Expected dividend interest
years ended price grant date lifetime volatility yield rate
30 September years%%%
Share Option Scheme
 Share Option Scheme
 Share Option Scheme
 Share Option Scheme
 The expected volatility was determined based on the rolling historical volatility over the expected option lifetime 
that prevailed at the grant date. 110     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
37. Share-based payment (continued)
37(a) Dimension Data’s schemes (continued)
Inputs into the model (continued)
 strip of a term consistent with the expected option lifetime.
37(b) Datacraft Asia’s (‘Datacraft’) schemes
 amendments were made to the Datacraft Share Option Schemes as follows:
 payable and the exercise price.
 from the consideration payable and the Dimension Data share price on the effective date. This will occur 
 –  Unvested options: On vesting, holders will receive Dimension Data shares, based on a formula derived from 
the consideration payable and the Dimension Data share price on the effective date.
 shares, based on a formula derived from the consideration payable and the Dimension Data share price on 
the effective date.
 adjusted to reﬂect the equivalent number of Dimension Data options and the Dimension Data weighted average 
exercise prices.
 The incremental fair value granted in respect of the conversion of Datacraft existing schemes was actuarially 
valued at $225,000.
Datacraft option schemes
 terminated and replaced by the Scheme 2003.
 2009
Opening balance after buy out 14,201,707
 (1,934,994)
 (2,879,338)
Outstanding at end of the year 9,387,375
 9,387,375
 Grant price Latest expiry date Number of options
 6,628,232
 1,778,886
 283,126
 697,131
9,387,375 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     111
37. Share-based payment (continued)
37(b) Datacraft Asia’s (‘Datacraft’) schemes (continued)
Datacraft option schemes (continued)
 2009
Opening balance after buy out 36,997,228 
 (7,820,840)
 (2,956,252)
Outstanding at end of the year 26,220,136
 4,787,996
Details of Scheme 2003 options outstanding at year end:
Grant price Latest expiry date Number of options
 534,200
 13,610,537
 7,626,917
 3,415,081
 1,033,401
26,220,136

in the Dimension Data schemes.
Performance Share Plan
 accomplished.
 Vesting period 3 years 112     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
38. Financial instruments
38.1 Financial assets
The Group has various ﬁnancial assets including investments, loans, trade and other receivables and cash.
2009 2008
Non- Financial ﬁnancial Financial ﬁnancial
instruments instruments $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Investments held Fair value through
for trading 1,730 – 1,763 – proﬁt and loss
 sale investments 2,403 – 37,398 – Trade and other  
receivables 706,283 326,926 Finance lease
receivables 11,483 – 12,667 – Held to maturity
 588 – Derivative ﬁnancial Fair value through
instruments 108 – 12,173 – proﬁt and loss
 equivalents 601,129 – Total 1,361,122 326,926 1,561,260 239,607 
The Group considers these ﬁnancial assets to approximate their fair value, and to encompass the Group’s 
maximum exposure to credit risk.
38.2 Financial liabilities
The Group’s principal ﬁnancial liabilities comprise trade and other payables, ﬁnance leases, and bank loans and 
overdrafts. 
2009 2008
Non- Financial ﬁnancial Financial ﬁnancial
instruments instruments $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Trade and
other payables 808,707 463,597 Finance lease
obligations 23,191 – Derivative ﬁnancial Fair value through
instruments 12,755 – 10,269 – proﬁt and loss
Bank overdrafts  
and loans 165,187 – Other long term
liabilities 26,677 18,894 Total 1,036,517 482,491 1,091,000 310,096
 Financial liabilities by geography
   Middle
   East &Central
$’000 Americas Asia Australia Europe Africa & other Total
Trade and other payables 142,752 87,774 138,770 191,009 218,396 30,006 808,707
Finance lease obligations – – 6,479 5,494 11,121 97 23,191
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments – 595 667 1,245 6,566 3,682 12,755
Bank overdrafts and loans – 20,000 – – 2,094 143,093 165,187
Other long term liabilities – – – 4,875 10,532 11,270 26,677
Total 142,752 108,369 145,916 202,623 248,709 188,148 1,036,517 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     113
38. Financial instruments (continued)
38.3 Risk management of ﬁnancial instruments
The Board has approved and monitored the risk management processes, including treasury policies, 
counterparty limits and reporting structures in relation to the management of ﬁnancial instruments risk.
The principal risks arising from the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments are liquidity risk, credit risk and market risk, 
which include currency and interest rate risk.
These risks, and the way they are managed, are detailed below.
38.3.1 Liquidity risk
 Bank Trade and Other
overdrafts Finance Derivative other long term 
and loans leases liabilities payables liabilities Total
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
2009
Within one year 44,929 10,117 12,755 808,707 – 876,508
Within two to ﬁve years 159,221 14,874 – – 27,130 201,225
 110,856 – – – – 110,856
315,006 24,991 12,755 808,707 27,130 1,188,589
2008
Within one year 6,835 25,262 10,269 909,787 – 952,153
Within two to ﬁve years 3,351 113,200 –  – 15,416 131,967
 12,838 303,288 10,269 909,787 15,416 1,251,598
The Group considers its liquid resources to be adequate to meet its ﬁnancial liabilities now and for the foreseeable 
future.
Cession of assets
 In the US, in respect of an extended credit facility, the Group has ceded an amount of $69.7 million  
 to various covenants relating to working capital and liquidity ratios.
In Botswana, in respect of overdraft limits, the Group has ceded various ﬁxed deposits and bank balances 
totalling $0.4 million.
 38.3.2 Credit risk
The Group’s ﬁnancial assets are investments, loans, trade and other receivables, ﬁnance lease receivables, 
derivatives and cash and cash equivalents.
 the Group.
With regard to trade receivables and ﬁnance lease receivables, Group policy is only to deal with counterparties 
with an appropriate credit rating. Furthermore, credit risk relating to trade receivables is considered lower than 
average due to the nature of our clients, mostly being large blue chip corporates and government organisations. 
 undertaken on potential customers before sales commence.
 The credit crisis which has affected the global economy, has increased the generic risk associated with trade 
receivables. The Group has reviewed the trade receivables outstanding, net of impairment provisions, and 
consider these to be collectible and fairly stated at period end. 114     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
38. Financial instruments (continued)
38.3 Risk management of ﬁnancial instruments (continued)
38.3.2 Credit risk (continued)
Group cash by region
 117,287 101,812 
 223,784 189,687 
 83,148 65,693
 83,179 75,109 140,405 
 18,622 210,548 
Total 601,129 686,499 
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents and derivative ﬁnancial instruments is considered low. Group policy 
 of the cash management system and the net balance held in the related ﬁnancial institution is positive. Financial 
assets, other than those at fair value through proﬁt and loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each 
balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or 
more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the ﬁnancial asset, the estimated future cash ﬂows of 
the investment have been impacted.
 receivables impairments.
 the total fair value of ﬁnancial assets.
The Group holds credit insurance in respect of certain trade receivables balances.
38.3.3 Market risk
This is the risk that ﬁnancial instruments fair values will ﬂuctuate owing to changes in market prices.  
The signiﬁcant market risks to which the Group is exposed are currency risk and interest rate risk. These are 
discussed below.
38.3.3.1 Currency risk
 exchange contracts and therefore there are limited transactional exposures that would give rise to currency 
gains and losses in the income statement.
Speculative use of ﬁnancial instruments or derivatives is not permitted and none occurred during the period. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     115
2009 2008
Financial Financial Financial Financial
assets liabilities assets liabilities
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
38. Financial instruments (continued)
38.3 Risk management of ﬁnancial instruments 
(continued)
38.3.3 Market risk (continued)
38.3.3.1 Currency risk (continued)
The currency proﬁle of the Group’s  
ﬁnancial instruments was as follows:
 185,679 113,918 165,362 151,855
 179,048 72,407 168,327 106,650
Sterling 64,278 46,602 61,272 49,130
US dollars 430,860 418,828 685,703 403,624
 250,798 290,211 283,424 263,845
Other 250,459 94,551 197,172 115,896
1,361,122 1,036,517 1,561,260 1,091,000

as below:
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
 108 12,173
 (12,755) (12,647) 1,904
Forward exchange contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from 
quoted interest matching maturity contracts.
In certain operations, hedges of ﬁrm commitments to purchase services are designated as cash ﬂow hedges. 
 cash ﬂow hedges.
The Group has a number of loans between its subsidiaries. Where settlement is neither planned nor likely to 
occur in the foreseeable future these loans are part of the Group’s net investment in those subsidiaries and the 
exchange differences arising on those loans are included in translation differences in the statement of changes in 
equity. When these loans are settled, or the underlying operation disposed of, translation differences previously 
 recycled through the income statement.
38.3.3.2 Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash ﬂows of a ﬁnancial instrument will ﬂuctuate because 
 signiﬁcant ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial assets or liabilities. The Group does not make use of interest rate derivatives. 116     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to the ﬁnancial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2009 (continued)
38. Financial instruments (continued)
38.3 Risk management of ﬁnancial instruments (continued)
38.3.3 Market risk (continued)
38.3.3.2 Interest rate risk (continued)
The interest rate proﬁles of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are as follows:
2009 2008
Financial Financial Financial Financial
assets liabilities assets liabilities
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Floating interest rates 504,130 33,108 648,482 14,421
Fixed interest rates 88,698 211,919 53,652 156,245
 768,294 791,490 859,126 920,334
1,361,122 1,036,517 1,561,260 1,091,000
Interest rates on ﬂoating rate bank deposits are based on the relevant interbank rate.
The ﬁxed interest rate ﬁnancial assets relate to ﬁxed term cash deposits which are typically less than three 
months in duration.
Floating rate ﬁnancial liabilities relate to bank loans, overdrafts and loans. Interest is based on the relevant 
interbank rate.
 respectively.
38.4 Sensitivity analysis
38.4.1 Earnings sensitivity of ﬁnancial instruments to ﬂuctuations in foreign currencies
–  Sensitivities are calculated as at the period end and will alter as ﬁnancial instrument balances ﬂuctuate during 
the period;
–  Translation of the results of Group subsidiaries into the reporting currency of the Group have been excluded 
from the sensitivity analysis; and
– The sensitivity assumes all other variables are held constant. 
The table below provides indicative sensitivity of the Group’s ﬁnancial instruments to these exchange rate 
movements against the US dollar.
2009 2008
Proﬁt Sensitivity of ﬁnancial instruments to and loss Equity currency ﬂuctuations $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Australian dollars
Strengthens by 20% (2,685) (158,499) Weakens by 20% 2,685 158,499 SA rand
Strengthens by 20% 5,666 (8,679) Weakens by 20% (5,666) 8,679 6,193  15,788 
Euro
Strengthens by 20% 4,468 (162,414) Weakens by 20% (4,468) 162,414 4,016 131,618 
Sterling
Strengthens by 20% 4,657 (72,818) 2,012  133,981 
Weakens by 20% (4,657) 72,818 The Group generates its earnings in a variety of currencies other than the US dollar, the most important of 


exchange rates. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     117
38. Financial instruments (continued)
38.4 Sensitivity analysis (continued)
38.4.2 Earnings sensitivity of ﬁnancial instruments to changes in interest rates
 of a reasonably possible change.
Proﬁt and loss Equity
2009 2008 2009 2008
Interest rate sensitivity $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
100 basis point increase in interest rates 4,710 5,193 – –
100 basis point decrease in interest rates (4,710) – –
38.5 Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns 
while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, debt, which includes the borrowings 


39. Dividend
 of 10%.
40. Post balance sheet events
Black Economic Empowerment (‘BEE’) transaction
 outlined in the announcement on 1 September 2004.

 in either cash or Dimension Data Holdings plc shares.
 their shares subject to the Group’s approval of the purchaser. 118     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Company balance sheet for  
Dimension Data Holdings plc
as at 30 September 2009
Restated
2009 2008
Notes $’000 $’000
Assets
Non-current assets
 75 24
 836,553 567,526
836,628 567,550
Current assets
 24 6,018
 50,024 152,978
50,048 158,996
Total assets 886,676 726,546
Equity and liabilities 
Capital and reserves
Share capital 23 17,063 17,020
Share premium 327,652 325,655
 74,980 57,574
Retained earnings 286,715 312,401
Total equity 706,410 712,650
Current liabilities
 5,981 13,896
 174,285 –
180,266 13,896
Total equity and liabilities 886,676 726,546
 Brett Dawson Dave Sherriffs
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     119
Company cash ﬂow statement for 
Dimension Data Holdings plc
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Restated
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
Operating activities
Operating loss (28,911) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 4
 26,338 47,543
 (2,560) 2,797
Decrease in trade and other receivables 5,994 943
Decrease in payables (5,855) 68,938 66,517 Income taxes paid (3,685) Interest paid (4,607) Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 58,225 Investing activities
Interest received 6,584 20,641
 (117,064) (256,374) –
 23,924 –
 (64) –
Dividends received 28,719 108,367
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (314,275) 127,931
Financing activities
 2,040 121,034
Dividends paid (23,229) Net cash (used in)/from ﬁnancing activities (21,189) 108,477
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents (277,239) 164,190
 152,978 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (124,261) 152,978
 50,024 152,978
Bank overdrafts (174,285) –
(124,261) 152,978 120     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Company statement of changes in equity for
Dimension Data Holdings plc
for the year ended 30 September 2009
Share Share Capital Retained Total
capital premium reserves earnings equity
$’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
1 October 2007 – restated 15,591 206,050 42,353 247,735 511,729
 Share incentive schemes – – 15,221 – 15,221
Shares issued 1,429 119,605 – – 121,034
 1 October 2008 – restated 17,020 325,655 57,574 312,401 712,650
 Share incentive schemes – – 17,406 – 17,406
Shares issued 43 1,997 – – 2,040
 30 September 2009 17,063 327,652 74,980 286,715 706,410
 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     121
Notes to Company balance sheet 
for Dimension Data Holdings plc
as at 30 September 2009
(a) Property, plant and equipment
Ofﬁce
Computer furniture
equipment and ﬁttings Total
$’000 $’000 $’000
Cost
 At 30 September 2009 43 67 110
Accumulated depreciation
 Depreciation charge for the  year 8 5 13
At 30 September 2009 8 27 35
Net book value
30 September 2009 35 40 75
30 September 2008 –2424
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
(b) Investment in subsidiaries
Shares in subsidiaries 1,483,460 1,082,585
 (646,907) 836,553 567,526
 Balance at beginning of year 1,082,585 675,127
 153,187 392,237
 230,282 –
Share incentive costs 17,406 15,221
1,483,460 1,082,585
 Details of the principal subsidiaries appear on page 124.
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
(c) Trade and other receivables
 24 102
Financial instruments – derivatives – 5,916
24 6,018
(d) Payables
 2,315 3,865
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 3,666 10,031
5,981 13,896
(e) Loss for the year
 122     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notes to Company balance sheet 
for Dimension Data Holdings plc
as at 30 September 2009 (continued)
2009 2008
Non- Total per Financial ﬁnancial Total per Financial ﬁnancial
the balance assets/ assets/ the balance assets/ assets/
sheet (liabilities) (liabilities) $ ‘000 $ ‘000 $ ‘000 (f) Summary of ﬁnancial 
assets and liabilities
Investment in subsidiaries 836,553 (646,907) 1,483,460 Trade and other receivables  
– short term 24 – 24 6,018  5,916  102 
 50,024 50,024 – 152,978  152,978  – 
 (5,981) (4,363) (1,618) Bank overdrafts (174,285) (174,285) – –––
706,335 (775,531) 1,481,866 2009 2008
$’000 $’000
Interest rate proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities
Intercompany loans receivable
Interest free 2,739,165 1,664,527 
Interest bearing 45,404 –
Intercompany loans payable
Interest free (3,431,476) Net intercompany loans (646,907) Net cash and cash equivalents
Interest bearing at ﬂoating interest rates (124,261) 152,978
Payables
Interest free (4,363) Currency proﬁle
Intercompany loans receivable
 136,253 95,652 
Sterling 1,021,048 – 
 5,987 57 
US dollars 1,136,751 1,567,365 
 484,530 1,453 
Intercompany loans payable
 (26,495) Sterling (821,690) (13,204) US dollars (2,073,705) (496,382) –
(646,907) Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     123
2009 2008
$’000 $’000
(f) Summary of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (continued)
Trade and other receivables long and short term
US dollars – 5,916 
Net cash and cash equivalents
 (124,261) 152,978 
Payables
US dollars (4,363) Increase/ Increase/
(decrease) in equity in equity
2009 2008
Sensitivity of ﬁnancial instruments to $’000 $’000
 21,952 18,086 
 (21,952) US dollars weakens by 20% against Sterling 39,872 US dollars strengthens by 20% against Sterling (39,872) 27,673 
 (1,443) 1,443 56,772
(g) Bank overdrafts
 124     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Principal subsidiaries and associates
Effective interest interest
incorporation/ 2009 2008
 % %
Subsidiaries
Africa
 81.96 83.98
 81.96 83.98
 81.96 83.98
 100 100
 100 100
 81.96 83.98
Asia
 100 55.13
 100 55.13
 100 55.13
 100 55.13
 100 55.13
Europe
 100 100
 100 100
 100 100
 100 100
Spectrum Holdings Inc BVI British Virgin Islands Investment holding and management 100 100
 100 100
 100 100
 100 100
 100 100
 100 100
 100 100
 100 100
Americas
United States 
 100 100
Australia
 100 100
 100 100
Associates
 40 40
 40.98 41.99
 45 45
 40.16 41.15 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     125
Shareholder information
Shareholders’ diary
Financial year end 30 September
 Dividends
 the close of business on 19 February 2010.
Corporate website
This report and other information on the Group’s activities and ﬁnancial information are available on the website at  
www.dimensiondata.com.
Analysis of ordinary shareholders at 30 September 2009
Number of Number of Percentage of
Size of shareholding shareholders shares issued capital
1 – 1,000 11,233 3,429,463 0.20
1,001 – 5,000 4,638 11,744,630 0.69
5,001 – 10,000 1,235 9,578,012 0.56
10,001 – 25,000 789 12,635,983 0.74
25,001 – 50,000 366 13,289,083 0.78
50,001 – 100,000 181 13,500,794 0.80
100,001 – 250,000 178 29,193,357 1.72
250,001 – 500,000 130 47,619,701 2.81
500,001 – 1,000,000 114 81,667,405 4.81
Over 1,000,000 209 1,476,122,741 86.89
Total 19,073 1,698,781,169 100.00
Substantial interests

 Number of Percentage of
Shareholder shares issued capital
 126     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notice of annual general meeting
 the following business:
Ordinary business
To consider and, if thought ﬁt, pass the following ten resolutions, each of which will be proposed as an ordinary 
resolution:
1.  To receive and adopt the annual ﬁnancial statements comprising the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Dimension 
Data Group and the ﬁnancial statements of Dimension Data Holdings plc incorporated therein, and the reports of the 
Directors and the auditors for the year ended 30 September 2009.


2010.
3. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2009.
 10.  To authorise the Directors to ﬁx the remuneration of the auditors.
Special business
To consider and, if thought ﬁt, pass the following four resolutions which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions:
 of $849,391 or 84,939,058 ordinary shares. 
 13.  That the award of 1,140,000 deferred bonus shares to Brett Dawson in respect of exceptional performance in the 2008 
 14.  That an award of deferred bonus shares to Brett Dawson to the value of $750,000 in respect of exceptional performance in 
 To consider and, if thought ﬁt, pass the following two resolutions, each of which will be proposed as a special 
resolution:
 shares, and may hold such shares as treasury shares, provided that: Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     127
 days immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary shares are purchased;
 16. That

 By order of the Board
S Heydenrych
Secretary
 Notes
 enclosed which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions. If you do not have a proxy form and 
 member from attending and voting at the meeting in person.


 amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be 
 of the Uncertiﬁcated Securities Regulations 2001. 128     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notice of annual general meeting
(continued)
 the register of members less than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining 
the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.




he/she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting 



 auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website. The business which may be dealt 


of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting and/





which notice is to be given, or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons 


setting out the grounds for the request.
 website and can be accessed at www.dimensiondata.com:
 exercise voting rights at the meeting; and Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     129
 class.
 date of this notice will be added to the information already available on the website as soon as reasonably practicable and 
will also be made available for the following two years.
 room.
14.  Documents available for inspection – the following documents are available for inspection at the registered ofﬁce of the 
 before it begins.
 www.dimensiondata.com.
 Explanatory notes
 Resolution 1
 Resolution 2 – Authority to pay dividend
 registered on the share register at the close of business on 19 February 2010. 
Resolution 3
To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2009. In line with Section 439 of the 
 ﬁnancial year to shareholders in a general meeting. The Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2009 is set out 
 Resolutions 4 to 8 – Reappointment of Directors
 Directors’ Remuneration Report. 130     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Notice of annual general meeting
(continued)
Resolutions 9 and 10 – Auditors

should appoint auditors who will remain in ofﬁce until the next general meeting at which accounts are laid.
Resolution 11 – Authority to allot shares
 exercise the authority, other than to satisfy share options under the existing share option scheme. This authority, if given, will 
 resolution.
Resolution 12 – Approval and adoption of DBP
 employees into deferred shares where this is substantial relative to base salary.  
 Report.
The practice of deferring a bonus into shares encourages retention and a focus on the sustainability of proﬁts. It is also in line 
 Resolutions 13 and 14 – Approval of deferred bonus awards to BW Dawson
These resolutions seek shareholders’ authority for the grant of two awards to Brett Dawson under the Dimension Data Holdings 

to the award has been calculated by reference to the market value of a share on 12 December 2008, which is the date on 

 Resolution 15 – Purchase of own shares
 capital as at 30 September 2009 in the market, either for cancellation, or to hold as treasury shares. The total number of 

use this authority after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment 
 shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the beneﬁts for shareholders. This authority, if given, will 
 resolution.
Resolution 16 – Adoption of Articles of Association
 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     131
Recommendation
 Attendance at the annual general meeting
 Details of proxy votes received will be displayed at the meeting, will be available to shareholders following the meeting, and 
 Action to be taken

 so wish.
Dematerialised shares in Strate on the South African register
 broker to provide them with the necessary authority in terms of the custody agreement entered into between the dematerialised 
 132     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Appendix 1 – Salient features of the Dimension Data Holdings 
plc Deferred Bonus Plan 2009 (‘the DBP’)
1. Introduction

of shares or restricted shares where the employee is the owner of the shares from the date of award but subject 
to forfeiture and restrictions on transfer during the vesting period. Unless otherwise speciﬁed, all awards have 
substantially the same terms. 
 local tax or regulatory considerations. 

relate to the deferral of a portion of a bonus payment, which has been earned due to the satisfaction of the bonus 
performance targets set, the awards will not be subject to the satisfaction of further company performance conditions. 
2. Operation
 shareholder approval.

 has been approved by shareholders and are subject to shareholders approving each speciﬁc award.
3. Eligibility
 4. Deferred bonus
 Remuneration Report.
The number of shares subject to the award will be calculated by dividing the amount of the portion of the bonus to be 
deferred by the market value of a share on the date of grant.
In respect of the award detailed in Resolution 13, the number of shares subject to the award has been calculated by 
dividing the amount of the bonus to be deferred by the market value of a share on the date that the award was approved 
 5. Structure of awards
 participant has no rights in respect of the shares.
 receive dividends and exercise his voting rights. However, the shares are held by a third party agent for the duration of the 
vesting period and the participant is prohibited from transferring or otherwise dealing in the shares. In addition, the shares 
are subject to a risk of forfeiture during the vesting period. On vesting, the shares will be released from the agent.
6. Vesting conditions
  The vesting of awards will be subject to the participant remaining employed within the Group for a period of three years 
after the date of grant. 
 the bonus performance targets set, the awards will not be subject to the satisfaction of further company performance 
conditions. Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     133
7. Termination of employment
  Where a participant’s employment is terminated prior to the vesting date by reason of resignation or dismissal for 
misconduct, his award will lapse on the date of termination of employment and it will be forfeited in its entirety, unless the 
 Where a participant’s employment is terminated prior to the vesting date by reason of death, retirement, redundancy, a 

vest in full at date of termination of employment. 
 employment and, if it does vest, to what extent.
8. Change of control, merger or other reorganisations
  On a takeover, scheme of arrangement, merger or other corporate reorganisation, the awards will vest in full on the date 
of the event. 
9. Variations


conditional awards in any way it considers appropriate to take account of the effect of the transaction on the value of 
the awards.
 demerger, dividend in specie or super dividend, and it is of the view that the current or future value of the awards will be 
affected by that event, it can exercise its discretion to allow the awards to vest in whole or in part prior to the occurrence 
of the event.
10. Dividend equivalents
 respect of conditional awards. Where this determination is made, participants may receive a payment in cash or shares of 
an amount equal to the dividends which would have been payable on the shares received during the period from the date 
of grant up to the vesting date. 
`  In the case of restricted shares, as participants are entitled to receive dividends, they will not attract dividend equivalents.
11. Rights
 except in respect of rights by reference to a record date prior to the date of allotment. For so long as shares are listed on 
 their allotment.
 12. Limits
 134     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Appendix 1 – Salient features of the Dimension Data Holdings 
plc Deferred Bonus Plan 2009 (‘the DBP’) (continued)
13. Amendments to the DBP
 14. Termination
 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009     135
Appendix 2 – Summary of principal changes in the New Articles
1. Memorandum of Association
 from 1 October 2009.
 each subscriber has agreed to take in a company. 



company’s objects are unrestricted. This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses. For this reason 


1 October 2009.
2. Authorised share capital and unissued shares

 3. Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares and reduce share capital


authority given to undertake the relevant action. The articles currently include these enabling provisions. Under the 



4. Redeemable shares
 5. Use of seals



6. Voting by proxies on a show of hands
 proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member 
in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members 
 provisions that reﬂect this change. 136     Dimension Data Annual Report 2009
Appendix 2 – Summary of principal changes in the New Articles
(continued)
7. Voting by Corporate Representatives
 representatives appointed by the same corporate member to vote in different ways on a show of hands and a poll. The 
 8. Notice of general meetings
 is not proposing to reduce the period of notice required for general meetings.
9. Chairman’s casting vote in general meetings

 10. Adjournments for lack of quorum
 11. Voting record date
 the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time 
 requirement.
12. Directors’ conﬂicts of interest 
 13. General
 Contacts and corporate information
Dimension Data Holdings plc
 Company Secretary
Sanet Heydenrych
 Registered ofﬁce
Dimension Data House
Building 2
 Fleet Road
Fleet
 Head ofﬁce
The Wanderers
 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
 Auditors
 UK Transfer Secretaries
 Bridgwater Road
 South African Transfer Secretaries
 South African legal advisers
 22 Fredman Drive
 Investor relations
 karen.cramer@uk.didata.com
 Dimension Data website
www.dimensiondata.com Regional head ofﬁce contact details
Americas
 Asia*
 Suntec Tower Four, Singapore 038986
 *trading as Datacraft Asia Limited
Australia
 Europe
 Middle East and Africa
 www.dimensiondata.com
