 Diploma PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 3: 
Governance
Directors’ Report 27
Corporate Governance 29
Remuneration Report 33
Section 4: 
Financial Statements
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
for the Financial Statements 38
Consolidated Income Statement 39
Consolidated Balance Sheet 40
Consolidated Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense 41
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 42
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements 43
Group Accounting Policies 62
Parent Company Balance Sheet 68
Reconciliation of Movements 
in Shareholders’ Funds 68
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 69
Independent Auditors’ Reports 70
Principal Subsidiaries 72
Financial Calendar and 
Shareholder Information 73
Five Year Record 74
Section 1: 
Overview
Group at a Glance 01
Financial Highlights 02
Chairman’s Statement 03
Chief Executive’s Review 04
Directors and Advisors 08
Section 2: 
Business Review
Strategy and Performance 10
Sector Reviews 14
Finance Review 20
Risks and Uncertainties 22
Corporate and Social Responsibility 26
Diploma PLC is an international group of businesses
supplying specialised technical products and services 1 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Group at a Glance
Geography
*
Group at a Glance
Europe
50%
UK & Eire 25%
Continental Europe 25%
Rest of World
6%
North America
44%
US 19%
Canada 25%
Seals
30%
of revenues
358 employees
Controls
39%
of revenues
248 employees
Life Sciences
31%
of revenues 
207 employees
Sectors
Attractive
Margins
Our attractive margins 
are sustained through 
the quality of customer
service, the depth of
technical support and 
value adding activities
Focused
Management
In the operating
businesses, strong
committed management
teams execute well
formulated development
strategies
Resilient
Revenues
We focus on essential
products and services
funded by customers’
operating rather than 
capital budgets, giving
stability to revenues
Strong
Cash Flow
An ungeared balance sheet
and strong cashflow fund
our growth strategy while
providing healthy dividends
Value Enhancing
Acquisitions
Carefully selected, value
enhancing acquisitions
accelerate the organic
growth strategy and take 
us into new but related
markets
What makes us different
* revenue by destination 2 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Highlights
2009 2008
Continuing Businesses
‡
£m £m
Revenue 160.0 156.2 +2%
Operating profit
*
25.6 26.6 -4%
Operating margin
*
16.0% 17.0%
Adjusted profit before tax
*†
25.5 26.8 -5%
Profit before tax 20.5 21.1 -3%
Free cash flow 23.5 17.7 +33%
Continuing Businesses
‡
Pence Pence
Adjusted earnings 
per share
*†
14.8 16.0 -8%
Basic earnings per share 10.8 11.4 -5%
Total dividends per share 7.8 7.5   +4%
Free cash flow per share 20.8 15.6 +33%
* Before amortisation of acquisition intangible assets
† Before fair value remeasurements
‡
The Anachem business has been classified as discontinuing and its results excluded from the analysis in 2009 and 2008. 
Note: Diploma PLC uses alternative performance measures as key financial indicators to assess the underlying performance of the Group. These include adjusted
profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share and free cash flow. The narrative on pages 2 to 37 is based on these alternative measures and an explanation is set
out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Year ended 30 September 3 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chairman’s Statement
The Diploma Group demonstrated the resilience of its
business model in the face of the global recession which
impacted most markets and geographies from early in
the financial year. The Group drew strength from its
spread of sectors and geographies, as well as the focus
on providing consumable products and services to
specialised market sectors. Where revenues were
reduced, the Group’s businesses reacted quickly to scale
back operating costs and working capital and reduce
balance sheet exposure. 
Although underlying Group revenues and operating
profits were reduced, operating margins were held to 
a creditable 16% in the continuing businesses and 
free cash flow of £23.5m was generated in the year.
This enabled the Group to continue to invest selectively
in new growth initiatives which will bring rewards as
markets eventually recover. 
Results and Dividends
Shortly after the financial year end, contracts were
exchanged for the disposal of the Manual Liquid
Handling business of Anachem for cash proceeds up
to a maximum of £8.6m; the results of Anachem for
the year ended 30 September 2009 have been
classified as discontinuing.
In 2009, Group revenue from the continuing businesses
increased by 2% to £160.0m (2008: £156.2m).
Operating profit, before the amortisation of acquisition
intangible assets, decreased by 4% to £25.6m 
(2008: £26.6m) and operating margins reduced to 
16.0% (2008: 17.0%).
Adjusted profit before tax from the continuing
businesses decreased by 5% to £25.5m (2008: £26.8m)
and adjusted earnings per share declined 8% to 14.8p
(2008: 16.0p). Including the discontinuing business,
adjusted profit before tax was £26.7m (2008: £27.5m)
and adjusted earnings per share 15.6p (2008: 16.4p).
The strong cash flow performance is reflected in an
increase of 33% in free cash flow from the continuing
businesses to £23.5m (2008: £17.7m). Cash flow of
£1.7m was added by the discontinuing business and
£12.2m invested in the acquisition of businesses. At 30
September 2009, cash funds had increased by £5.6m to
£21.3m (2008: £15.7m). 
In recognition of the strong free cash flow and resilient
earnings performance, the Board proposes to increase
the final dividend by 6% to 5.3p (2008: 5.0p). The total
dividend for the year will increase by 4% to 7.8p 
(2008: 7.5p).
Management and Employees
The experience, knowledge and skills of our employees
continue to be a crucial element in the success of 
the Group. As the economic outlook has deteriorated
however, there has been a need to reduce the number
of people employed in several of the Group’s
businesses to match the requirements of their
contracting markets. I wish to thank all of our
employees for their understanding and hard work
throughout a challenging year.
Outlook
The Board anticipates that the 2010 financial year will
continue to be challenging and is not planning for early
recovery in trading activity. The Board remains confident
however in the resilience of the Group’s model and the
strength of its cash flow. The Group therefore is well
positioned to take advantage of growth opportunities
which should come with market recovery.
John Rennocks
Chairman
16 November 2009
Chairman’s Statement
Resilient revenue and profit performance 
and strong free cash flow
John Rennocks
Chairman Strategy and Performance
The Group comprises a number of high quality,
specialised businesses supplying technical products 
and services and operating in the three broad industry
sectors of Life Sciences, Seals and Controls. The
businesses aim to achieve stable revenue growth
through the focus on essential products and services
funded by customers’ operating, rather than capital
budgets. Attractive margins are sustained through the
quality of customer service, depth of technical support
and value adding activities. The Group’s strategic
objective is to build more substantial, broader based
businesses in the chosen sectors through a combination
of organic growth and acquisition.
This year has proved a real test of this strategy as the
Group’s operating businesses, while demonstrating 
their resilient characteristics, still felt the effects of the
dramatic downturn in the global economy. The Group’s
revenues from the continuing businesses increased by
2% over the prior year; underlying revenues reduced by
12%, after adjusting for currency translation effects and
contributions from acquisitions.
The downturn impacted early in the year and the
Group’s businesses reacted quickly and decisively to re-
focus efforts on optimising performance at the reduced
revenue levels. Cost reduction programmes implemented
in the first half of the year, reduced the total headcount
and net monthly costs for the continuing businesses by
10% and 6% respectively by the end of the year. 
Operating margins were held to a creditable 16.0%
(2008: 17.0%) and operating profits of the continuing
businesses reduced by 4% to £25.6m (2008: £26.6m).
After adjusting for currency effects, acquisitions and
costs of specific overhead reduction programmes,
underlying operating profits reduced by ca. 10%.
Close attention has also been applied to maximising
cash flow and reducing balance sheet exposure.
Working capital and in particular inventory, was sharply
reduced in those businesses with reduced revenues and
this resulted in a strong increase in operating cashflow.
The Group’s total free cash flow from continuing
businesses increased by 33% to £23.5m (2008: £17.7m)
and the Group closed the year with cash balances at
30 September 2009 of £21.3m (2008: £15.7m).
Sector developments
At the sector level, in addition to the focus on short term
performance, the businesses have continued to invest
selectively in new growth initiatives which will position
them well to gain early benefit from any market
recovery. Key developments in each sector are
summarised below.
Life Sciences
The Healthcare businesses in Canada, now managed
together through the newly formed Diploma Canada
Healthcare Inc. (“DCHI”), continued to make good
progress, increasing revenues by 10% in Canadian
dollars and 20% in UK sterling. The DCHI businesses
supply into the public sector funded Healthcare sector
where overall funding has grown steadily over many
years, but with increased focus now on the cost-
effective use of public sector health funds.
Capital expenditure budgets in hospitals have been more
tightly controlled this year and instrument purchases
have been limited to those which can demonstrate 
clear performance and/or efficiency benefits. The DCHI
businesses have responded by taking a pro-active
approach to renewing existing supplies contracts and
targeting new contracts. Through these initiatives, there
has been a strong growth in the underlying supplies
component of the businesses, which represents the
larger part of DCHI revenues.
4 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief Executive’s Review
The Group focused on short term performance, 
while selectively investing for longer term growth
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer 5 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief Executive’s Review
DCHI continues to look for opportunities to accelerate
growth by securing new suppliers for the existing
businesses, or by acquiring complementary businesses
which bring these new product lines. The bolt-on
acquisition of Meditech in November 2008, consolidated
DCHI’s position as a leading supplier of products and
services to the growing in-vitro fertilisation (“IVF”)
market, represented by the ca. 30 dedicated IVF clinics
across Canada.
In the European environmental businesses, sales of
consumable products and services have again held up
well, but capital equipment sales have suffered from
decisions by customers to defer capital expenditure. 
In response to the 9% reduction in revenues, 
operations have been restructured to increase the 
focus on segments which offer long term growth
potential, while reducing costs.
Where the growth potential for any Group business is
limited for market or supplier reasons, consideration has
to be given to whether the business may perform better
under different ownership. This was the case with the
Manual Liquid Handling (“MLH”) business of Anachem
Limited. In October 2009, after the year end, a contract
was signed for the disposal of the MLH business to one
of its principal suppliers; the transaction is due to
complete in January 2010.
Seals
The Seals sector businesses have been most impacted
by the downturn in the global economy, since the
principal market drivers are the growth in the industrial
economy and in particular heavy construction. The 
core Aftermarket business demonstrated its resilient
characteristics with revenues reducing less than the
broader market. However, the major impact of the
downturn was felt by the Industrial OEM businesses
(RTD Seals and M Seals) and those businesses which
primarily supply to construction equipment dealers
(Bulldog and HKX).
With underlying revenues reducing by 21% (after
adjusting for currency effects and acquisitions), 
the main short term priority has been to optimise
performance at the reduced revenue levels. Substantial
cost reduction programmes led to a reduction in the
headcount and monthly operating expenses of 15% 
and 9% respectively. Working capital has also been
reduced sharply which generated free cash flow of
£8.6m, an increase of 76% over the prior year.
As in previous cyclical downturns, the Seals businesses
have maintained focused investment in a small number
of strategic projects to ensure that they emerge
stronger and well placed to exploit growth opportunities,
as the markets recover. This year, advantage was taken
of the reduced activity levels to complete the installation
of the new warehouse automation and carousel system
in Hercules’ main Clearwater operations. The investment
in the project this year has been £0.9m and results will
be seen in improved operational leverage, as volumes
increase.
In addition, continued investment has been applied to
establishing the Hercules Europe Aftermarket business,
despite unfavourable current market conditions. A
further £0.3m has been invested in relocating the
business to a new facility, building appropriate inventory
and distributing a new 4-language seal and seal kit
catalogue. As market conditions improve, Hercules
Europe will be well placed to build market share.
Finally, HFPG completed the acquisition of RTD Seals in
January 2009 for a consideration of £10.1m. RTD Seals
is a good sized, long established supplier to industrial
OEMs with a strong market position in the Mid-Western
states in the US. RTD Seals made a positive contribution
of £0.7m to operating profits in very difficult trading
conditions and is well positioned to gain early benefit
from any market recovery.
Controls
With a large proportion of revenues generated in the UK
and Germany and a wide range of product applications,
the underlying market drivers are the growth of the UK
and German industrial economies. In both countries, real
GDP and manufacturing output fell markedly over the
year, with the UK entering recession in late 2008 and
Germany following early in 2009. 
While strongly influenced by the general industrial
economic environment, the Controls businesses 
focus on more specialised, technology driven market
segments. The businesses have benefited in particular
from the stronger market conditions in the Defence and
Military Aerospace sectors. With a larger part of the
revenues generated from repair, refurbishment and
upgrade programmes, the Controls businesses have
been less exposed to cut-backs and delays in major
capital programmes. 
The Medical equipment sector has also remained
strong, but other sectors have performed less 
well, including general Industrial, Motorsport and
Commercial Aerospace. Against this market
background, the Controls businesses saw revenues
reduce by 10% in UK sterling terms, a reduction of 
15% in local currency terms. As with other sectors, 
the Controls businesses have reacted quickly by
implementing cost reduction programmes. Sector
headcount and monthly operating expenses reduced by
10% and 8% respectively over the course of the year.
Further progress was made during the year in building a
more substantial, more integrated business around the
IS-Group. The Cabletec manufactured products were
made available to the IS-Group’s European network of 6 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
sub-distributors. In addition, the portfolio of high
performance wiring and interconnect products, which
share common suppliers, was aligned under a single
management team which will bring benefits in
purchasing, stock management and cross-European
sales opportunities.
Key Performance Indicators (“KPI’s”)
EPS and TSR Growth
The principal metrics used in measuring Group
performance over the longer term are growth in
adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”) and total
shareholder return (“TSR”).
Adjusted EPS for the continuing businesses fell back
this year by 8% to 14.8p (2008: 16.0p), but measured
over a longer period, adjusted EPS has grown by an
average of 16% p.a. over the last five years. Over 
the same five year period, TSR has grown by 81%
compared with growth of 68% in the TSR for the 
FTSE 250 index.
The Group uses four further financial KPI’s which drill
down through the organisation and are used as the
principal quantitative elements in the short and long
term incentive programmes for senior management of
the operating businesses. Performance against these
KPIs is summarised below.
Revenue Growth
In 2009, the operating businesses were impacted 
by the dramatic downturn in global economies and
markets, but benefited from currency translation effects
and contributions from acquisitions. Revenue from
continuing businesses increased by 2% in the year,
though on an underlying basis adjusted for currency
effects and acquisitions, revenues declined by 12%.
Over five years, revenue has grown at 14% p.a. through
a combination of organic growth and acquisitions.
Operating Margin
As revenues reduced in 2009, cost reduction
programmes were quickly initiated. However, the impact
of these programmes has lagged the revenue reduction
and has not been sufficient to offset the effects of
operational leverage. Operating margins therefore
reduced in the year but remain at a healthy 16.0%, 
close to the average of 16.3% over the last five years.
Free Cash Flow
The Group is strongly cash generative over the business
cycle; over the last five years, an average of 99% of
adjusted profit after tax has been converted into free
cash flow. In 2009, in response to the reduction in
trading levels, working capital was reduced sharply
which resulted in a strong increase in operating
cashflow. With capital expenditure focused on a small
number of strategic projects, free cash flow of £23.5m
was generated, an increase of 33% over the prior year.
Return on Trading Capital Employed
Over the previous five years, return on trading capital
employed has remained consistently above 20%. 
In 2009, this has reduced to 19.0%, partly because of
the impact of the weak UK sterling on overseas trading
capital employed.
Non Financial KPIs
In the operating businesses, non financial KPIs are used
which are tailored to the particular requirements and
characteristics of each business. At the Group level, non
financial KPIs measure the success in managing two key
elements of the strategy, the management of human
resources and acquisitions.
In 2009, the key employee statistics were broadly
maintained in a year when there were significant
headcount and cost reduction programmes. Two
acquisitions were also completed in a difficult environment
where the supply of good quality acquisitions, with owners
who are ready to sell, has been limited.
The Group has delivered a resilient revenue and profit
performance, together with exceptionally strong free
cash flow, despite the recessionary environment
impacting most of its key markets. The Group has
reacted quickly and decisively in bearing down on
operating costs and working capital, while still investing
in selected growth initiatives. The Group is well
positioned to benefit from any market recovery.
Bruce Thompson 
Chief Executive Officer
16 November 2009
Chief Executive’s Review
The Group continues to deliver against 
Key Performance Indicators 7 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chief Executive’s Review
Five year performance
Financial KPI’s
Revenue growth (£m) Operating margin (%)
ROTCE
†
(%) Free cash flow* (£m) 
*excluding the sales of surplus land and buildings
†
TCE includes goodwill and intangible assets
Adjusted EPS (pence): 
16% p.a. growth
TSR growth: +81% 
(compared with FTSE 250 +68%)
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
160.0
156.2
124.5
112.1
95.3
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
16.0
17.0
16.6
16.1
15.7
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
14.8
16.0
13.1
11.8
9.7
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
181
149
209
139
125
2004 7.0 2004 100
19.0 2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
23.5
17.7
11.4
11.8
11.7
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
22.4
25.5
25.1
23.0
Non financial KPI’s
Key employee statistics Acquisition overview
 2007 20082009
Number of employees 712 833 823
Males as % of total 64% 65% 66%
Length of service (years) 5.2 5.2 6.4
Average staff turnover 21.1% 20.2% 18.3%
Sick days lost per person 2.9 3.4  3.6
      Life Sciences Seals  Controls
2009  Meditech RTD Seals
2008 Hitek Snijders 
2007  AMT M Seals Cabletec
2006  CBISS 
2005   HKX 8 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors and Advisors
Our experienced Board focuses on strategy, 
financial control and risk management
JL Rennocks
Non-Executive Chairman
BM Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
NP Lingwood
Group Finance Director and Company Secretary
I Henderson
Chief Operating Officer
JW Matthews
Non-Executive
IM Grice
Non-Executive 9 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors and Advisors
JL Rennocks FCA (64) *†‡
Non-Executive Chairman
Joined the Board in July 2002. He is Chairman of
Nestor Healthcare plc, Deputy Chairman of Inmarsat
plc and a non-Executive Director of Babcock
International Group PLC and of other companies. He
has previously been Executive Director Finance at
Corus Group Plc and Finance Director of PowerGen
Plc and Smith & Nephew plc.
NP Lingwood ACA (50)
Group Finance Director and Company Secretary
Joined the Company in June 2001 and appointed
Group Finance Director on 3 July 2001. Prior to 
joining Diploma, he was Group Financial Controller 
of Unigate PLC, having previously qualified with 
Price Waterhouse, London.
JW Matthews FCA (65) *†‡
Non-Executive
Joined the Board in 2003. He is Chairman of Regus
Group plc. He has previously been Chairman of Crest
Nicholson plc and was a Managing Director of County
NatWest and Deputy Chairman/Deputy Chief
Executive of Beazer plc.
BM Thompson (54)
Chief Executive Officer
Joined the Board in 1994 and appointed Chief
Executive Officer in 1996. He started his career in 
the automotive industry, first as a design engineer
and then in marketing. Prior to joining Diploma, 
he was Director of Arthur D Little Inc’s Technology
Management Practice in the United States.
I Henderson (53)
Chief Operating Officer
Joined the Board as a Director in 1998. He was
previously a Director of Glenchewton plc and ANC
Holdings Limited.
IM Grice (56) *†‡
Non-Executive
Joined the Board in January 2007.  He is Chairman of
Pims Group Limited and a non-Executive Director of
John Graham Holdings Limited. He was Group Chief
Executive of Alfred McAlpine plc until February 2008.
Investment Bankers: 
Lazard & Co 
50 Stratton Street
London W1J 8LL
Corporate Stockbrokers: 
Panmure Gordon & Co
Moorgate Hall, 155 Moorgate
London EC2N 6XB
Solicitors:
Ashurst LLP
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London EC2A 2HA
Auditors:
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
Bankers:
Royal Bank of Scotland 
62-63 Threadneedle Street
London EC2R 8LA
Member of:
* the Remuneration Committee
† the Audit Committee
‡ the Nomination Committee Strategy and Performance
10 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Group Strategy
The Group comprises a number of high quality, specialised 
businesses supplying technical products and services and 
operating in the three broad industry sectors of Life Sciences, 
Seals and Controls. The businesses aim to achieve stable 
revenue growth through the focus on essential products and 
services funded by customers’ operating, rather than capital 
budgets. Attractive margins are sustained through the quality of 
customer service, depth of technical support and value adding 
activities. The Group’s strategic objective is to build more 
substantial, broader based businesses in the chosen sectors 
through a combination of organic growth and acquisition. There 
are a number of core themes which underpin the strategies of 
the Group and its operating businesses:
Focus on markets which can deliver stable revenue growth
The businesses aim to achieve stable revenue growth by 
focusing on markets where the demand is funded by operating 
budgets which are less impacted by economic cycles than 
capital budgets. A high proportion of the Group’s revenues are 
generated from consumable products and service contracts and 
in many cases the products will be used in repair, maintenance 
and refurbishment applications, rather than original equipment 
manufacture. Where public sector funding or regulation is 
involved, year on year changes in funding may also be less 
dramatic. 
In Life Sciences, the Canadian businesses supply into the public 
sector funded Healthcare sector which, over many years, has 
been growing steadily at the rate of 6-7% p.a. Annual variations 
are mostly dependant on the periodic additional tranches of 
funding provided by individual Provinces. Additional stability 
is provided in this sector by multi-year customer contracts for 
consumables and service which underpin at least 60% of sector 
revenues. The European environmental businesses supply to 
utilities and other industrial customers where the demand is 
largely driven by Environmental and Health & Safety regulations. 
In Seals, the core business is the next day delivery of seals 
and seal kits used in the repair and maintenance of heavy 
mobile machinery. This focus on the Aftermarket means that 
the businesses, though not immune from a market downturn, 
are relatively insulated from the extremes of the business and 
economic cycles. The risk profile of the business this year has 
been improved by extending further into international markets, 
with the further investment in Hercules Europe and into 
industrial OEMs, through the acquisition of RTD Seals. In 2009, 
33% of sector revenues were generated in international markets 
outside North America and Industrial OEMs now account for ca. 
23% of sector revenues.
In Controls, the businesses offer specialised products and 
services used in technically demanding applications. They have 
demonstrated a more resilient performance than the general 
industrial economies in which they operate, by focusing on more 
buoyant markets including Defence, Aerospace and Medical 
Equipment. 
Strong customer relationships underpinned 
by full service offering
Sales and marketing are the main drivers for each of the 
businesses. With a background in specialised distribution it is 
natural to start with the needs of key customers and then to 
design the business models to respond to these requirements 
in terms of products, service offerings and operational 
responsiveness.
A key priority for the businesses is to build strong customer 
relationships within selected product and market segments. 
Attractive margins are sustained over time by providing a range 
of services to customers which they value and are prepared 
to pay for. Such services fall broadly into three categories – 
customer service, technical support and value added activities. 
Customer service can be, for example, the delivery of products 
held in inventory on a next day basis. Technical support is often 
provided by helping customers design the product into their 
specific applications. Value adding activities are services such 
as kitting or assembly, which the customers would have to pay 
someone else to provide, or they would have to invest in their 
own resources.
Ultimately, customers will always demand competitive product 
performance, pricing and responsive delivery. However, the 
broader service offering builds stronger links with the customers 
at many levels, making switching more difficult.
If real value is not provided to customers, margins will erode 
over time. The evidence that value is being delivered to 
customers is provided by the stability over time of the Group’s 
gross margins in specific product and market segments. Over 
five years, average group gross margins have remained stable 
at ca. 36%. Shorter term movements in gross margin principally 
arise due to changes in the mix of business or short term 
currency movements. 
Secure supply of quality differentiated products
Given the specialised nature of the businesses, it is critical that 
they have a secure supply of quality, differentiated products. 
There are a number of ways that this can be achieved and each 
business uses a blend to develop their product portfolios:
 Quality manufacturer-branded products supplied on an 
exclusive basis, typically secured with long term distribution 
agreements.
 Own brand products supplied or manufactured under 
contract.
 Selective in-house manufacturing and assembly.
Securing quality differentiated products is seen as a continuous 
process rather than a one-off activity. Over time, products in the 
portfolio will become less competitive and it is important that the 
businesses have plans for selective new product development 
and for the introduction of new suppliers, for example through 
Somagen’s bolt-on acquisition this year of Meditech. 11 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business Review
The Life Sciences and Controls businesses mostly source 
high quality, manufacturer branded products under exclusive, 
long term contracts. These contracts are typically 3-5 years 
in duration but in some cases extend to ten years. These 
manufacturer branded products are supplemented selectively 
with own brand and manufactured products. The a1-group 
has improved competitiveness by developing its own range of 
containment products which are now manufactured by reliable 
sub-contractors. Cabletec has also had success with its own 
range of manufactured products, including flexible braided 
products and multi-core cables.
In Seals, the aftermarket products are marketed under the 
businesses’ own brand names including Hercules, Bulldog 
and HKX. Products are sourced globally from a range of 
manufacturers and security of supply is provided by the control 
of the brands and the cultivation of multiple alternative suppliers. 
In supplying Industrial OEM’s, more emphasis is placed by  
M Seals and RTD Seals on the manufacturer brands.
Motivated and committed management teams
The Diploma organisational philosophy is to develop strong, 
self-standing management teams in the operating businesses 
committed to, and rewarded according to, the short and long 
term success of their businesses. The small corporate team 
focuses on strategy and financial control. 
The development of strong managers and management teams 
remains a priority for the Group and is key to the successful 
implementation of the business strategies. The Group needs to 
maintain and develop a group of managers with the potential to 
manage aggressive growth strategies. Importantly they must 
be able to motivate their staff and engender in them the same 
commitment.
To achieve this, the businesses concentrate on ensuring a 
challenging work environment and appropriate reward systems. 
Balanced compensation packages are a combination of 
competitive salaries, annual bonuses and long term incentive 
plans targeted at the individual business level.
The cadre of ca. 50 senior managers in the operating businesses, 
demonstrate a good blend of energy, ambition and experience. 
The average age of these managers is 45 and they have an 
average length of service within their companies of ten years.
Efficient and responsive operations 
and information systems
Continuing, substantial investments are made in infrastructure 
and systems to give high levels of customer service, 
responsiveness and operational efficiency. This is an important 
element of the value added by the Group when transforming 
owner-managed companies into more substantial broader based 
businesses.
Ongoing investment programmes ensure that the principal 
businesses are operating from purpose built or newly expanded 
facilities designed for efficient operations and with the scale to 
support significant future growth.
Similarly in the area of information systems, regular investment 
ensures that the businesses are supported by integrated IT 
systems designed to give strong functionality and efficiency 
and capable of supporting growth. Over the past five years, 
an average of £0.5m p.a. has been invested in improving the 
Group’s information systems. In 2009, the Hercules operation in 
Clearwater, Florida invested a further £0.9m in new warehouse 
management software and automated stock picking carousels. 
Once the businesses have achieved a certain critical mass and 
have invested in appropriate facilities and IT systems, they can 
generally increase revenues without a significant increase in 
working capital. A strong focus on operating costs (80-90% 
employee related) and tight management of working capital 
ensure resilient operating margins and strong cashflow. 
Core Strategic Themes
Focus on markets which can  
deliver stable revenue growth
Strong customer relationships 
underpinned by full service offering
Secure supply of quality  
differentiated products
Motivated and committed 
management teams
Efficient and responsive operations  
and information systems
Carefully selected acquisitions  
to accelerate growth 12 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Strategy and Performance continued
Carefully selected acquisitions to accelerate growth
To complement the organic growth strategy, the Group 
makes selective acquisitions to accelerate growth and enter 
into new, but related markets. The Group’s ungeared balance 
sheet, supported by strong and consistent operating cash 
flow, provides the resources to support an active acquisition 
programme. In 2009, free cash flow of £23.5m was generated 
through tight management of working capital.
Clear criteria have been established to guide the Group’s pro-
active acquisition programme and these criteria are derived from 
the strategic themes above. Prospective acquisitions should be 
sales and marketing led with strong customer relationships and 
a secure supply of quality, differentiated products. They should 
have capable management, and the potential for profitable 
growth and cash generation.
A competitive advantage in making acquisitions is the Group’s 
flexibility in structuring transactions. In many of the medium 
sized acquisitions, such as AMT and Somagen, where the 
objective was to extend into new markets or geographies, less 
than 100% of the business has been acquired. In these cases, 
owner managers are left with a minority stake in the business 
(up to 25%), with put and call options exercisable over 3-5 year 
periods. This allows vendors to remain in the businesses with a 
large part of the value crystallised, but still with the potential for 
future gain. For the Group, this reduces risk and gives additional 
confidence in the quality of the acquisition.
Acquisition Life
Overview Sciences Seals Controls
2009 Meditech RTD Seals
2008 Hitek Snijders
2007 AMT M Seals Cabletec
2006 CBISS
2005 HKX
In 2009, the acquisitions of Meditech in Canada and RTD Seals 
in the US have been completed. However, the supply of good 
quality acquisitions, with owners who are ready to sell, has been 
limited. Owners, unless forced to sell, are generally delaying 
their decision until there is firmer evidence of a sustained 
economic and market recovery.
Key Performance Indicators
EPS and TSR growth
The success of the Group strategy in the longer term is 
measured in financial terms by the growth in the two key 
measures of adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”) and total 
shareholder return (“TSR”). These are the principal quantitative 
measures used in the incentive compensation programmes for 
the Executive Directors. 
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Adjusted EPS (pence) 9.7 11.8 13.1 16.0 14.8
TSR index (2004=100) 125 139 209 149 181
Adjusted EPS is measured relative to RPI growth and the 
method of calculation is detailed in note 2 to the financial 
statements. Over the last five years, adjusted EPS has grown at 
an average rate of 16% p.a.
TSR is a combination of share price growth and reinvested 
dividends and is measured by comparison with the FTSE mid-
250 index, as set out on page 33 of the Remuneration Report. 
Over the last five years the TSR of Diploma PLC has grown by 
81%, compared to growth of 68% in the TSR of the FTSE mid-
250 index.
In support of these principal measures of performance, the 
Group uses four financial key performance indicators (“KPIs”) 
as described below and defined in note 2 to the consolidated 
financial statements. As well as being used to measure the 
performance at Group level, the financial KPIs drill down through 
the organisation and are used as the principal quantitative 
elements in the short and long term incentive programmes for 
senior management of the operating businesses. 
Revenue growth
Revenue growth is reported in detail for the sectors and 
operating businesses and is a key driver in the business. 
Revenue growth is compared to the relevant market growth 
rate to confirm that progress is being achieved in increasing 
market share by a combination of sales and marketing initiatives, 
product line extensions and geographic expansion. The Group’s 
objective is to grow organically at a rate higher than GDP growth 
and then to supplement this with carefully selected acquisitions.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Revenue (£m) 95.3 112.1 124.5 156.2 160.0
Revenue growth +15% +18% +11% +25% +2%
Over the last five years, average revenue growth of 14% p.a. 
has been achieved in the continuing businesses. In 2009, the 
businesses were impacted by the dramatic downturn in global 
economies and markets, but benefited from currency translation 
effects and contributions from new acquisitions. Revenue from 
continuing businesses increased by 2% in the year, though 
on an underlying basis, adjusted for currency effects and new 
acquisitions, revenues declined by 12%. 
Operating margin
Operating margin represents operating profit, before 
amortisation of acquisition intangible assets, divided by revenue. 
It is an important measure for the Group as it monitors the 
success of the businesses in achieving superior margins by 
offering strongly differentiated products and services, as well as 
by running their operations efficiently.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Operating margin 15.7% 16.1% 16.6% 17.0% 16.0%
In recent years, the Group’s operating margin in the continuing 
businesses steadily increased from ca. 12% in 2004 to 17% 
in 2008. A number of the acquisitions made in recent years 
have had a positive impact on Group average margins. The 
most important driver, however, has been the operational 
leverage gained as the businesses have increased in scale, 
leading to increased revenues without a proportionate increase 
in operating costs. This effect was most visible in the Seals 
sector businesses in North America where major investments 
have been made in the IT infrastructure and the warehousing 
operations to support the increasing scale and scope.  13 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business Review
As revenues reduced in 2009, the operating businesses reacted 
quickly by bearing down on operating costs. Headcount and 
net monthly operating costs for the continuing businesses 
were reduced by 10% and 6% respectively during the year. 
However, the impact of cost reduction programmes has lagged 
the revenue reduction and has not been sufficient to reverse the 
effects of operational leverage. Operating margins reduced in 
the year, but remain at a healthy 16%.
Free cash flow
Free cash flow is defined as the cash flow generated after 
tax, but before acquisitions and dividends. This measures the 
success of the operating businesses and the Group as a whole, 
in turning profit into cash through the careful management of 
working capital and capital investments in the business. 
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Free cash flow (£m) 11.7 11.8 11.4 17.7 23.5
As % of PAT 103% 86% 75% 93% 131%
Over the last five years, the Group has generated a robust free 
cash flow averaging £15.2m p.a. representing 99% of average 
adjusted profit after tax. These figures exclude the one-off 
proceeds from the sale of surplus land and buildings from 
legacy businesses – which amounted to ca. £20m over the 
period 2003-2007. 
Free cashflow in 2009 has been particularly strong at £23.5m 
representing 131% of adjusted profit after tax. This has been 
achieved through a sharp reduction in working capital which 
resulted in a strong increase in operating cashflow. 
Return on trading capital employed
Return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) represents 
operating profit, before amortisation of acquisition intangible 
assets, as a percentage of trading capital employed (“TCE”), 
defined as net assets less net cash and non-operating assets 
and liabilities. 
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
ROTCE 23.0% 25.1% 25.5% 22.4% 19.0%
At the Group and sector level, TCE, as defined in note 2 
of the consolidated financial statements, includes the total 
cash invested in acquisitions, including all gross goodwill and 
acquired intangible assets, both capitalised and written off in 
previous years. Over the last five years, ROTCE has remained 
consistently above 20%, though in 2009 has slipped to 19.0%, 
partly because of the impact of weak UK sterling on overseas 
TCE. 
At the operating business level, goodwill and acquired intangible 
assets are excluded from TCE so that management is judged 
more narrowly on the return achieved on capital invested in 
fixed assets and working capital. This is because the operating 
business management may not have been directly involved in the 
price negotiations for acquisitions completed within their sectors.
Non financial KPIs
In the operating businesses, non financial KPIs are used which 
are tailored to the particular requirements and characteristics of 
each business. At the Group level, non financial KPIs measure 
the success in managing human resources.
Key Employee Statistics  2007 2008 2009
Number of employees   712 833 823
Males as % of total   64% 65% 66%
Length of service (years)   5.2 5.2 6.4
Average staff turnover   21.1% 20.2% 18.3%
Sick days lost per person   2.9 3.4 3.6
The average number of employees in the continuing businesses 
in 2009 has decreased by 1% to 823 (2008: 833). These figures 
include the ca. 40 employees added with the acquisitions of 
RTD Seals and Meditech. Excluding these additions, the total 
headcount in the continuing businesses has reduced by 10% 
over the year. The proportion of males to females is broadly 
unchanged with males accounting for 66% of the total (2008: 
65%); average length of service has increased to 6.4 years (2008: 
5.2 years). The other employee KPIs have remained very stable 
given the cost reduction programmes within the businesses.  
Average staff turnover has reduced to 18.3% (2008: 20.2%) and 
sick days lost per person were 3.6 days (2008: 3.4 days). 14 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Sector Review: Life Sciences
Sector Definition and Scope
The Life Sciences sector businesses supply a range of 
consumables, instrumentation and related services to 
clinical, environmental and industrial applications.
The Canadian Healthcare businesses are managed through 
Diploma Canada Healthcare Inc (“DCHI”) . The two principal 
operating businesses are Somagen, based in Edmonton, 
Alberta, and AMT, based in Kitchener, Ontario. Somagen 
supplies a range of consumables and instruments used in the 
diagnostic testing of blood, tissue and other samples in the 
500-600 hospital pathology laboratories across Canada. It is 
also a leading supplier of products and services to the growing 
in-vitro fertilisation (“IVF”) market. AMT supplies specialty 
electrosurgery and endoscopy equipment and consumables for 
use in the operating rooms and endoscopy suites of the same 
Canadian hospitals. A large proportion of DCHI’s revenues come 
from multi-year customer contracts with hospitals and buying 
groups.
The a1-group is a supplier to Environmental testing laboratories 
and to Health & Safety engineers. The UK operations of the 
a1-group are located in Luton and Tranmere. In Continental 
Europe, the group has locations in Dusseldorf in Germany and 
Basel in Switzerland. The group supplies a range of specialised 
analysers for detecting and measuring specific elements in 
liquids, solids and gases. It also supplies gas detection devices, 
a range of containment enclosures for potent powder handling 
and equipment and services for the monitoring and control of 
environmental emissions.
In October 2009, a contract was signed for the disposal of the 
manual liquid handling (“MLH”) business of Anachem Limited 
with the transaction due to complete in January 2010. Anachem 
is being treated in these accounts as a discontinuing business 
held for sale and its revenues and profits have been excluded 
from the sector analysis.
Market Drivers
The DCHI businesses supply into the Canadian Healthcare 
sector, which is mostly public sector funded. The principal 
demand driver is therefore the level of healthcare spending by 
the Canadian Government.
Growth
C$bn 2005 2006 2007 2008 % p.a
Public sector health 
expenditure in Canada 99.3 105.8 113.2 120.3 6.8%
Total healthcare
expenditure 141.4 151.3 161.6 171.9 6.8%
Source: Canadian Institute for Health Information
The Canadian Healthcare industry is a proven, long term 
growth environment for medical device distribution. A growing, 
aging and well-educated patient population demands very 
high standards of service delivery, helping to ensure on-going 
growing demand. The Canadian Health Act (“the Act”) ensures 
universal coverage for all insured persons for all medically 
necessary services provided by hospitals, physicians and other 
healthcare providers. The Act is a piece of federal legislation, 
with the Provinces responsible for the delivery of the healthcare 
services. The strength of the legislation comes in the Federal 
Government’s ability to control delivery through Federal-
Provincial transfer payments, which represent the largest source 
of revenues for the Provinces.
The relative stability and consistency in funding by each of 
the Provinces, guaranteed through the Act, ensures that the 
market remains well funded through the economic cycle. Over 
many years, healthcare expenditure has grown steadily in the 
range 6-7% p.a. with annual variations mostly dependant on the 
periodic additional tranches of funding provided by individual 
Provinces.
Other factors which may influence the demand for products and 
services supplied by the DCHI businesses are:
 Proportion of total healthcare budgets allocated to 
diagnostic testing and to surgical procedures.
 Emergence of new tests driven by focus on specific 
diseases or allergies.
 Increased use of electrosurgical and endoscopic 
procedures in hospitals.
The a1-group supplies to customers in the Environmental 
industry across Europe. The market demand is largely driven by 
Environmental and Health & Safety regulations. Growth in recent 
years has been driven by the need to be compliant with a range 
of EU regulations including:
 New legislation or regulatory obligations relating to 
the environment, pollutants or potentially hazardous 
contaminants.
 The growing importance to companies of protecting 
the workforce from contact with potentially hazardous 
materials.
 Greater use of new technologies in process control and 
integrated pollution control.
The market for Environmental Monitoring and Instrumentation 
(EMI) in the UK has been estimated by a 2006 DTI/ CEED study 
to be ca. £190m with an annual growth rate through to 2015 
projected at ca. 3% p.a. In 2009, the market for consumable 
products has shown resilience, but capital equipment sales 
have suffered from decisions by customers to defer capital 
expenditure in the face of the economic recession. This initial 
impact was seen in the UK, but a similar trend is now being 
experienced with customers in Continental Europe.
Sector Performance
The continuing Life Sciences businesses increased revenues 
in 2009 by 11% to £49.9m (2008: £45.0m). Sector revenues 
benefited on translation from the stronger Canadian dollar and 
Euro relative to UK sterling and a contribution from the newly 
acquired Meditech business in Somagen. On a comparable and 
constant currency basis, sector revenues were broadly flat year 
on year. Operating profits increased by 23% to £10.6m (2008: 
£8.6m), with operating margins increasing to 21.2% (2008: 
19.1%).
Capital expenditure in the sector was £0.6m, including £0.5m 
invested in field equipment for placement by the Canadian 
Healthcare businesses. The balance was invested in hire 
equipment to help service customers of the a1-group. Free cash 
flow of £7.6m was generated in the sector (2008: £6.8m). 15 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business Review
The DCHI businesses increased revenues by 10% in Canadian 
dollars and 20% in UK sterling terms. The businesses continued 
to make good progress in markets where overall funding 
remains steady, but increased focus is being placed on the 
most cost effective use of funds. Although overall Healthcare 
funding has remained steady during the economic downturn, 
hospitals have been conscious of the need to be seen to use 
funds prudently. As a result, there has been a marked increase 
in the use of formal tenders for both capital expenditures and 
contracted consumables. There are also examples of cost 
reduction initiatives at a Provincial or Regional level, such as 
grouped purchasing contracts and stated targets for reducing 
the number of operating procedures. The DCHI businesses 
have responded by strongly selling the benefits to hospitals of 
proprietary products, supplied as part of longer term contracts 
for competitively priced packages of products. As a result 
the underlying supplies component of the business, which 
represents the larger part of DCHI group revenues, saw sales 
increase by 16% year on year.
AMT reported continued growth in its core Electrosurgery 
business with increasing penetration of its proprietary smoke 
evacuation products, benefiting from the new Canadian advisory 
standard for the capture of smoke plume. There were also 
strong sales of other consumable products, including grounding 
pads and surgical instruments. Revenues were given a welcome 
boost in the second half of the year by an exceptional order 
from a single Province for the supply of face shields, to protect 
hospital employees from the transfer of swine flu. Depending 
on the development of swine flu as a pandemic, there may be 
further orders from other Provinces for these face shields in 
the current year. The Endoscopy business saw good growth in 
its sales of consumable products, including argon probes and 
flexible endoscopic instruments. Sales of capital equipment 
were reduced against a strong prior year comparative.
For Somagen, there remains pressure on its hospital laboratory 
customers, where the focus remains firmly on cost reduction 
and efficiency. The laboratories have been targeted as areas 
where costs can be managed through limits on services, testing 
menus and reimbursements. Responding to these pressures, 
Somagen has been very successful in placing new instruments 
which provide higher levels of automation and operational 
efficiency. The new Sebia Capillarys platform and reagents are 
proving very successful with higher volume laboratories, which 
are facing a shortage of skilled technologists and increasing 
workloads. The Sakura products for pathology laboratory 
automation are also filling the need for larger instruments, with 
higher throughput capability.
In November 2008, Somagen completed the small bolt-
on acquisition of Meditech, a Montreal based supplier of 
in-vitro fertilisation (“IVF”) products. This acquisition has 
now established Somagen as a leading supplier of products 
and services to the growing IVF market, represented by 
approximately 30 dedicated clinics across Canada.
The a1-group experienced an overall reduction of 9% in 
revenues. The analyser and containment businesses delivered 
modest revenue growth, with the centre of activity moving 
towards Continental Europe and the results benefiting on 
translation from the stronger euro relative to UK sterling.
The businesses are increasing their focus on core competencies 
in the areas of containment technologies for personal 
protection and elemental analysis with related automation. 
In the containment business, new contracts have been won 
during the year for the supply of customised stainless steel 
solutions for the personal protection of technicians in the 
research laboratories of the major European pharmaceutical 
companies. These products, supplied under the a1-safetech 
brand and manufactured under contract, combine distinct 
ergonomic advantages with unique handling and safety 
features. The a1-group is also a leading supplier of elemental 
analysers (branded a1-envirotech) which respond to the needs 
of the petrochemical industry to measure sulphur and nitrogen 
accurately at low levels. In parallel, new products are being 
introduced to measure contamination by halides in petrochemical 
and bulk chemistry products.
CBISS experienced a continued slowdown in the market for 
new continuous emissions monitoring systems (“CEMS”). The 
longer term demand is still forecast to be strong for new CEMS 
installations in energy from waste (“EFW”), Biomass and power 
applications; however, projects are being deferred due to lack of 
funding or extended planning processes. Orders for new capital 
equipment are therefore significantly reduced and the business 
is currently relying on the base business, generated from 
service contracts. CBISS has responded to the lower activity 
levels in 2009 by restructuring itself operationally to improve 
efficiency, reduce costs and lead times and complete MCERTS 
accreditation of CEMS software.
Anachem is being treated in these financial statements as 
a discontinuing business held for sale and its revenues of 
£15.7m (2008: £16.1m) and operating profits of £1.2m (2008: 
£0.7m) have been excluded from the sector analysis.
2009 2008
Revenue £49.9m £45.0m
Operating Profit* £10.6m £8.6m
Operating Margin* 21.2% 19.1%
Free Cash Flow £7.6m £6.8m
Trading Capital Employed £45.5m £44.2m
ROTCE 23.3% 19.4%
*before amortisation of acquisition intangible assets.
Life Sciences Statistics
Customers
Clinical
Utilities
Life Sciences Research
Chemical & Petro-chemical
Industrial & Other
Geography
North America
Europe
Rest of World
Products
Consumables
Instrumentation
Service
77%
73%
67%
8%
26%
23%
6%
10%
5%
1%
4% 16 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Sector Review: Seals
Sector Definition and Scope
The Seals sector businesses supply a range of hydraulic 
seals, gaskets, cylinders and attachment kits used in heavy 
mobile and industrial machinery.
The Hercules Fluid Power Group (“HFPG”) comprises Hercules 
Sealing Products (“Hercules”), Bulldog Hydraulic & Gaskets 
(“Bulldog”), RTD Seals and HKX. The core Hercules business 
based in Clearwater, Florida provides a next day delivery service 
throughout the US, for seals, seal kits and cylinders used in 
a range of heavy mobile machinery applications. Hercules in 
Canada offers the same range of products from its two branch 
operations located in the provinces of Ontario and Quebec. In 
Europe, Hercules has centred its operations in the Netherlands.
Bulldog supplies a range of gasket and seal kits for heavy duty 
diesel engines, transmissions and hydraulic cylinders used in off 
road and marine applications. Bulldog is based in Reno, Nevada, 
but more than 75% of sales are to international customers 
outside the US. HKX is based near Seattle, Washington and 
supplies hydraulic kits used in the installation of attachments 
on excavators. HKX’s colour coded kit systems with ‘lego-logic’ 
instructions, substantially reduce the time and engineering 
expertise required to install attachments. 
RTD Seals, acquired in January 2009, has operations in 
Minneapolis, Minnesota and Chicago, Illinois.  RTD Seals 
supplies seals, O-rings and custom moulded and machined parts 
to a range of Industrial OEM customers, cylinder manufacturers 
and sub-distributors. 
Fluid Power Equipment (“FPE”) is based in the UK, with 
operations in Darlington and Doncaster, and supplies a range 
of seals, seal kits, cylinder parts and sealants to ram repairers, 
mobile and heavy plant operators, mechanical handling and 
process control companies.  
M Seals is a specialised distributor of O-rings, moulded parts, 
PTFE products and shaft seals. Products range from the finest 
precision seals for hearing aids to large heavy duty seals for 
wind power mills. M Seals has operations in Espergaerde in 
Denmark and Halmstad in Sweden. 
Market Drivers
The core business of HFPG is the supply of sealing products to 
the mobile machinery Aftermarket, where HFPG supplies into 
a broad range of applications in heavy construction, logging, 
mining, agriculture, material handling (lift trucks, fork lifts and 
dump trucks) and refuse collection.
Products are generally used in the repair and maintenance of 
equipment after it has completed its initial warranty period or 
lease term, or has been sold on in the pre-used market. The 
main customers are machinery and cylinder repair shops, engine 
and transmission re-builders and tractor parts distributors.
The principal market drivers are the growth in the general  
industrial economy and in particular heavy construction; although 
the Aftermarket focus means that the businesses are relatively 
insulated from the extremes of the economic and business 
cycles.
Growth
2005 2006 2007 2008 % p.a.
US real GDP growth
(1)
+3.1% +2.7% +2.1% +0.4% 2.1%
Annual US construction 
spending $billion
(2)
1,102 1,168 1,151 1,072 (0.9)%
US mobile hydraulic 
shipments $million
(3)
2,724 2,766 2,626 2,913 2.2%
Sources: 
(1)  Bureau of Economic Analysis – US Department of Commerce
(2)  US Census Bureau 
(3)  National Fluid Power Association
In the US, HFPG benefited from the strong growth in the 
economy from mid-2003 to mid-2006. Into 2007 and 2008, the 
residential construction sector declined due to over supply of 
homes and the sub-prime mortgage crisis. In late 2008 and 
2009, the recession broadened and deepened to impact the 
whole US economy. In spite of the announcement of national 
stimulus packages, funding has remained limited for national and 
municipal infrastructure and maintenance programmes and the 
house building sector has remained depressed.  
In Canada, there has been significantly lower economic activity 
in the key industrial regions close to the US border which are 
dependant on demand from the US market. The Oil and Gas 
industry in Alberta, which fuelled economic growth in recent 
years, has also slowed as lower oil prices have constrained the 
establishment of new extraction sites in the oil sands territories.
In Europe, FPE and Hercules Europe supply to a broad range of 
industrial users including construction, agriculture and material 
handling. Growth has remained sluggish in these sectors in 
recent years and this was exacerbated by the general downturn 
in the economy – in the UK from late 2008, followed by 
Continental Europe in early 2009. 
In the Industrial OEM sector served by RTD Seals and M Seals, 
manufacturers have cut back production and reduced inventories 
to respond to the reduction in general demand. There are some 
signs that this business is stabilising, but customers remain very 
cautious as they wait to see whether there will be a sustained 
recovery.
Sector Performance
The Seals businesses saw revenues increase in UK sterling 
terms by 13% to £48.2m (2008: £42.6m). However, the results 
benefited on translation from the stronger US dollar and euro, 
relative to UK sterling and from the first year contribution from 
RTD Seals. Underlying sector revenues decreased by 21%, after 
adjusting for currency effects and for the acquisition.
The businesses responded to the reduced revenues with 
substantial cost reduction programmes which led to a reduction 
of 15% in headcount and of 9% in monthly operating costs. 
However, these programmes lagged the revenue reduction 
and were not sufficient to offset the negative impact from 
operational leverage. As a result, operating profits reduced by 
18% to £5.5m (2008: £6.7m) and operating margins reduced to 
11.4% (2008: 15.7%).  
In response to the reduction in trading activity, working capital 
was reduced sharply which resulted in a strong increase in 
operating cashflow. Capital expenditure in the sector was £1.1m  17 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business Review
with the major element being investment in the new warehouse 
automation system in Hercules’ main Clearwater operations. 
Strong free cash flow of £8.6m was generated in the year
(2008: £4.9m)
HFPG saw underlying revenues (excluding the RTD Seals 
acquisition) reduce by 23% in US dollar terms. The core 
Hercules business, with its focus on the Aftermarket, 
demonstrated its resilient characteristics, with revenues 
reducing less than the broader market. Focused marketing 
initiatives have been implemented to capture market 
share during the downturn, including the launch of a new 
e-commerce site, monthly new seal and seal kit product 
introductions and special product promotions.  There was also 
growth in the Seals-on-Demand business from the custom 
machining of over-sized and out-of-production seals.
Internationally, the main focus has been on the strategic 
development of the Aftermarket business in Europe. Despite 
unfavourable  market conditions  during the year, investment 
has continued in establishing the Hercules Europe business to 
ensure that it is well positioned to exploit the market recovery 
when it comes. The business has been relocated to a larger 
facility in the Netherlands and inventory has been built of ca. 
1,300 seal kit products for popular European heavy equipment 
models. A new website has been established and a 4-language 
seal and seal kit catalogue, tailored for the European market, 
has been distributed.  Outside of the European initiative, 
Hercules’ international sales and marketing efforts have been 
focused on Latin America and Asia.
The major impact of the downturn has been experienced by 
the Bulldog, HKX and RTD Seals businesses, which supply 
to construction equipment dealers and Industrial OEMs.  
Bulldog has seen a significant fall in demand for its products, 
exacerbated by extensive de-stocking by customers who 
are typically distributors and dealers, rather than end-users. 
As with Hercules, Bulldog has worked hard to maintain or 
improve market share in a depressed market through sales and 
marketing initiatives and new product introductions.
HKX has been impacted by the dramatic reduction in the 
market for new excavators in North America. In 2009, sales 
of new excavators are down by ca. 70% from the peak in 
2005. HKX’s revenues have reduced by ca. 40% over the 
same period which shows that it has been able to increase 
penetration in a severely depressed market. This has been 
achieved by introducing attachment kit programmes to new 
customers, as well as improving the product and service 
offering. HKX has also responded to the depressed market for 
new equipment by developing kit programmes targeted at the 
refit sector.
In January 2009, HFPG acquired RTD Seals, a leading US 
based supplier of seals, O-rings and custom moulded and 
machined parts.  RTD Seals is a good sized, long established 
supplier to Industrial OEMs with a strong position in the Mid-
Western US states.  This acquisition, when supported by 
HFPG’s broader sales and marketing resources, will provide 
a platform for building HFPG’s Industrial OEM business in 
North America.  RTD Seals has been impacted this year by the 
significant downturn in industrial activity in the US.  However, 
it contributed £6.9m to revenues and £0.7m to operating profit 
in a very difficult trading environment and is well positioned to 
benefit early from any market recovery. 
In response to the reduced revenues, HFPG has implemented 
cost reduction programmes which have resulted in a 17% 
reduction in headcount and a 10% reduction in monthly 
operating expenses. There continues to be a focus on 
operational efficiency and on further opportunities to reduce 
working capital, with resources being planned assuming no near 
term recovery in the markets.
Investment has been maintained in the new warehouse 
automation and carousel system project in Hercules’ Clearwater 
operations to ensure that, when the market eventually recovers, 
the business will emerge stronger and well placed to exploit 
growth opportunities.
The FPE business in the UK was impacted by the general 
economic downturn in the UK and by a sharp decline in exports 
to sub-distributors in Continental Europe, resulting in a 11% 
decline in revenues. As with the US, there are some signs of 
stability returning to the market, but with recovery expected 
to be slow. M Seals has also been substantially impacted by 
the economic downturn as its major OEM customers reduced 
production and took extended summer shutdowns. Good 
progress in supplying the major wind turbine manufacturers has 
not been sufficient to offset the general downturn in activity 
and revenues have fallen sharply in the second half of the year. 
There are few signs yet of demand returning to pre-recession 
levels and recovery is expected to be slow.
2009 2008
Revenue £48.2m £42.6m
Operating Profit* £5.5m £6.7m
Operating Margin* 11.4% 15.7%
Free Cash Flow £8.6m £4.9m
Trading Capital Employed £38.2m £30.1m
ROTCE 14.6% 22.5%
*before amortisation of acquisition intangible assets.
Seals Statistics
Customers
Heavy Construction
Industrial OEMs
Logging & Agriculture
Dump & Refuse Trucks
General Industrial
Geography
North America
Europe
Rest of World
Products
Seals & Seal Kits
O-rings
Attachment Kits
Gaskets
Cylinders & Other
49%
67%
9%
68%
8%
23%
20%
9%
5%
13%
6%
4%
19% 18 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Sector Review: Controls
Sector Definition and Scope
The Controls sector businesses supply specialised wiring, 
connectors, fasteners and control devices used in a range of 
technically demanding applications.
The IS-Group has its principal operations in Swindon, UK 
from where IS-Rayfast supplies high performance wiring 
and interconnect products for use in a range of technically 
demanding applications including Aerospace, Military & Marine, 
Rail and Electronics. Cabletec, based in Weston-super-Mare, UK, 
distributes similar products, but in addition supplies a range of 
manufactured products, including flexible braided products and 
multi-core cables.
IS-Motorsport and Clarendon supply wiring, harness components 
and fasteners into the Motorsport sector, supplying most of 
the Formula 1 teams, as well as other series in the UK, US 
and Continental Europe. The UK operations are located in 
Swindon and Leicester, with satellite operations in Indianapolis 
and Mooresville, in the US. The IS-Group has also established 
a representative office in Beijing, with an initial focus on the 
Chinese commercial aerospace repair and Aftermarket sector.
Hawco supplies a range of instrumentation and control devices 
used in the sensing, measurement and control of temperature 
and pressure. Applications range from chilled cabinets for 
supermarkets, bars and restaurants to fire detection systems. 
Hawco has its operations in Guildford and Bolton, in the UK.
In Germany, Sommer and Filcon supply a range of high 
performance wiring and connectors to customers in a range 
of high technology industries including Defence, Aerospace, 
Automotive Diagnostics and Medical equipment. A range of 
value adding activities enhances the customer offering, including 
connector assembly, marking of protective sleeves and prototype 
quantities of customised multi-core cables. Sommer and Filcon 
have operations in Stuttgart, Munich and Frankfurt in Germany.
Market Drivers
With over 90% of sector sales in the UK and Germany and a 
wide range of product applications, the underlying market drivers 
are the growth of the UK and German industrial economies:
Growth
2005 2006 2007 2008 % p.a.
UK real GDP growth
(1)
+2.1% +2.8% +3.0% +0.7% 2.1%
UK Production index
(2)
100.0 101.6 102.2 99.2 (0.3)%
Germany real 
GDP growth
(1)
+0.9% +3.2% +2.6% +1.0% 1.9%
Sources:
(1) Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
(2) The Office of National Statistics – Index of Production for Manufacturing
Over the period 2005 – 2007, real GDP in the UK grew at an 
average rate of 2-3% p.a. but manufacturing has remained 
relatively flat. The economy slowed through 2008 and then 
entered a severe recession in the final quarter of the year. Real 
GDP and manufacturing output are projected to fall by ca. 4% 
and 10% respectively in 2009, with only slow recovery forecast 
for 2010.
In Germany, after a period of modest recovery in 2006 and 2007, 
mainly driven by export performance, growth slowed through 
2008. The German economy entered recession later than the 
US and UK economies, with the fall in output accelerating at the 
beginning of 2009. The decline in GDP is projected at ca. 6% for 
2009 with activity forecast to pick up slowly during the course 
of 2010.
While strongly influenced by the UK and German economies, 
the Controls sector businesses focus on more specialised, 
technology driven market segments, including the Defence and 
Aerospace sectors:
Growth
2005 2006 2007 2008 % p.a.
German Defence equipment
budget billion
(1)
8.1 8.2 8.6 9.5 5%
UK Defence capital 
equipment £billion
(2)
6.7 6.4 7.0 7.7 5%
Commercial Aerospace 
market growth
(3)
+7.2% +5.1% +7.2% +1.8% 5%
Sources:
(1)  Federal Ministry of Finance – Germany.
(2)  UK Government’s Expenditure Plans 2008/9
(3)  Boeing and Airbus market outlook publications – revenue passenger 
kilometres
The combined Defence capital budgets in the UK and Germany 
have grown at an average of ca. 5% p.a. over the last five years. 
The IS-Group and Sommer focus more on repair, refurbishment 
and upgrade programmes as well as supplying to Tier 2 
electronics suppliers. They typically only supply to OEMs and the 
Tier 1 suppliers when ex-stock availability and responsiveness 
are important. As a result, they are less exposed to cutbacks 
and delays in major defence programmes. Filcon has a greater 
involvement in the major capital projects through its supply of 
connectors; however, Filcon has its products designed-in to a 
broad range of air, sea and land applications and is not over-
exposed to individual projects.
In the commercial aerospace sector, again the IS-Group and 
Sommer focus more on repair, refurbishment and upgrades and 
they benefited from the buoyancy in the overall market which 
showed strong growth in the five year period to 2008. Boeing 
and Airbus are still projecting longer term growth of ca. 5% p.a. 
in revenue passenger kilometres, but the industry has slowed 
dramatically with the global economic downturn. The effects are 
seen most dramatically in the reduction in projected new aircraft 
orders (less than 300 in 2009 compared with ca. 1500 in 2008). 
Although the backlog remains strong, the reduced level of new 
orders along with cancellations of existing orders will lead to a 
further slow-down in production rates.
In Motorsport, demand has been impacted by the range of 
cost cutting measures, including testing restrictions, being 
implemented in Formula One and other motor racing series. 
Other specialised, technically driven markets including
Medical, have remained more resilient than the general
industrial sectors, though they have not been immune from the 
economic downturn. 19 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business Review
Sector Performance
The Controls businesses saw revenues decrease in 2009 by 
10% to £61.9m (2008: £68.6m); on a constant currency basis, 
revenues reduced by 15%. Sector operating profits decreased 
by 16% to £9.5m (2008: £11.3m), with operating margins 
reduced to 15.3% (2008: 16.5%).
As with other sectors, cost reduction measures were 
implemented in the Controls sector businesses to respond to 
reductions in revenues. Sector headcount and monthly operating 
expenses reduced by 10% and 8% respectively during the year. 
With only £0.1m being invested in the sector during 2009, 
strong free cash flow of £8.9m was generated (2008: £8.3m).
The UK Controls businesses saw revenues decrease by 9% 
with lower sales in all market sectors, except the core Defence 
and Military Aerospace markets, which have benefited from 
ongoing upgrade, refurbishment and maintenance programmes. 
In the land systems segment, the Force protection programme 
of electronic counter measures, vehicle camera systems, 
protected weapon stations and the tactical support vehicle 
programmes have contributed to IS-Group revenues. The military 
marine segment revenues have closely tracked the ongoing 
build programmes for the Astute submarine and the Type 45 
frigates. In Military Aerospace, again robust revenues have 
been supported by a range of ongoing programmes, including 
the Eurofighter, unmanned air vehicles, Nimrod and the various 
helicopter programmes.
Other markets for the IS-Group have been impacted by the 
general economic slowdown, as well as by sector specific 
factors. In Civil Aerospace, the IS-Group supplies products 
principally for the initial fit-out of aircraft interiors and then 
their subsequent upgrade and refurbishment; revenues have 
been softer here in line with the general slowdown in new 
aircraft production. In Motorsport, demand has been impacted 
by the range of cost cutting measures, including testing 
restrictions, being implemented in Formula One. The cut-backs 
in sponsorship by major automotive companies is also having a 
significant impact on other series, especially World Rally
and NASCAR.
IS-Group’s manufactured products supplied to Energy and 
Industrial customers and the Hawco business in general, have 
been more exposed to the major downturn in UK industrial 
markets. Declining end-user demand and over-stocking at 
customers have contributed to reduced revenues. The Hitek 
calibration services business, which was transferred into Hawco 
at the beginning of the year, has maintained revenues and 
shown a good degree of resilience.
The German Controls businesses saw revenues decrease by 
10% in UK sterling terms and by 22% in local currency terms. 
The market downturn came later to Germany than the UK 
and the US, but its impact was felt strongly in the second half 
of the year. For Sommer, significantly weaker trading activity 
was experienced in the supply of components to Germany’s 
traditionally strong Industrial, Automobile and Motorsports 
sectors. The Defence and Aerospace sectors were also 
impacted, but to a lesser degree. The Medical market proved to 
be an exception, with growth being generated from several long 
standing projects coming to fruition, as well as from a good level 
of repeat business. The business is centred on the provision of 
protective sleeves for stents, laparoscopic and cardiovascular 
instruments and catheters, where demand has remained strong. 
The Utilities market in Germany has also remained stable and 
sales here advanced modestly.
The principal markets for Filcon’s connector products are 
Defence, Aerospace and Motorsport. Unlike the other Controls 
businesses, Filcon supplies a high proportion of its products 
to capital projects. As the general economy has slowed in 
Germany, there have been increasing levels of project cut-backs 
and delays. Filcon has its products designed-in to a wide range 
of applications and is therefore not over-dependant on single 
projects. The backlog of orders remains solid and call-offs are 
now resuming.
2009 2008
Revenue £61.9m £68.6m
Operating Profit* £9.5m £11.3m
Operating Margin* 15.3% 16.5%
Free Cash Flow £8.9m £8.3m
Trading Capital Employed £30.0m £27.3m
ROTCE 31.7% 41.4%
*before amortisation of acquisition intangible assets.
Controls Statistics
Customers
Aerospace & Defence
Electronics
Motorsport
Rail, Energy & Utilities
Medical & Scientific
Industrial & Other
Geography
United Kingdom & Eire
Continental Europe
Rest of World
Products
Wire & Cable
Connectors
Control Devices
Fasteners
Equipment & Components
36%
52%
22%
45%
12%
43%
16%
11%
5%
12%
8%
5%
28%
5% 20 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Finance Review 
Continuing Businesses
Revenue increased by 2% to £160.0m (2008: £156.2m) and 
operating profit, before amortisation of acquisition intangible 
assets, decreased by 4% to £25.6m (2008: £26.6m). The 
operating margin, before amortisation of acquisition intangible 
assets, reduced to 16.0% (2008: 17.0%) reflecting in particular, 
the significant operational leverage in the Seals businesses.
The results this year benefited from currency gains of £14.8m 
to revenue and £2.4m to operating profit, which arose on the 
translation of the results of the overseas businesses. In addition 
the businesses acquired in 2009 and 2008 contributed £1.2m 
to operating profits on revenue of £8.4m. In response to the 
difficult trading environment this year, £0.6m of costs were 
incurred on specific cost reduction programmes which should 
pay back in the coming financial year. The UK and Canadian 
businesses also suffered an impact on gross margins from 
the depreciation of local currencies on products purchased in 
overseas markets. After adjusting for these items, underlying 
revenues decreased by ca. 12% and operating profits, before 
amortisation of acquisition intangible assets, decreased by 
ca. 10%. 
Adjusted profit before tax (which is a defined alternative 
performance measure, as discussed below) decreased 4.9% to 
£25.5m (2008: £26.8m), after net finance expense, excluding 
fair value remeasurements, of £0.1m (2008: income of £0.2m). 
Adjusted earnings per share fell 7.5% to 14.8p compared with 
16.0p last year, reflecting the larger proportion of earnings 
contributed in 2009 by those businesses owned in part by 
minority shareholders.
IFRS profit before tax, which is after amortisation of acquisition 
intangible assets of £3.1m (2008: £2.7m) and fair value 
remeasurements of £1.9m (2008: £3.0m), was £20.5m (2008: 
£21.1m) and IFRS basic earnings per share were 10.8p (2008: 
11.4p).
Discontinuing Business
The results of Anachem, which was formerly part of the 
Life Sciences sector, have been disclosed separately in the 
consolidated financial statements as a discontinuing business. 
Contracts were exchanged in October 2009 for the sale of the 
MLH business, which represents the largest part of Anachem, 
and will realise proceeds of up to £8.6m. On completion in 
early January 2010, the net assets of the MLH business are 
expected to be ca. £1.4m. The sale contract provides that the 
residual pension liabilities in the closed defined pension scheme 
of Anachem will be transferred, prior to completion, to Diploma 
Holdings PLC. At 30 September 2009 the accounting deficit in 
the Anachem pension scheme was £3.0m, out of the Group 
deficit of £4.7m, before deferred tax. Further information on the 
results of Anachem are set out in note 22 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Taxation
The Group’s adjusted effective tax charge represented 29.8% 
(2008: 29.1%) of adjusted profit before tax. This year’s 
effective rate benefited from the reduction in UK corporate 
tax rates to 28% from 29% in 2008. However this was not 
sufficient to offset the benefit to last year’s tax charge of one-
off adjustments made to prior year tax returns. The Group’s 
adjusted effective tax rate in any particular year will also depend 
on the geographic mix of profit made by the Group. 
Free Cash Flow and Cash Funds
The Group’s free cash flow from the continuing businesses, 
which is before expenditure on acquisitions or returns to 
shareholders, increased by £5.8m to £23.5m. With a further 
£1.7m of free cash flow being contributed by the discontinuing 
business, aggregate total free cash flow of £25.2m represented 
134% of adjusted profit after tax (2008: 92%).
Operating cash flow from the continuing businesses increased 
by £6.4m to £34.2m (2008: £27.8m) and was boosted by 
a reduction in working capital of £6.1m, compared with an 
increase of £1.3m last year. The reduction in working capital 
arose principally from a targeted reduction in stock across the 
Group to match the lower trading activity; a reduction in trade 
receivables which followed from reduced revenues, was largely 
offset by a similar reduction in trade payables.
At 30 September 2009, working capital in the Group’s operating 
businesses remained unchanged from 2008 at 17.6% of Group 
revenue, reflecting the reduction in working capital in line with 
the decrease in revenue.
Group tax payments increased by £1.2m to £9.0m (2008: 
£7.8m), largely reflecting the impact of AMT moving to a 
monthly tax payment basis in 2009, as well as having to pay its 
2008 annual tax liabilities.
Capital expenditure of £1.8m (2008: £1.6m) represented 82% 
(2008: 73%) of annual depreciation and included £0.9m on 
a major project to complete the installation of warehouse 
automation in the Seals facility in Clearwater. A further £0.6m 
was spent on acquiring field equipment in support of contracts 
in the Life Sciences businesses and the balance was spent on 
various tooling projects and on small upgrades to the general IT 
infrastructure across the Group.
The Group spent £11.1m (2008: £7.6m) on the acquisition of 
businesses during the year and paid deferred consideration of 
£1.1m (2008: £0.3m), as described below. At 30 September 
2009 the Group’s cash funds had increased by £5.6m to 
£21.3m (2008: £15.7m). The Group continues to maintain 
a £20m committed revolving bank facility which expires on 
23 November 2010, together with £5m of working capital 
facilities. None of these facilities were utilised at 30 September 
2009. 
Related Party Transactions
The minority shareholders in Somagen, AMT and M Seals are 
also directors and employees of these companies and as such 
represent related parties. During the year, dividends of £0.7m 
(2008: £0.9m) were paid to the minority shareholders and £1.1m 
was paid to the vendors of AMT as deferred consideration in 
respect of the final settlement of their performance payment.
At 30 September 2009, the Group also has a liability to purchase 
the minority shareholdings in AMT, Somagen and M Seals. The 
aggregate liability is estimated at £13.1m (2008: £11.2m), of 
which ca. £3.1m will be payable in December 2009 to acquire 
the final 8.2% minority shareholding in Somagen; the balance 
will be payable between 1 October 2010 and 31 December 2012 
to acquire the minority shareholdings in AMT and M Seals. In 
2008, £3.7m was paid to the minority shareholders in Somagen 
to acquire 11.8% of the share capital. These liabilities arise under 
put/call options entered into at the time of acquisition and are 
based on the Directors’ estimate of the Earnings Before Interest 
and Tax of these businesses when the options crystallise. 21 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business Review
Based on the expected performance of these businesses, the 
Directors have reassessed the potential liability at 30 September 
2009 to acquire the remaining outstanding minority interests. 
The fair value remeasurement of these options has led to a 
charge of £1.9m (2008: £3.0m) being made in the consolidated 
Income Statement. An analysis of the movement in this liability 
is set out in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Land at Stamford
The Group continues to retain approximately 150 acres of farm 
and former quarry land in Stamford which relates to a former 
business which has now closed. This land is included in the 
consolidated Balance Sheet at £Nil and in the opinion of the 
Directors, is unlikely to be worth more than £0.5m in its present 
condition. The Directors anticipate that this land will continue to 
be leased to a local farmer and there is no intention to dispose 
of this land in the foreseeable future.
Acquisitions, Intangible Assets and Goodwill
During the year the Group acquired two businesses, in support 
of broadening its Life Sciences and Seals businesses, for 
£11.1m, in aggregate; deferred consideration payable of £0.6m 
has been provided at 30 September 2009 in respect of each 
of these businesses, as described further in note 21 to the 
consolidated financial statements. The acquisition of RTD in 
January 2009 was partly funded by drawing down £4.6m of US$ 
borrowings from the revolving bank facility. These borrowings 
were repaid in full during the year from the operating cash flow 
of the US businesses.
Acquisition intangible assets of £4.2m were recognised in 
connection with these acquisitions, as well as goodwill of 
£3.5m, reflecting the amount paid for the acquisitions during 
the year, in excess of the value of the net assets. This goodwill 
largely comprises the value in each of these businesses relating 
to the product know-how held by the employees, prospects for 
sales growth in the future (from both new customers and new 
products) and operating cost synergies. 
The Directors have carried out an impairment review of the 
total Group goodwill of £59.6m held at 30 September 2009 and, 
despite the weakened trading environment, remain satisfied that 
none of this goodwill has been impaired.
Pensions
Pension benefits to employees are provided through defined 
contribution schemes at an aggregate cost in 2009 of £0.7m 
(2008: £0.6m). In addition, the Group retains a small number of 
legacy defined benefit pension schemes in the UK which are 
closed to future accrual. At 30 September 2009 the accounting 
deficit in these defined benefit schemes had increased by £3.0m 
to £4.7m (2008: £1.7m). The upheaval in the financial markets 
caused by the banking crisis has contributed to a sharp reduction 
in bond yields, which are used to value the pension liabilities. 
This led to an increase in the gross pension liability of £4.6m 
to £18.8m (2008: £14.2m) which more than offset a strong 
increase in the market value of the underlying investments of 
£1.6m and the Group’s cash contribution to the schemes this 
year of £0.2m.
During the year, a triennial actuarial funding valuation of the 
PLC scheme was completed, as of 30 September 2008. 
This valuation, using tighter mortality assumptions, resulted 
in a reduction in the ongoing funding level of this scheme to 
84% (2008: 96%). As a consequence, the Group has agreed 
to increase its annual contributions to fund this deficit to 
£96,000 pa (2008: £42,000 pa) from 1 October 2009. A triennial 
actuarial funding valuation of the Anachem scheme is due as of 
30 September 2009.
Net of deferred tax, the aggregate deficit in the defined benefit 
schemes at 30 September 2009 was £3.4m (2008: £1.2m), 
which equates to 2.8% (2008: 1.1%) of total shareholders’ 
equity.
Capitalisation and Dividends
At 30 September 2009, the number of shares in issue is 
113.2m, of which 0.9m are held by the Company’s employee 
benefit trust. Shareholders’ funds, which represents the Group’s 
total capital, increased by £13.3m to £121.4m, due to the effect 
of exchange rate movements and earnings retained for the year. 
The Group’s trading capital employed, which is defined in 
note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, increased at 
30 September 2009 by £11.6m to £116.1m (2008: £104.5m), of 
which £80.8m (2008: £70.2m) was accounted for by goodwill 
and acquisition intangible assets. The Group’s return on 
trading capital employed decreased to 19.0% (2008: 22.4%) at 
30 September 2009. This reduction reflects the lower operating 
profits earned this year, but was exacerbated by the impact of 
the increase in overseas trading capital at 30 September 2009, 
resulting from the weakening in UK sterling.
Following the Board’s announcement last year that it intended 
to move dividend cover towards 2.0 times, based on adjusted 
earnings per share, the amount distributed to shareholders in the 
form of ordinary dividends increased by £1.5m in 2009 to £8.4m 
(2008: £6.9m). 
Measuring Financial Performance
The Board uses specific measures when assessing the 
performance of the Group and these are referred to throughout 
this Annual Report in the discussion of the performance of 
the businesses. These measures are not defined in IFRS, but 
are used by the Board to assess the underlying operational 
performance of the Group and its businesses. As such the Board 
believes these performance measures are important and should 
be considered alongside the IFRS measures. The alternative 
performance measures, which have been used in this Annual 
Report, are described in note 2 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors 
(including those which the Group cannot influence, principally 
currency exchange rates) that have affected the results of the 
Group’s business and which are reflected in the consolidated 
financial statements prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as adopted by the 
European Union.
The Group has not been required to adopt any other new 
accounting standards during the year which have had a material 
impact on the consolidated financial statements. 22 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Risks and Uncertainties
Risk Management Process
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the Group’s 
annual planning cycle and market specific risks are evaluated as 
part of the budgetary process.
Each operating business is required each year to identify and 
document the significant strategic, operational and financial 
risks facing the business. For each significant risk, a number of 
scenarios are mapped out and an assessment is made of the 
likelihood and impact of each risk scenario. Finally, plans and 
processes are established, which are designed to control each 
risk and minimise its potential impact.
The risk assessments from each of the operating businesses are 
reviewed with the Executive Directors and a consolidated risk 
assessment is reviewed by the Board.
The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to 
have the largest potential impact on the Group’s long term 
performance are set out below. It should be recognised that 
additional risks not currently known to management, or risks that 
management currently regard as immaterial, could also have a 
material adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition or the 
results of operations.
Strategic Risks
Downturn in major markets
Adverse changes in the major markets in which the businesses 
operate can have a significant impact on performance. The 
effects will either be seen in terms of slowing revenue growth, 
due to reduced or delayed demand for products and services, or 
pressure on margins due to increased competitive pressures.
To mitigate the effects of such adverse changes, the businesses 
identify key market drivers and monitor the trends and forecasts, 
as well as maintaining close relationships with key customers 
who may give an early warning of slowing demand. Changes to 
cost levels and inventories can then be made in a measured way 
to mitigate the effects.
In addition, there are a number of characteristics of the Group’s 
businesses which moderate the impact of economic and 
business cycles on the Group as a whole:
 The Group’s businesses operate in three different sectors 
with different cyclical characteristics and across a number 
of geographic markets.
 The businesses offer specialised products and services and 
this offers a degree of protection against customers quickly 
switching business to achieve better pricing.
 A high proportion of the Group’s sales comprise 
consumable products and service contracts which are 
purchased as part of customers’ operating expenditure, 
rather than through capital budgets.
 In many cases the products will be used in repair, 
maintenance and refurbishment applications, rather than 
original equipment manufacture.
Loss of key supplier(s)
The Group’s businesses ensure that they have secure long term 
access to strong, differentiated product offerings by combining:
 Quality manufacturer-branded products, mostly sourced 
under long term distribution agreements.
 Own-brand products, manufactured under contract.
 Selective in-house manufacture and assembly.
There are risks to the businesses if a major supplier decides to 
cancel the distribution agreement or if the supplier is acquired 
by a company which has its own distribution channels in the 
relevant market. There is also the risk of a supplier taking away 
exclusivity and either setting up direct operations or establishing 
another distributor.
The potential impact on an individual business may be high 
where a supplier represents a significant proportion of the sales 
and purchases of the business. However, the potential impact 
on the Group is lower as no supplier represents more than 15% 
of Group revenue and only six suppliers represent more than 2% 
each of Group revenue.
Relationships with suppliers have normally been built up over 
many years and a strong degree of inter-dependence has been 
established. There are further actions planned and implemented 
by the operating businesses to control or to mitigate risks:
 Where dependence is high, long term, multi-year exclusive 
contracts signed with suppliers.
 Where possible, change of control clauses included in 
contracts for protection or compensation in the event of 
acquisition.
 Collaborative projects and relationships maintained with 
individuals at many levels of the supplier organisation.
 Regular review meetings and adherence to contractual 
terms.
 Regular reviews of inventory levels.
 Bundling and kitting of products and provision of added 
value services.
 Periodic research of alternative suppliers as part of 
contingency planning.
Loss of major customer(s)
As with any businesses, the loss of one or more major 
customers can be a material risk.
Specific large customers are important to individual operating 
businesses and a high level of effort is expended in ensuring 
that these customers are retained and encouraged not to 
switch to another supplier. In addition to providing high levels of 
customer service, close integration is established where possible 
with customers’ systems and processes.
Risks and Uncertainties 23 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business Review
23 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The nature of the Group’s businesses, however, ensures 
that there is not a high level of dependence on any individual 
customers. No customer represents more than 5% of sector 
revenue or more than 2% of Group revenue.
Technological change
The Group’s businesses operate in specialised markets offering 
products which are often technical in nature. As a result, there 
is always the risk that a technological change will make specific 
products less competitive or in the worst case, obsolete. In 
addition to the write-off of unsaleable inventory, this can impact 
the sales performance of the business if replacement products 
are not available.
The Group’s exposure to this risk is reduced by the spread of 
businesses and technologies, as well as by the fact that the 
products, though technical, are typically not subject to very rapid 
technological change.
The operating businesses monitor the key technologies to get 
early warning of changes in product competitiveness, so that 
plans can be developed for changes in the supplier portfolio as 
required. Also, the businesses, with sufficient lead time, mostly 
have the opportunity to change suppliers in the event of a major 
technology shift.
Product liability
There is always a risk that products supplied by a Group 
business may fail in service, which could lead to a claim under 
product liability.
To offset this risk, technically qualified personnel and control 
systems are in place to ensure products meet quality 
requirements. The businesses, in their Terms and Conditions 
of sale with customers, will typically mirror the Terms and 
Conditions of sale from their suppliers. In this way the liability 
can be limited and subrogated to the supplier. In addition, this 
avoids the need for businesses to maintain material warranty 
provisions in their financial statements.
However, if a legal claim is made it will typically draw in our 
business as a party to the claim and the business may be 
exposed to legal costs and potentially damages if the claim 
succeeds and the supplier fails to meet its liabilities for whatever 
reason. To mitigate this risk, the Group has established Group-
wide product liability insurance which provides worldwide 
umbrella insurance cover of £10m in all sectors.
Loss of key personnel
The success of the Group is built upon strong, self-standing 
management teams in the operating businesses, committed to 
the success of their respective businesses. As a result, the loss 
of key personnel can have a significant impact on performance, 
at least for a time.
Contractual terms such as notice periods and non-compete 
clauses can mitigate the risk in the short term. However, the 
more successful initiatives focus on ensuring a challenging work 
environment with appropriate reward systems. The Group places 
very high importance on planning the development, motivation 
and reward of key managers in the operating businesses to 
mitigate this risk:
 Ensuring a challenging working environment where 
managers feel they have control over and responsibility for 
their businesses.
 Establishing management development programmes to 
ensure a broad base of talented managers.
 Offering a balanced and competitive compensation 
package with a combination of salary, annual bonus 
and long term incentive plans targeted at the individual 
business level.
 Giving the freedom, encouragement, financial resources 
and strategic support for managers to pursue ambitious 
growth plans.
Operational Risks
Major damage to premises
The Group businesses mostly operate from combined office/
warehouse facilities which are dedicated to the business and 
not shared with other Group businesses. Major damage to the 
facility from fire, malicious damage or natural disaster would 
impact the business for a period until the damage is repaired or 
alternative facilities have been established.
The businesses have developed plans to prevent incidents, 
including fire and security alarms and regular fire drills. Insurance 
policies are also in place including property, contents and 
business interruption cover which would mitigate the financial 
impact.
However, the priority in such an event is to become operational 
as quickly as possible to minimise disruption to customers. Plans 
to ensure a quick and orderly recovery have been developed by 
the businesses and are periodically reviewed.
The business where the risk is greatest is Hercules in 
Clearwater, Florida which is most at risk from an environmental 
disaster caused by a hurricane or tornado. The building structure 
has been designed to withstand 150mph winds and a specific 
disaster plan has been drawn up and is regularly reviewed. This 
includes:
 Back-up power generator.
 Materials on hand to secure the facility.
 Communications re-route to other branches or interim 
location. 24 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Risks and Uncertainties continued
 IT recovery plan using back-up server in separate location.
 Regular building inspection and weather monitoring.
 Plans to drop-ship product from suppliers where needed.
Loss of information technology (“IT”) systems
Computer systems are critical to the businesses since their 
success is built on high levels of customer service and quick 
response. A complete failure of IT systems, with the loss of 
trading and other records, would be more damaging to the 
businesses than major physical damage to facilities. IT system 
failure could have a number of causes including power failure, 
fire and viruses.
Business interruption insurance cover is held across the Group 
and contingency plans have been drawn up in all businesses. 
The recovery plans differ by individual business, but will include 
some or all of the following elements:
 Full data back-ups as a matter of routine.
 Back-up tapes stored in fire proof safes.
 Back-up servers identified.
 Communication re-route options identified.
 Service contracts with IT providers with access to 
replacement servers.
 Uninterruptible power sources and back-up generators 
where required.
 Virus checkers and firewalls.
Disruption by service providers
All the operating businesses use third party carriers to physically 
transport products. Disruption to this service is most critical in 
businesses such as Hercules where the business model requires 
rapid, often next day, delivery of products. Most businesses will 
have a principal carrier that is used, but they will monitor and 
maintain accounts with alternative carriers.
Financial Risks
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks; 
foreign currency, liquidity, interest rate and credit. The Group’s 
overall management of these risks is carried out by a central 
treasury team (Group treasury) under policies and procedures 
which are reviewed and approved by the Board. Group 
treasury identifies, evaluates and where appropriate, hedges 
financial risks in close co-operation with the Group’s operating 
businesses. The Group treasury team does not undertake 
speculative foreign exchange dealings for which there is no 
underlying exposure. The policies for managing these financial 
risks are set out below and further analyses of these risks are 
set out in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that changes in currency rates 
will affect the Group’s results. The Group operates internationally 
and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various 
currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar, the 
euro and the Canadian dollar (translational exposure). During 
the year ended 30 September 2009, ca. 70% of the Group’s 
revenue and operating profits from continuing businesses were 
earned in currencies other than UK sterling. In comparison to the 
prior year, the net effect of currency translation was to increase 
revenue by £14.8m and to increase operating profit by £2.4m. 
It is estimated that a strengthening of UK sterling by 10% 
against all the currencies in which the Group does business, 
would reduce operating profit, before amortisation of acquisition 
intangible assets and tax, by approximately £1.8m (7.0%) (2008: 
£2.0m (7.5%)) due to currency translation.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations whose 
net assets are also exposed to foreign currency translation risk. 
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Group’s 
foreign operations are not hedged. At 30 September 2009, the 
Group’s non-UK sterling trading capital employed in overseas 
businesses was £87.7m (2008: £75.0m), which represented 
76% of the Group’s trading capital employed. It is estimated that 
a strengthening of UK sterling of 10% against all the non-sterling 
capital employed would reduce shareholders’ funds by £7.8m 
(2008: £6.9m).
The Group’s UK businesses are also exposed to foreign currency 
risk on purchases that are denominated in a currency other than 
their local currency, principally US dollars, euro and Japanese 
yen (transactional exposure). The Group’s Canadian businesses 
are also exposed to a similar risk as the majority of their 
purchases are denominated in US dollars.
The UK and Canadian businesses hedge up to 80% of forecast 
US dollar and euro foreign currency exposures using forward 
foreign exchange contracts. The Group classifies its forward 
foreign exchange contracts, hedging forecasted transactions, as 
cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
Details of average exchange rates, used in the translation of 
overseas earnings, and of year end exchange rates, used in 
the translation of overseas balance sheets, for the principal 
currencies used by the Group, are shown in note 27 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet 
its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach 
to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will 
always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, 
under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring 
unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. 25 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Business Review
The Group is highly cash generative and uses monthly cash 
flow forecasts to monitor cash requirements and to optimise 
its return on investments. Typically the Group ensures that it 
has sufficient cash on hand to meet foreseeable operational 
expenses, but it maintains a £5m overdraft facility on which 
interest is payable at UK Base Rate plus 100 bps. The Group 
also has an undrawn committed £20m revolving bank facility 
which expires on 23 November 2010. Interest on this facility is 
payable at 80 bps over LIBOR.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will 
affect the Group’s results. The Group’s interest rate risk arises 
primarily from its cash funds. An analysis of the currency and 
interest rate profile of the Group’s funds is shown in note 18 
to the consolidated financial statements. The Group manages 
its interest-bearing funds in a manner designed to maximise 
interest income, while at the same time minimising any risk to 
these funds. Surplus funds are deposited with commercial banks 
that meet the credit criteria approved by the Board, for periods 
of between one to six months at rates that are generally fixed by 
reference to the relevant UK Base Rate, or equivalent rates. The 
Group does not undertake any hedging activity of interest rates.
It is estimated that an increase of 1% in interest rates would 
increase the Group’s profit before tax by a maximum of £0.2m 
(2008: £0.1m)
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer 
or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations; this arises principally from the Group’s 
trade and other receivables from customers and from cash 
balances (including deposits) held with financial institutions.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the 
operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as 
deemed appropriate for the customer. The Group is exposed 
to customers ranging from government backed agencies and 
large public and private wholesalers, to small privately owned 
businesses and the underlying local economic risks vary 
throughout the world. An analysis of the Group’s credit risk 
to trade receivables is set out in note 15 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that 
represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of specific 
trade and other receivables where it is deemed that a receivable 
may not be recoverable. When the receivable is deemed 
irrecoverable, the allowance account is written off against the 
underlying receivable.
Exposure to financial counterparty credit risk is controlled by the 
Group treasury team in establishing and monitoring counterparty 
limits. Centrally managed funds are invested entirely with 
counterparties whose credit rating is ‘A’ or better.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order 
to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other 
stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group 
may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return 
capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
Accounting Risks
Inventory obsolescence
Working capital management is critical to success in specialised 
distribution businesses as this has a major impact on cash flow. 
The principal risk to working capital, other than credit risk to 
trade receivables is in inventory obsolescence and write-off. 
Inventory write-offs are controlled and minimised by active 
management of inventory levels based on sales forecasts and 
regular cycle counts. Where necessary, a provision is made to 
cover excess stock and potential obsolescence.
Fraud and theft
The Group’s operating businesses are relatively straight-forward 
businesses where a significant incidence of fraud or theft should 
become apparent relatively quickly. The risks are also moderated 
by the fact that the products are relatively specialised industrial 
products and therefore not particularly valuable or attractive on 
the open market. Finally, tangible fixed assets are not significant 
across the Group and generally comprise IT and warehouse 
equipment, where any loss would be quickly apparent.
As additional security, processes are in place to further reduce 
the opportunity for fraud or theft:
 Specified signature levels and responsibilities.
 Segregation of responsibilities.
 Controls on shipping addresses.
 Weekly flash reports of cash balances and regular bank 
reconciliations.
 Regular review of supplier and creditor ledgers to identify 
fictitious suppliers.
 Group wide policy and procedures for “whistle-blowing”.
The Audit Committee carries out an annual assessment of the 
fraud risks in the businesses and discusses these risks with 
management.  26 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate and Social Responsibility
The Board takes serious account of the social, environmental 
and ethical impacts of the Group’s activities and monitors 
them as part of the annual risk assessment process. The risk 
assessments are led by the Managing Directors of each of the 
Group’s operating companies and are then reviewed by the 
Board. The Managing Directors are responsible for complying 
with the relevant employment, social and environmental 
regulations in the geographical areas in which they operate.
Employment
Building and developing the skills, competencies, motivation and 
teamwork of employees is recognised by the Board as being key 
to achieving the Group’s business objectives. The stability and 
commitment of the employees is demonstrated by the average 
length of service being 6.4 years (2008: 5.2 years). In addition 
the number of working days lost to sickness is less than 2% a 
year (2008: 2%). These measures remain consistent across each 
of the Group’s sectors. 
The Group values the commitment of its employees and 
recognises the importance of communication to good working 
relationships. The Group keeps employees informed on matters 
relating to their employment, on business developments 
and on financial and economic factors affecting the Group. 
This is achieved through management briefings, internal 
announcements, the Group’s website and by the distribution 
of Preliminary and Interim Announcements and press releases. 
Copies of the Annual Report are also made available in the 
operating businesses. This communication programme enables 
employees to gain a better understanding of the Group’s 
business objectives and their roles in achieving them.
Both employment policy and practice in the Group are based 
on non-discrimination and equal opportunities. Ability and 
aptitude are the determining factors in the selection, training, 
career development and promotion of all employees. The Group 
remains supportive of the employment and advancement of 
disabled persons. Applications for employment by disabled 
persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the 
respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicants concerned. 
If an employee is, or becomes disabled during their period of 
employment, the Group will, if necessary and to the extent 
possible, adapt the work environment to enable the employee 
to continue in their current position or retrain the employee 
for duties suited to their abilities following disablement. At 
30 September 2009 the Group’s employees included two who 
were disabled and one who was on long term sick leave. 
Employment policies throughout the Group have been 
established to comply with relevant legislation and codes 
of practice relating to employment, health and safety and 
equal opportunities. The Group provides good quality working 
environments and facilities for employees, and training and 
development appropriate to each of their roles. 
Health and Safety
The Group places a great deal of importance on the provision 
of clean, healthy and safe working conditions. In addition to 
compliance with all local regulations, the Group promotes 
working practices which protect the health and safety of its 
employees. Health and Safety matters are kept under regular 
review by local management who report on such matters to the 
Chief Operating Officer. During 2009, 36 employees (2008: 41) 
were reported as having suffered minor injuries at work; none of 
these injuries resulted in absence from work for more than three 
days. No employee (2008: one) suffered a serious injury during 
the year. 
Health and Safety training is part of the induction process for 
new employees. Specific training is given where relevant, for 
example regarding forklift truck operation and chemical handling, 
as well as general fire safety and first aid matters.
Environmental
The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental 
laws as an important part of its responsible approach to 
the environment and is committed to good environmental 
management practices throughout its operations. The Managing 
Directors appointed by the Board have responsibility for the 
environmental performance of their operating businesses and 
each subsidiary is required to implement initiatives to meet their 
responsibilities.
Relationships with Suppliers, Customers 
and Other Stakeholders
The Group recognises the obligation it has towards the parties 
with whom it has business dealings including customers, 
shareholders, employees, suppliers and advisors. Dealings with 
these groups depend upon the honesty and integrity of the 
Group’s employees and every effort is made to ensure that a 
high standard of expertise and business principles is maintained 
in such dealings. Where appropriate, training is given to maintain 
and to raise standards.
The Group’s policy towards suppliers is that each operating 
company is responsible for negotiating the terms and conditions 
under which they trade with their suppliers.
The Group does not have a formal code that it follows with 
regard to payments to suppliers. Group companies agree 
payment terms with their suppliers when they enter into binding 
purchasing contracts for the supply of goods and services.
Suppliers are, in that way, made aware of these terms. Group 
companies seek to abide by these payment terms when they 
are satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services 
in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions. At 30 
September 2009 the amount of trade creditors shown in the 
Group balance sheet represents 46 days (2008: 48 days) of 
average purchases.
Community Impact and Involvement
The Group contributes to local worthwhile causes and charities 
and ensures that the Group’s operations cause minimal negative 
impact within the community. 
In common with all companies, the Group has limited resources 
and the amount of money available for charitable purposes 
varies over time.
The Group made donations for charitable purposes during the 
year which amounted to £14,825 (2008: £20,452). No political 
donations were made.
Corporate and Social Responsibility 27 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ Report
For the year ended 30 September 2009
Governance
The Directors present their Report and the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 30 September 2009.
Principal Activities
The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialised 
technical products and services. A description and review of the 
activities of the Group during the financial year and an indication 
of future developments is set out in the Business Review 
on pages 10 to 26; the Business Review incorporates the 
requirements of the Companies Act.
Results and Dividends
The profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 
was £13.0m (2008: £13.3m). The Directors recommend a final 
dividend of 5.3p per ordinary share (2008: 5.0p), to be paid, if 
approved, on 20 January 2010. This, together with the interim 
dividend of 2.5p per ordinary share paid on 17 June 2009, 
amounts to 7.8p for the year (2008: 7.5p).
Share Capital
At the date of this Report there were 113,239,555 ordinary 
shares of 5 pence each in issue, all of which are fully paid up 
and quoted on the London Stock Exchange. The rights attaching 
to the Company’s ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the 
Company’s Directors, are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association, copies of which can be obtained from the Company 
Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 
capital of the Company, other than those which may be imposed 
by law from time to time. In accordance with the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority, certain employees are 
required to seek approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of 
securities and/or voting rights. No person holds securities in 
the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of 
the Company. The Company’s Articles of Association may be 
amended by special resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
Share Allotment
A general allotment power and a limited power to allot in 
specific circumstances for cash, otherwise than pro-rata to 
existing shareholders, were given to the Directors by resolutions 
approved at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held 
on 14 January 2009. These powers will expire at the conclusion 
of the 2010 Annual General Meeting and resolutions to renew 
the Directors’ powers are therefore included within the Notice of 
the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Authority to Make Market Purchases of Own Shares
An authority to make market purchases of shares was given 
to the Directors by a special resolution at the Annual General 
Meeting of the Company held on 14 January 2009. In the year 
to 30 September 2009 the Company has not acquired any of 
its own shares. This authority will expire at the conclusion of 
the 2010 Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew 
the authority is therefore included within the Notice of the 2010 
Annual General Meeting.
Substantial Shareholdings
At 13 November 2009 the Company had been notified, pursuant 
to the Financial Service Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its ordinary 
share capital:
Percentage of
ordinary share
capital
Fidelity International 9.46
F&C Asset Management plc 9.04
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 5.84
Insight Investments Limited 3.81
Lincoln Vale European Partners Master Fund LP 3.71
Newton Investment Management Limited 3.69
IG International Management Limited 3.20
Legg Mason 3.17
Herald Investment Trust plc 3.05
As far as the Directors are aware there were no other notifiable 
interests.
Directors
The persons currently serving as Directors of the Company are 
shown on pages 8 and 9. JW Matthews retires from the Board 
by rotation at the Annual General Meeting on 13 January 2010 
and being eligible, offers himself for re-election. The Directors’ 
beneficial interests in the Company’s ordinary share capital at 
30 September 2009 are set out in the Remuneration Report on 
page 37.
Directors’ Assessment of Going Concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out in the Business Review on pages 10 to 26. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Review on page 
20. In addition pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Report includes 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to 
credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with 
a broad spread of customers and suppliers across different 
geographic areas and sectors, often secured with longer term 
agreements. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, 
despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts. 28 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ Report continued
For the year ended 30 September 2009
28 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance 
and Indemnity
The Company has purchased insurance to cover its Directors 
and Officers against the costs of defending themselves in 
legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in 
respect of any damages resulting from those proceedings. 
The Company also indemnifies its Directors and Officers to 
the extent permitted by law. Neither the insurance nor the 
indemnity provide cover where the Director or Officer has acted 
fraudulently or dishonestly.
Other Statutory Information
An explanation of the Company’s policy on matters relating 
to Employment, Health and Safety, Environmental and its 
relationship with suppliers, customers and other stakeholders is 
set out within the Business Review on page 26 of the Annual 
Report. The Group’s use of financial instruments is discussed on 
page 24. Corporate Governance disclosures are set out on pages 
29 to 37.
Articles of Association
As a result of implementation of the final tranche of the 
Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2009 and of the Shareholder 
Rights Directive in August 2009, the Company’s Articles of 
Association in their current form, now contain certain provisions 
that no longer reflect current legislation and best practice. The 
Board therefore considers it prudent to replace the Company’s 
existing Articles of Association with new Articles of Association 
(“New Articles”) that take into account these new developments 
in legislation.
A summary of the material changes brought about by the 
proposed adoption of the New Articles will be set out in an 
Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting. It is intended 
that a special resolution for adoption of the New Articles of the 
Company will be put to shareholders at the Annual General 
Meeting.
A copy of the New Articles will be on display at the registered 
office of the Company during normal business hours on any 
week day, up to and including the date of the Annual General 
Meeting, and will be available on the Company’s website.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at midday on 13 
January 2010 in the Brewers’ Hall, Aldermanbury Square, 
London EC2V 7HR. The business of the meeting will be set out 
in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which is a separate 
document which will be sent to all shareholders.
Independent Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP (formerly Deloitte 
& Touche LLP) as auditors and to authorise the Directors 
to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
NP Lingwood
Company Secretary
16 November 2009 29 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate Governance
Governance
Compliance Statement
The Board recognises the importance of high standards of 
corporate governance throughout the Group. The Board 
is accountable to the Company’s shareholders for good 
governance and this statement sets out how the principles 
set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (“the 
Code”), issued in June 2003 and last updated in June 2008 by 
the Financial Reporting Council, are applied by the Company. 
The Board confirms that the Company has complied with all of 
the Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code, throughout the 
year.
Directors
The Board
The Board comprises three non-Executive Directors, including 
the Chairman, and three Executive Directors, providing a wide 
range of skills and experience. The biographical details of the 
Board members are set out on pages 8 and 9. The Board has six 
scheduled meetings each year and meets more frequently as 
required. It met on six occasions during the year under review.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the 
Board and its Standing Committees during the year and 
individual attendance by Board members at these meetings:
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Board Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings
during the year 6 5 3 1
Non-Executive Directors:
JL Rennocks
(Chairman) 6 5 3 1
JW Matthews 6 5 3 1
IM Grice 6 5 3 1
Executive Directors*:
BM Thompson 6
I Henderson 6
NP Lingwood 6
*The Executive Directors attend all the meetings of the Audit Committee; 
BM Thompson also attended the meetings of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees during the year.
The duties of the Board and its Committees are set out clearly in 
formal terms of reference which are reviewed regularly and state 
the items specifically reserved for decision by the Board. The 
Board establishes overall Group strategy, including acquisitions 
and withdrawal from existing activities. It approves the Group’s 
strategy and the operating budget and reviews performance 
through monthly reports and management accounts.
The approval of acquisitions, for the most part, is a matter 
reserved for the Board, save that it delegates to the Chief 
Executive Officer the responsibility for such activities to a 
specified level of authority. Similarly, there are authority levels 
covering capital expenditure which can be exercised by the Chief 
Executive Officer. Beyond these levels of authority, projects are 
referred to the Board for approval.
The Board establishes the remuneration of non-Executive 
Directors and the Company’s framework of executive 
remuneration and its cost in the light of recommendations made 
by the Remuneration Committee.
Other matters reserved to the Board include treasury policies, 
internal control, risk management and the appointment or 
removal of the Company Secretary. The Company maintains 
appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against
its Directors.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman, who is non-Executive, and the Chief 
Executive Officer are separate and clearly defined. The Chairman 
is also Chairman of Nestor Healthcare plc and Intelligent Energy 
plc and has a number of other Board appointments. The Board 
is satisfied that the Chairman’s other Board appointments and 
commitments do not place constraints on his ability properly to 
fulfil his role as Chairman of Diploma PLC.
Board Balance and Independence
The non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms, 
the details of their respective appointments being as set out in 
the Remuneration Report on page 33. Non-Executive Directors 
are required to inform the Board of any changes to their other 
appointments.
The non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board to 
be independent in character and judgement and there are no 
relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear 
to affect, a Director’s judgement. JW Matthews is the senior 
independent Director. 
There are three standing Committees of the Board to which 
various matters are delegated. Membership of the Committees 
is set out on page 9 and terms of reference are available on 
request and are set out on the Company’s website. In order to 
ensure that undue reliance is not placed on particular individuals, 
the Board has decided that all its independent non-Executive 
Directors should serve on all Committees. The Board regularly 
reviews the chairmanship of its Committees.
During the year the Chairman has had meetings with the non-
Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present.
Appointments to the Board
The Board has established a Nomination Committee which 
leads the process for Board appointments and makes 
recommendations to the Board. The members of the 
Nomination Committee are JL Rennocks, who is the Chairman, 
and the two non-Executive Directors. 
The Committee would be chaired by the senior independent 
Director on any matter concerning the chairmanship of the 
Company. The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the 
Committee.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference 
which were reviewed and updated during 2005, covering 
the authority delegated to it by the Board. These include the 
following duties:
 To be responsible for identifying and nominating, for the 
approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as 
and when they arise.
 Before making an appointment, the Committee will 
evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
on the Board and in the light of this evaluation, prepare 
a description of the role and capabilities required for a 
particular appointment. 30 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate Governance continued
30 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
 In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee shall 
consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria 
and will take care that appointees have enough time 
available to devote to the position.
 The Committee will consider candidates from a range of 
backgrounds, both internally and externally and may use 
the services of external advisors to facilitate the search.
On appointment, Directors undertake an informal induction 
process which is designed to develop knowledge and 
understanding of the Company’s business, and includes visits to 
various Group operating sites.
The Nomination Committee met once during the year under 
review.
Information and Professional Development
The main Board papers comprising an agenda and formal Board 
reports, together with briefing papers on specific matters, are 
sent to the Directors in advance of each Board meeting.
The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed 
at meetings with briefings as necessary on various elements of 
corporate governance and regulatory issues.
The Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Board on 
matters concerning governance and regulatory issues and he 
ensures Board procedures are complied with. All Directors have 
access to his advice and a procedure also exists for Directors 
to take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense. No such advice was sought during the year. The 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary and his 
remuneration are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Board has decided that because of the relative small size 
of the Company and to limit its costs, the role of the Company 
Secretary should be combined with that of the Group Finance 
Director. This matter is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Performance Evaluation
During the year the Board completed the process of evaluating 
its own performance, together with that of its Committees and 
individual Directors, including the Chairman. The results of the 
evaluation process are summarised for presentation to the Board 
and areas for improvement are identified and action taken where 
necessary.
Re-election
All Directors must stand for election at the first Annual General 
Meeting after they are appointed. The Articles provide that all 
Directors will stand for re-election at least every three years.
Remuneration
The Board has established a Remuneration Committee 
consisting exclusively of independent non-Executive Directors. 
The application of corporate governance principles in relation to 
the Directors’ remuneration is described in the Remuneration 
Report on page 33.
Accountability and Audit 
Financial Reporting
It is a requirement of the Code that the Board should present 
a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s 
position and prospects. This requirement extends to interim and 
other price sensitive public reports and to reports to regulators, 
as well as to information required to be presented by statutory 
requirements.
In this context, reference should be made to the Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities on page 38, the Directors’ Report 
on pages 27 and 28 which includes a statement regarding the 
Group’s status as a going concern, and to the Reports of the 
Auditors on pages 70 and 71, which includes a statement by the 
auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
Internal Control
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. Throughout the year, the Group has been 
in full compliance with the Combined Code provisions on internal 
control.
The Board has established a clear organisational structure 
with defined authority levels. The day to day running of the 
Group’s business is delegated to the Executive Directors of 
the Company. The Executive Directors visit each operating unit 
on a regular basis and meet with both operational and finance 
management and staff.
Key financial and operational measures are reported on a weekly 
and/or monthly basis and are measured against both budget 
and interim forecasts which have been approved and reviewed 
by the Board. Each operating unit is required to prepare an 
annual self assessment report on internal control and these are 
reviewed by the Board.
During the year the Board has carried out a review of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control. 
This review included a risk assessment process on the 
key financial, operational and compliance risks to identify, 
evaluate and manage significant risks to the Group’s business. 
The assessments have been effected at both Group and 
individual company level. They included common definitions 
of risk and ensure, as far as practicable, that the policies and 
procedures established by the Board are appropriate to manage 
the perceived risks to the Group. During the year, the risk 
assessment process revealed no significant risks of which the 
Board was not previously aware.
The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to have the 
largest potential impact on the Group’s long term performance are 
set out in the Business Review on pages 22 to 25.
In January 2009, the company appointed a full time internal 
auditor as a member of the Group’s finance department. Since 
this appointment, a programme of internal audit visits has been 
completed at most of the Group’s businesses. The remaining 
businesses will be visited during the forthcoming financial year. 
The Audit Committee keeps under review the need for a fully 
independent internal audit function in the Group. The Audit  31 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Governance
Committee believes that the Group’s system of internal control 
is appropriate for a group of the size and nature of Diploma 
PLC and the Audit Committee’s current view is that a separate 
independent internal audit function is not necessary.
Audit Committee and Auditors
The Board has established an Audit Committee comprising the 
three non-Executive Directors. The Committee is chaired by 
JW Matthews. The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the 
Committee.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are set out 
in written terms of reference, which were reviewed and updated 
during 2005 and which generally encompass those set out in the 
Code, which are as follows:
 to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of 
the Group and any formal announcements relating to 
the Group’s financial performance, reviewing significant 
financial judgements contained therein;
 to review the Group’s internal financial controls and its 
internal controls and risk management systems;
 to make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to 
shareholders for approval in general meeting, in relation 
to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the 
external auditors and to approve the terms of engagement 
of the external auditors;
 to review and monitor the external auditors’ independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process 
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements;
 to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the 
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into 
account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-
audit services by external auditors; and
 to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of 
which it considers that action or improvement is needed 
and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
 to annually consider whether there is a need for a formal 
internal audit function and make recommendation to the 
Board.
In addition, the Audit Committee has an important role to play 
through its responsibility for, and oversight of, the auditor 
relationship and auditor independence. The Committee 
recognises that auditor independence is an essential part of the 
audit framework and the assurance it provides.
In 2008, the Committee reviewed the audit engagement and, 
following an audit tender process, recommended to the Board 
the appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company and 
Group.
The Committee normally meets at least five times a year. 
The external auditors and the Executive Directors generally 
attend Audit Committee meetings. In addition, the Committee 
periodically meets the external auditors without the Executive 
Directors present.
The Audit Committee’s responsibilities are discharged in the 
following manner:
 at its meetings in May and November, the focus falls on 
a review of the Interim Report and the Annual Report and 
Accounts respectively. On both occasions, the Committee 
receives reports from the Group Finance Director and 
from the external auditors identifying any accounting or 
judgemental issues requiring its attention; 
 the external auditors present their audit plan at the 
September meeting; and
 the Committee meets to approve formal Interim 
Management Statements which are released to the market 
in January and August, in accordance with the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules.
The Committee has also formally reviewed and approved 
the arrangements by which Company employees may, in 
confidence, raise concerns about possible irregularities in 
financial reporting or other matters (so called “whistleblowing” 
procedures).
On an annual basis, the Committee also assesses annually the 
effectiveness of the external audit process. This assessment 
covers all aspects of the audit service provided by the 
Company’s external auditors. The Committee also reviews 
annually a report on the external auditors’ own quality control 
procedures.
The Committee has also established a set of guidelines covering 
the type of non-audit work that can be assigned to auditors. 
These relate to further assurance services – where the auditors’ 
detailed knowledge of the Group’s affairs means that they may 
be best placed to carry out such work. This extends to, but is 
not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, regulatory 
reports, and on occasions, work in connection with disposals. 
Work in connection with acquisitions, including due diligence 
reviews, is generally not provided by the auditors, but is put out 
to tender to other firms.
Taxation services are generally not provided by the auditors; 
a separate firm is retained to provide tax advice, including any 
assistance with tax compliance matters generally, except in 
Canada, where the auditors provide some assistance on the tax 
computations.
In other circumstances, proposed assignments are put out 
to tender and decisions to award work taken on the basis of 
demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
The Committee receives an annual report which provides details 
of any assignments and related fees carried out by the auditors 
in addition to their normal audit work, and these are reviewed 
against the above guidelines.  32 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Corporate Governance continued
32 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Communications with Shareholders
The Company maintains regular contact with major 
shareholders to communicate clearly the Group’s objectives 
and monitors movements in significant shareholdings. The 
Company recognises the importance of communicating with 
its shareholders and does this through its Annual and Interim 
Reports, Interim Management Statements and at the Annual 
General Meeting and through the processes described below.
Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive Officer 
and Group Finance Director and presentations are made on the 
operating and financial performance of the Group and its longer 
term strategy. The slide presentations made to representatives 
of the investment community following the announcement of 
the Preliminary and Interim results are made available on the 
Company’s website at www.diplomaplc.com
The non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the 
views of institutional shareholders and an independent insight 
is sought through research carried out twice a year by the 
Company’s advisors.
Through these processes, the Board is kept abreast of key 
issues. The opportunity for shareholders to meet the Chairman 
or Senior Independent Director, separately from the Executive 
Directors, is available on request.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders 
at least twenty working days prior to the meeting and includes 
a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue. In 
the absence of a poll being called, proxy votes cast are declared 
after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary 
generally deal with questions from individual shareholders. 
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at 
the Company’s Annual General Meeting when the Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer give a statement on the Group’s 
performance during the year, together with a statement on 
current trading conditions. The Chairman of the Board and of the 
Remuneration and Audit Committees will normally be available 
to answer questions at the meeting. 33 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Remuneration Report
Governance
This Report is presented to shareholders by the Board and provides information on Directors’ remuneration. This Report complies with 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and also sets out how the principles of the FRC Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance (“the Code”) issued in June 2003 and last updated in June 2008, relating to Directors’ remuneration are applied.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 13 January 2010, inviting them to consider and approve this 
Report.
Performance
The Board recognises the importance of linking remuneration policies to the performance of the Group and shareholder return.
The graph below shows the total shareholder return for a holding of the Company’s ordinary shares for the five financial years to 
30 September 2009. This is compared to the total shareholder return for a hypothetical holding in the FTSE mid-250 index (excluding 
investment trusts). This was chosen as the Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”) believes it is the most appropriate index to 
which the Company’s performance can be compared and it is the index which is used for the purposes of the Long Term Incentive 
Plan.
Total shareholder return is the growth in value of a share plus the value of dividends re-invested in the Company’s shares on the day on 
which they are paid.
180.57
167.91
0.00
50.00
100.00
150.00
200.00
250.00
300.00
350.00
Oct-04 Apr-05 Oct-05 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Oct-09 Apr-09
Diploma
FTSE 250 (ex Investment Trusts)
The five year total shareholder return figures for Diploma PLC and the FTSE mid-250 index were as follows:
FTSE
Diploma mid-250
September 2004    100 100
September 2009    181 168
    +81%+68% 34 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Remuneration Report continued
34 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Remuneration Committee
The Committee is governed by formal terms of reference agreed 
by the Board and comprises two non-Executive Directors and 
the Chairman. The written terms of reference were reviewed 
and updated during 2005 and are published on the Company’s 
website. The Committee comprised IM Grice who is the 
Chairman, JW Matthews and JL Rennocks. The Committee 
determines the specific remuneration packages, including 
share schemes, of the Executive Directors and also monitors 
the remuneration of other senior executives who report to the 
Executive Directors. The Chief Executive attends meetings 
at the invitation of the Committee to provide guidance as 
appropriate on the impact of remuneration policy and advice on 
the performance of Executive Directors. The Chief Executive 
does not attend meetings when his own position is discussed. 
Any matter affecting the Chairman is discussed by the 
Committee without the Chairman present.
The Committee met on three occasions during the year.
The Committee received advice and a written report from 
Towers Perrin in July 2008 on matters relating to Directors’ 
Remuneration, as reported in last year’s Remuneration Report. 
The Committee took the advice into account in establishing 
remuneration policies for the 2009 financial year. The Committee 
has not sought any external advice during the current financial 
year.
The Committee is satisfied that the current share incentive 
scheme, including grant levels and performance conditions, 
remains appropriate to the Company’s current circumstances. 
However, the Committee intends to take advice on the current 
share incentive scheme and other aspects of remuneration 
during 2010.
Remuneration Policy
This Remuneration Report sets out the Company’s policy on 
Directors’ remuneration for 2009 and, so far as practicable, for 
subsequent years. In framing this policy the Committee has 
given full consideration to the provisions of the Code.
The Company’s policy for Executive Director remuneration is 
that total remuneration (basic remuneration plus short term and 
long term remuneration) should reward both short and long term 
results, delivering competitive rewards for target performance.
The Company’s policy for basic Director remuneration is to pay 
competitive market salaries and associated benefits, having 
regard to the Directors’ experience, the size and complexity of 
the job and any other relevant factors, such as business sector 
expertise.
Share ownership is encouraged. Equity-based reward 
programmes align the interests of Executive Directors with 
those of shareholders and the long term success of the Group.
The Committee considers that a successful remuneration 
policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of 
future changes in the Company’s business environment and 
in remuneration practice. Any changes in policy for years after 
2009 will be described in future Remuneration Reports. Any 
statements in this Report in relation to remuneration policy for 
years after 2009 should be considered in this context.
Components of Remuneration
The current elements of remuneration for Executive Directors 
are as follows:
Salary and Benefits
The Committee reviews salaries taking account of Group and 
personal performance. Account is also taken of the levels of 
pay awarded elsewhere in the sector and competitive market 
practice.
The value of non-salary benefits for Executive Directors is 
included in the table of remuneration on page 36 and comprises 
life and health insurance and cash payments in lieu of a car. The 
value of these benefits is not pensionable, but is assessable to 
tax.
Short Term Incentives
The Company operates an annual performance related cash 
bonus scheme for Executive Directors. The maximum bonus 
payment under this scheme in 2009 is 100% of basic salary 
for the Chief Executive Officer and 80% (2008: 70%) for other 
Executive Directors. On target bonus is 60% for the Chief 
Executive Officer and 50% (2008: 40%) for other Executive 
Directors. The bonus for the Chief Executive Officer is wholly 
dependent on the financial performance of the Group; the bonus 
for the other Executive Directors is 75% (2008: 80%) based 
on the financial performance of the Group with the remaining 
25% (2008: 20%) subject to achievement of specified personal 
objectives.
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
The Company operates a Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) for 
Executive Directors. In line with current best practice, the LTIP 
provides for annual grants to Executive Directors.
Under the LTIP, Executive Directors are awarded rights to 
acquire ordinary shares. Each award made under the LTIP is 
subject to performance conditions which will determine how 
many, if any, of the shares under the award the participant is 
entitled to receive after the three year performance period. The 
value of awards which can be made in any year to a participant 
will normally be equal to 100% of basic salary. This limit can be 
increased to a maximum of 200% in the case of a participant 
who within the previous 12 months joined the Group or received 
a significant promotion.
In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be 
issued or placed under option under any executive share plan 
established by the Company, may not exceed 5% of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time. In 
any ten-year period the number of shares which may be issued 
or placed under option, under any all-employee share plan 
established by the Company, may not exceed 10% of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company, from time to time.
Two performance conditions apply to the awards so that the 
vesting of 50% of the award will be linked to earnings per share 
(“EPS”) growth and 50% will be linked to Total Shareholder 
Return (share price growth and reinvested dividends) (“TSR”), 
measured by comparison with the FTSE mid-250 index 
(excluding investment trusts).
The first performance condition is that the average annual 
compound growth in the Company’s earnings per share (“EPS”) 
over the three consecutive financial years, following the year 
prior to the grant, must exceed the annual compound growth  35 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Governance
rate in the UK Retail Price Index (RPI) plus 3% per annum, over 
the same period. At this level of performance, 30% of the award 
relating to EPS performance would vest. Full vesting of the 
award relating to EPS performance requires that the Company’s 
average annual compound growth in EPS exceeds the 
compound growth in RPI plus 5% per annum over the period. 
Between these two points, an increasing proportion of vesting 
occurs at RPI plus 3.5%, RPI plus 4% and RPI plus 4.5%. For 
the purposes of this condition, EPS will comprise adjusted EPS 
as defined in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The definition of adjusted EPS remains consistent with the 
definition of EPS approved by the Remuneration Committee in 
previous years.
EPS was chosen as the appropriate measure of performance 
as it provides an absolute benchmark of the Company’s 
performance and is therefore a suitable balance to the relative 
TSR performance measurement.
The second performance condition compares the growth of 
the Company’s TSR over a three year period to that of the 
companies in the FTSE mid-250 index (excluding investment 
trusts). The Company’s ranking amongst the comparator 
companies determines the percentage of shares which will vest 
to a participant. For the participant to receive the full number of 
shares awarded, the Company must rank in the top quartile of 
the comparator group. Where the Company’s performance is at 
the median, 30% of any award is vested. Between these two 
points, vesting is on a straight-line basis. Where performance 
over the three year period does not reach the median ranking, 
no shares are vested, the relevant award lapses and there is no 
re-testing of performance.
The TSR performance condition was chosen as the Committee 
believes that TSR is an appropriate method of comparing the 
performance of the Company to that of its peers. The FTSE 
mid-250 index (excluding investment trusts) was chosen 
as the comparator group as there are a limited number of 
companies which are directly comparable to the Company and 
the index was therefore felt to be a suitable yardstick of relative 
performance.
Subsisting awards may vest before their vesting date in the 
event of a change of control of the Company, in accordance with 
the rules of the LTIP.
Benefits under the LTIP are not pensionable.
Awards under this LTIP have been made annually by the 
Remuneration Committee to BM Thompson, I Henderson and 
NP Lingwood, the last award being made on 17 November 
2008. Following the end of the relevant performance period, 
the number of shares over which an award vests is determined 
and a participant may then exercise the award on payment 
of £1 at any time within ten years of the date of grant. The 
number of shares over which the 2006 awards have vested at 
30 September 2009 are set out on page 36. The outstanding 
awards will vest on 30 September 2010 and 2011 respectively, 
subject to the performance conditions set out above, measured 
over three year performance periods ending on 30 September 
2010 and 2011.
Pension Arrangements
The Executive Directors receive pension contributions from the 
Company which are paid into money-purchase schemes. No 
Directors are members of the Group’s defined benefit schemes. 
The pension contributions are 20.0% (2008: 20.0%) of base 
remuneration, excluding bonuses.
Relative Performance of Remuneration Elements
The Committee’s view is that the performance related elements 
of the remuneration package for Executive Directors should be a 
significant element of the total. This serves to align the interests 
of such Directors with shareholders. Assuming full payment of 
all elements, more than 60% of the total remuneration of each 
of the Executive Directors would be performance related.
Service Contracts – Executive Directors
The service agreements of the Executive Directors include the 
following terms:
Date of Contract Notice Period
BM Thompson 13 July 2000 12 months
I Henderson 1 August 2000 12 months
NP Lingwood 3 July 2001 12 months
The Executive Directors are subject to rolling contracts and 
offer themselves for re-election as Directors at least every 
three years in accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association. Payments on termination for Executive Directors 
are restricted to the value of salary and contractual benefits for 
the notice period. There is no predetermined special provision 
for Executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event 
of loss of office. The Remuneration Committee would consider 
the circumstances of individual cases of early termination and 
determine compensation payments accordingly.
Non-Executive Directors
The fees for the non-Executive Directors are determined by the 
Board as a whole, having regard to market practice. Business 
expenses are also reimbursed.
The non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service, 
but are appointed pursuant to letters of appointment. Such 
appointments are for a one year term and the Company’s policy 
is for re-appointment to be on an annual basis. Non-Executive 
Directors are not eligible to participate in any incentive plan 
or Company pension arrangement and are not entitled to any 
payment in compensation for any early termination of their 
appointment. They are due for re-appointment to the Board on 
the following dates:
Date of
Re-appointment Renewal
IM Grice 24 January 2010 Annual
JW Matthews 24 July 2010 Annual
JL Rennocks 11 July 2010 Annual
All Directors’ appointments are subject to approval of the 
shareholders in General Meeting sought on a three yearly basis.
During the year ended 30 September 2009 the non-Executive 
Directors each received a fee of £35,000 per annum (2008: 
£30,000). The Chairman, who is a non-Executive Director, 
received a fee of £70,000 per annum (2008: £60,000) for his 
services during the year ended 30 September 2009. 36 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Remuneration Report continued
36 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Total Remuneration of the Directors
The total remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2009 is set out below.
Fixed emoluments
Performance
Salary Other based 2009 2008
& fees benefits bonus Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
IM Grice 35 – – 35 30
I Henderson 207 11 50 268 328
NP Lingwood 207 12 50 269 329
JW Matthews 35 – – 35 30
JL Rennocks 70 – – 70 60
BM Thompson 340 14 102 456 631
894 37 202 1,133 1,408
The pension contributions paid on behalf of the Directors are as follows:
2009 2008
£000 £000
BM Thompson    68 66
I Henderson    41 39
NP Lingwood    41 39
150 144
Long Term Incentive Plan
On 17 November 2008 Executive Directors received a share award with a face value of one times salary as set out below. On 30 
September 2009 the performance period relating to the award made on 22 December 2006 ended and the LTIP awards vested and 
became exercisable by each of the Directors, as set out below.
LTIP shares
awarded LTIP shares Total
LTIP shares during the vested on LTIP shares LTIP shares
held at year ended 30 Sept 2009 lapsed on Share price held at
30 Sept 2008 30 Sept 2009 (note 1) 30 Sept 2009 on date of Vesting 30 Sept 2009
Number Number Number Number award date Number
BM Thompson
22 December 2006 191,925 – 175,132 16,793 161.6p 30 Sept 2009 –
17 December 2007 178,225 – – – 184.6p 30 Sept 2010 178,225
17 November 2008 – 276,423 – – 123.0p 30 Sept 2011 276,423
I Henderson
22 December 2006 115,155 – 105,079 10,076 161.6p 30 Sept 2009 –
17 December 2007 106,715 – – – 184.6p 30 Sept 2010 106,715
17 November 2008 – 168,293 – – 123.0p 30 Sept 2011 168,293
NP Lingwood
22 December 2006 115,155 – 105,079 10,076 161.6p 30 Sept 2009 –
17 December 2007 106,715 – – – 184.6p 30 Sept 2010 106,715
17 November 2008 – 168,293 – – 123.0p 30 Sept 2011 168,293
Note:
1.  The awards which vested on 30 September 2009 were calculated in accordance with the performance conditions described on pages 34 and 35. The 
awards may be exercised at any time before 22 December 2016 on payment of £1. In aggregate 91.3% of the total LTIP award granted on 22 December 
2006 vested unconditionally and became exercisable.

three year period ended 30 September 2009 was 7.5% pa; this compares with an annual compound growth rate in RPI +4.5% over the same period 
of 7.5% pa. Accordingly 82.5% of the shares relating to this award (representing 50% of the total award) vested unconditionally.

gave the Company a ranking of 42 in the comparator group and put the Company in the 77 percentile. The median TSR was -18.1% and the lower 
threshold of the upper quartile was 11.7%. Accordingly 100% of the shares relating to this part of the award vested unconditionally. 37 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Governance
Directors’ Shareholdings
Ordinary shares of 5p each
At At At
16 November 30 September 1 October
2009 2009 2008
Number Number Number
IM Grice 20,000 20,000 20,000
I Henderson 534,604 534,604 421,875
NP Lingwood 100,000 100,000 195,875
JW Matthews –– –
JL Rennocks 223,766 223,766 214,766
BM Thompson 1,215,039 1,215,039 1,026,940
Note:
1.  The above table excludes interests in the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan, disclosed above.
As described above, following the vesting of the LTIP awards the Executive Directors are able to exercise their vested awards to 
acquire ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company for an aggregate consideration of £1. The underlying shares are held by the Diploma 
Employee Benefit Trust and are transferred to the participant on exercise. Whilst ordinary shares are held within the Diploma Employee 
Benefit Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are exercisable by the trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties. 
At 30 September 2008 and 2009 the number of shares which are the subject of vested LTIP awards and are held by each Director 
were as follows:
Vested LTIP awards Share price Amount
At Exercised At At At At At
30 Sept during Vested 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept 30 Sept
2008 2009 during 2009 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009
Number Number Number Number £ £
BM Thompson 188,099 (188,099) 175,132 175,132 152.5p 173.0p 286,851 302,978
I Henderson 112,729 (112,729) 105,079 105,079 152.5p 173.0p 171,912 181,787
NP Lingwood 112,729 (112,729) 105,079 105,079 152.5p 173.0p 171,912 181,787
Note:
1.  On 17 November 2008, each participant exercised their option to acquire shares which had vested at 30 September 2008, for consideration of £1.
The share price at the date of exercise was 114.0p.
2. The share price during the year to 30 September 2009 ranged from 92.25p to 173.0p.
The information set out above under the headings Total Remuneration of the Directors and Directors’ Shareholdings has been audited.
All other information provided in the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
This Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
IM Grice
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
16 November 2009 38 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
for the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
including the Group and Parent Company financial statements, 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Group 
financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union (“EU”) and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations 
and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Standards (UK Accounting Standards).
The Group financial statements are required by law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial 
position and the performance of the Group; the Companies 
Act 2006 provides in relation to such financial statements, 
that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial 
statements giving a true and fair view, are references to their 
achieving a fair presentation. 
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently. 
 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent. 
 For the Group financial statements, state whether they 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted 
by the EU.
 For the Parent Company financial statements, state 
whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the Parent Company financial statements.
 Prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Parent Company and enable 
them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and 
other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors confirms that so far as he is aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditors are unaware and that he has taken all steps that he 
ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that 
the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
 the Group’s consolidated financial statements, prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and 
the Parent Company financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit of the Group and Parent Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
 the Annual Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Group and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 16 November 2009 and is signed on its behalf by:
BM Thompson NP Lingwood
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director 39 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 30 September 2009
Financial Statements
39 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
2009 2008
Continuing businesses Note £m £m
Revenue   3,4 160.0 156.2
Cost of sales    (101.7) (99.3)
Gross profit 58.3 56.9
Distribution costs    (4.1) (4.1)
Administration costs    (31.7) (28.9)
Operating profit, before amortisation of acquisition intangible assets    3,4 25.6 26.6
Amortisation of acquisition intangible assets   11 (3.1) (2.7)
Operating profit 3 22.5 23.9
Finance expense, net   6 (2.0) (2.8)
Profit before tax 20.5 21.1
Tax expense   7 (7.1) (7.2)
Profit for the year from continuing business 13.4 13.9
Profit from discontinuing businesses   22 0.9 0.5
Profit for the year 14.3 14.4
Attributable to: 
  Shareholders of the Company    13.0 13.3
  Minority interests   20 1.3 1.1
14.3 14.4
Earnings per share
  Basic and diluted earnings – continuing   9 10.8p 11.4p
  Basic and diluted earnings – discontinuing   9 0.8p 0.4p
  Basic and diluted earnings – continuing and discontinuing   9 11.6p 11.8p
Alternative Performance Measures (note 2)
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Profit before tax  20.5 21.1
Add: Amortisation of acquisition intangible assets   11 3.1 2.7
Fair value remeasurements   6 1.9 3.0
Adjusted profit before tax – continuing 25.5 26.8
Adjusted profit before tax – discontinuing   22 1.2 0.7
Adjusted profit before tax – continuing and discontinuing     26.7 27.5
Adjusted earnings per share – continuing   9 14.8p 16.0p
Adjusted earnings per share – continuing and discontinuing   9 15.6p 16.4p
The notes on pages 43 to 67 form part of these financial statements. 40 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 30 September 2009
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill   10 59.6 51.6
Acquisition intangible assets   11 21.2 18.6
Other intangible assets   11 0.8 1.2
Property, plant and equipment   12 11.6 11.6
Deferred tax assets   13 2.1 1.3
95.3 84.3
Current assets
Inventories   14 28.0 31.5
Trade and other receivables   15 25.2 26.7
Assets held for sale   22 5.4 –
Cash and cash equivalents   17 21.3 15.7
79.9 73.9
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables   16 (23.3) (26.3)
Current tax liabilities    (1.8) (3.3)
Other liabilities   19 (3.1) (1.1)
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale   22 (3.5) –
(31.7) (30.7)
Net current assets 48.2 43.2
Total assets less current liabilities 143.5 127.5
Non-current liabilities
Retirement benefit obligations   24 (4.7) (1.7)
Other liabilities   19 (10.6) (11.2)
Deferred tax liabilities   13 (4.1) (4.6)
Net assets 124.1 110.0
Equity
Share capital    5.7 5.7
Translation reserve    18.7 8.0
Hedging reserve    0.3 0.7
Retained earnings    96.7 93.7
Total shareholders’ equity 121.4 108.1
Minority interests   20 2.7 1.9
Total equity 124.1 110.0
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 November 2009 and signed on its behalf by:
BM Thompson NP Lingwood
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director 
The notes on pages 43 to 67 form part of these financial statements. 41 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
41 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Exchange rate adjustments on foreign currency net investments      10.7 7.4
(Losses)/gains on fair value of cash flow hedges    (0.4) 1.3
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes   24 (3.1) (0.5)
Deferred tax on items recognised in equity   13 1.0 (0.3)
Net income recognised directly in equity for the year    8.2 7.9
Profit for the year    14.3 14.4
Total recognised income and expense for the year   22.5 22.3
Attributable to: 
  Shareholders of the Company     21.2 21.1
  Minority interests     1.3 1.2
22.5 22.3
The notes on pages 43 to 67 form part of these financial statements.
Other changes in shareholders’ equity
Capital
Share redemption Translation Hedging Retained
capital reserve reserve reserve earnings Total
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2007 1.1 0.2 0.6 (0.6) 89.4 90.7
Total recognised income and expense for the year 
  attributable to shareholders – – 7.4 1.3 12.4 21.1
Bonus issue of shares 4.6 (0.2) – – (4.4) –
Share-based payments 5 – – – – 0.5 0.5
Purchase of own shares – – – – (0.9) (0.9)
Purchase of minority interests 19 – – – – 3.6 3.6
Dividends 8–––– (6.9) (6.9)
At 30 September 2008 5.7 – 8.0 0.7 93.7 108.1
Total recognised income and expense for the year  
  attributable to shareholders – – 10.7 (0.4) 10.9 21.2
Share-based payments 5 – – – – 0.5 0.5
Dividends 8–––– (8.4) (8.4)
At 30 September 2009 5.7 – 18.7 0.3 96.7 121.4
Consolidated Statement of Recognised 
Income and Expense
For the year ended 30 September 2009 42 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 30 September 2009
2009 2008
Continuing businesses Note £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Cash flow from operations   23 34.2 27.8
Finance income received, net    – –
Tax paid    (9.0) (7.8)
Net cash from operating activities 25.2 20.0
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired)   21 (11.1) (7.6)
Deferred consideration paid   19 (1.1) (0.3)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment    0.1 0.2
Purchase of property, plant and equipment   12 (1.5) (1.4)
Purchase of other intangible assets   11 (0.3) (0.2)
Net cash used in investing activities (13.9) (9.3)
Cash flow from financing activities
Dividends paid to shareholders   8 (8.4) (6.9)
Dividends paid to minority interests   20 (0.7) (0.9)
Purchase of own shares    – (0.9)
Net cash used in financing activities (9.1) (8.7)
Net cash flow from discontinuing business   22 1.7 0.3
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3.9 2.3
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year    15.7 12.4
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents    1.7 1.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year   17 21.3 15.7
Alternative Performance Measures (note 2)
2009 2008
£m £m
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3.9 2.3
Add: Dividends paid to shareholders    8.4 6.9
Dividends paid to minority interests    0.7 0.9
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired)    11.1 7.6
Deferred consideration paid    1.1 0.3
Free cash flow – continuing and discontinuing     25.2 18.0
Less: Free cash flow – discontinuing    (1.7) (0.3)
Free cash flow – continuing 23.5 17.7
The notes on pages 43 to 67 form part of these financial statements. 43 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2009
Financial Statements
1. General Information
Diploma PLC is a public limited company registered and domiciled in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.  
The address of the registered office is 12 Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6AX.  The consolidated financial statements comprise 
the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) and were authorised by the Directors for publication on 
16 November 2009. These statements are presented in UK sterling, with all values rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand, 
except where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as 
adopted by the European Union, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The financial statements of the Parent company, Diploma PLC, have been prepared in accordance with “UK GAAP”, and are set out in 
a separate section of the Annual Report on pages 68 to 69.
2. Alternative Performance Measures
The Group uses a number of alternative (non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“non-GAAP”)) financial measures which are not 
defined within IFRS.  The Directors use these measures in order to assess the underlying operational performance of the Group and as 
such, these measures are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures.  The following non-GAAP measures are 
referred to in this Annual Report.
2.1 Adjusted profit before tax
On the face of the consolidated income statement, “adjusted profit before tax” is separately disclosed, being defined as profit before 
tax and before the costs of restructuring or rationalisation of operations, the profit or loss relating to the sale of property, fair value 
remeasurements under IAS 32 and IAS 39 in respect of future purchases of minority interests and the amortisation and impairment of 
acquisition intangible assets. The Directors believe that adjusted profit before tax is an important measure of the underlying performance of 
the Group.
2.2 Adjusted earnings per share
“Adjusted earnings per share” is calculated as the total of adjusted profit, less income tax costs, but excluding the tax impact on the 
items included in the calculation of adjusted profit and the tax effects of goodwill in overseas jurisdictions, less profit attributable to 
minority interests, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.  The Directors believe that 
adjusted earnings per share provides an important measure of the underlying earning capacity of the Group.
2.3 Free cash flow
On the face of the consolidated cash flow statement, “free cash flow” is reported, being defined as net cash flow from operating 
activities, after net capital expenditure on fixed assets, but before expenditure on business combinations and dividends paid to both 
minority shareholders and the Company’s shareholders.  The Directors believe that free cash flow gives an important measure of the 
cash flow of the Group, available for future investment.
2.4 Trading capital employed
In the segment analysis in note 3, “trading capital employed” is reported, being defined as net assets less cash and cash equivalents 
and after adding back retirement benefit obligations, deferred tax, amounts in respect of future purchases of minority interests and 
adjusting goodwill in respect of the recognition of deferred tax on acquisition intangible assets.  Return on trading capital employed is 
defined as being adjusted profit before finance expense/income and tax, divided by trading capital employed plus all historic goodwill 
and as adjusted for the timing effect of major acquisitions and disposals. Return on trading capital employed at the sector level does 
not include historic goodwill. The Directors believe that return on trading capital employed is an important measure of the underlying 
performance of the Group.
3. Business Segment Analysis – Continuing
For management reporting purposes, the Group is organised into three main business segments: Life Sciences, Seals and Controls. 
These segments form the basis of the primary reporting format disclosures below. The principal activities of each of these segments is 
described in the Business Review on pages 10 to 26. Segment revenue represents revenue from external customers; there is no inter-
segment revenue. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment, as well as those that can be 
allocated on a reasonable basis.
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue – existing businesses 48.8 45.0 41.3 42.6 61.9 68.6 152.0 156.2
              – acquisitions 1.1 – 6.9 – – – 8.0 –
Revenue – continuing 49.9 45.0 48.2 42.6 61.9 68.6 160.0 156.2
Segment operating profit – existing businesses 10.3 8.6 4.8 6.7 9.5 11.3 24.6 26.6
                                      – acquisitions 0.3 – 0.7 – – – 1.0 –
Segment operating profit – continuing 10.6 8.6 5.5 6.7 9.5 11.3 25.6 26.6
Amortisation of acquisition intangible assets (1.4) (1.5) (1.3) (0.8) (0.4) (0.4) (3.1) (2.7)
Operating profit – continuing 9.2 7.1 4.2 5.9 9.1 10.9 22.5 23.9 44 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2009
3. Business Segment Analysis – Continuing (continued)
Segment assets exclude cash and cash equivalents, deferred tax assets and corporate assets that cannot be allocated on a 
reasonable basis to a business segment. Segment liabilities exclude retirement benefit obligations, deferred tax liabilities and 
corporate liabilities that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business segment. These items are shown collectively in the 
following analysis as “unallocated assets” and “unallocated liabilities”, respectively.
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Operating assets 15.6 21.5 23.6 22.0 23.3 24.5 62.5 68.0
Goodwill 32.5 30.6 12.0 8.9 15.1 12.1 59.6 51.6
Acquisition intangible assets 10.9 11.4 8.8 5.3 1.5 1.9 21.2 18.6
59.0 63.5 44.4 36.2 39.9 38.5 143.3 138.2
Unallocated assets:
– Deferred tax assets 2.1 1.3
– Cash and cash equivalents 21.3 15.7
– Assets held for sale      5.4 –
– Corporate assets 3.1 3.0
Total assets 175.2 158.2
Operating liabilities (9.0) (12.4) (4.8) (4.9) (9.3) (10.5) (23.1) (27.8)
Unallocated liabilities:
– Deferred tax liabilities    (4.1) (4.6)
– Retirement benefit obligations    (4.7) (1.7)
– Future purchases of minority interests (13.1) (11.2)
– Liabilities associated with assets held for sale    (3.5) –
– Corporate liabilities    (2.6) (2.9)
Total liabilities (51.1) (48.2)
Net assets 124.1 110.0
Other segment information
Capital expenditure 0.6 0.8 1.1 0.5 0.1 0.3 1.8 1.6
Depreciation (including software) 0.8 1.0 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 2.2 2.2
Alternative Performance Measures (note 2)
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net assets     124.1 110.0
Add/(less):
– Deferred tax, net     2.0 3.3
– Retirement benefit obligations     4.7 1.7
– Future purchases of minority interests     13.1 11.2
– Cash and cash equivalents     (21.3) (15.7)
– Adjustment to goodwill (4.5) (4.1) (1.4) (1.2) (0.6) (0.7) (6.5) (6.0)
Group trading capital employed      116.1 104.5
Assets held for sale, net      (1.9) –
Corporate assets, net      (0.5) (0.1)
Segment trading capital employed 45.5 47.0 38.2 30.1 30.0 27.3 113.7 104.4 45 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
4. Geographic Segment Analysis by Origin – Continuing
Trading capital Capital
Revenue Operating profit* Gross assets employed expenditure
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom 50.1 57.7 6.8 7.9 49.3 51.2 28.4 29.5 0.1 0.4
Rest of Europe 32.6 33.7 3.9 5.7 34.8 26.8 21.0 20.7 0.2 0.3
North America 77.3 64.8 14.9 13.0 91.1 80.2 66.7 54.3 1.5 0.9
160.0 156.2 25.6 26.6 175.2 158.2 116.1 104.5 1.8 1.6
*before amortisation of acquisition intangible assets
5. Group Employee Costs – Continuing
The key management of the Group are the Executive Directors who have authority and responsibility for planning and controlling all 
significant activities of the Group. The Directors’ emoluments and interests in shares of the Company are given in the Remuneration 
Report on pages 33 to 37. The charge for share-based payments of £0.5m relate to the Group’s share schemes, described in the 
Remuneration Report. The fair value of services provided as consideration for part of the grant of the LTIP awards has been based on 
a predicted future value model and was £0.2m (2008: £0.2m).
Group staff costs, including Directors’ emoluments, are as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Wages and salaries   29.3 26.3
Social security costs   2.8 2.4
Pension costs – defined contribution   0.7 0.6
Share-based payments   0.5 0.5
33.3 29.8
The average number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year were:
2009 2008
Number Number
Life Sciences    207 203
Seals    358 360
Controls    248 261
Corporate    10 9
Number of employees – average 823 833
Number of employees – year end 809 852
6. Finance Expense, net
2009 2008
  £m £m
Finance income
– interest receivable on short term deposits    0.1 0.3
– net finance income from defined benefit pension scheme (note 24)     – 0.2
0.1 0.5
Finance expense
– interest payable on bank borrowings    (0.1) (0.3)
– fair value remeasurement of put options (note 19)    (1.9) (3.0)
– net finance expense from defined benefit pension scheme (note 24)     (0.1) –
(2.1) (3.3)
Net finance expense (2.0) (2.8)
The fair value remeasurement of £1.9m (2008: £3.0m) includes £1.1m (2008: £0.7m) which relates to the unwinding of the discount on 
the liability for future purchases of minority interests. 46 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2009
7. Taxation – Continuing
2009 2008
£m £m
Current tax
The tax charge is based on the profit for the year and comprises:
   UK corporation tax    2.4 2.8
   Overseas tax    5.2 5.4
7.6 8.2
Adjustments in respect of prior year:
   UK corporation tax    – (0.4)
   Overseas tax    – 0.2
– (0.2)
Total current tax 7.6 8.0
Deferred tax
The deferred tax credit based on the origination and reversal of timing differences comprises:
   United Kingdom  (0.2) (0.3)
   Overseas   (0.3) (0.5)
Total deferred tax (0.5) (0.8)
Total tax on profit for the year 7.1 7.2
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year:
The difference between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK 
corporation tax to the profit before tax is as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Profit before tax 20.5 21.1
Tax on profit at UK effective corporation tax rate of 28% (2008: 29%)     5.7 6.1
Effects of:
  Higher tax rates on overseas earnings    0.7 0.7
  Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods    – (0.2)
Fair value remeasurements    0.5 0.9
  Other permanent differences    0.2 (0.3)
Total tax on profit for the year 7.1 7.2
The Group earns its profits in the UK and overseas. The UK corporation tax rate is 28% (2008: 29%) and this rate has been used for tax 
on profit in the above reconciliation. The Group’s overseas tax rate is higher than that in the UK, primarily because the profits earned in 
North America are taxed at rates varying from 32% to 38%. The tax relating to the discontinuing business is £0.3m (2008: £0.2m), as 
set out in note 22. 47 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
8. Dividends
2009 2008 2009 2008
pence pence
per share per share £m £m
Interim dividend, paid in June 2.5 2.5 2.8 2.8
Final dividend of the prior year, paid in January 5.0 3.6 5.6 4.1
7.5 6.1 8.4 6.9
The Directors have proposed a final dividend in respect of the current year of 5.3p (2008: 5.0p) which will be paid in January 2010, 
subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 13 January 2010. The total dividend for the current year, subject 
to approval of the final dividend, will be 7.8p (2008: 7.5p). 
Shares held by the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust are not eligible for dividends.
9. Earnings Per Share
Basic and diluted earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary 5p share are calculated on the basis of the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year of 112,316,906 (2008: 112,237,586) and the profit for the year attributable to shareholders of £13.0m (2008: £13.3m). 
There were no potentially dilutive shares.
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share, which is defined in note 2, is calculated as follows:
2009 2008 2009 2008
pence pence
per share per share £m £m
Profit before tax – continuing 20.5 21.1
Tax expense (7.1) (7.2)
Minority interests (1.3) (1.1)
10.8 11.4 12.1 12.8
Profit from discontinuing business  0.8 0.4 0.9 0.5
Earnings for the year attributable to shareholders of the Company 11.6 11.8 13.0 13.3
Amortisation of acquisition intangible assets 2.7 2.4 3.1 2.7
Fair value remeasurements 1.7 2.7 1.9 3.0
Tax effects on goodwill, acquisition intangible assets and fair value remeasurements  (0.4) (0.5) (0.5) (0.6)
Adjusted earnings – continuing and discontinuing 15.6 16.4 17.5 18.4
10. Goodwill
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 October 2007  23.4 7.4 11.9 42.7
Acquisitions  5.8 0.8 – 6.6
Adjustments to prior year goodwill  (0.2) – (0.2) (0.4)
Exchange adjustments 1.6 0.7 0.4 2.7
At 30 September 2008  30.6 8.9 12.1 51.6
Acquisitions (note 21) 1.4 2.1 – 3.5
Reclassification (2.4) – 2.4 –
Exchange adjustments 2.9 1.0 0.6 4.5
At 30 September 2009  32.5 12.0 15.1 59.6 48 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2009
10. Goodwill (continued)
Goodwill of £3.5m, which arose on acquisitions completed during the year relates to the product know-how held by the employees, 
prospects for sales growth from new customers and operating cost synergies.
An impairment review of goodwill held at 30 September 2009 has been completed. The key assumptions used in this review are 
those regarding the discount rates and forecast for future growth in revenue and cash flow.  The discount rates used were ca. 13% 
(2008: ca. 16%).  The revenue and cash flow forecasts are derived from budgets, approved by management, for the next financial 
year.  These are extrapolated thereafter using growth rates ranging from 2% - 10% pa in the medium term and at GDP rates 
thereafter; changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and take account of any expectations of future 
changes in the market.
An increase in the discount rates of up to 2% would be likely to lead to impairments in the carrying value of goodwill of certain 
businesses of ca. £1m.  If growth rates achieved over the next five years are only 2% - 5% pa, this would lead to impairments in 
the carrying value of goodwill of certain businesses of ca. £3m. 
11. Acquisition and Other Intangible Assets
Acquisition Other
intangible intangible
assets assets Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 October 2007   21.4 1.5 22.9
Additions   – 0.3 0.3
Disposals   – (0.2) (0.2)
Exchange adjustments   1.4 0.7 2.1
At 30 September 2008   22.8 2.3 25.1
Additions   – 0.3 0.3
Acquisitions (note 21)   4.2 – 4.2
Disposals   – (0.2) (0.2)
Exchange adjustments   1.9 0.1 2.0
Reclassified as held for sale (note 22)   – (0.4) (0.4)
At 30 September 2009   28.9 2.1 31.0
Amortisation
At 1 October 2007   1.3 0.5 1.8
Charge for the year   2.7 0.3 3.0
Disposals   – (0.1) (0.1)
Exchange adjustments   0.2 0.4 0.6
At 30 September 2008   4.2 1.1 5.3
Charge for the year   3.1 0.4 3.5
Disposals   – (0.2) (0.2)
Exchange adjustments   0.4 0.1 0.5
On assets reclassified as held for sale (note 22)   – (0.1) (0.1)
At 30 September 2009   7.7 1.3 9.0
Net book value  
At 30 September 2009   21.2 0.8 22.0
At 30 September 2008   18.6 1.2 19.8
Acquisition intangible assets, which are analysed below, relate to items acquired through business combinations which are amortised 
over their useful economic life.
Net book
value Economic
£m life
Customer relationships    11.95-15 years
Supplier relationships    7.37-10 years
Databases and trade names    2.0 5-10 years 49 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
11. Acquisition and Other Intangible Assets (continued)
The amount in respect of customer relationships was valued using a discounted cash flow model; the databases were valued using 
a replacement cost model; the amount in respect of supplier relationships and trade names were valued on a relief from royalty 
method.
Other intangible assets comprise computer software that is separately identifiable from plant and equipment and includes software 
licences.
12. Property, Plant and Equipment
Freehold Leasehold Plant &
properties properties equipment Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 October 2007  8.4 0.7 12.3 21.4
Additions – 0.2 1.4 1.6
Acquisitions – – 0.1 0.1
Disposals (0.1) – (0.9) (1.0)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 1.2 1.4
At 30 September 2008  8.4 1.0 14.1 23.5
Additions – – 1.6 1.6
Acquisitions (note 21) – – 0.2 0.2
Disposals – – (1.5) (1.5)
Exchange adjustments 0.4 0.1 1.5 2.0
Reclassified as held for sale (note 22)  – – (1.4) (1.4)
At 30 September 2009  8.8 1.1 14.5 24.4
Depreciation
At 1 October 2007  1.7 0.2 7.8 9.7
Charge for the year 0.2 0.1 1.9 2.2
Disposals  (0.1) – (0.6) (0.7)
Exchange adjustments  – 0.2 0.5 0.7
At 30 September 2008  1.8 0.5 9.6 11.9
Charge for the year  0.1 0.1 1.9 2.1
Disposals  – – (1.3) (1.3)
Exchange adjustments  0.1 – 1.0 1.1
On assets reclassified as held for sale (note 22) – – (1.0) (1.0)
At 30 September 2009  2.0 0.6 10.2 12.8
Net book value  
At 30 September 2009  6.8 0.5 4.3 11.6
At 30 September 2008  6.6 0.5 4.5 11.6
Land included above, but not depreciated, is £2.0m (2008: £2.0m). Capital commitments contracted, but not provided, were £Nil 
(2008: £Nil).
Freehold properties includes ca.150 acres of land at Stamford (“the Stamford land”) which comprises mostly farm land and former 
quarry land. In the Directors’ opinion the current value of this land is £0.5m (net book value: £Nil). 50 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2009
13. Deferred Tax
The movement on deferred tax is as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
At 1 October    (3.3) (3.6)
Credit for the year    0.5 0.8
Acquisitions (note 21)    0.1 0.1
Accounted for in equity    1.0 (0.3)
Exchange adjustments    (0.3) (0.3)
At 30 September (2.0) (3.3)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle 
the balances net.
Assets Liabilities Net
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 (0.5) (0.5) (0.3) (0.3)
Goodwill and intangible assets 0.1 0.3 (4.9) (5.1) (4.8) (4.8)
Retirement benefit obligations 1.3 0.5 – – 1.3 0.5
Inventories 0.9 0.7 – – 0.9 0.7
Share-based payments 0.1 0.1 – – 0.1 0.1
Other temporary differences 0.8 0.5 – – 0.8 0.5
3.4 2.3 (5.4) (5.6) (2.0) (3.3)
Set off of deferred tax (1.3) (1.0) 1.3 1.0 – –
2.1 1.3 (4.1) (4.6) (2.0) (3.3)
No deferred tax has been provided for unremitted earnings of overseas Group companies as the Group controls the dividend policies 
of its subsidiaries. Unremitted earnings may be liable to overseas taxation (after allowing for double taxation relief) if they were to be 
distributed as dividends. The aggregate amount for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised in respect of unremitted 
earnings was £0.7m (2008: £1.0m).
14. Inventories
2009 2008
£m £m
Finished goods and goods held for resale    28.0 31.5
Inventories are stated net of impairment provisions of £3.4m (2008: £3.5m).
15. Trade and Other Receivables
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade receivables    23.7 24.9
Less: Impairment provision    (0.5) (0.6)
23.2 24.3
Other receivables    0.8 1.0
Prepayments and accrued income    1.2 1.4
25.2 26.7 51 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
15. Trade and Other Receivables (continued)
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date, by currency was:
2009 2008
  £m £m
Sterling    8.6 11.0
US Dollars    5.0 4.5
Canadian Dollars    4.6 4.3
Euro    3.5 3.7
Other    2.0 1.4
  23.7 24.9
Trade receivables, before impairment provisions, are analysed as follows:
2009 2008
  £m £m
Not past due    19.7 19.8
Past due, but not impaired    3.4 4.5
Past due, but impaired    0.6 0.6
      23.7 24.9
The ageing of trade receivables classed as past due, but not impaired is as follows:
2009 2008
  £m £m
Up to one month past due    2.4 3.0
Between one and two months past due    0.8 0.8
Between two and four months past due    0.2 0.5
Over four months past due    – 0.2
      3.4 4.5
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows:
2009 2008
  £m £m
At 1 October    0.6 0.6
Charged against profit, net    – –
Utilised by write off    (0.1) –
At 30 September      0.5 0.6
16. Trade and Other Payables
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade payables    11.5 15.2
Other payables    1.9 1.0
Other taxes and social security    1.7 1.7
Accruals and deferred income    8.2 8.4
23.3 26.3 52 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2009
16. Trade and Other Payables (continued)
The maximum exposure to foreign currency risk for trade payables at the reporting date, by currency was:
2009 2008
  £m £m
Sterling    3.9 5.4
US Dollars    4.2 5.0
Canadian Dollars    0.7 0.7
Euro    2.5 3.8
Other    0.2 0.3
  11.5 15.2
17. Cash and Cash Equivalents
2009 2008
Sterling US$ Can$ Euro Total Sterling US$ Can$ Euro Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank 1.0 2.8 1.5 1.2 6.5 0.5 1.3 0.5 1.4 3.7
Short term deposits 5.8 – 6.9 2.1 14.8 1.0 4.0 6.2 0.8 12.0
6.8 2.8 8.4 3.3 21.3 1.5 5.3 6.7 2.2 15.7
The short term deposits and cash at bank are both interest bearing at rates linked to the UK Base Rate, or equivalent rate.
18. Financial Instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than a limited number of forward foreign contracts, comprise cash and short term 
deposits, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables and other liabilities. Trade and other receivables and trade and other 
payables arise directly from the Group’s day to day operations. 
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are those of credit, liquidity, foreign currency and interest rate. An 
explanation of each of these risks, how the Group manages these risks and an analysis of sensitivities is set out on page 24 within 
Risks and Uncertainties. 
Further analyses of these risks are included in the consolidated financial statements as follows:
a) Credit risk
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk was as follows:
Carrying amount
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade receivables    23.2 24.3
Other receivables    0.8 1.0
Cash and cash equivalents    21.3 15.7
45.3 41.0
There is no material difference between the carrying amount of the financial assets and their fair value at each reporting date. An 
analysis of the ageing and currency of trade receivables and the associated provision for impairment is set out in note 15. An analysis of 
cash and cash equivalents is set out in note 17.  53 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
18. Financial Instruments (continued)
b) Liquidity risk
The Group has no cash loans or overdrafts at each reporting date. 
Carrying amount
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade payables    11.5 15.2
Other payables    1.9 1.0
Other liabilities    13.7 12.3
27.1 28.5
The maturities of the undiscounted financial liabilities are as follows:
Less than one year    16.5 17.3
One-two years    8.5 2.1
Two-five years    3.7 12.2
28.7 31.6
Less: Discount    (1.6) (3.1)
27.1 28.5
There is no material difference between the carrying amount of these financial liabilities and their fair value at each reporting date. 
c) Currency risk
The Group holds forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge forecast transactional exposure of certain of the Group’s businesses to 
movements in the US dollar and euro. These forward foreign exchange contracts are classified as cash flow hedges and are stated at 
fair value. The net fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts used as hedges at 30 September 2009 was a £0.3m liability (2008: 
£0.2m asset).
d) Interest rate risk
The Group does not undertake any hedging of interest rates. All cash deposits, held in the UK and overseas, are held on a short term 
basis at floating rates or overnight rates, based on the relevant UK Base Rate, or equivalent rate. 
In January 2009, the Group drew down US$7.0m (£4.6m) from its revolving bank facility of £20.0m to finance the acquisition of RTD, 
as described in note 21. The loan was repaid in full by 30 September 2009. The weighted average of the interest paid on the loan, 
which was by reference to LIBOR, was 1.3%.
An analysis of cash and cash equivalents at the reporting dates is set out in note 17.
e) Fair values
There are no material differences between the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities and their fair value. The basis for 
determining fair values are as follows:
–  Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are valued at year end spot rates adjusted for the forward points to the contract’s value date, and gains 
and losses taken to equity. No contract’s value date is greater than 18 months from the year end. 
–  Trade and other receivables/payables 
As the majority of receivables/payables have a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair 
value. 
–  Other liabilities 
The carrying amount represents a discounted value of the expected liability which is deemed to reflect the fair value.  54 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2009
19. Other Liabilities
2009  2008
£m  £m
Future purchases of minority interests    13.1 11.2
Deferred consideration    0.6 1.1
13.7 12.3
Analysed as:
Due within one year    3.1 1.1
Due after one year    10.6 11.2
The movement in the liability for future purchases of minority interests is as follows:
2009  2008
£m  £m
At 1 October    11.2 11.8
Released to retained earnings    – (3.6)
Unwinding of discount    1.1 0.7
Fair value remeasurements    0.8 2.3
At 30 September 13.1 11.2
The Group retains put/call options to acquire the outstanding minority shareholdings in Somagen, AMT and M Seals, which are 
exercisable between 1 October 2009 and 31 December 2012.
At 30 September 2009, the estimate of the financial liability to acquire the outstanding minority shareholdings was reassessed by 
the Directors, based on their current estimate of the future performance of the businesses and to reflect foreign exchange rates at 
30 September 2009. This led to a remeasurement of the fair value of these put options and the liability was increased by £0.8m 
(2008: £2.3m) by a charge to the consolidated Income Statement.
At 30 September 2009, deferred consideration of £0.6m comprised £0.3m payable to the vendors of the business and assets of 
RTD and £0.3m payable to the vendors of Meditech, as described further in note 21. Deferred consideration of £1.1m was paid on 
9 February 2009 to the vendors of AMT in final settlement of their performance payment.
20. Minority Interests
£m
At 1 October 2007    1.8
Acquisition of minority interests    (0.3)
Share of profit for the year    1.1
Accounted for in equity    0.1
Dividends paid    (0.9)
Exchange adjustments     0.1
At 30 September 2008    1.9
Share of profit for the year    1.3
Dividends paid    (0.7)
Exchange adjustments    0.2
At 30 September 2009 2.7 55 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
21. Acquisitions
On 5 November 2008, Somagen Diagnostics Inc, a subsidiary in the Group, acquired 100% of Meditech Istisharat Canada Inc 
(“Meditech”) for maximum consideration of £1.6m (C$2.9m), including expenses. The initial cash paid on acquisition was £1.3m 
(C$2.4m) and a balance of £0.3m (C$0.5m) is payable in November 2009, based on the performance of the business in the year ended 
31 October 2009.
On 12 January 2009, the Group completed the acquisition of the business, assets and goodwill of RT/Dygert International Inc (“RTD”) 
for maximum consideration, including expenses, of £13.4m (US$20.3m). The business was acquired by RTD Seals Corp (“RTD Seals”), 
a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group’s North American Seals business of Hercules Fluid Power Group. The initial cash consideration 
was £9.8m (US$14.9m), with the balance of up to £3.6m (US$5.4m) payable in deferred consideration in 2010, based on a number of 
factors, including principally the performance of the business in the year ending 31 December 2009. At 30 September 2009, £0.3m 
(US$0.5m) has been provided for as deferred consideration.
The consideration for all of the acquisitions set out above was paid in cash and met from the Group’s existing cash resources.
Set out below is an analysis of the net book value and fair value of the net assets acquired and the consideration payable in respect of 
the acquisitions completed during the year.
Book value Fair value
£m £m
Acquisition intangible assets    – 4.2
Property, plant and equipment    0.2 0.2
Deferred tax    – 0.1
Inventories    2.7 2.8
Trade and other receivables    1.6 1.6
Trade and other payables    (0.7) (0.7)
Net assets acquired    3.8 8.2
Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed during the year     3.5
11.7
Satisfied by:
Cash paid     10.9
Expenses of acquisition     0.2
Net cash paid     11.1
Provision for deferred consideration payable     0.6
Total consideration 11.7
From the date of acquisition to 30 September 2009, these acquired businesses contributed £8.0m to revenue and £1.0m to operating 
profit. If the acquisition of the acquired businesses had been made at the beginning of the financial year, the acquired businesses 
would have contributed £10.4m to revenue and £0.6m to profit after tax. Profit after tax should not be viewed as indicative of the 
results of these acquired operations that would have occurred, if these acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year.
22. Discontinuing Business
Diploma PLC has signed a contract for the disposal of the Manual Liquid Handling (“MLH”) business of Anachem Limited. The 
transaction is expected to complete on, or about, 8 January 2010. 
On completion, the business of Anachem Limited will comprise the core MLH business which supplies manual liquid handling products 
(eg pipettes and tips), services and related laboratory consumables to major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, research 
institutions and universities.  
The MLH business contributed £10.7m to revenue in the year ended 30 September 2009 (2008: £10.6m). At completion, net assets, 
excluding cash, of the MLH business of Anachem Limited are expected to be approximately £1.4m.
The initial sale proceeds to be received on Completion, which will be reinvested in the Group’s businesses, are £7.8m, before disposal 
costs, of which £0.8m will be held in escrow. The sale proceeds may be subject to minor adjustment, based on the net assets 
at completion.  Further sale proceeds of up to £0.8m may be receivable, depending on the revenues earned in the 12 months to 
31 December 2010.
The remainder of the business in Anachem Limited comprises the Instruments division which supplies laboratory automation products; 
this business will be transferred to a separate entity prior to completion, with the intention of realising further value.
Anachem Limited was not discontinued or classified as held for sale as at 30 September 2008 and the comparative consolidated 
Income Statement and consolidated Cash Flow Statement have been restated to show the activities as a discontinuing business. 56 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2009
22. Discontinuing Business (continued)
The results of the discontinuing business included in the consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 30 September 2009 were 
as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Revenue 15.7 16.1
Cost of sales    (10.2) (10.7)
Gross profit 5.5 5.4
Distribution costs    (0.6) (0.8)
Administration costs    (3.7) (3.9)
Profit before tax 1.2 0.7
Tax expense    (0.3) (0.2)
Profit attributable to discontinuing business 0.9 0.5
The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the business classified as held for sale are as follows:
2009
£m
Other intangible assets     0.3
Property, plant and equipment     0.4
Inventories     2.4
Trade and other receivables     2.3
Total assets held for sale     5.4
Trade and other payables     (3.2)
Current tax liabilities     (0.3)
Total liabilities associated with assets held for sale     (3.5)
Net assets of discontinuing business     1.9
Cash flows from the discontinuing business included in the consolidated Cash Flow Statement are as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Profit from discontinuing business 0.9 0.5
Depreciation/amortisation of tangible and other intangible assets 0.3 0.3
Tax expense 0.3 0.2
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital  1.5 1.0
Decrease in working capital 0.5 –
Cash flow from operating activities 2.0 1.0
Tax paid (0.2) (0.4)
Net cash from operating activities  1.8 0.6
Net cash used in investing activities (0.1) (0.3)
Net cash flow from discontinuing business    1.7 0.3 57 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
22. Discontinuing Business (continued)
Anachem Limited was previously reported within the Life Sciences business segment and within the United Kingdom geographic 
segment analysis. 
2009 2008
£m £m
Capital expenditure    0.1 0.3
Depreciation (including software)    0.3 0.3
The aggregate payroll costs and average number of employees of the discontinuing business were as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Wages and salaries    3.7 4.0
Social security costs    0.4 0.4
Pension costs – defined contribution    0.2 0.2
4.3 4.6
2009 2008
Number Number
Number of employees – average    118 133
23. Reconciliation of Cash Flow from Operating Activities – Continuing
2009 2008
£m £m
Profit for the year from continuing businesses 13.4 13.9
Depreciation/amortisation of tangible and other intangible assets    2.2 2.2
Amortisation of acquisition intangible assets    3.1 2.7
Share-based payments expense    0.5 0.5
Finance expense, net    2.0 2.8
Tax expense    7.1 7.2
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital     28.3 29.3
Decrease/(increase) in inventories    6.0 (1.4)
Decrease in trade and other receivables    2.4 0.8
Decrease in trade and other payables    (2.3) (0.7)
Cash paid into defined benefit schemes    (0.2) (0.2)
Cash flow from operating activities       34.2 27.8 58 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2009
24. Retirement Benefit Obligations
The Group maintains several defined benefit schemes, all of which are closed to future accrual and the assets of the schemes are held 
in separate trustee administered funds. The schemes are funded in accordance with rates recommended by independent qualified 
actuaries on the basis of triennial or shorter period reviews using the projected unit method.
The two principal defined benefit schemes (“the schemes”) are the Diploma Holdings PLC Permanent Staff Pension and Assurance 
Scheme (“the PLC Scheme”) and the Anachem Limited Retirement Benefits Scheme (“the Anachem Scheme”). 
Pension deficit included in the balance sheet:
2009 2008
£m £m
Market value of schemes’ assets
Equities    11.1 9.5
Bonds    3.0 3.0
Cash    – –
14.1 12.5
Present value of schemes’ liabilities    (18.8) (14.2)
(4.7) (1.7)
Amounts (charged)/credited to the consolidated Income Statement in respect of defined benefit schemes:
2009 2008
£m £m
Charged to operating profit    – –
Interest cost    (1.0) (0.9)
Expected return on schemes’ assets    0.9 1.1
(Charged)/credited to finance income (note 6)    (0.1) 0.2
(0.1) 0.2
Amounts recognised in the consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense (“SORIE”):
2009 2008
£m £m
Experience adjustments on schemes’ assets    0.7 (3.4)
Changes in assumptions on schemes’ liabilities    (3.8) 3.0
Experience adjustments on schemes’ liabilities    – (0.1)
Actuarial loss on schemes’ liabilities (3.1) (0.5)
Analysis of movement in the pension deficit:
2009 2008
£m £m
At 1 October    1.7 1.6
Amounts charged/(credited) to profit and loss account    0.1 (0.2)
Contributions paid by employer    (0.2) (0.2)
Actuarial loss    3.1 0.5
At 30 September 4.7 1.7 59 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
24. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)
Analysis of the movements in the present value of the schemes’ liabilities:
2009 2008
£m £m
At 1 October    14.2 16.4
Interest cost    1.0 0.9
Actuarial loss    – 0.1
Loss/(gain) on changes in assumptions    3.8 (3.0)
Benefits paid    (0.2) (0.2)
At 30 September 18.8 14.2
Analysis of the movements in the present value of the schemes’ assets:
2009 2008
£m £m
At 1 October    12.5 14.8
Expected return on assets    0.9 1.1
Actuarial gain/(loss)    0.7 (3.4)
Contributions paid by employer    0.2 0.2
Benefits paid    (0.2) (0.2)
At 30 September 14.1 12.5
Principal actuarial assumptions for the schemes at balance sheet dates:
2009 2008 2007
Inflation rate   3.4% 3.8% 3.4%
Expected rate of pension increases   3.4% 3.8% 3.4%
Discount rate   5.5% 7.0% 5.8%
Number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond age 65
 22.1 21.9 21.9
 25.0 24.8 24.8
Expected return on schemes’ assets
Analysed as:
Equities   8.0% 8.0% 8.0%
Bonds   5.5% 5.5% 5.5%
Cash   2.0% 4.5% 5.0% 60 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2009
24. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)
Demographic assumptions:
Basic mortality table used: 100% of PCMA00/PCFA00
Year the mortality table was published: 2003
Allowance for future improvements in longevity: Year of birth projections, with medium cohort improvements 
with adjustments to reflect expected scheme experience
Allowance made for members to take a cash lump sum on retirement  Members are assumed to take 100% of their maximum 
cash sum (based on current commutation factors)
Sensitivities:
Sensitivity of 2009 pension liabilities to changes in assumptions are as follows:
Impact on pension liabilities
Assumption Assumption Estimated Estimated
increase increase
%£m
Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% 12.2 2.3
Expected rate of pension increase Increase by 0.5% 4.2 0.8
Life expectancy Increase by 1 year 1.9 0.4
Cash funding:
Accounting costs do not impact on the incidence or amount of cash contributions for defined benefit plans. Future cash contributions 
are determined based upon triennial actuarial valuations.
PLC Anachem
Date of last formal funding valuation 30 September 2008 5 April 2007
Deficit £1,508,000 £839,000
Funding level 84% 91%
Funding approach Assumes that schemes’ assets will Assumes that schemes’ assets will   
outperform Government bonds by outperform Government bonds by 
2.84% pa pre-retirement and 0.24% pa 2.35% pa pre-retirement and NIL% pa 
post-retirement post-retirement
Lump sum contributions per annum to
remove the deficit £96,000 £120,000
Period over which the deficit is expected  
to be removed 1 October 2009 – 30 September 2029 1 October 2007 – 30 September 2017
Expected contributions during FY2010 £96,000 £120,000
Current investment strategy 80% Equities/20% Bonds 85% Equities/15% Bonds
Number of deferred members at date of  
actuarial valuation 137 187 61 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2009
Financial Statements
24. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)
History of experience gains and losses:
All experience adjustments are recognised directly in equity, net of related tax.
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Experience adjustments arising on schemes’ assets:
Amount (£m) 0.7 (3.4) 0.3 0.6 1.1
% of schemes’ assets 5% 27% 2% 5% 9%
Changes in assumptions arising on present value of schemes’ liabilities:
Amount (£m) (3.8) 3.0 2.3 (0.6) –
% of present value of schemes’ liabilities 20% 21% 14% 3% –
Experience adjustments arising on present value of schemes’ liabilities:
Amount (£m) – (0.1) 0.1 (0.6) (1.7)
% of present value of schemes’ liabilities – 1% 1% 3% 11%
Present value of schemes’ liabilities (18.8) (14.2) (16.4) (18.0) (16.1)
Market value of schemes’ assets 14.1 12.5 14.8 13.3 11.7
Deficit (4.7) (1.7) (1.6) (4.7) (4.4)
25. Commitments
At 30 September 2009 the Group has total lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
Land and Buildings
2009 2008
£m £m
Lease payments due:
  Within one year    1.3 1.1
  Within two to five years    2.0 2.3
  After five years    0.3 0.3
Total payable at 30 September 3.6 3.7
Operating lease payments made in respect of land and buildings during the year were £1.4m (2008: £1.1m).
26. Audit Fees
During the year the Group received the following services from the auditors:
2009 2008
£’m £’m
Fees payable to the auditors for the audit of:
–  the Company’s annual report    0.1 0.1
–  the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation    0.1 0.1
Total audit fees 0.2 0.2
Non audit fees of £4,000 (2008: £Nil) for taxation advisory services provided in Canada and £10,000 in connection with the Interim 
Report, were paid to the Group’s auditors.
27. Exchange Rates
The following exchange rates have been used to translate the results of the overseas business:
Average Closing
2009 2008 2009 2008
US Dollar  1.54 1.97 1.60 1.78
Canadian Dollar  1.82 1.99 1.72 1.90
Euro  1.14 1.31 1.09 1.27 62 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as 
endorsed by the European Union, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The 
accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied in 2009 and the comparative period. There has been no material impact 
on the Group’s consolidated financial statements in 2009 from the issue of IFRS, or interpretations to existing Standards, during the year.
1 Group Accounting Policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial 
instruments which are held at fair value.
1.2 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its 
subsidiaries). Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income 
statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with 
those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis. All intra-group transactions, 
balances, income and expenses are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. Minority 
interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minority’s share of changes 
in equity since the date of the combination.
1.3 Divestments
The results and cash flows of major lines of business that have been divested have been classified as discontinuing businesses and the 
comparatives for the year to 30 September 2008 amended accordingly.
1.4 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to 
customers, after deducting sales allowances and value added taxes. Revenue is recognised when the risk and rewards of ownership 
transfers to the customer, which depending on individual customer terms, is at the time of despatch, delivery or upon formal customer 
acceptance. Provision is made for returns where appropriate. Service revenue received in advance is deferred and recognised over the 
period of the contract.
1.5 Employee benefits
The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type. The defined benefit schemes 
are closed to the accrual of future benefits.
  (a) Defined contribution pension plans
Contributions to the Group’s defined contribution schemes are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they fall due.
  (b) Defined benefit pension plans
The deficit recognised in the balance sheet for the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes is the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated 
by independent actuaries using the projected unit cost method and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest 
rates on high quality corporate bonds. The pension expense for the Group’s defined benefit plans is recognised as follows:
(i)  Within profit before tax:
Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments – where the item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment 
is recognised in operating profit;
Interest cost on the liabilities of the schemes – calculated by reference to the scheme liabilities and major assumptions, 
including the discount rate, at the beginning of the year; and
Expected return on the assets of the schemes – calculated by reference to the scheme assets and long-term expected 
rate of return at the beginning of the year.
(ii)  Within the statement of recognised income and expense:
Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the schemes arising from actual experience and any 
changes in assumptions at the end of the year.
  The Group has adopted a policy of recognising all actuarial gains and losses for all of its defined benefit schemes in the period in 
which they occur, outside the income statement, in the SORIE.
  (c) Share-based payments
The Executive Directors of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby 
the Directors render services in exchange for shares in the Company, or rights over shares (“equity-settled” transactions).
  Equity-settled transactions are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date takes 
account of the effect of market based measures, such as the Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) targets upon which vesting of part 
of the award is conditional, and is expensed to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a 
corresponding credit to equity. The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted to take account of shares forfeited by Executives 
who leave during the performance or vesting period and, in the case of non-market related performance conditions, where it 
becomes unlikely that shares will vest. For the market based measure, the Directors have used a predicted future value model to 
determine fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
Group Accounting Policies 63 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
The Group operates an Employee Benefit Trust for the granting of shares to Executives. The cost of shares in the Company purchased 
by the Employee Benefit Trust are shown as a deduction from equity.
1.6 Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which that entity operates. For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial 
position of each entity are translated into UK sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
  (a) Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency:
Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are initially recorded at the rates of 
exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each subsequent balance sheet date:
(i)  Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences 
arising on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the income statement;
(ii)  Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated; and
(iii)  Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are retranslated using the exchange rates at the date 
the fair value was determined. Where a gain or loss on non-monetary items is recognised directly in equity, any exchange 
component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity and conversely, where a gain or loss on a non-monetary 
item is recognised in the income statement, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised in the income 
statement.
  (b) Translation from functional currency to presentational currency:
When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Group’s presentational currency, its results and financial 
position are translated into the presentational currency as follows:
(i)  Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date;
(ii)  Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such an average 
rate does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used; and
(iii)  All resulting exchange differences are recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity; these cumulative 
exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of.
  (c) Net investment in foreign operations:
Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation 
are recognised in the income statement in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the foreign operation as 
appropriate. In the consolidated Group accounts such exchange differences are initially recognised in translation reserves as a 
separate component of equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement on disposal of the net investment.
1.7 Taxation
The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement. 
Taxable profit excludes items of income and expense that are taxable (or deductible) in other years and also excludes items that are 
never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas tax, is calculated using rates 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Temporary 
differences arise primarily from the recognition of the deficit on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, the difference between 
accelerated capital allowances and depreciation and for short term timing differences where a provision held against receivables or 
stock is not deductible for taxation purposes. However, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference 
arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other that in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction 
that affects neither the tax profit, nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the 
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is possible that the temporary difference will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, as the Group controls the 
dividend policies of its subsidiaries.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when the item on which the tax or charged is credited or charged 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all 
or part of the assets to be recovered. Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to enforce current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same fiscal authority.
1.8 Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost 
less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in 
bringing the asset into use, but excluding interest. All other repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the income statement in 
the period in which it is incurred. 64 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life. Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the 
asset is available for use and is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost, less residual value 
of the asset, over its estimated useful life as follows:
Freehold property – between 20 and 50 years Plant and equipment – plant and machinery between 3 and 7 years
Leasehold property – term of the lease – IT hardware between 3 and 5 years
  – fixtures and fittings between 5 and 15 years
The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at 
each financial year end. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as 
owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to 
its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses arising on 
disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
1.9 Intangible assets
All intangible assets, excluding goodwill arising on a business combination, are stated at their amortised cost or fair value less any 
provision for impairment.
  (a) Research and development costs
Research expenditure is written off as incurred. Development costs are written off as incurred until it can be demonstrated that 
the conditions for capitalisation as described in IAS 38 (Intangible Assets) are met. At which point further costs are capitalised 
as intangible assets up until the intangible asset is readily available for production and amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
asset’s estimated useful life.
  Costs are capitalised as intangible assets unless physical assets, such as tooling, exist when they are classified as property, 
plant and equipment.
  (b) Computer software costs
Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment its costs are capitalised as other intangible 
assets. Amortisation is provided on a straight line basis over its useful economic life of between three and seven years.
  (c) Acquired intangible assets – business combinations
Intangible assets that are acquired as a result of a business combination, including, but not limited to, customer lists, supplier 
lists, databases, technology and software and patents and that can be separately measured at fair value, on a reliable basis, are 
separately recognised on acquisition at the fair value, together with the associated deferred tax liability. Amortisation is charged 
on a straight line basis to the income statement over the expected useful economic lives.
  (d) Goodwill – business combinations
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration 
over the aggregate fair value of the identifiable intangible and tangible assets, net of the aggregate fair value of the liabilities 
(including contingencies of businesses acquired at the date of acquisition), and net of any costs directly attributable to 
the business combination. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less 
any accumulated impairment losses. Impairment testing is carried out annually or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Goodwill on acquisitions is not amortised.
1.10 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of (i) its fair value less costs to sell and (ii) its value in use; its 
value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit, discounted 
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or 
cash-generating unit. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
  (a) Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit; cash-generating units for this purpose are the 
business entities which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored by the Group’s Board 
of Directors for internal and management purposes. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for 
impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
  If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated 
first to reduce the goodwill attributable to the cash-generating unit.
  An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
  (b) Impairment of other tangible and intangible assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of 
the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss. For the purposes of assessing impairment, 
assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows. Where it is not possible to 
estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit 
to which the asset belongs.
  Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the 
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years. 
A reversal of an impairment loss for tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill is recognised immediately in the income 
statement.
Group Accounting Policies continued 65 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
1.11 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, (generally calculated on a weighted average cost basis) and net realisable value, after 
making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving inventory. Cost comprises direct materials, duty and freight-in costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to 
make the sale.
1.12 Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument.
  (a) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value, do not carry any interest and are reduced by a charge for impairment for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts. Such impairment charges are recognised in the income statement.
  (b) Trade payables
Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are initially measured at their fair value.
  (c) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, interest bearing deposits, bank overdrafts and short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the 
Group’s cash management system.
  (d) Put options held by minority interests
On exercise of put options held by minority shareholders in the Group’s subsidiaries, the purchase price of the shares is 
calculated by reference to the profitability of the relevant subsidiary at the time of exercise, using a multiple based formula. The 
net present value of the estimated future payments under these put options is shown as a financial liability. The corresponding 
entry is recognised in equity as a deduction against retained earnings. At the end of each year, the estimate of the financial liability 
is reassessed and any change in value is recognised in the income statement, as part of finance income or expense. Where the 
liability is in a foreign currency, any change in the value of the liability resulting from changes in exchange rates is recognised in 
the income statement.
  (e) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the effects of its 
exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange arising from operational and financial activities. In accordance with its treasury 
policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The fair value of forward foreign 
exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
  Under IAS39, hedging relationships are categorised by type and must meet strict criteria to qualify for hedge accounting. At the 
inception of the transaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item. The 
Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the financial instruments 
that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. The 
Group uses cash flow hedges (eg forward foreign exchange currency contracts) to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows of a 
highly probable forecast transaction.
  In relation to cash flow hedges, to hedge firm commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of 
the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly to equity and the 
ineffective portion is recognised in net profit or loss. For cash flow hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a 
liability, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same year in which the 
hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in 
equity until the hedged transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss 
recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the year.
  The Group does not use financial instruments to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities 
that are attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss (fair value hedges). No financial instruments are used to 
hedge net investments in a foreign operation (net investment hedges).
1.13 Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risk and rewards of ownership to 
the lessee. Leases include hire purchase contracts which have characteristics similar to finance or operating leases. All other leases are 
classified as operating leases.
  (a) Finance leases
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, 
at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a 
finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to 
achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged to the income statement.
  (b) Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant 
lease. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over 
the expected lease term. 66 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
1.14 Other liabilities
Other liabilities are recognised when the Group has legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is possible that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation. Other liabilities are measured at the Director’s best estimate of the expenditure required 
to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
1.15 Dividends
The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the Annual General Meeting; interim dividends are charged in the period 
they are paid.
1.16 Share capital and reserves
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a 
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. The Group also maintains the following reserves:
(a)  Translation reserve – The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the 
financial statements of foreign businesses.
(b)  Hedging reserve – The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash 
flow hedging instruments that are determined to be effective hedge. 
(c)  Retained earnings reserve – The retained earnings reserve comprises total recognised income and expense for the year 
attributable to shareholders. Bonus issues of share capital and dividends to shareholders are also charged directly to this 
reserve. On acquisition of minority interests, the liability held in the consolidated financial statements for the future purchases 
of those minority interests is released to the retained earnings reserve. In addition the cost of acquiring shares in the 
Company and the liability to provide those shares to employees, is accounted for in this reserve. 
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury shares or 
indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is 
deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where 
such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction 
costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders. These shares are used to 
satisfy share awards granted to Directors under the Group’s share schemes. The trustee purchases the Company’s shares on the open 
market using loans made by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
1.17 Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards not yet effective
The following new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and have been endorsed by 
the EU, that are mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2009:
 IAS1 (revised) ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’;
 IAS23 (revised) ‘Borrowing Costs’;
 IAS27 (revised) ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’;
 IFRS2 (revised) ‘Share-based Payment’;
 IFRS3 (revised) ‘Business Combinations’; and
 IFRS8 ‘Operating Segments’.
The Group has considered the impact of these new standards and interpretations in future periods and, subject to the comments 
below, no significant impact is expected on reported profit or net assets.
IFRS3 (revised) ‘Business Combinations’ will apply to business combinations arising from 1 October 2010. Amongst other changes, 
the revisions effected by the new standard require subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration payable in respect 
of an acquisition to be recognised in the income statement rather than against goodwill, and require transaction costs attributable to 
an acquisition to be recognised immediately in the income statement. IFRS3 (revised) will be applied prospectively to transactions 
occurring from 1 October 2009. It is therefore not possible to assess in advance the impact on the Group’s financial statements. 
IAS1 (revised) ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ requires entities to prepare a statement of comprehensive income. All no-owner 
changes in equity are required to be shown in a performance statement, but entities can choose whether to present one performance 
statement (the statement of comprehensive income) or two statements (the income statement and statement of comprehensive 
income). Owner changes in equity are shown in a statement of changes in equity. IAS1 will be applied to all future financial reporting 
from 1 October 2009. However this will not impact the Group’s reported profit or net assets since only the disclosure and presentation 
of the financial statements will be affected. 
The Group has chosen not to early adopt any of these new standards and interpretations. 
Group Accounting Policies continued 67 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements
In order to prepare these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 1 above, 
management has used estimates and judgements to establish the amounts at which certain items are recorded. Critical accounting 
estimates and judgements are those which have the greatest impact on the financial statements and require the most difficult and 
subjective judgements about matters that are inherently uncertain. Estimates are based on factors including historical experience and 
expectations of future events that management believe to be reasonable. However given the judgemental nature of such estimates, 
actual results could be different from the assumptions used. The critical accounting estimates and judgements are set out below:
2.1 Goodwill impairment
The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill has a value that will benefit the performance of the Group 
over future periods. To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least annually, of the carrying value 
of the Group’s capitalised goodwill, using discounted cash flow forecasts to derive the “value in use” to the Group of the capitalised 
goodwill. This calculation is usually based on projecting future cash flows over at least a five year period and using a terminal value to 
incorporate expectations of growth thereafter. A discount factor is applied to obtain a current value (“value in use”). The “fair value less 
costs to sell” of an asset is used if this results in an amount in excess of “value in use”.
Estimated future cash flows for impairment calculations are based on management’s expectations of future volumes and margins 
based on plans and best estimates of the productivity of the assets in their current condition. Future cash flows therefore exclude 
benefits from major expansion projects requiring future capital expenditure where that expenditure has not been approved at the 
balance sheet date.
Future cash flows are discounted using discount rates based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, adjusted if appropriate 
for circumstances specific to the asset being tested. The weighted average cost of capital is impacted by estimates of interest rates, 
equity returns and market and country related risks. The Group’s weighted average cost of capital is reviewed on an annual basis.
The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Group’s 
businesses for this purpose. Changes to the assumptions and discount rates used in making these forecasts could significantly alter 
the Director’s assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
2.2 Retirement benefits
The Group’s financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension retirement benefits to 
current and former employees. It is the Directors’ responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the 
costs of meeting such future obligations. These assumptions are set after consultation with the Group’s actuaries and are consistent 
with those assumptions used to determine the financing elements related to the Schemes’ assets and liabilities. Whilst the Directors 
believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect the Group profit and financial 
position. Details of these assumptions, which are based on advice from the Group’s actuaries, are set out in note 24.
2.3 Taxation
The Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions around the world. Tax regulations generally are complex and in some jurisdictions 
agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities can take several years. Consequently, at the balance sheet date tax liabilities and 
assets are based on management’s best estimate of the future amounts that will be settled. While the Group aims to ensure that the 
estimates recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
Deferred tax assets mainly represent timing differences that the Group expects to recover at some time in the future and by their 
nature, the amounts recorded are therefore dependent on management’s judgement about future events. Account has also been taken 
of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values at which these deferred tax assets are recognised. If these forecast profits 
do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the timing difference might be recognised, 
then the value of the deferred tax asset will need to be revised in a future period.
2.4 Current assets
In the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to establish the net realisable value of various elements of working capital, 
principally inventory and trade receivables. Impairment charges are made against obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or doubtful 
debts.
The decision to make an impairment charge is based on the facts available at the time the financial statements are approved and 
are also determined by using profiles, based on past practice, applied to certain aged inventory and trade receivables categories. 
In estimating the collectability of trade receivables, judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current 
creditworthiness of each customer and related ageing of the past due balances. Specific accounts are assessed in situations where a 
customer may not be able to meet its financial obligations due to deterioration of its financial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
2.5 Property, plant and equipment
It is Group policy to depreciate its property, plant and equipment assets, except freehold land, on a straight-line basis over their 
estimated useful lives. This applies an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the delivery of goods and services. A key 
element of this policy is the estimate of the useful life applied to each category of property, plant and equipment which, in turn, 
determines the annual depreciation charge. Variations in asset lives could impact Group profit through an increase or decrease in the 
depreciation charge.
2.6 Future purchases of minority interests
The Group’s financial statements include a financial liability for the net present value of the expected amount that it will pay in future 
years to acquire the outstanding shares held by minority shareholders in the Group’s subsidiaries. This amount is based on the 
Directors’ estimate of the future profitability of the relevant subsidiary and on an assumption of the exchange rates prevailing at the 
time the payment is made. Any changes to the estimated profitability of the relevant business and/or changes to the assumption of the 
relevant exchange rate, will change the estimate of this financial liability. 68 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments   c 70.2 70.2
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings    (41.0) (43.0)
Total assets less current liabilities 29.2 27.2
Capital and reserves
Called up equity share capital   d 5.7 5.7
Profit and loss account    23.5 21.5
29.2 27.2
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 November 2009 and signed on its behalf by:
BM Thompson NP Lingwood
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director
The notes on page 69 form part of these financial statements.
Reconciliation of Movements in 
Shareholders’ Funds
For the year ended 30 September 2009
Profit and
Share loss
capital account Total
£m £m £m
At 1 October 2008 5.7 21.5 27.2
Retained profit for the year   – 1.3 1.3
Transfer of own shares – 0.7 0.7
At 30 September 2009 5.7 23.5 29.2
Parent Company Balance Sheet
As at 30 September 2009 69 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
a) Accounting Policies
a.1 Basis of accounting
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and 
applicable UK accounting standards. A summary of the accounting policies of the Parent company (“the Company”) is set out below. 
As permitted by section 404 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account is presented for the Company. 
a.2 Investments and dividends
Investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment. Dividend income is recognised when received. Dividend distributions are 
recognised in the Company’s financial statements in the year in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
a.3 Employment Benefit Trust and Employee Share Schemes
Shares held by the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”) are stated at cost and accounted for as a deduction from 
shareholders’ funds in accordance with UITF 38. Shares that are held by the Trust are not eligible for dividends until such time as they 
vest unconditionally to the employees.
b) Directors’ Remuneration
No emoluments are paid directly by the Company; information on the Directors’ remuneration and interests in the share capital of the 
Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 37.
c) Investments
£m
Shares in Group undertakings
At 30 September 2009 and 1 October 2008 70.2
Details of the principal subsidiaries are set out on page 72.
d) Share Capital
  2009 2008 2009 2008
   Number Number £m £m
Authorised ordinary shares of 5p each
At 30 September 135,000,000 135,000,000 6.7 6.7
Allotted, issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p each
At 30 September 113,239,555 113,239,555 5.7 5.7
During the year 413,557 shares were transferred from the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust to participants in connection with vesting 
of awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan. In accordance with UITF 38, the purchase cost of own shares has been deducted from 
shareholders’ funds.
At 30 September 2009 the Trust held 868,263 (2008: 1,281,820) ordinary shares in the Company representing 0.8% of the called up 
share capital. The market value of the shares at 30 September 2009 was £1.5m (2008: £2.0m).
Following the implementation of the final tranche of the Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2009, a company is no longer required to 
have an authorised share capital.  The Directors intend to update the Company’s Articles of Association at the forthcoming AGM which 
will thereafter remove the requirement to obtain shareholders’ consent to increase the authorised share capital if it would otherwise 
have been required to do so when issuing new shares in the Company.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 70 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Independent Auditors’ Report on the Group financial statements to the Members of Diploma PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2009 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement 
of recognised income and expense, the Group accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 27. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with sections 495 and 496 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the 
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
  the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ Report in relation to going concern; and
  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent company financial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended and on the information in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
Ian Waller (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors  
London
16 November 2009
Independent Auditors’ Reports 71 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report on the Parent Company financial statements to the Members of Diploma PLC
We have audited the Parent company financial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2009 which comprise 
the Parent company balance sheet, the reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds and the related notes a) to d). The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the 
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent 
company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the Parent 
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Parent company financial statements:
  give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent company’s affairs as at 30 September 2009;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the Parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
  the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2009.
Ian Waller (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors  
London
16 November 2009  72 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Group Country of
percentage of incorporation
equity capital or registration
Life Sciences
Anachem Limited 100% England
a1-envirosciences Limited 100% England
a1-technologies GmbH 100% Germany
a1-safetech AG 100% Switzerland
Somagen Diagnostics Inc 91.8% Canada
AMT Vantage Holdings Inc 75% Canada
Seals
Hercules Sealing Products Inc 100% USA
HKX Inc 100% USA
Hercules Europe BV 100% Netherlands
M Seals A/S 90% Denmark
FPE Limited 100% England
Controls
IS Rayfast Limited 100% England
IS Motorport Inc 100% USA
Clarendon Engineering Supplies Limited 100% England
Cabletec Interconnect  Components Systems Limited 100% England
Sommer GmbH 100% Germany
Filcon GmbH 100% Germany
HA Wainwright (Group) Limited 100% England
Hitek Limited 100% England
Other Companies
Diploma Holdings PLC 100% England
Diploma Holdings Inc 100% USA
A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the next Annual Return of Diploma PLC filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Principal Subsidiaries 73 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Financial Statements
Financial Calendar and Shareholder Information
Announcements (provisional dates):
Interim Management Statement released 13 January 2010
Interim Management Statement released 5 August 2010
Interim Results announced 10 May 2010
Preliminary Results announced 15 November 2010
Annual Report posted to shareholders 29 November 2010
Annual General Meeting 12 January 2011
Dividends (provisional dates)
Interim announced 10 May 2010
Paid 16 June 2010
Final announced 15 November 2010
Paid (if approved) 19 January 2011
Annual Report: Copies can be obtained from the Company Secretary at the address shown below.
Share Registrar – Computershare Investor Services PLC: The Company’s Registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC, 
PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH. Telephone: 0870 7020010. Their website for shareholder enquiries is 
www.computershare.co.uk
Shareholders’ enquiries: If you have any enquiry about the Company’s business or about something affecting you as a shareholder
(other than questions dealt with by Computershare Investor Services PLC) you are invited to contact the Company Secretary at the
address shown below.
Secretary and Registered Office:
N P Lingwood ACA, 12 Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6AX. Telephone: 020 7549 5700. Fax: 020 7549 5715. 
Registered in England and Wales, number 3899848.
Web site: Diploma’s web site is www.diplomaplc.com 74 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Five Year Record
For the year ended 30 September 2009
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Continuing businesses £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 160.0 156.2 124.5 112.1 95.3
Operating profit  25.6 26.6 20.7 18.1 15.0
Finance (expense)/income (0.1) 0.21.2 1.00.7
Adjusted profit before tax 25.5 26.8 21.9 19.1 15.7
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles and goodwill (3.1) (2.7) (1.0) (0.3) –
Property profits and restructuring costs, net – –– 11.1 –
Fair value remeasurements (1.9) (3.0) –––
Profit before tax 20.5 21.1 20.9 29.9 15.7
Tax expense (7.1) (7.2) (7.1) (6.6) (4.6)
Profit for the year from continuing businesses 13.4 13.9 13.8 23.3 11.1
Profit from discontinuing business 0.9 0.5 1.0 0.9 1.1
Profit for the year 14.3 14.4 14.8 24.2 12.2
Capital structure
Equity shareholders’ funds 121.4 108.1 90.7 92.9 75.4
Minority interest 2.7 1.9 1.8 1.6 1.7
Add/(less): cash and cash equivalents (21.3) (15.7) (12.4) (36.7) (25.7)
Add/(less): retirement benefit obligations 4.7 1.7 1.6 4.7 4.4
Add/(less): future purchases of minority interests 13.1 11.2 11.8 – –
Add/(less): deferred tax, net 2.0 3.3 3.6 (3.4) (3.1)
Add/(less): adjustment to goodwill in respect of deferred tax (6.5) (6.0) (5.6) – –
Trading capital employed  116.1 104.5 91.5 59.1 52.7
Net increase/(decrease) in cash 2.2 2.0 (25.3) 9.8 7.3
Add: dividends paid 9.1 7.8 5.7 5.0 4.1 
acquisition of businesses 12.2 7.9 31.6 8.0 0.3
Free cash flow 23.5 17.7 12.0 22.8 11.7
Per ordinary share (pence)
Basic earnings 10.8 11.4 11.8 20.3 9.5
Adjusted earnings 14.8 16.0 13.1 11.8 9.7
Dividends 7.8 7.5 5.4 4.6 4.0
Total shareholders’ equity 107 95 80 82 67
Dividend cover  1.9 2.1 2.4 2.6 2.4
Ratios %%%%%
Return on trading capital employed 19.0 22.4 25.5 25.1 23.0
Operating margin 16.0 17.0 16.6 16.1 15.7
Continuing and discontinuing businesses £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 175.7 172.3 140.7 128.2 111.3
Adjusted profit before tax 26.7 27.5 23.3 20.4 17.2
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share (pence) 15.6 16.4 14.0 12.6 10.7
Notes
1  Return on trading capital employed represents operating profit, before amortisation of acquisition intangible assets, as a percentage of trading capital 
employed (as adjusted for the effect of the timing of major acquisitions and disposals). Trading capital employed is calculated as defined in note 2 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
2  Adjusted earnings per share is calculated in accordance with note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
3  Total shareholders’ equity per share have been calculated by dividing equity shareholders’ funds by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the year end.
4 Dividend cover is calculated on adjusted earnings as defined in note 2 to the financial statements.
5  On 21 January 2008 the Company undertook a bonus issue of four new ordinary shares of 5 pence each for each ordinary share held by shareholders of 
the Company. The comparative amounts stated above have been restated to reflect this bonus issue. www.diplomaplc.com
Design www.energydesignstudio.com Production Imprima Limited 020 7105 0300 Diploma PLC
12 Charterhouse Square
London EC1M 6AX
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7549 5700
Fax: +44 (0)20 7549 5715
www.diplomaplc.com
