 Annual Report 
& Accounts 2010 Section 1: Overview
Financial Highlights                                                   01
Chairman’s Statement                                             02
Group at a Glance                                                     04
Chief Executive’s Review                                        06
Key Performance Indicators                                     10
Directors and Advisors                                             12
Section 2: Business Review
Strategy and Performance                                       14
Sector Reviews                                                        16
Finance Review                                                        22
Risks and Uncertainties                                            24
Corporate and Social Responsibility                         28
Section 3: Governance
Directors’ Report                                                      29
Corporate Governance                                             31
Remuneration Report                                               35
Section 4: Financial Statements
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
for the Financial Statements                                    41
Consolidated Income Statement                             42
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income                                             43
Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Shareholders’ Equity                                               43
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position           44
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement                           45
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements      46
Group Accounting Policies                                       67
Parent Company Balance Sheet                              74
Reconciliation of Movements in 
Shareholders’ Funds                                                 74
Notes to the Parent Company
Financial Statements                                                75
Independent Auditors’ Reports                                76
Principal Subsidiaries                                                78
Financial Calendar and Shareholder Information      79
Five Year Record                                                      80 1 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 1: Overview
2010 2009
£m £m
Revenue 183.5 160.0 +15%
Adjusted operating profit
*
32.1 25.6 +25%
Adjusted operating margin
*
17.5% 16.0%
Adjusted profit before tax
*†
32.2 25.5 +26%
Profit before tax 26.7 20.5 +30%
Profit for the year
‡
23.0 14.3 +61%
Free cash flow 29.8 23.5 +27%
Pence Pence
Adjusted earnings per share
*†
18.9 14.8 +28%
Basic earnings per share 14.6 10.8 +35%
Total dividends per share 9.0 7.8   +15%
Free cash flow per share 26.3 20.8 +27%
* Before acquisition related charges
† Before fair value remeasurements
‡
Profit for the year is stated after tax and includes the profit on sale of the discontinued businesses. All other reported results relate to the continuing businesses.
Note: Diploma PLC uses alternative performance measures as key financial indicators to assess the underlying performance of the Group. 
These include adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share and free cash flow. 
The narrative on pages 2 to 40 is based on these alternative measures and an explanation is set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Financial Highlights
Strong revenue and profit growth,
excellent cash flow
Year ended 30 September 2 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
John Rennocks, Chairman
Diploma has delivered good revenue and profit growth 
in the 2010 financial year, with a strengthening trend 
into the second half of the year. In the face of the 
global recession in 2009, the Group quickly scaled 
back operating costs and working capital and reduced
balance sheet exposure. These actions left the Group
well placed to maintain performance during the
downturn and then to capitalise on the opportunities
presented by the recovery, which began to emerge in
the second quarter of the 2010 financial year in most 
of the Group’s key markets. Given continuing uncertainty
in the major economies, management has continued 
to maintain close control over costs and working 
capital, which has resulted in a further strengthening 
of operating margins and continued strong cash flow.
Results
Group revenue increased in 2010 by 15% to £183.5m
(2009: £160.0m). The combination of increased revenue
and cost reductions implemented in 2009, contributed 
to an increase in adjusted operating profit of 25% to
£32.1m (2009: £25.6m) and operating margins improved
to 17.5% (2009: £16.0%)
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 26% to £32.2m
(2009: £25.5m) and adjusted earnings per share
increased by 28% to 18.9p (2009: 14.8p).  
The Group generated free cash flow in the year of
£29.8m (2009: £23.5m), including net proceeds of
£6.4m received from the sale of the two Anachem
businesses. After spending £11.0m on acquiring 
new businesses and certain minority shareholdings
during the year, the Group ended the year with cash
balances of £30.1m (2009: £21.3m). The strong 
balance sheet, together with renewed medium term
bank facilities, will provide the resources to continue 
to exploit the acquisition opportunities which are 
now emerging. 
Dividends
Diploma continues to generate attractive and 
growing dividends for its shareholders. The Board is
recommending an increase in the final dividend of 
17% to 6.2p per share (2009: 5.3p) which, subject to
shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, 
will be paid on 19 January 2011, to shareholders on 
the register at 3 December 2010. 
The total dividend per share for the year will be 9.0p
which represents a 15% increase on 2009 and is
consistent with the Board’s policy to target dividends 
per share towards a cover ratio of 2.0 times based on
adjusted earnings. 
Chairman’s Statement
Strong earnings, value
and dividend growth
over the business cycle 3 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Five years of progress
The strength and resilience of the Group’s business
model is demonstrated by the consistent profitable
growth of the Group over the past five years. Adjusted
earnings per share has grown at 14% per annum
through a combination of organic growth and carefully
targeted acquisitions. This consistent growth in
earnings, combined with a strong balance sheet and
excellent cash flow has encouraged the Board to
significantly increase the rate of dividends paid to
shareholders from 4.0p in 2005 to 9.0p this year, an
annual average increase of 18% per year. At the same
time the Group’s market capitalisation has increased
from £161m in 2005 to over £300m. Taken together, 
the Group has therefore delivered an average total
shareholder return of 20% per year, over the past
five years. 
Governance
There were no changes to the Board during the year, 
but we continue to evaluate performance thoroughly 
on an annual basis, as well as reviewing appropriate
succession plans.
Employees
The requirement to reduce costs during the recession
has largely had to be borne by our employees, through 
a combination of reduced headcount and constrained
salary increases. The Board is very grateful for the way
in which our employees have adapted to these difficult
and challenging conditions and it again demonstrates
that a key strength of Diploma is the proactive and
responsive attitude of our employees. I wish to thank 
all of our employees for their exceptional efforts and
dedication which are key to the success of the Group. 
Outlook
In recent years, the Group has demonstrated both the
resilience of its business model and its ability to react
swiftly to changes in market conditions.
Robust underlying organic growth together with strong
cash generation and an active acquisition programme,
provide the Board with confidence that the Group will
achieve further progress in 2011. 
John Rennocks 
Chairman
22 November 2010
Section 1: Overview
Five Year Performance
EPS growth: +14% p.a.
(Based on adjusted EPS in pence)
TSR growth: +20% p.a.
(compared with FTSE 250: +5% p.a.)
11.8
2006
13.1
2007
16.0
2008
14.8
2009
18.9
2010
112
2006
168
2007
120
2008
145
2009
249
2010
Dividend growth: +18% p.a.
(dividends in pence)
4.6
2006
5.4
2007
7.5
2008
7.8
2009
9.0
2010 4 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Group at a Glance
Diploma PLC is an international
group of businesses supplying
specialised technical products
and services
We focus on essential products and
services funded by customers’ operating
rather than capital budgets, giving 
stability to revenues
Our attractive margins are sustained
through the quality of customer service,
the depth of technical support and value
adding activities
In the operating businesses, strong
committed management teams execute
well formulated development strategies
Carefully selected, value enhancing
acquisitions accelerate the organic 
growth strategy and take us into new 
but related markets
An ungeared balance sheet and strong
cash flow fund our growth strategy while
providing healthy dividends
Resilient
Revenues
Attractive
Margins
Focused
Management
Value
Enhancing
Acquisitions
Strong Cash
Flow 5 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 1: Overview
Life Sciences
30%
of revenues  
199 employees
Suppliers of
consumables,
instrumentation
and related services 
to the healthcare 
and environmental
industries
Europe
48%
UK & Eire 25%
Continental
Europe 23%
North America
46%
US 21%
Canada 25%
Rest of World
6%
Seals
33%
of revenues  
371 employees
Suppliers of hydraulic
seals, gaskets,
cylinders, components
and kits for heavy
mobile and industrial
machinery
Controls
37%
of revenues  
234 employees
Suppliers of specialised
wiring, connectors,
fasteners and control
devices for technically
demanding applications
* revenue by destination
Sectors
Geography
* Strategy and performance
The Group comprises a number of high quality,
specialised businesses supplying technical products 
and services to the Life Sciences, Seals and Controls
industries. The businesses aim to achieve stable 
revenue growth and attractive margins by focusing 
on supplying essential products and services to
customers who value high levels of customer service,
technical support and value adding activities. The
businesses target organic revenue growth over the
economic cycle at a rate of “GDP plus” growth 
(5-6% p.a.), with higher growth rates achieved through
carefully selected, value enhancing acquisitions.
This strategic model has been closely tested through 
the dramatic downturn in the global economy in 2009
and the subsequent recovery in the markets. During 
the recession, the businesses showed their resilience
with revenues less impacted than competitors who
were more dependent on capital equipment budgets 
or could offer less differentiated products and services.
With the recovery taking hold in 2010, revenues have
rebounded strongly, supporting our belief that the
businesses have succeeded in further penetrating their
markets by maintaining service levels through the
downturn. Revenues increased by 15% in 2010 to
£183.5m (2009: £160.0m) with underlying growth of
11% after adjusting for currency translation effects,
acquisitions and certain one-off items. 
Operating margins have also performed well under
extreme market pressure, providing further evidence 
of the continuing value provided to customers and the
success in achieving operational efficiency. During the
recession, the businesses acted quickly and decisively 
to optimise performance and reduce costs to match 
the reduced revenue levels. As a result, operating
margins were held at 16.0% of revenue. As revenues
have rebounded, the businesses have been very
controlled in adding back costs, given the uncertainty 
in the sustainability of the recovery. With the resulting
benefits of operational leverage, operating margins 
have increased to 17.5% of revenue and adjusted
operating profits have increased by 25% to £32.1m
(2009: £25.6m); this increase is 19% after adjusting 
for currency translation effects, acquisitions and certain 
one-off items. 
Performance against other key indicators has also 
been strong through the recession and into the
subsequent recovery. In 2009, the businesses reduced
working capital by £6.1m to match the reduced
revenues and as revenues have recovered in 2010, the
businesses have again been cautious about adding back
inventory too quickly. Working capital as a percentage of
revenue has decreased to 15.4% (2009: 17.6%), though
it is likely to trend back to the target range of 16-17% if
revenues continue to increase. Free cash flow, including
proceeds from the disposal of the Anachem businesses,
has been very strong at £29.8m (2009: £23.5m). 
Finally, return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”)
has increased to 22.1% (2009: 19.0%) with the
improved operating margins and working capital ratios.
6 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Stable revenue growth,
sustainable margins and an
active acquisition programme
Chief Executive’s Review Section 1: Overview
7 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Sector developments
The Group’s strategic objective is to build more
substantial, broader based businesses in each of its
chosen sectors through a combination of organic growth
and acquisition. Good progress was made in the year in
executing this strategy in each of the three sectors. The
key developments in the year are summarised below
with a more detailed analysis of market drivers and
business performance included in the Business Review.
Life Sciences
2010 2009
£m £m
Revenue 55.4 49.9 +11%
Adjusted operating profit 11.9 10.6 +12%
Adjusted operating margin 21.5% 21.2%
The DCHI group of Healthcare businesses in Canada
now account for over 70% of the Life Sciences sector
revenues. They operate in a market which is mostly
public sector funded and where the demand from a
growing, aging and well-educated population drives a
steady growth in funding. Within this market, DCHI
supplies specialised products which are used 
in the pathology laboratories, operating rooms and
endoscopy suites of the hospitals across Canada. The
worldwide recession had some impact on the market
with limits imposed on the number and cost of specific
medical procedures and diagnostic tests and extended
tender processes for capital equipment. However, 
overall Healthcare expenditure in Canada has continued
to grow steadily in real terms and recently there has
been some evidence of an easing of capital approvals.
The business model is built on the supply, on an
exclusive basis, of high quality, manufacturer branded
products secured by long term distribution agreements.
Strong customer relationships are forged through 
high levels of customer service, including experienced
technical consultants advising on product applications
and new product ideas and service engineers who
ensure the instrumentation products are operating to 
the detailed specifications. A large proportion (over
60%) of DCHI’s revenues are secured under multi-year
customer contracts.
During the year, DCHI consolidated its position in 
the Canadian market, delivering solid growth in the 
core product lines through increased utilisation of 
the products in existing accounts and good success 
in penetrating new accounts. Good progress was also
achieved in expanding newer product areas including
allergy testing, assisted reproductive technology (“ART”)
and a new instrument to treat Barrett’s oesophagus, 
an early stage of oesophageal cancer.
In July 2010, the acquisition was completed of 80% of
BGS in Australia. The Healthcare market in Australia
shares many of the same attractive characteristics as
that of Canada, with steadily growing Healthcare funding
and structural market challenges which make the
specialised distribution model attractive to
manufacturers. We believe there is a good opportunity
to grow the business by investing in direct sales
resource and leveraging from the experience of DCHI’s
electrosurgery business in Canada.
Bruce Thompson, Chief Executive Officer
”The businesses target “GDP plus” 
organic growth in revenues over 
the economic cycle, with growth
accelerated through carefully selected,
value-enhancing acquisitions.” 8 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The balance (25-30%) of the sector revenues are
generated by the a1-group of Environmental
businesses in Europe, which supply a range of products
used in Environmental Testing and Health & Safety
applications. The market demand is largely driven 
by regulation which ensures steady demand for the
essential consumable products. However, in times of
economic downturn, as experienced through the 2009
recession, customers have deferred capital expenditure
on new equipment and instrumentation. Markets have
shown some sign of recovery in 2010 and a1-group
revenues have increased, boosted in particular by new
sales of containment enclosures to protect technicians 
in pharmaceutical research laboratories as well as
increased investment in emissions monitoring in 
power stations and gas detection. Actions taken during
the year to consolidate operations will also establish a
stronger base for profitable growth. 
Seals
2010 2009
£m £m
Revenue 60.1 48.2 +25%
Adjusted operating profit 8.9 5.5 +62%
Adjusted operating margin 14.8% 11.4%
Currently around 70% of Seals sector revenues are
generated from the Aftermarket businesses of HFPG
(Hercules, Bulldog and HKX) and FPE. Own brand
sealing products are supplied to a broad range of 
mobile machinery applications in heavy construction,
logging, mining, agriculture, material handling and 
refuse collection. The principal market drivers are
therefore the growth in the general industrial economy
and in particular heavy construction.  
With the broad industrial economy in North America
moving into recession in 2009, construction spending,
housing starts and mobile hydraulic shipments all
experienced substantial falls. The Aftermarket
businesses were impacted, but to a lesser extent 
than businesses more dependent upon sales of capital
equipment. A recovery in the general economy has
resulted in Aftermarket revenues increasing by ca. 15%,
but activity levels are still below 2008 peak levels and
the construction market has remained somewhat 
muted despite the various stimulus packages. 
In the core Hercules business, the key to success is 
the ability to provide a next day delivery service from
inventory, for seals and seal kits used in a broad range 
of different manufacturers’ machinery and different
applications. Hercules has therefore continued to 
invest in warehouse automation at the main facility in
Clearwater, Florida. This will improve further Hercules’
service proposition and bring greater efficiency to
warehouse operations. The benefits of operational
leverage can be seen in the improved operating margin
this year as revenues have recovered, but operating
costs have not been added back at a similar level.
Outside North America, the main focus for development
has been in Europe where good progress was made 
in both direct sales in the Benelux countries as well 
as the appointment of sub-distributors to distribute
Hercules seal kits in other mainland European countries.
Initiatives are also being developed to increase
penetration in other developing markets in Asia Pacific
and South America.
The major rebound in Seals sector revenues has come
from the Industrial OEM businesses, RT Dygert and 
M Seals. On a like-for-like basis, these businesses 
have increased revenues by 30% in 2010 and are now
experiencing demand levels approaching pre-recession
levels. Order levels from core customers in North
America began to recover at the end of calendar 
year 2009, as the OEM’s regained confidence and
moved back to full time working and carried out some
re-stocking. Confidence was slower to return to
M Seals’ customers in Europe, with a return to growth
only in the second half of the year. M Seals has
continued to 
be a key supplier of large bearing seals to the wind
turbine manufacturers and has now established a small
specialist team in China to service this rapidly expanding
wind turbine market. 
In September 2010, the Industrial OEM business 
was further expanded through the acquisition of All
Seals, a long established supplier of O-rings and custom
manufactured parts to Industrial OEM customers 
across a range of specialist applications. All Seals has 
a strong position in the important Californian market 
and the adjacent South Western States and is therefore
complementary to RT Dygert. The company has
enjoyed strong growth in 2010 and plans are being
developed to expand its product range and to penetrate
new accounts.  
Chief Executive’s Review continued Section 1: Overview
9 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Controls
2010 2009
£m £m
Revenue 68.0 61.9 +10%
Adjusted operating profit 11.3 9.5 +19%
Adjusted operating margin 16.6% 15.3%
The Controls sector businesses supply high performance
wiring, connectors, fasteners and control devices 
used in a range technically demanding applications. 
The businesses offer high quality, manufacturer 
branded products sourced under the terms of long 
term exclusive distribution agreements. Strong customer
relationships are based on ex-stock availability of
product, responsiveness, technical advice on product
applications and a range of value added services.    
The largest end user sector is Defence & Aerospace.
The businesses do not typically supply to major platform
OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers, who are mostly served direct
by the manufacturers. Rather, the businesses supply
into repair, refurbishment and upgrade programmes,
where ex-stock availability and responsiveness are
critical. Operational funding has remained buoyant during
the year, particularly in the ground vehicle and military
marine segments, but sales into Military Aerospace have
been softer, possibly reflecting the priority given to
ground vehicles.   Although the businesses are not too
directly impacted in the short term by cutbacks and
delays in major defence projects, it is clear that the
defence spending reviews will have an impact longer
term at the sub-contractor and component supply level.
In Commercial Aerospace, the businesses supply
products principally for the initial installation and
subsequent upgrades of aircraft interiors. After falling
back in 2009, demand has again picked up as passenger
numbers have increased.
In Motorsport, activity has suffered in recent years 
from cost cutting measures and team withdrawals in 
the Formula 1 series. However, this series has returned
to relative stability with a highly competitive grid and
new team entrants. Medical Equipment is another
specialised market where the businesses continue 
to have success and maintain a more stable demand
profile than the background economies. 
The businesses also supply to a range of specialised
applications in the General Industrial sector in the
major markets of the UK and Germany. Demand has
recovered well and in particular, there has been strong
growth in the Commercial Refrigeration market, with 
the major retailers investing in new and refurbished
stores. In the broader Energy sector, there has been 
an increased demand for energy efficient components 
as customers implement energy reduction programmes
and move to alternative coolant gases using natural
refrigerants. In August 2010, the German Controls
business acquired the customer list and trading stock 
of a distributor of Tyco Energy products. The sales and
logistics activities have now been integrated and this
small acquisition will boost our presence in this growing
business area.
Summary and outlook
The steady performance of the businesses through 
the dramatic economic downturn and subsequent 
period of uncertain recovery, have given added
confidence in the resilience of the business model. 
Over the business cycle, we are looking for continued
organic revenue growth at the “GDP plus” level,
combined with sustained attractive operating margins. 
The strategy remains to accelerate growth through
carefully selected, value enhancing acquisitions. 
Over the last five years, we have invested ca. £70m 
in acquisitions which are delivering a pre-tax return 
of over 20%. Current cash balances of ca. £30m,
combined with the renewed debt facility and strong
continuing cash flow give the resources to continue 
to pursue this active acquisition strategy.
The environment for acquisitions has certainly improved 
and valuation gaps between Buyer and Seller are 
now closer. However, the general uncertainty in 
the economic environment means that transactions 
are taking longer to complete as Buyers and Sellers 
try to identify, quantify and limit any risk elements. 
Though more time consuming to bring to closure, 
three acquisitions were completed in the second 
half of the year and further opportunities are currently 
being pursued.
Bruce Thompson 
Chief Executive Officer
22 November 2010 10 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Revenue Growth (£m)
Key Performance Indicators
Revenue growth is a key measure of performance at both the
sector and operating business levels. The businesses target
organic revenue growth, over the economic cycle, at a rate of 
5-6% p.a. (“GDP plus” growth), with higher growth rates achieved
at the Group level through carefully selected acquisitions.
Over the last five years, average revenue growth of 14% p.a. has 
been achieved in the continuing businesses, of which 6% p.a. has been
organic growth with 8% p.a. contributed from acquisitions  and currency
gains. In 2010, the businesses recovered well from the 2009 recession
and delivered 15% growth in revenues; 11% growth after adjusting for
acquisitions and currency. 
Operating Margin (%)
ROTCE (%)
Operating margin represents operating profit, before acquisition
related charges, divided by revenue. It is an important measure of
the success of the businesses in achieving superior margins by
offering strongly differentiated products and services, as well as
by running efficient operations.
Product margins are very stable in all sectors and businesses over the
business cycle with short term variations driven mainly by product mix 
or currency effects. With tight management of operations, this translates
into Group operating margins which have consistently been in the range
of 16 -17% of revenue, even during the 2009 recession. As revenues
have recovered in 2010, operating margins have increased to 17.5%,
mainly driven by operational leverage in the Seals sector businesses.
Return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) represents
operating profit, before amortisation of acquisition related
charges, as a percentage of trading capital employed (“TCE”),
defined as net assets less net cash and non-operating assets and
liabilities. TCE includes the total cash invested in acquisitions,
including all goodwill and acquired gross intangible assets.
The ROTCE target level of 20% on a pre-tax basis is consistent with 
the 13% post tax IRR threshold used for investments. Over the last 
five years, ROTCE has mostly been above the 20% target, although it
slipped to 19.0% in the 2009 recession. In 2010, ROTCE has recovered
to 22.1% with the improvement in operating margins and continued
good management of working capital. 
112
2006
125
2007
156
2008
160
2009
184
2010
+18%
+11%
+25%
+2%
+15%
16.1
2006
16.6
2007
17.0
2008
16.0
2009
17.5
2010
25.1
2006
25.5
2007
22.4
2008
19.0
2009
22.1
2010 Section 1: Overview
11 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Free Cash Flow (£m)
Free cash flow is defined as the cash flow generated after 
tax, but before acquisitions and dividends. This measures the 
success of the operating businesses and the Group as a whole, 
in turning profit into cash through the careful management 
of working capital and capital investments in the business. 
Over the last five years, the Group has generated a robust free cash
flow averaging £21.2m p.a., which excluding disposal proceeds
represents 99% of average adjusted profit after tax. Free cash flow in
2009 was particularly strong due to tight management of working
capital during the recession. In 2010, an additional £0.1m was released
from working capital, contributing to strong free cash flow of £29.8m.
Key Employee Statistics
This measure focuses on working capital as a percentage 
of revenue.  This measure can vary significantly by business
depending on the level of inventory required by the business
model, as well as credit terms with suppliers and customers.
However, experience shows that, for the Group overall, 
an average of 16-17% of revenue is a reasonable target.
When revenues move quickly up or down, it takes time to move working
capital to the appropriate level. Although creditor and debtor balances
adjust reasonably quickly, inventories have to be managed through
forward ordering levels and are slower to respond. Even so, during the
2009 recession, working capital was managed to an average of 17.6%
of revenue and this has decreased in 2010 to 15.4% of revenue.
In the operating businesses, non-financial KPIs are used which 
are tailored to the particular requirements and characteristics 
of each business. At the Group level, the principal non-financial
KPIs relate to the management of human resources.
The average number of employees in the continuing businesses 
in 2010 has decreased by 1% to 814 (2009: 823). The proportion of 
males to females is unchanged with males accounting for 66% of 
the total (2009: 66%); average length of service remains unchanged 
at 6.4 years (2009: 6.4 years). Average staff turnover has decreased 
to 15.0% (2009: 18.3%) and sick days lost per person were 2.8 days
(2009: 3.6 days).
2008 2009 2010
Number of 
Employees
833 823 814
Males as 
% of total
65% 66% 66%
Length of 
Service (years) 
5.2 6.4 6.4
Average 
staff turnover
20.2% 18.3% 15.0%
Sick days lost 
per person
3.4 3.6 2.8
22.8
2006
12.0
2007
17.7
2008
23.5
2009
29.8
2010
15.7%
2006
17.3%
2007
17.2%
2008
17.6%
2009
15.4%
2010
Working Capital (% of revenue) 12 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
JL Rennocks FCA (65)*†‡ 
Non-Executive Chairman
BM Thompson (55)
Chief Executive Officer
NP Lingwood FCA (51)
Group Finance Director 
and Company Secretary
Directors and Advisors
Our experienced board
focuses on strategy, financial
control and risk management
Joined the Board in July 2002. He is
Chairman of Nestor Healthcare plc and
Intelligent Energy plc, Deputy Chairman 
of Inmarsat plc and a non-Executive
Director of Babcock International Group
PLC and of other companies. He has
previously been Executive Director
Finance at Corus Group Plc and Finance
Director of PowerGen Plc and Smith 
& Nephew plc.
Joined the Board in 1994 and appointed
Chief Executive Officer in 1996. He 
started his career in the automotive
industry, first as a design engineer 
and then in marketing. Prior to joining
Diploma, he was Director of Arthur D 
Little Inc’s Technology Management
Practice in the United States.
Joined the Company in June 2001 
and appointed Group Finance Director 
on 3 July 2001. Prior to joining Diploma, 
he was Group Financial Controller of
Unigate PLC, having previously qualified
with Price Waterhouse, London. 13 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 1: Overview
JW Matthews FCA (66)*†‡ 
Non-Executive
IM Grice (57)*†‡ 
Non-Executive
I Henderson (54)
Chief Operating Officer
Investment Bankers 
Lazard
50 Stratton Street
London W1J 8LL
Corporate Stockbrokers
Panmure Gordon & Co
Moorgate Hall 
155 Moorgate
London EC2N 6XB
Auditors
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
Solicitors
Ashurst
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London EC2A 2HA
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP
HSBC Bank plc
City Corporate Banking Centre
60 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4 4TR
Joined the Board in 2003. He is Senior
Independent non-Executive Director 
of Minerva plc and SDL plc. He has
previously been Chairman of Regus 
Group plc, Crest Nicholson plc and 
was a Managing Director of County
NatWest and Deputy Chairman/Deputy
Chief Executive of Beazer plc.
Joined the Board in January 2007. He 
is a member of the Supervisory Board 
of Arcadis NV, a non-Executive Director 
of John Graham Holdings Limited, 
and Chairman of NM-UK Limited. 
He was until February 2008 Group CEO 
of Alfred McAlpine plc.
Joined the Board as a Director in 1998. He
was previously a Director of Glenchewton
plc and ANC Holdings Limited.
Member of:
* the Remuneration Committee
† the Audit Committee
‡ the Nomination Committee 14 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Strategy and Performance
Group Strategy
The Group comprises a number of high quality, specialised 
businesses supplying technical products and services and 
operating in the three broad industry sectors of Life Sciences, 
Seals and Controls. The Group’s strategic objective is to build 
more substantial, broader based businesses in the chosen 
sectors through a combination of organic growth and acquisition. 
The following are the core themes which underpin the strategies 
of the Group and its operating businesses:
Focus on markets which can deliver stable revenue growth
The businesses aim to achieve stable revenue growth by 
focusing on markets where the demand is funded by operating 
budgets which are less impacted by economic cycles than 
capital budgets. A high proportion of the Group’s revenues are 
generated from consumable products and service contracts 
and in many cases the products will be used in repair and 
maintenance applications and up-grade programmes, rather than 
supplied to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). Where 
public sector funding or regulation is involved, year on year 
changes in funding may also be less dramatic. 
In Life Sciences, the Canadian businesses supply into the 
publicly funded Healthcare sector which, over many years, has 
been growing steadily at the rate of 6-7% p.a. Annual variations 
are mostly dependant on the periodic additional tranches of 
funding provided by individual Provinces. Additional stability 
is provided in this sector by multi-year customer contracts for 
consumables and service which underpin at least 60% of sector 
revenues. The acquisition in July 2010 of BGS in Australia, 
extends the Healthcare activities into a new geographic market 
with similar characteristics to that of Canada. The European 
environmental businesses supply to utilities and other industrial 
customers where the demand is largely driven by Environmental 
and Health & Safety regulations. 
In Seals, the core business is the next day delivery of seals 
and seal kits used in the repair and maintenance of heavy 
mobile machinery. This focus on the Aftermarket means that 
the businesses, though not immune from a market downturn, 
are relatively insulated from the extremes of the business 
and economic cycles. This has been demonstrated by the 
performance of the business during the 2009 recession. The 
Hercules Aftermarket business saw revenues reduce by ca. 
20%, while many construction equipment OEMs experienced 
reductions of 40-60% in revenues. The risk profile of the 
business has also been improved by extending further into 
international markets and specialised industrial OEMs, through 
the acquisitions of M Seals, RT Dygert and All Seals and 
the investment in Hercules Europe. In 2010, 32% of sector 
revenues were generated in international markets outside North 
America while Industrial OEMs now account for ca. 30% of 
sector revenues.
In Controls, the businesses offer specialised products and 
services used in technically demanding applications. These 
specialised sectors have demonstrated a more resilient 
performance than the general industrial economies in which 
they operate, by focusing on more buoyant markets including 
Defence & Aerospace, Medical, Motorsport, Energy and General 
Industrial. Although total Defence expenditure is now likely to 
be constrained by budget cuts, the military operating budgets 
on which our businesses mostly depend, should prove more 
resilient than major capital programmes.
Strong customer relationships underpinned by full service 
offering
A key priority for the businesses is to build strong customer 
relationships within selected product and market segments. 
Attractive margins are sustained over time by providing a range 
of services to customers which they value and are prepared to 
pay for. Such services fall broadly into three categories: 
  Customer service – which can be, for example, the delivery 
of products held in inventory on a next day basis.
  Technical support – for example, helping customers design 
the product into their specific applications. 
  Value adding activities – services such as kitting or 
assembly, which the customers would have to pay 
someone else to provide or would require investment in 
their own resources.
Ultimately, customers will always demand strong product 
performance, competitive pricing and responsive delivery. 
However, the broader service offering builds stronger links with 
the customers at many levels, making switching to competitive 
suppliers more difficult.
If real value is not provided to customers, product margins will 
erode over time. The evidence that value is being delivered to 
customers is provided by the stability over time of the Group’s 
product margins in specific product and market segments. 
Shorter term movements in product margins principally arise due 
to changes in the mix of business or volatile currency markets. 
Over time however, the businesses work closely with suppliers 
and customers to ensure stable product margins which, with 
efficient operations, translate into consistent operating margins 
in the range 16-18%. 
Secure supply of quality differentiated products
Given the specialised nature of the businesses, it is critical that 
they have a secure supply of quality, differentiated products. 
There are a number of ways that this can be achieved and each 
business uses a blend to develop their product portfolios:
  Quality manufacturer-branded products supplied on an 
exclusive basis, typically secured with long term distribution 
agreements.
  Own brand products manufactured under contract to the 
businesses’ detailed specifications.
  Selective in-house manufacturing and assembly.
The Life Sciences and Controls sector businesses mostly 
source high quality, manufacturer branded products under 
exclusive, longer term contracts. These contracts are typically 
3-5 years in duration, but in some cases extend to ten years. 
In these two sectors, manufacturer branded products account 
for 87% of revenues. The balance is made up of own brand 
and manufactured products. For example, the a1-group has 
improved competitiveness by developing its own range of 
containment products for potent powder handling, which are 
now manufactured by reliable sub-contractors. Cabletec has 
also had success with its own range of manufactured products, 
including flexible braided products and multi-core cables. 15 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 2: Business Review
In the Seals sector, the business model is a little different, 
with own brand and manufactured products accounting for 
over 90% of revenues. Aftermarket products are marketed 
under the businesses’ own brand names including Hercules, 
Bulldog and HKX. Products are sourced globally from a range 
of manufacturers and security of supply is provided by supply 
contracts and by the cultivation of multiple alternative suppliers. 
In supplying Industrial OEM’s, more emphasis is placed on the 
manufacturer brands by M Seals, RTD Seals and the recently 
acquired All Seals.
Securing quality differentiated products is seen as a continuous 
process rather than a one-off activity. Over time, products in the 
portfolio will become less competitive and it is important that the 
businesses have plans for selective new product development 
and for the introduction of new suppliers.
Motivated and committed management teams
The Diploma organisational philosophy is to develop strong, 
self-standing management teams in the operating businesses 
committed to, and rewarded according to, the short and long 
term success of their businesses. The small corporate team 
focuses on strategy and financial control. 
The development of strong managers and management teams 
remains a priority for the Group and is key to the successful 
implementation of the business strategies. The Group needs to 
maintain and develop a group of managers with the potential to 
manage aggressive growth strategies. Importantly they must 
be able to motivate their staff and engender in them the same 
commitment.
To achieve this, the businesses concentrate on ensuring a 
challenging work environment and appropriate reward systems. 
Balanced compensation packages comprise a combination of 
competitive salaries, annual bonuses and long term incentive 
plans, targeted at the individual business level.
The cadre of ca. 60 senior managers in the operating 
businesses, demonstrate a good blend of energy, ambition and 
experience. The average age of these managers is 43 and they 
have an average length of service within their companies of 10 
years.
Efficient and responsive operations and information 
systems
Continuing, substantial investments are made in infrastructure 
and systems to give high levels of customer service, 
responsiveness and operational efficiency. This is an important 
element of the value added by the Group when transforming 
owner-managed companies into more substantial broader based 
businesses. Ongoing investment programmes ensure that the 
principal businesses are operating from purpose built or newly 
expanded facilities designed for efficient operations and with the 
scale to support significant future growth.
Similarly in the area of information systems, regular investment 
ensures that the businesses are supported by integrated IT 
systems designed to give strong functionality and efficiency 
and capable of supporting growth. Over the past five years, 
an average of £0.6m p.a. has been invested in improving the 
Group’s information systems and this investment is maintained 
over the business cycle. During the recent recession, the 
Hercules operation in Clearwater, Florida invested £1.2m in 
new warehouse management software and automated stock 
picking carousels. This will position the operation well to manage 
increasing revenues as markets recover, without needing to take 
cost levels back to historic levels.
Once the businesses have achieved a certain critical mass and 
have invested in appropriate facilities and IT systems, they can 
generally increase revenues without a significant increase in 
working capital. A strong focus on operating costs (80-90% 
employee related) and tight management of working capital 
ensure resilient operating margins and strong cash flow. 
Carefully selected acquisitions to accelerate growth
To complement the organic growth strategy, the Group makes 
selective acquisitions to accelerate growth and enter into new, 
but related markets. The Group’s currently ungeared balance 
sheet, supported by strong and consistent operating cash flow 
and medium term bank facilities, provides the resources to 
support an active acquisition programme. Clear criteria have 
been established to guide the Group’s pro-active acquisition 
programme and these criteria are derived from the strategic 
themes above. Prospective acquisitions should be sales and 
marketing led with strong customer relationships and a secure 
supply of quality, differentiated products. They should have 
capable management, and the potential for profitable growth and 
cash generation.
A competitive advantage in making acquisitions is the Group’s 
flexibility in structuring transactions. In many of the medium 
sized acquisitions, such as AMT and Somagen, where the 
objective was to extend into new markets or geographies, less 
than 100% of the business has been acquired. In these cases, 
owner managers are left with a minority stake in the business 
(up to 25%), with put and call options exercisable over 3-5 year 
periods. This allows vendors to remain in the businesses with a 
large part of the value crystallised, but still with the potential for 
future gain. For the Group, this reduces risk and gives additional 
confidence in the quality of the acquisition.
Over the last five years, a total of ca. £70m has been invested in 
aquisitions across the sectors and geographies:
Life
Sciences Seals Controls 
Europe CBISS M Seals (90%)
Snijders
Cabletec
Hitek
Fischer
North America AMT (75%)
Meditech
Somagen (20%)
RT Dygert
HKX
All Seals
Rest of World BGS (80%)
In evaluating potential acquisitions, a discounted cash flow 
model is used with the normal threshold set at an internal rate of 
return (“IRR”) of 13% on a post tax basis. This broadly translates 
to 20% on a pre-tax basis which corresponds to the Group 
target for ROTCE. The success of the acquisition programme in 
purely financial terms can be measured crudely by the current 
operating profit return on the total investment.  In 2010, ca. 
£14m of adjusted operating profit was generated from the 
businesses acquired over the last five years. This represents a 
return of over 20% on the total of £70m invested, after adjusting 
for full year contributions from the acquisitions completed in 
2010. 16 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Sector Review: Life Sciences
Sector Definition and Scope
The Life Sciences sector businesses supply a range of 
consumables, instrumentation and related services to the 
healthcare and environmental industries.
The Healthcare businesses are managed through Diploma 
Canada Healthcare Inc (“DCHI”). The two principal operating 
businesses are Somagen, based in Edmonton, Alberta and 
AMT, based in Kitchener, Ontario. Somagen supplies a range 
of consumables and instruments used in the diagnostic testing 
of blood, tissue and other samples in the 500-600 hospital 
pathology laboratories across Canada. It is also a leading 
supplier of products and services to the growing assisted 
reproductive technology (“ART”) market. AMT supplies specialty 
electrosurgery and endoscopy equipment and consumables for 
use in the operating rooms and endoscopy suites of the same 
Canadian hospitals. A large proportion of DCHI’s revenues come 
from multi-year customer contracts with hospitals and buying 
groups.
In July 2010, Diploma completed the acquisition of 80% of Big 
Green Surgical (“BGS”) located near Sydney, Australia. BGS 
is a smaller more narrowly focused version of AMT’s existing 
electrosurgery business in Canada and shares a number of 
common suppliers.
The a1-group is a supplier to Environmental testing laboratories 
and to Health & Safety engineers. The a1-envirosciences 
business has locations in Dusseldorf in Germany and Basel in 
Switzerland and also has sales and service resources across 
Northern Europe. It supplies a range of specialised analysers 
for detecting and measuring specific elements in liquids, solids 
and gases and also supplies a range of containment enclosures 
for potent powder handling. The CBISS business, located in 
Tranmere in the UK, supplies equipment and services for the 
monitoring and control of environmental emissions, as well as a 
range of gas detection devices.
Market Drivers
The DCHI businesses in Canada supply into the Healthcare
sector which is mostly public sector funded. The principal 
demand driver is therefore the level of healthcare spending by 
the Canadian Government.
C$bn 2006 2007 2008 2009
Growth
% p.a
Public sector health
expenditure in Canada 105.8 113.2 120.3 128.6 +6.7%
Total healthcare
expenditure 151.3 161.6 171.9 183.1 +6.6%
Source: Canadian Institute for Health Information
The Canadian Healthcare industry is a proven, long term growth 
environment for medical device distribution. A growing, aging 
and well-educated population demands high standards of service 
delivery, helping to ensure on-going growing demand. The 
Canadian Health Act (“the Act”) ensures universal coverage for 
all insured persons for all medically necessary services provided 
by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers. The 
Provinces are responsible for the delivery of the healthcare 
services, but the Federal Government controls delivery through 
Federal-Provincial transfer payments, which represent the largest 
source of revenues for the Provinces.
The relative stability and consistency in funding by each of 
the Provinces, guaranteed through the Act, ensures that the 
market remains well funded through the economic cycle. Over 
many years, healthcare expenditure has grown steadily in the 
range 6-7% p.a. with annual variations mostly dependant on the 
periodic additional tranches of funding provided by individual 
Provinces.
In 2009, the recession had some impact on the market with 
opportunities at times constrained by extended tender processes 
and limits set by individual Provinces on the number and cost 
of specific medical procedures in important jurisdictions such 
as British Columbia and Ontario.  However, overall Healthcare 
expenditure continues to grow steadily in real terms and recently 
there has been some evidence of an easing in capital approvals. 
The Healthcare market in Australia shares many of the same 
attractive characteristics as that of Canada.  While privately 
funded healthcare is more prevalent, public sector healthcare 
funding is steady and growing and supported by a stable, 
resource based economy.  As with Canada, there is a large 
geography to be covered, low population density and purchasing 
processes that vary by State. These characteristics necessarily 
demand a significant investment by manufacturers in technical 
sales and service resource which makes the specialised 
distribution model more attractive as an efficient way to serve 
the market.
The a1-group supplies to customers in the Environmental
industry across Europe. The market demand is largely driven by 
Environmental and Health & Safety regulations. Growth in recent 
years has been driven by the need to be compliant with a range 
of EU regulations including:
  new legislation or regulatory obligations relating to 
the environment, pollutants or potentially hazardous 
contaminants;
  the growing importance to companies of protecting 
the workforce from contact with potentially hazardous 
materials; and
  greater use of new technologies in process control and 
integrated pollution control.
In the UK, the market demand for emissions monitoring, gas 
detection and gas leakage products has been positive; partly in 
response to legislative requirements but also driven by larger 
enterprises setting internal targets for reductions in pollutants 
and energy usage. In Germany, there were signs that capital 
budgets were beginning to be released in both the water quality 
monitoring and petrochemical analysis sectors. 
Sector Performance
The Life Sciences businesses increased revenues in 2010 by 
11% to £55.4m (2009: £49.9m). Sector revenues benefited 
on translation from the stronger Canadian dollar relative to UK 
sterling and from the contribution from the newly acquired BGS 
business in Australia. On a comparable and constant currency 
basis, sector revenues increased by 1%. On a transaction basis, 
the stronger Canadian dollar, relative to both the US dollar and 
the euro, had a positive effect on gross margins in the Canadian 
businesses. Adjusted operating profits, which also benefited 
from the stronger Canadian dollar, increased by 12% to £11.9m 
(2009: £10.6m), with operating margins increasing to 21.5%
(2009: 21.2%). 17 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 2: Business Review
Capital expenditure in the sector was £0.7m, including £0.6m
invested in field equipment for placement by the Canadian 
Healthcare businesses. The balance was invested in hire 
equipment to help service customers of the a1-group. Strong 
free cash flow of £10.1m was generated in the sector (2009: 
£7.6m) through higher profitability and lower tax payments.
Revenues from the DCHI businesses increased by 13% in UK 
sterling terms but were unchanged in Canadian dollars against a 
strong prior year comparative. In 2009, revenues were boosted 
by an exceptional sale of face shields to protect against swine 
flu and there was also a full year’s contribution from the sale of 
test kits from a supplier which was discontinued after the first 
quarter of this year.  After adjusting for these items, underlying 
revenues from the continuing product lines increased by 8% in 
Canadian dollars. 
AMT, excluding the impact of the exceptional face shield sale 
in 2009, increased revenues by 13%. In its core electrosurgery 
business, AMT encouraged increased utilisation of its proprietary 
smoke evacuation products in existing accounts and also 
succeeded in penetrating key new installations. There were also 
strong sales of grounding pads and laparoscopic electrodes used 
in electrosurgery procedures and of other surgical instruments, 
such as disposable scissor tips and clips. AMT’s endoscopy 
business saw good growth in its sales of consumable products, 
including argon probes and flexible endoscopic instruments. 
Growth was also achieved in the sales of capital equipment, 
including several installations for a new instrument to treat 
Barrett’s oesophagus, an early stage of oesophageal cancer.  
A number of other new product lines have also been added 
later in the year to extend the product offering in the growing 
endoscopy market.
In July 2010, the acquisition was completed of 80% of BGS 
in Australia. BGS is a specialised distributor of electrosurgery 
consumables and equipment supplied to both public and private 
hospitals in Australia and New Zealand. It is a smaller version of 
AMT’s electrosurgery business in Canada and we believe that 
there is a good opportunity to grow BGS revenues by investing 
in direct sales resources and broadening the product line and 
geographical coverage.  
Somagen, excluding the impact of the discontinued product 
line, increased revenues by 2%. There was continued growth 
in sales from Somagen’s core suppliers of consumable 
products, delivered to hospital pathology laboratories under 
longer term reagent rental contracts.  Somagen also had good 
success in placing newly developed instruments into existing 
accounts, taking the opportunity to sign up longer term contract 
extensions.  Good growth was also achieved with new products 
for allergy testing and other new products introduced to 
strengthen further Somagen’s position in the market for assisted 
reproductive technology (“ART”).
The a1-group increased revenues by 7%, with a1-envirosciences 
revenues growing by 5% and CBISS revenues growing by 
15%. The growth in the a1-envirosciences business was driven 
principally by large new contracts in Switzerland for the supply 
of customised stainless steel containment enclosures for the 
personal protection of technicians in the research laboratories of 
major pharmaceutical companies. 
Germany and the Benelux countries also remain strong markets 
for a1-envirosciences in the supply of elemental analysers to 
the petrochemical and bulk chemistry industries. Although 
constraints in customers’ capital budgets held back demand 
earlier in the year, both prospects and order levels improved 
in the second half.  During the year, the decision was made 
to consolidate the UK operations of a1-envirosciences into 
Germany. The UK market will now be serviced by home based 
sales and service resources and all purchasing, administrative 
and logistical support will be provided by the main German 
operation. The costs of this reorganisation of £0.1m were 
charged against operating profit in 2010.
CBISS experienced strong growth across its product range. 
The core emissions monitoring (“CEMS“) business returned 
to growth as new power stations came on line and operators 
replaced out-dated monitoring equipment in existing installations. 
The value of active prospects also increased sharply during the 
year as funding became more readily available for alternative 
power plants (waste, biofuels, syngas) and concerted efforts 
were made to remove bottlenecks in the planning process.  
CBISS also had success with gas detection products designed to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve energy useage 
in supermarkets and other specialised applications.
e u n e v e R
n i g r a M g n i t a r e p O
w o l F h s a C e e r F
d e y o l p m E l a t i p a C g n i d a r T
E C T O R
s c i t s i t a t S e c n e i c S e f i L
% 8 7
% 4 7
66%
8%
25%
25%
4%
% 1%
9%
2%
s r e m o t s u C
l a c i n i l C
s e i t i l i t U
Life Sciences Research
Chemical & Petrochemical
y h p a r g o e G
a c i r e m A h t r o N
e p o r u E
d l r o W f o t s e R
s t c u d o r P
s e l b a m u s n o C
n o i t a t n e m u r t s n I
e c i v r e S
£55.4m
£11.9m
21.5%
£10.1m
£49.7m
24.0%
£49.9m
£10.6m
21.2%
£7.6m
£45.5m
23.3%
2010 2009
Adjusted Operating Profit
Industrial & Other
8% 18 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Sector Review: Seals
Sector Definition and Scope
The Seals sector businesses supply a range of hydraulic 
seals, gaskets, cylinders, components and kits used in heavy 
mobile machinery and specialised industrial equipment.
The Hercules Fluid Power Group (“HFPG”) supplies to the 
Aftermarket through the Hercules, Bulldog and HKX businesses 
and to Industrial OEM’s (“Original Equipment Manufacturers”)
and equipment dealers through the RT Dygert and All Seals 
businesses.
Hercules is the core Aftermarket business based in Clearwater, 
Florida and provides a next day delivery service throughout the 
US, for seals, seal kits and cylinders used in a range of heavy 
mobile machinery applications. Hercules in Canada offers the 
same range of products from its two branch operations located 
in the provinces of Ontario and Quebec. In Europe, Hercules 
has centred its operations in the Netherlands. Bulldog, based 
in Reno, supplies a range of gasket and seal kits for heavy duty 
diesel engines, transmissions and hydraulic cylinders used in 
off road and marine applications. HKX is based near Seattle and 
supplies hydraulic kits used in the installation of attachments on 
excavators.
The Industrial OEM businesses in North America comprise RT 
Dygert, acquired in January 2009, with operations in Minneapolis 
and Chicago and All Seals, acquired in September 2010, based 
in Santa Ana, California. Both companies supply seals, O-rings 
and custom moulded and machined parts to a range of Industrial 
OEM customers, cylinder manufacturers and sub-distributors. 
Applications range from spray painting guns to water filtration to 
medical devices. 
FPE is based in the UK, with operations in Darlington and 
Doncaster, and supplies a range of seals, seal kits, cylinder 
parts and sealants to ram repairers, mobile and heavy plant 
operators, mechanical handling and process control companies. 
M Seals is a specialised distributor of O-rings, moulded 
parts, PTFE products and shaft seals, supplied to a range of 
specialised Industrial OEM customers. Products range from the 
finest precision seals for hearing aids to large heavy duty seals 
for wind power mills. M Seals has operations in Espergaerde in 
Denmark and Halmstad in Sweden.
Market Drivers
The Aftermarket businesses supply sealing products to the 
mobile machinery Aftermarket to support a broad range of 
applications in heavy construction, logging, mining, agriculture, 
material handling (lift trucks, fork lifts and dump trucks) and 
refuse collection. Products are generally used in the repair 
and maintenance of equipment after it has completed its 
initial warranty period or lease term, or has been sold on in 
the pre-used market. The main customers are machinery and 
cylinder repair shops, engine and transmission re-builders and 
tractor parts distributors. The principal market drivers are the 
growth in the general industrial economy and in particular, heavy 
construction. The customers of the Industrial OEM businesses 
are manufacturers of a wide range of specialised industrial (and 
some retail) products. The principal market driver in the OEM 
sector is therefore general growth in the industrial economy.
2006 2007 2008 2009
Growth
% p.a.
US real GDP growth
(1)
+2.7% +1.9% +0% -2.6% 0.5%
Annual US construction
spending $billion
(2)
1,168 1,151 1,072 908 -4.7%
US mobile hydraulic
shipments $million
(3)
2,766 2,626 2,913 1,669 -11.5%
Sources: 
(1)  Bureau of Economic Analysis – US Department of Commerce
(2)  US Census Bureau 
(3)  National Fluid Power Association
In the US, while the residential construction sector had been 
in decline since 2007, the broader industrial economy moved 
into recession in 2009 and construction spending, housing 
starts and mobile hydraulic shipments all registered substantial 
falls. The HFPG Aftermarket businesses were impacted, but 
to a lesser extent than the Industrial OEM businesses, where 
manufacturers moved quickly to shorter working weeks and 
generally destocked. In 2010, more favourable economic 
conditions began to restore confidence in the general industrial 
sector and the Industrial OEM business rebounded strongly. 
Construction spending however has remained muted, despite 
the stimulus packages. 
Canada was not as severely impacted by the financial crisis, but 
by 2009 there was significantly lower economic activity in key 
industrial regions which are dependent on demand from the US 
market. The Canadian economy grew strongly in the first two 
quarters of 2010 as worldwide demand for natural resources 
returned and the manufacturing sector in Eastern Canada 
regained momentum after a period of severe destocking.
In Europe, the general downturn impacted in the UK from late 
2008, followed by Continental Europe in early 2009. Activity 
levels in general picked up in the final quarter of 2009 and have 
been sustained throughout 2010, though still below peak 2008 
levels.
Sector Performance
The Seals businesses saw revenues increase in UK sterling 
terms by 25% to £60.1m (2009: £48.2m). The results benefited 
from a full twelve months trading from RT Dygert compared to 
nine months in 2009, and a first month’s contribution from All 
Seals. After adjusting for these acquisitions and the impact of 
currency translation, underlying sector revenues increased by 
20%. Adjusted operating profits increased by 62% to £8.9m 
(2009: £5.5m) and operating margins, through a combination 
of a strong increase in revenue and the impact of the prior 
year cost reduction programmes, increased to 14.8% (2009: 
11.4%).  Capital expenditure in the sector was £0.5m with the 
major elements being the continued investment by HFPG in the 
new warehouse automation system at Clearwater and a new
custom seal making machine in FPE. Free cash flow of £7.9m
was generated in the year compared with £8.6m in 2009 which
benefited from a sharp reduction in working capital.
HFPG saw underlying revenues, adjusted for the acquisitions 
of RT Dygert and All Seals, increase by 21% in US dollar terms. 
The core Hercules business in North America, with its focus on 
the Aftermarket, achieved ca. 12% growth for the year, with 
the recovery strengthening during the second half, which has  19 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 2: Business Review
traditionally been the seasonal peak period for construction 
activity, though not in 2009.  Hercules continued to invest in 
the warehouse automation and picking carousel project, which 
will provide a further underpinning to the Hercules service 
proposition and add greater efficiency to the warehouse 
operations in Clearwater. Phase 1 was completed in 2010 and 
Phase 2 has now begun and is expected to be completed in 
2011. The Seals-on-Demand business of custom machining of 
non-standard and out-of-production seals, delivered another year 
of substantial growth and investment in additional capacity is 
planned for 2011. Investment in e-commerce is also delivering 
results with ca. 7% of Hercules Clearwater revenues now 
processed through the new WebStore service.
Hercules Canada had an excellent year and delivered particularly 
strong growth in the second half of the year, with revenues 
improving across all regions and customer groups. Outside 
North America, the strategic development of the Aftermarket 
seal kit business in Europe continued to be a key focus for 
Hercules, with good progress being made in both direct sales 
in the Netherlands and Belgium and in the appointment of sub-
distributors in other mainland European countries. Sales from the 
US to other international markets also grew with the key South 
American region recovering strongly. 
Bulldog sells its products through a worldwide network of 
dealers that buy in relatively large quantities to take advantage 
of volume discounting and lower, consolidated, freight charges. 
Following destocking by the dealer network during the 
recession, confidence began to return in the final quarter of 
2009 with demand being sustained throughout 2010, translating 
into 20% revenue growth for the year. Domestic US sales were 
strong across the board and the international business, which 
represents over 75% of Bulldog’s sales, saw the return of large 
stocking orders from a range of countries.
In the Industrial OEM businesses, there was a strong rebound in 
demand from RT Dygert’s core customers. Order levels began 
to recover at the end of 2009 as the OEM’s regained confidence 
and moved back towards full working weeks and carried out 
some re-stocking.  By March 2010, RT Dygert was experiencing 
demand comparable to pre-recession levels, with second half 
revenues up by ca. 50%, compared to the prior year. RT Dygert 
added new sales and product development resources during 
the year and qualified many new products and compounds for 
customer applications.  In September 2010, HFPG acquired 
All Seals, a well established supplier of O-rings and custom 
manufactured parts to Industrial OEM customers across a range 
of specialist applications in aerospace, medical, filtration and 
general manufacturing industries. All Seals has a strong position 
in the important Californian market and the adjacent South 
Western States. The company has enjoyed strong growth in 
2010 and plans are being developed to expand its product range 
and to penetrate new accounts.
HKX’s traditional customers are the North American franchised 
dealers of the key excavator manufacturers. In 2009, sales of 
new excavators fell sharply (down by over 70% from the 2005 
peak) and although the construction market stabilised in 2010, 
new excavator sales in North America remained subdued. In 
response, HKX has extended its business model to target the 
attachment retro-fit sector, as machine operators seek to make 
more flexible use of existing excavators. HKX also expanded 
internationally, finding new business in the South American and
Middle Eastern markets and this contributed to overall revenue 
growth of 24% for HKX.
The FPE business in the UK recovered quickly from the 
worst effects of the downturn and delivered 18% revenue 
growth. In the domestic UK market, FPE expanded its range 
of cylinder components sold into its traditional seal customer 
base and also invested £0.2m in a third seal making machine 
to meet increasing demand from customers for low volume, 
non-standard seals. Exports to sub-distributors increased 
significantly as dealers began to restock their depleted 
inventories. For M Seals, confidence was slower to return 
among its core Industrial OEM customers, with a return 
to steady growth only in the second half. This resulted in 
an increase in revenues of 12% for the full year. M Seals 
continues to be a key supplier of large bearing seals to the 
established wind turbine manufacturers and achieved steady 
business throughout the year. In China, which is forecast to 
become the largest wind turbine market in the world, M Seals 
has established a small specialist team to service the rapidly 
expanding Chinese wind turbine industry.
e u n e v e R
n i g r a M g n i t a r e p O
w o l F h s a C e e r F
d e y o l p m E l a t i p a C g n i d a r T
E C T O R
s r e m o t s u C
Heavy Construction
Industrial OEMs
Logging & Agriculture
Dump & Refuse Trucks
General Industrial
y h p a r g o e G
a c i r e m A h t r o N
e p o r u E
d l r o W f o t s e R
s t c u d o r P
Seals & Seal Kits
O-rings
Attatchment Kits
Gaskets
Cylinders & Other
Seals Statistics
47%
28%
4%
3%
18%
68%
16%
16%
66%
13%
9%
6%
6%
£60.1m
£8.9m
14.8%
£7.9m
£43.5m
20.6%
2010 2009
£48.2m
£5.5m
11.4%
£8.6m
£38.2m
14.6%
Adjusted Operating Profit 20 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Sector Review: Controls
Sector Definition and Scope
The Controls sector businesses supply specialised wiring, 
connectors, fasteners and control devices used in a range 
of technically demanding applications.
The IS-Group supplies high performance wiring, interconnect 
and fastener products for use in a range of technically 
demanding applications in industries including Defence & 
Aerospace, Motorsport, Energy and General Industrial. The 
IS-Group also supplies a range of its own manufactured 
products, including flexible braided products and multi-core 
cables.
The IS-Rayfast, Cabletec and Clarendon businesses are located 
in the UK in Swindon, Weston-Super-Mare and Leicester. 
The businesses serve the UK market, as well as supplying to 
other sub-distributors across Continental Europe. IS-Connect 
is located in Indianapolis to serve the Motorsport market in 
the US, as well as other specialised technical applications. 
A representative office has also been established in Beijing, 
China with an initial focus on Aftermarket requirements in the 
Commercial Aerospace and Industrial sectors.
Hawco supplies a range of control devices used in the sensing, 
measurement and control of temperature and pressure. 
Applications range from chilled cabinets for supermarkets, 
bars and restaurants to fire detection systems. Hawco has its 
operations in Guildford and Bolton, in the UK.
In Germany, Sommer and Filcon supply a range of high 
performance wiring, connectors and other interconnect 
products to customers in industries including Defence & 
Aerospace, Medical Equipment, Energy and General Industrial. 
A range of value adding activities enhances the customer 
offering, including connector assembly, marking of protective 
sleeves, cut-to-length tubing, kitting and prototype quantities 
of customised multi-core cables. Sommer and Filcon have 
operations in Stuttgart and Munich in Germany.
Market Drivers
The Controls sector businesses focus on specialised, technical 
applications in a range of industries including Defence 
& Aerospace, Motorsport, Medical Equipment, Energy, 
Commercial Refrigeration and General Industrial. The most 
important sector is Defence & Aerospace.
2006 2007 2008 2009
Growth
% p.a.
Defence equipment budgets:
UK £billion
(1)
6.8 7.2 7.9 8.7 +7.6%
German billion
(2)
8.2 8.6 9.5 10.3 +6.2%
Commercial Aerospace market growth
(3)
+5.2% +7.2% +1.6% -2.0% +3.0%
Sources:
(1) MOD UK Defence Statistics
(2) Federal Ministry of Finance – Germany
(3) Boeing and Airbus market outlook – revenue passenger kilometres
The Defence equipment budgets in the UK and Germany have 
grown strongly in recent years averaging 7.6% p.a. and 6.2% 
p.a. growth respectively.
The IS-Group and Sommer businesses focus primarily on 
repair, refurbishment and upgrade programmes, as well as 
supplying to Tier 2 electronics suppliers. As a result, they 
have benefited from Urgent Operational Requirements during 
a period when the armed forces have been involved in two 
major conflicts. The businesses typically only supply to 
OEMs and the Tier 1 suppliers when ex-stock availability and 
responsiveness are important; they have therefore been less 
exposed to cutbacks and postponements in major defence 
programmes. Filcon has a greater involvement in the major 
capital projects through its supply of connectors. However, 
Filcon has its products designed-in to a broad range of air, sea 
and land applications and is not over-exposed to individual 
projects. Nevertheless, in both the UK and Germany, Defence 
spending reviews are underway and it is not yet clear how the 
likely cutbacks will impact at the sub-contractor and component 
supply level.
In the Commercial Aerospace sector, the businesses supply 
products principally for the initial fit-out of aircraft interiors 
and then their subsequent upgrade and refurbishment. The 
Commercial Aerospace market has shown strong growth in 
the five year period to 2008, before registering a 2% decline in 
2009 as a result of the global economic downturn. Passenger 
numbers began to recover in 2010 with an average 6% annual 
growth rate projected for 2011 through 2014.
In Motorsport, activity has suffered in recent years from 
the range of cost cutting measures, including the testing 
restrictions implemented in Formula One and the withdrawal 
of the Toyota and BMW teams. The Formula One series, 
however, returned to relative stability in the 2009/10 season 
with a highly competitive grid and the introduction of three 
new teams. Certain markets, including Medical Equipment 
(particularly in Germany) and Energy, have remained resilient 
through the downturn and the products supplied to these 
markets have generally maintained a stable demand profile 
over the period. 
The businesses also supply to a range of specialised technical 
applications in the General Industrial sector. There has been 
strong growth in the Commercial Refrigeration market in the 
UK, with the major retailers investing in new and refurbished 
stores. For other Industrial segments, the underlying market 
drivers are the growth of the industrial economies:
2006 2007 2008 2009
Growth
% p.a.
UK real GDP growth
(1)
+2.9% +2.6% +0.5 % -4.9% +0.3%
UK Production index
(2)
100.0 100.5 97.6 87.1 -2.9%
Germany real GDP growth
(1)
+3.4% +2.6% +1.0% -4.9% +0.5%
Sources:
(1) Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
(2) The Office of National Statistics – Index of Production for Manufacturing
The worldwide recession impacted the UK in late 2008 and 
Germany in early 2009. The economy in the UK returned to 
modest growth in the final quarter of 2009 and activity in 
Germany picked up in the first quarter of 2010 with a sharp 
recovery in demand from German industrial customers.
Sector Performance
The Controls businesses saw revenues increase in 2010 by 
10% to £68.0m (2009: £61.9m) on both a UK sterling and a 
constant currency basis. Adjusted operating profits increased 
by 19% to £11.3m (2009: £9.5m). As with other sectors, 
improved sales combined with the impact of the cost reduction 
measures implemented in 2009, moved operating margins up 
to 16.6% (2009: 15.3%).  21 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 2: Business Review
A combination of higher profitability, tight control over working 
capital and modest capital investment of £0.1m, combined to 
generate strong free cash flow of £9.9m (2009: £8.9m).
The UK Controls businesses grew revenues by 13%, 
with good growth in IS-Group revenues and a very strong 
performance from Hawco.
The IS-Group’s core Defence market benefited from on-going 
upgrade, refurbishment and maintenance programmes focused 
largely on ground equipment. Revenues were strong with 
components supplied into the Light Weight Mine Roller project 
and other military vehicle programmes. The marine sector 
benefited from work on gun systems and below-deck cabinet 
work on Type 45 destroyers and on radiation monitoring, 
periscope and sonar systems for Astute submarines. Sales into 
Military Aerospace have been softer, possibly reflecting the 
priority given to ground vehicles. In Civil Aerospace, demand 
picked up during the year as new aircraft deliveries began to 
gather momentum. In Motorsport, the relative stability in the 
Formula One series enabled the IS-Group to maintain its leading 
position as a supplier of wiring and components to specialist 
electrical harness builders. Significant gains were also made in 
the supply of aerospace quality fasteners to the Formula One 
teams and engine manufacturers in the UK and Continental 
Europe. There was a substantial increase in demand for 
IS-Group’s products supplied to General Industrial customers. 
In addition, the Energy market benefited from the returning 
confidence, with strong demand for components supplied to 
manufacturers of Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS) batteries 
and Fuel Cells. Undersea cables for oil and gas exploration also 
provided good opportunities for the IS-Group’s wire products.
Hawco delivered strong revenue growth as its core 
Commercial Refrigeration customers responded to significantly 
increased demand from the large food retailing groups 
opening new stores or refurbishing existing outlets. Hawco 
has positioned itself as a specialist supplier of energy efficient 
components as many of the large food retailers implement 
energy reduction programmes and move to alternative coolant 
gases using natural refrigerants.
The German Controls businesses grew revenues by 4% in 
both UK sterling and constant currency terms. The market 
downturn came later to Germany than the UK and the US, but 
there was a strong rebound in demand in certain sectors in 
2010. Sommer benefited from a sharp recovery in Germany’s 
traditionally strong General Industrial sector where it achieved 
strong revenue increases. Sales to the specialist satellite 
market were also strong with both Astrium and NASA adopting 
the Sommer backshells for scientific satellites. However, 
Defence & Aerospace sales declined as projects came to 
an end and were not replaced by new programmes and in 
Motorsport, the withdrawal of the Toyota and BMW Formula 
One teams in late 2009 had a significant impact on Motorsport 
revenues in Germany. 
The Medical market had another strong year supplying 
protective sleeves for stents, laparoscopic and cardiovascular 
instruments and catheters. In order to develop the market 
further, Sommer invested in a new cut and slit machine which 
will allow the business to add significant value to products 
sold in this market. In August 2010, Sommer purchased the 
customer list and trading stock of Fischer, a distributor of Tyco 
Energy products with sales in 2009 of ca. 0.4m. The sales 
and logistics activities have now been integrated and this small 
acquisition will boost Sommer’s presence in this growing niche 
business.
The principal markets for Filcon’s connector products are the 
Defence, Aerospace and Motorsport sectors. In common with 
many countries, Germany is reviewing its spending on Defence 
and there was a general slowdown in approvals for new 
projects during the year and delays in their commencement 
dates. Nevertheless Filcon delivered increased sales as 
existing programmes such as the Eurofighter and four separate 
helicopter projects, the NH90, Eurocopter 135, CH53 and Tiger, 
continued to generate demand. Sales to the ManPack radio 
project were also very strong. Order levels were marginally 
down reflecting delays to programmes, but Filcon has its 
products designed-in to a wide range of applications and is 
therefore not over-dependant on single projects.
e u n e v e R
n i g r a M g n i t a r e p O
w o l F h s a C e e r F
d e y o l p m E l a t i p a C g n i d a r T
E C T O R
s r e m o t s u C
y h p a r g o e G
United Kingdom & Eire
Continental Europe
d l r o W f o t s e R
s t c u d o r P
Wire & Cable
Connectors
Control Devices
Fasteners
Equipment & Components
Controls Statistics
Medical & Scientific 5%
Defence & Aerospace 34%
Commercial Refrigeration
11% Motorsport
19%
General Industrial 26%
Energy & Utilities 5%
55%
39%
6%
38%
24%
12%
8%
18%
£61.9
£9.5m
15.3%
£8.9m
£30.0m
31.7%
£68.0
£11.3m
16.6%
£9.9m
£29.3m
38.6%
2010 2009
Adjusted Operating Profit 22 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Finance Review
Strong Increase in Operating Profits
Diploma achieved strong revenue and profit growth and 
excellent cash generation during 2010, as market conditions 
gradually improved during the year. Revenue increased by 15% 
to £183.5m (2009: £160.0m) and adjusted operating profit, 
which is before acquisition related charges, increased by 25% 
to £32.1m (2009: £25.6m). The adjusted operating margin 
increased to 17.5% from 16.0% in the 2009 financial year. The 
Group’s principal markets began to show signs of recovery 
in the second quarter of the financial year and continued to 
strengthen throughout the year. Adjusted operating profits in 
the second half of the year of £17.5m were 28% ahead of the 
comparable period last year and represented 55% of the full 
year’s operating profit. 
These results demonstrate both the benefit of action taken 
in 2009 to reduce operating costs in the face of weak trading 
markets and the impact of operational leverage, particularly in 
the Seals businesses, as revenues increased. 
Underlying Operating Profits
Acquisitions completed during both 2009 and 2010 incrementally 
contributed £3.4m and £0.5m to revenues and operating 
profit, respectively. In addition, with over 70% of the Group’s 
results denominated in US dollars, Canadian dollars or Euros, 
the Group’s revenues and adjusted operating profits benefited 
on translation to UK sterling by £3.5m (2%) and £1.1m (3%), 
respectively. The gross margin of the Canadian Healthcare 
businesses also benefited from the strength of the Canadian 
dollar against the US dollar, in which the majority of its inventory 
is purchased. However this benefit in 2010 was matched by the 
benefit these businesses received in 2009 from the exceptional 
sale in AMT of face shields to protect against swine flu. After 
adjusting for these items, underlying revenues and adjusted 
operating profits increased by 11% and 19%, respectively.
Adjusted Profit, Earnings per Share and Dividends
Adjusted profit before tax increased 26% to £32.2m (2009: 
£25.5m), after net interest income of £0.1m (2009: expense of 
£0.1m). IFRS profit before tax, which is after acquisition related 
charges of £3.5m (2009: £3.1m) and fair value remeasurements 
of £2.0m (2009: £1.9m), was £26.7m (2009: £20.5m).
The Group’s adjusted effective tax charge represented 29.2% 
(2009: 29.8%) of adjusted profit before tax. This year’s effective 
rate benefited from a reduction in the Canadian corporate 
tax rate following a change to the Provincial tax residence 
of Somagen. The Group’s adjusted effective tax rate in any 
particular year also continues to depend on the geographic mix 
of profits made by the Group. 
Adjusted earnings per share increased 28% to 18.9p compared 
with 14.8p last year, reflecting increased profits, a slightly lower 
effective tax rate and the buyout of certain minority interests this 
year. IFRS basic earnings per share were 14.6p (2009: 10.8p).
Diploma follows a progressive dividend policy and also targets 
a dividend cover of two times based on adjusted earnings per 
share; the recommended final dividend of 6.2p per share gives 
a total dividend per share for the year of 9.0p per share with 
represents a 15.4% increase on the prior year. 
Successful Disposal of Anachem Businesses
The Group completed the disposal of the MLH business of 
Anachem on 7 January 2010 and Anachem Instruments on 
29 April 2010. Cash proceeds of £7.9m were received on 
completion of these disposals of which £0.8m will be held in 
escrow until July 2011. The results of these businesses are 
classified as discontinued and the contribution to profit after tax 
from these businesses was £5.1m, including a profit on disposal 
of the businesses of £5.5m. 
Excellent Free Cash Flow Generation
The Group generated excellent free cash flow in 2010 of £29.8m 
(2009: £23.5m), which is before expenditure on acquisitions or 
returns to shareholders, but includes £6.4m received from the 
sale of the Anachem businesses.
Operating cash flow remained broadly unchanged from last 
year at £34.3m (2009: £34.2m) as the businesses worked 
hard to constrain any increases in working capital, despite the 
underlying growth in trading. This led to a further improvement 
in the Group’s key metric of working capital to sales to 15.4%
from 17.6% reported in 2009. Group tax payments of £9.3m 
were also similar to last year’s payments of £9.0m, although last 
year’s payments were inflated by the impact of AMT moving to 
a monthly tax payment basis in 2009, as well as having to pay 
its 2008 annual tax liabilities. Capital expenditure was particularly 
modest in 2010 at £1.3m (2009: £1.8m), following completion 
during the year of a number of projects commenced in 2009. 
In Seals, HFPG spent £0.3m on completion of Phase 1 of the 
warehouse automation project at the Clearwater facility and FPE 
acquired a second custom seal machine for £0.2m; in Controls 
a new cut and slit machine was acquired for £0.1m to further 
enhance its product supplied to medical device companies.
The Healthcare businesses continued to acquire field equipment 
in support of their customer contracts and spent £0.6m during 
the year.
The Group spent £11.0m (2009: £12.2m) of its cash resources 
on the acquisition of businesses during the year, including £2.5m 
on acquiring minority interests and £0.4m (2009: £1.1m) on
deferred consideration.
Minority Shareholdings Acquired
On 12 January 2010 the Group acquired the remaining 8.2% 
of the outstanding shares in Somagen from the minority 
shareholders for consideration of £2.5m. These shares were 
acquired through the exercise of put/call options, agreed at the 
time of acquisition in July 2004. Dividends of £1.1m were also 
paid to the minority shareholders of Somagen, AMT and M Seals 
during the year.
At 30 September 2010, the Group retains a liability to purchase 
the remaining minority shareholdings in AMT, M Seals and BGS. 
The liability for the outstanding 25% minority shareholding in 
AMT is estimated at £12.0m (2009: £10.1m) and it is now likely 
that the larger part of this will be paid in the first half of 2011.
The remaining liability of £1.2m relates to M Seals and BGS and
will be payable in the first half of 2013. These liabilities arise 
under put/call options entered into at the time of acquisition 
and are based on the Directors’ estimate of the Earnings 
Before Interest and Tax of these businesses when the options 
crystallise. 23 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 2: Business Review
Based on the expected performance of these businesses, the 
Directors have reassessed the potential liability at 30 September 
2010 to acquire the remaining outstanding minority interests. 
The fair value remeasurement of these options results in a 
financial charge of £2.0m (2009: £1.9m) being made in the 
Consolidated Income Statement. 
Improved Environment for Acquisitions
The environment for acquisitions improved during 2010, 
following a year when uncertainties caused by the recession 
had severely limited opportunities to acquire businesses. In 
the final quarter of the year, the Group completed three small 
acquisitions for an initial cash cost of £8.1m; further deferred 
consideration payable of £1.0m has also been provided at 
30 September 2010 in respect of these acquisitions. Each of 
these acquisitions extends the geographic coverage of the 
Group’s existing businesses, while continuing to focus on the 
core products and competencies developed in each business 
sector.
Acquisition intangible assets of £4.5m were recognised in 
connection with these acquisitions, as well as goodwill of 
£3.8m, reflecting the amount paid for the acquisitions during 
the year, in excess of the value of the net assets. This goodwill 
largely comprises the value in each of these businesses relating 
to the product know-how held by the employees, prospects for 
sales growth in the future (from both new customers and new 
products) and operating cost synergies. 
Robust Balance Sheet and Strong Return
on Trading Capital
The Group is highly cash generative and cash balances increased 
again in 2010 by £8.8m to £30.1m (2009: £21.3m). These funds 
are generally repatriated to the UK, unless they are required 
locally to meet certain commitments, including acquisitions. 
The Group also has substantial bank facilities available, having 
negotiated a new three year £20m revolving credit facility (with 
an option to extend to £40m) on competitive terms and shared 
between two banks.  
The Group’s trading capital employed (“TCE”), which is defined 
in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, represents 
the amount of operational assets held by the businesses 
on which they are required to generate operating profits. At 
30 September 2010 Group TCE increased by £6.2m to £122.3m 
(2009: £116.1m), most of which increase was accounted by 
goodwill which arose on acquisitions completed during the 
year. The Group’s return on TCE, which is a pre-tax measure 
and includes all gross historic goodwill and intangible assets, 
represents an indication of the profitability of the Group and 
increased to 22.1% in 2010, from 19.0% last year. This increase 
arose from a combination of the growth in profits and from good
management of working capital across the businesses. 
Merger of Pension Schemes Completed
The Group retains a small number of defined benefit pension 
schemes in the UK which are closed to future accruals. In 
a drive to reduce the costs of administering these legacy 
schemes, the Group completed a merger of all these schemes 
as at 30 September 2010. An actuarial funding valuation of the 
merged scheme will now be undertaken and the benefits of 
having a single defined benefit pension scheme will start to be 
realised. 
During the year the Group increased its cash contribution to fund 
the deficit in these schemes to £0.4m pa (2009: £0.2m pa). In 
addition the Group made exceptional one-off contributions of 
£0.7m in connection with the Trustees’ consents to both the 
scheme merger and to the transfer of the residual liabilities of 
the Anachem scheme to Diploma Holdings PLC, on sale of the 
Anachem businesses. Despite these higher cash contributions,
the accounting deficit in the principal defined benefit schemes 
increased by £0.6m to £5.3m (2009: £4.7m) at 30 September 
2010, largely because of the continuing reduction in bond yields.  
Pension benefits to existing employees are provided through 
defined contribution schemes at an aggregate cost in 2010 of 
£0.7m (2009: £0.7m).
Land at Stamford
The Group continues to retain approximately 150 acres of farm 
and former quarry land in Stamford which relates to a former 
legacy business. This land is included in the Consolidated 
Statement of Financial Position at £Nil and in the opinion of the 
Directors, is unlikely to be worth more than £0.5m in its present 
condition. The Directors anticipate that this land will continue to 
be leased to a local farmer and there is no intention to dispose 
of this land in the foreseeable future.
Measuring Financial Performance
The implementation of a revised IFRS on Business Combinations 
this year has included the requirement for the Group to expense 
the costs of acquiring businesses against operating profit, 
rather than capitalise such costs as part of the investment. 
In order to allow the Board and Shareholders to continue to 
assess the underlying performance of the Group, this new IFRS 
has prompted the introduction of Adjusted Operating Profit, 
which adds back to operating profit the expenses of acquiring 
businesses, as well as the amortisation of acquisition intangible 
assets (collectively,“acquisition related charges”). This new 
measure is one of a number of specific measures used when 
assessing the performance of the Group and these are referred 
to throughout this Annual Report in the discussion of the 
performance of the businesses. These measures are not defined 
in IFRS, but are used by the Board to assess the underlying 
operational performance of the Group and its businesses. 
As such the Board believes these performance measures 
are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS 
measures. The alternative performance measures, which have 
been used in this Annual Report, are described in note 2 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors 
(including those which the Group cannot influence, principally 
currency exchange rates) that have affected the results of the 
Group’s business and which are reflected in the consolidated 
financial statements prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as adopted by the 
European Union.
The Group has not been required to adopt any other new 
accounting standards during the year which have had a material 
impact on the consolidated financial statements. 24 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Risks and Uncertainties
Risk Management Process
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the Group’s 
annual planning cycle and market specific risks are evaluated as 
part of the budgetary process.
Each operating business is required each year to identify and 
document the significant strategic, operational and financial 
risks facing the business. For each significant risk, a number of 
scenarios are mapped out and an assessment is made of the 
likelihood and impact of each risk scenario. Finally, plans and 
processes are established, which are designed to control each 
risk and minimise its potential impact.
The risk assessments from each of the operating businesses are 
reviewed with the Executive Directors and a consolidated risk 
assessment is reviewed by the Board.
The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to 
have the largest potential impact on the Group’s long term 
performance are set out below. It should be recognised that 
additional risks not currently known to management, or risks that 
management currently regard as immaterial, could also have a 
material adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition or the 
results of operations.
Strategic Risks
Downturn in major markets
Adverse changes in the major markets in which the businesses 
operate can have a significant impact on performance. The 
effects will either be seen in terms of slowing revenue growth, 
due to reduced or delayed demand for products and services, or 
pressure on margins due to increased competitive pressures.
To mitigate the effects of such adverse changes, the businesses 
identify key market drivers and monitor the trends and forecasts, 
as well as maintaining close relationships with key customers 
who may give an early warning of slowing demand. Changes to 
cost levels and inventories can then be made in a measured way 
to mitigate the effects.
In addition, there are a number of characteristics of the Group’s 
businesses which moderate the impact of economic and 
business cycles on the Group as a whole:
 The Group’s businesses operate in three different sectors 
with different cyclical characteristics and across a number 
of geographic markets.
 The businesses offer specialised products and services and 
this offers a degree of protection against customers quickly 
switching business to achieve better pricing.
 A high proportion of the Group’s sales comprise 
consumable products and service contracts which are 
purchased as part of customers’ operating expenditure, 
rather than through capital budgets.
 In many cases the products will be used in repair, 
maintenance and refurbishment applications, rather than 
original equipment manufacture.
Loss of key supplier(s)
The Group’s businesses ensure that they have secure long 
term access to high quality, differentiated product offerings by 
combining:
 Quality manufacturer-branded products, mostly sourced 
under long term distribution agreements.
 Own-brand products, manufactured under contract.
 Selective in-house manufacture and assembly.
For manufacturer-branded products, there are risks to the 
businesses if a major supplier decides to cancel the distribution 
agreement or if the supplier is acquired by a company which 
has its own distribution channels in the relevant market. There 
is also the risk of a supplier taking away exclusivity and either 
setting up direct operations or establishing another distributor.
The potential impact on an individual business may be high 
where a supplier represents a significant proportion of the 
revenues of the business. However, the potential impact on 
the Group is lower as no supplier represents more than 15% of 
Group revenue and only six suppliers represent more than 2% 
each of Group revenue.
Relationships with suppliers have normally been built up over 
many years and a strong degree of inter-dependence has been 
established. There are further actions planned and implemented 
by the operating businesses to control or to mitigate risks:
 Where dependence is high, long term, multi-year exclusive 
contracts signed with suppliers.
 Where possible, change of control clauses included in 
contracts for protection or compensation in the event of 
acquisition.
 Collaborative projects and relationships maintained with 
individuals at many levels of the supplier organisation.
 Regular review meetings and adherence to contractual 
terms.
 Regular reviews of inventory levels.
 Bundling and kitting of products and provision of added 
value services.
 Periodic research of alternative suppliers as part of 
contingency planning.
Loss of major customer(s)
As with any business, the loss of one or more major customers 
can be a material risk.
Specific large customers are important to individual operating 
businesses and a high level of effort is invested in ensuring that 
these customers are retained and encouraged not to switch to 
another supplier. In addition, to providing high levels of customer 
service, close integration is established where possible with 
customers’ systems and processes. 25 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 2: Business Review
The nature of the Group’s businesses, however, ensures 
that there is not a high level of dependence on any individual 
customers. No customer represents more than 6% of sector 
revenue or more than 2% of total Group revenue.
Technological change
The Group’s businesses operate in specialised markets offering 
products which are often technical in nature. As a result, there 
is always the risk that a technological change will make specific 
products less competitive or in the worst case, obsolete. In 
addition to the write-off of unsaleable inventory, this can impact 
the sales performance of the business if replacement products 
are not available.
The Group’s exposure to this risk is reduced by the spread of 
businesses and technologies, as well as by the fact that the 
products, though technical, are typically not subject to very rapid 
technological change.
The operating businesses monitor the key technologies to 
ensure early warning of changes in product competitiveness, 
so that plans can be developed with suppliers for replacement 
products. Also, the businesses, with sufficient lead time, mostly 
have the opportunity to change suppliers in the event of a major 
technology shift.
Product liability
There is always a risk that products supplied by a Group 
business may fail in service, which could lead to a claim under 
product liability.
To offset this risk, technically qualified personnel and control 
systems are in place to ensure products meet quality 
requirements. The businesses, in their Terms and Conditions 
of sale with customers, will typically mirror the Terms and 
Conditions of sale from their suppliers. In this way the liability 
can be limited and subrogated to the supplier.
However, if a legal claim is made it will typically draw in our 
business as a party to the claim and the business may be 
exposed to legal costs and potentially damages if the claim 
succeeds and the supplier fails to meet its liabilities for whatever 
reason. To mitigate this risk, the Group has established Group-
wide product liability insurance which provides worldwide 
umbrella insurance cover of £10m in all sectors.
Loss of key personnel
The success of the Group is built upon strong, self-standing 
management teams in the operating businesses, committed to 
the success of their respective businesses. As a result, the loss 
of key personnel can have a significant impact on performance, 
at least for a time.
Contractual terms such as notice periods and non-compete 
clauses can mitigate the risk in the short term. However, the 
more successful initiatives focus on ensuring a challenging work 
environment with appropriate reward systems. The Group places 
very high importance on planning the development, motivation 
and reward of key managers in the operating businesses to 
mitigate this risk:
 Ensuring a challenging working environment where 
managers feel they have control over and responsibility for 
their businesses.
 Establishing management development programmes to 
ensure a broad base of talented managers.
 Offering a balanced and competitive compensation package 
with a combination of salary, annual bonus and long term 
incentive plans targeted at the individual business level.
 Giving the freedom, encouragement, financial resources 
and strategic support for managers to pursue ambitious 
growth plans.
Operational Risks
Major damage to premises
The Group businesses mostly operate from combined office/
warehouse facilities which are dedicated to the business and 
not shared with other Group businesses. Major damage to the 
facility from fire, malicious damage or natural disaster would 
impact the business for a period until the damage is repaired or 
alternative facilities have been established.
The businesses have developed plans to prevent incidents, 
including fire and security alarms and regular fire drills. Insurance 
policies are also in place including property, contents and 
business interruption cover which would mitigate the financial 
impact.
However, the priority in such an event is to become operational 
as quickly as possible to minimise disruption to customers. Plans 
to ensure a quick and orderly recovery have been developed by 
the businesses and are periodically reviewed.
The business where the risk is greatest is Hercules in 
Clearwater, Florida which is most at risk from an environmental 
disaster caused by a hurricane or tornado. The building structure 
has been designed to withstand 150mph winds and a specific 
disaster plan has been drawn up and is regularly reviewed. This 
includes:
 Back-up power generator.
 Materials on hand to secure the facility.
 Communications re-route to other branches or interim 
location. 26 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Risks and Uncertainties continued
 IT recovery plan using back-up server in separate location.
 Regular building inspection and weather monitoring.
 Plans to drop-ship product from suppliers direct to 
customers.
Loss of information technology (“IT”) systems
Computer systems are critical to the businesses since their 
success is built on high levels of customer service and quick 
response. A complete failure of IT systems, with the loss of 
trading and other records, would be more damaging to the 
businesses than major physical damage to facilities. IT system 
failure could have a number of causes including power failure, 
fire and viruses.
Business interruption insurance cover is held across the Group 
and contingency plans have been drawn up in all businesses. 
The recovery plans differ by individual business, but will include 
some or all of the following elements:
 Full data back-ups as a matter of routine.
 Back-up tapes stored in fire proof safes.
 Back-up servers identified.
 Communication re-route options identified.
 Service contracts with IT providers with access to 
replacement servers.
 Uninterruptible power sources and back-up generators 
where required.
 Virus checkers and firewalls.
Disruption by service providers
All the operating businesses use third party carriers to physically 
transport products. Disruption to this service is most critical 
in businesses such as Hercules where the business model 
requires rapid, often next day, delivery of products. Most 
businesses will have a principal carrier that is used, but they 
will monitor performance closely and maintain accounts with 
alternative carriers.
Financial Risks
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks; 
foreign currency, liquidity, interest rate and credit. The Group’s 
overall management of these risks is carried out by a central 
treasury team (Group treasury) under policies and procedures 
which are reviewed and approved by the Board. Group 
treasury identifies, evaluates and where appropriate, hedges 
financial risks in close co-operation with the Group’s operating 
businesses. The Group treasury team does not undertake 
speculative foreign exchange dealings for which there is no 
underlying exposure. The policies for managing these financial 
risks are set out below and further analyses of these risks are 
set out in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that changes in currency rates 
will affect the Group’s results. The Group operates internationally 
and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various 
currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar, the 
euro and the Canadian dollar (translational exposure). During 
the year ended 30 September 2010, ca. 70% of the Group’s 
revenue and operating profits were earned in currencies other 
than UK sterling. In comparison to the prior year, the net effect 
of currency translation was to increase revenue by £3.5m and 
to increase operating profit by £1.1m. It is estimated that a 
strengthening of UK sterling by 10% against all the currencies in 
which the Group does business, would reduce operating profit, 
before acquisition related charges and tax, by approximately 
£2.4m (7.5%) due to currency translation.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations whose 
net assets are also exposed to foreign currency translation risk. 
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Group’s 
foreign operations are not hedged. At 30 September 2010, the 
Group’s non-UK sterling trading capital employed in overseas 
businesses was £103.1m (2009: £87.7m), which represented 
84% of the Group’s trading capital employed. It is estimated that 
a strengthening of UK sterling of 10% against all the non UK 
sterling capital employed would reduce shareholders’ funds by 
£9.8m.
The Group’s UK businesses are also exposed to foreign currency 
risk on purchases that are denominated in a currency other than 
their local currency, principally US dollars, euro and Japanese 
yen (transactional exposure). The Group’s Canadian and 
Australian businesses are also exposed to a similar risk as the 
majority of their purchases are denominated in US dollars.
These businesses may hedge up to 80% of forecast US dollar 
and euro foreign currency exposures using forward foreign 
exchange contracts. The Group classifies its forward foreign 
exchange contracts, hedging forecasted transactions, as cash 
flow hedges and states them at fair value.
Details of average exchange rates used in the translation of 
overseas earnings and of year end exchange rates, used in 
the translation of overseas balance sheets, for the principal 
currencies used by the Group, are shown in note 27 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet 
its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach 
to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will 
always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, 
under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring 
unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. 27 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 2: Business Review
The Group is highly cash generative and uses monthly cash 
flow forecasts to monitor cash requirements and to optimise 
its return on investments. Typically the Group ensures that it 
has sufficient cash on hand to meet foreseeable operational 
expenses, but the Group also has an undrawn committed £20m 
revolving bank facility which was renewed on 19 November 
2010. Interest on this facility is payable at between 150 and 
195 bps over LIBOR, depending on the ratio of net debt to 
EBITDA.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will 
affect the Group’s results. The Group’s interest rate risk arises 
primarily from its cash funds. An analysis of the currency and 
interest rate profile of the Group’s funds is shown in note 18 
to the consolidated financial statements. The Group manages 
its interest-bearing funds in a manner designed to maximise 
interest income, while at the same time minimising any risk to 
these funds. Surplus funds are deposited with commercial banks 
that meet the credit criteria approved by the Board, for periods 
of between one to six months at rates that are generally fixed by 
reference to the relevant UK Base Rate, or equivalent rates. The 
Group does not undertake any hedging activity of interest rates.
It is estimated that an increase of 1% in interest rates would 
increase the Group’s profit before tax by a maximum of £0.3m.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer 
or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations; this arises principally from the Group’s 
trade and other receivables from customers and from cash 
balances (including deposits) held with financial institutions.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the 
operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as 
deemed appropriate for the customer. The Group is exposed 
to customers ranging from government backed agencies and 
large public and private wholesalers, to small privately owned 
businesses and the underlying local economic risks vary 
throughout the world. An analysis of the Group’s credit risk 
to trade receivables is set out in note 15 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that 
represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of specific 
trade and other receivables where it is deemed that a receivable 
may not be recoverable. When the receivable is deemed 
irrecoverable, the allowance account is written off against the 
underlying receivable.
Exposure to financial counterparty credit risk is controlled by the 
Group treasury team in establishing and monitoring counterparty 
limits. Centrally managed funds are invested entirely with 
counterparties whose credit rating is ‘A’ or better.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order 
to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other 
stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group 
may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return 
capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
Accounting Risks
Inventory obsolescence
Working capital management is critical to success in specialised 
distribution businesses as this has a major impact on cash flow. 
The principal risk to working capital, other than credit risk to 
trade receivables is in inventory obsolescence and write-off. 
Inventory write-offs are controlled and minimised by active 
management of inventory levels based on sales forecasts and 
regular cycle counts. Where necessary, a provision is made to 
cover excess inventory and potential obsolescence.
Fraud and theft
The Group’s operating businesses are relatively straightforward 
businesses where a significant incidence of fraud or theft should 
become apparent relatively quickly. The risks are also moderated 
by the fact that the products are relatively specialised industrial 
products and therefore not particularly valuable or attractive on 
the open market. Finally, tangible fixed assets are not significant 
across the Group and generally comprise IT and warehouse 
equipment, where any loss would be quickly apparent.
As additional security, processes are in place to further reduce 
the opportunity for fraud or theft:
 Specified signature levels and responsibilities.
 Segregation of responsibilities.
 Controls on shipping addresses.
 Weekly flash reports of cash balances and regular bank 
reconciliations.
 Regular review of supplier and creditor ledgers to identify 
fictitious suppliers.
 Group-wide policy and procedures for “whistle-blowing”.
The Audit Committee carries out an annual assessment of the 
fraud risks in the businesses and discusses these risks with 
management. 28 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Corporate and Social Responsibility
The Board takes serious account of the social, environmental 
and ethical impacts of the Group’s activities and monitors 
them as part of the annual risk assessment process. The risk 
assessments are led by the Managing Directors of each of the 
Group’s operating companies and are then reviewed by the 
Board. The Managing Directors are responsible for complying 
with the relevant employment, social and environmental 
regulations in the geographical areas in which they operate.
Employment
Building and developing the skills, competencies, motivation and 
teamwork of employees is recognised by the Board as being key 
to achieving the Group’s business objectives. The stability and 
commitment of the employees is demonstrated by the average 
length of service being 6.4 years (2009: 6.4 years). In addition 
the number of working days lost to sickness is less than 1% a 
year (2009: 2%). These measures remain consistent across each 
of the Group’s sectors. 
The Group values the commitment of its employees and 
recognises the importance of communication to good working 
relationships. The Group keeps employees informed on matters 
relating to their employment, on business developments 
and on financial and economic factors affecting the Group. 
This is achieved through management briefings, internal 
announcements, the Group’s website and by the distribution 
of Preliminary and Interim Announcements and press releases. 
Copies of the Annual Report are also made available in the 
operating businesses. This communication programme enables 
employees to gain a better understanding of the Group’s 
business objectives and their roles in achieving them.
Both employment policy and practice in the Group are based 
on non-discrimination and equal opportunities. Ability and 
aptitude are the determining factors in the selection, training, 
career development and promotion of all employees. The Group 
remains supportive of the employment and advancement of 
disabled persons. Applications for employment by disabled 
persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the 
respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicants concerned. 
If an employee is, or becomes disabled during their period of 
employment, the Group will, if necessary and to the extent 
possible, adapt the work environment to enable the employee 
to continue in their current position or retrain the employee 
for duties suited to their abilities following disablement. At 
30 September 2010 the Group’s employees included one who 
was disabled and one who was on long term sick leave. 
Employment policies throughout the Group have been 
established to comply with relevant legislation and codes 
of practice relating to employment, health and safety and 
equal opportunities. The Group provides good quality working 
environments and facilities for employees, and training and 
development appropriate to each of their roles. 
Health and Safety
The Group places a great deal of importance on the provision 
of clean, healthy and safe working conditions. In addition to 
compliance with all local regulations, the Group promotes 
working practices which protect the health and safety of its 
employees. Health and Safety matters are kept under regular 
review by local management who report on such matters to the 
Chief Operating Officer. During 2010, 5 employees (2009: 36)
were reported as having suffered minor injuries at work; none 
of these injuries resulted in absence from work for more than 
three days. One employee (2009: none) suffered a serious injury 
during the year and was absent from work for four days.
Health and Safety training is part of the induction process for 
new employees. Specific training is given where relevant, for 
example regarding forklift truck operation and chemical handling, 
as well as general fire safety and first aid matters.
Environmental
The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental 
laws as an important part of its responsible approach to 
the environment and is committed to good environmental 
management practices throughout its operations. The Managing 
Directors appointed by the Board have responsibility for the 
environmental performance of their operating businesses and 
each subsidiary is required to implement initiatives to meet their 
responsibilities.
Relationships with Suppliers, Customers
and Other Stakeholders
The Group recognises the obligation it has towards the parties 
with whom it has business dealings including customers, 
shareholders, employees, suppliers and advisors. Dealings with 
these groups depend upon the honesty and integrity of the 
Group’s employees and every effort is made to ensure that a 
high standard of expertise and business principles is maintained 
in such dealings. Where appropriate, training is given to maintain 
and to raise standards.
The Group’s policy towards suppliers is that each operating 
company is responsible for negotiating the terms and conditions 
under which they trade with their suppliers.
The Group does not have a formal code that it follows with 
regard to payments to suppliers. Group companies agree 
payment terms with their suppliers when they enter into binding 
purchasing contracts for the supply of goods and services.
Suppliers are, in that way, made aware of these terms. Group 
companies seek to abide by these payment terms when they 
are satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services 
in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions. At 30 
September 2010 the amount of trade creditors shown in the 
Group balance sheet represents 51 days (2009: 46 days) of 
average purchases.
Community Impact and Involvement
The Group contributes to local worthwhile causes and charities 
and ensures that the Group’s operations cause minimal negative 
impact within the community. 
In common with all companies, the Group has limited resources 
and the amount of money available for charitable purposes 
varies over time.
The Group made donations for charitable purposes during the 
year which amounted to £25,950 (2009: £14,852). No political 
donations were made. 29 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report
For the year ended 30 September 2010
Section 3: Governance
The Directors present their Report and the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 30 September 2010.
Principal Activities
The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialised 
technical products and services. A description and review of the 
activities of the Group during the financial year and an indication 
of future developments is set out in the Business Review 
on pages 14 to 28; the Business Review incorporates the 
requirements of the Companies Act.
Results and Dividends
The profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 
was £21.5m (2009: £13.0m). The Directors recommend a final 
dividend of 6.2p per ordinary share (2009: 5.3p), to be paid, if 
approved, on 19 January 2011. This, together with the interim 
dividend of 2.8p per ordinary share paid on 16 June 2010,
amounts to 9.0p for the year (2009: 7.8p).
Share Capital
At the date of this Report there were 113,239,555 ordinary 
shares of 5 pence each in issue, all of which are fully paid up 
and quoted on the London Stock Exchange. The rights attaching 
to the Company’s ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the 
Company’s Directors, are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association, copies of which can be obtained from the Company 
Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 
capital of the Company, other than those which may be imposed 
by law from time to time. In accordance with the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority, certain employees are 
required to seek approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of 
securities and/or voting rights. No person holds securities in 
the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of 
the Company. The Company’s Articles of Association may be 
amended by special resolution of the Company’s shareholders.
Share Allotment
A general allotment power and a limited power to allot in 
specific circumstances for cash, otherwise than pro-rata to 
existing shareholders, were given to the Directors by resolutions 
approved at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held 
on 13 January 2010. These powers will expire at the conclusion 
of the 2011 Annual General Meeting and resolutions to renew 
the Directors’ powers are therefore included within the Notice of 
the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Authority to Make Market Purchases of Own Shares
An authority to make market purchases of shares was given 
to the Directors by a special resolution at the Annual General 
Meeting of the Company held on 13 January 2010. In the year 
to 30 September 2010 the Company has not acquired any of 
its own shares. This authority will expire at the conclusion of 
the 2011 Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew 
the authority is therefore included within the Notice of the 2011
Annual General Meeting.
Substantial Shareholdings
At 19 November 2010 the Company had been notified, pursuant 
to the Financial Service Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its ordinary 
share capital:
Percentage of 
ordinary share 
capital
Fidelity International 9.77
F&C Asset Management plc 8.27
Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 6.02
Newton Investment Management Limited 4.31
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.93
IG International Management Limited 3.20
As far as the Directors are aware there were no other notifiable 
interests.
Directors
The persons currently serving as Directors of the Company 
are shown on pages 12 and 13. I Henderson, NP Lingwood 
and IM Grice retire from the Board by rotation at the Annual 
General Meeting on 12 January 2011 and being eligible, offer
themselves for re-election. The Directors’ beneficial interests in 
the Company’s ordinary share capital at 30 September 2010 are 
set out in the Remuneration Report on page 39.
Directors’ Assessment of Going Concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out in the Business Review on pages 14 to 28. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Review on page 
23. In addition pages 26 and 27 of the Annual Report includes 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its 
financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to 
credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with 
a broad spread of customers and suppliers across different 
geographic areas and sectors, often secured with longer term 
agreements. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, 
despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts. 30 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Directors’ Report continued
For the year ended 30 September 2010
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance
and Indemnity
The Company has purchased insurance to cover its Directors 
and Officers against the costs of defending themselves in 
legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in 
respect of any damages resulting from those proceedings. 
The Company also indemnifies its Directors and Officers to 
the extent permitted by law. Neither the insurance nor the 
indemnity provide cover where the Director or Officer has acted 
fraudulently or dishonestly.
Other Statutory Information
An explanation of the Company’s policy on matters relating 
to Employment, Health and Safety, Environmental and its 
relationship with suppliers, customers and other stakeholders is 
set out within the Business Review on page 28 of the Annual 
Report. The Group’s use of financial instruments is discussed on 
page 26. Corporate Governance disclosures are set out on pages 
31 to 40.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at midday on 
12 January 2011 in the Brewers Hall, Aldermanbury Square, 
London EC2V 7HR. The special business of the meeting 
includes resolutions which seek Shareholders’ approval for 
the replacement of the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan 
(“LTIP”) with a new LTIP comprising a Performance Share Plan 
and a Share Matching Plan, as explained further on page 36 in 
the Remuneration Report. A Circular setting out in detail these 
proposals, together with the routine business of the meeting will 
be set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which is 
a separate document which will be sent to all Shareholders.
Independent Auditors
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors and to 
authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be 
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
NP Lingwood
Company Secretary
22 November 2010 31 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Corporate Governance
Section 3: Governance
Compliance Statement
The Board recognises the importance of high standards of 
corporate governance throughout the Group. The Board 
is accountable to the Company’s shareholders for good 
governance and this statement sets out how the principles 
set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (“the 
Code”), issued in June 2003 and updated in June 2008 by the 
Financial Reporting Council, are applied by the Company. The 
Board confirms that the Company has complied with all of the 
Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code, throughout the year.
The FRC published the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 on 
28 May 2010. This new Code is designed to replace the existing 
Code, although compliance with the new Code will not be 
mandatory for the Company until 2011.
Directors
The Board
The Board comprises three non-Executive Directors, including 
the Chairman, and three Executive Directors, providing a wide 
range of skills and experience. The biographical details of the 
Board members are set out on pages 12 and 13. The Board has 
six scheduled meetings each year and meets more frequently as 
required. It met on six occasions during the year under review.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the 
Board and its Standing Committees during the year and 
individual attendance by Board members at these meetings:
Board
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Number of meetings
during the year 6 6 7 1
Non-Executive
Directors:
JL Rennocks (Chairman) 6 6 7 1
JW Matthews 6 6 7 1
IM Grice 6 5 7 1
Executive Directors*:
BM Thompson 6
I Henderson 6
NP Lingwood 6
*The Executive Directors attend all the meetings of the Audit Committee; 
BM Thompson attended the meetings of the Remuneration Committee 
during the year.
The September 2010 Board meeting was held in Edmonton, 
Canada and was extended to a two day meeting to include a 
bi-annual review and discussion of the Group’s longer term 
strategy.
The duties of the Board and its Committees are set out clearly in 
formal terms of reference which are reviewed regularly and state 
the items specifically reserved for decision by the Board. The 
Board establishes overall Group strategy, including acquisitions 
and withdrawal from existing activities. It approves the Group’s 
strategy and the operating budget and reviews performance 
through monthly reports and management accounts.
The approval of acquisitions, for the most part, is a matter 
reserved for the Board, save that it delegates to the Chief 
Executive Officer the responsibility for such activities to a 
specified level of authority. Similarly, there are authority levels 
covering capital expenditure which can be exercised by the Chief 
Executive Officer. Beyond these levels of authority, projects are 
referred to the Board for approval.
The Board establishes the remuneration of non-Executive 
Directors and the Company’s framework of executive 
remuneration and its cost in the light of recommendations made 
by the Remuneration Committee.
Other matters reserved to the Board include treasury policies, 
internal control, risk management and the appointment or 
removal of the Company Secretary. The Company maintains 
appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against
its Directors.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman, who is non-Executive, and the Chief 
Executive Officer are separate and clearly defined. The Chairman 
is also Chairman of Nestor Healthcare plc and Intelligent Energy 
plc and has a number of other Board appointments. The Board 
is satisfied that the Chairman’s other Board appointments and 
commitments do not place constraints on his ability properly to 
fulfil his role as Chairman of Diploma PLC.
Board Balance and Independence
The non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms, 
the details of their respective appointments being as set out in 
the Remuneration Report on page 35. Non-Executive Directors 
are required to inform the Board of any changes to their other 
appointments.
The non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board to 
be independent in character and judgement and there are no 
relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear 
to affect, a Director’s judgement. JW Matthews is the senior 
independent Director. 
There are three standing Committees of the Board to which 
various matters are delegated. Membership of the Committees 
is set out on page 13 and terms of reference are available on 
request and are set out on the Company’s website. Following 
publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, earlier 
this year, the terms of reference of each Committee are being 
updated to bring them into line with current guidance. The 
new terms of reference will be available on the Company’s 
website in 2011. In order to ensure that undue reliance is not 
placed on particular individuals, the Board has decided that all 
its independent non-Executive Directors should serve on all 
Committees. The Board regularly reviews the chairmanship of its 
Committees.
During the year the Chairman has had meetings with the non-
Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present.
Appointments to the Board
The Board has established a Nomination Committee which 
leads the process for Board appointments and makes 
recommendations to the Board. The members of the 
Nomination Committee are JL Rennocks, who is the Chairman, 
and the two non-Executive Directors. 
The Committee would be chaired by the senior independent 
Director on any matter concerning the chairmanship of the 
Company. The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the 
Committee. 32 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Corporate Governance continued
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference 
which were reviewed and updated during 2005, covering 
the authority delegated to it by the Board. These include the 
following duties:
 To be responsible for identifying and nominating, for the 
approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as 
and when they arise.
 Before making an appointment, the Committee will 
evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
on the Board and in the light of this evaluation, prepare 
a description of the role and capabilities required for a 
particular appointment.
 In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee shall 
consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria 
and will take care that appointees have enough time 
available to devote to the position.
 The Committee will consider candidates from a range of 
backgrounds, both internally and externally and may use the 
services of external advisors to facilitate the search.
On appointment, Directors undertake an informal induction 
process which is designed to develop knowledge and 
understanding of the Company’s business, and includes visits to 
various Group operating sites.
The Nomination Committee met once during the year under 
review.
Information and Professional Development
The main Board papers comprising an agenda and formal Board 
reports, together with briefing papers on specific matters, are 
sent to the Directors in advance of each Board meeting.
The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed 
at meetings with briefings as necessary on various elements of 
corporate governance and regulatory issues.
The Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Board on 
matters concerning governance and regulatory issues and he 
ensures Board procedures are complied with. All Directors have 
access to his advice and a procedure also exists for Directors 
to take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense. No such advice was sought during the year. The 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary and his 
remuneration are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Board has decided that because of the relatively small size 
of the Company and to limit its costs, the role of the Company 
Secretary should be combined with that of the Group Finance 
Director. This matter is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Performance Evaluation
During the year the Board completed the process of evaluating 
its own performance, together with that of its Committees and 
individual Directors, including the Chairman. The results of the 
evaluation process are discussed by the Board and areas for 
improvement are identified and action taken where necessary.
Re-election
All Directors must stand for election at the first Annual General 
Meeting after they are appointed. The Articles provide that all 
Directors will stand for re-election at least every three years.
Remuneration
The Board has established a Remuneration Committee 
consisting exclusively of independent non-Executive Directors. 
The application of corporate governance principles in relation to 
the Directors’ remuneration is described in the Remuneration 
Report on page 35.
Accountability and Audit 
Financial Reporting
It is a requirement of the Code that the Board should present 
a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s 
position and prospects. This requirement extends to interim and 
other price sensitive public reports and to reports to regulators, 
as well as to information required to be presented by statutory 
requirements.
In this context, reference should be made to the Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities on page 41, the Directors’ Report 
on pages 29 and 30 which includes a statement regarding the 
Group’s status as a going concern, and to the Reports of the 
Auditors on pages 76 and 77, which includes a statement by the 
auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
Internal Control
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate 
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. Throughout the year, the Group has been 
in full compliance with the Code provisions on internal control.
The Board has established a clear organisational structure 
with defined authority levels. The day to day running of the 
Group’s business is delegated to the Executive Directors of 
the Company. The Executive Directors visit each operating unit 
on a regular basis and meet with both operational and finance 
management and staff.
Key financial and operational measures are reported on a weekly 
and/or monthly basis and are measured against both budget 
and interim forecasts which have been approved and reviewed 
by the Board. Each operating unit is required to prepare an 
annual self assessment report on internal control and these are 
reviewed by the Board.
During the year the Board has carried out a review of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control. 
This review included a risk assessment process on the 
key financial, operational and compliance risks to identify, 
evaluate and manage significant risks to the Group’s business. 
The assessments have been effected at both Group and 
individual company level. They included common definitions 
of risk and ensure, as far as practicable, that the policies and 
procedures established by the Board are appropriate to manage 
the perceived risks to the Group. During the year, the risk 
assessment process revealed no significant risks of which the 
Board was not previously aware.
The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to have the 
largest potential impact on the Group’s long term performance are 
set out in the Business Review on pages 24 to 27. 33 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 3: Governance
The Group’s finance department includes a full time internal 
auditor. During the year, a full programme of internal audit 
visits has been completed at all of the Group’s businesses. The 
scope of work carried out by internal audit is focused on internal 
financial controls and processes operating within each business. 
While there were no significant weaknesses identified during 
these audits, a number of recommendations were made to 
improve internal review processes and procedures, particularly 
in businesses where the opportunity to segregate duties was 
limited.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the need for a fully 
independent internal audit function in the Group. The Audit 
Committee believes that the Group’s system of internal control 
is appropriate for a group of the size and nature of Diploma 
PLC and the Audit Committee’s current view is that a separate 
independent internal audit function is not necessary.
Audit Committee and Auditors
The Board has established an Audit Committee comprising the 
three non-Executive Directors. The Committee is chaired by 
JW Matthews. The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the 
Committee.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are set out 
in written terms of reference, which were reviewed and updated 
during 2005 and which generally encompass those set out in the 
Code, which are as follows:
 to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of 
the Group and any formal announcements relating to the 
Group’s financial performance, reviewing significant financial 
judgements contained therein;
 to review the Group’s internal financial controls and its 
internal controls and risk management systems;
 to make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to 
shareholders for approval in general meeting, in relation 
to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the 
external auditors and to approve the terms of engagement 
of the external auditors;
 to review and monitor the external auditors’ independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process 
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements;
 to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the 
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into 
account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-
audit services by external auditors;
 to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of 
which it considers that action or improvement is needed 
and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken; 
and
 to annually consider whether there is a need for a formal 
internal audit function and make recommendation to the 
Board.
In addition, the Audit Committee has an important role to play 
through its responsibility for, and oversight of, the auditor 
relationship and auditor independence. The Committee 
recognises that auditor independence is an essential part of the 
audit framework and the assurance it provides.
The Committee reviewed the audit engagement in 2008 and 
following an audit tender process, recommended to the Board 
the appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company and 
Group.
The Committee normally meets at least five times a year. 
The external auditors and the Executive Directors generally 
attend Audit Committee meetings. In addition, the Committee 
periodically meets the external auditors without the Executive 
Directors present.
The Audit Committee’s responsibilities are discharged in the 
following manner:
 at its meetings in May and November, the focus falls on 
a review of the Interim Report and the Annual Report and 
Accounts respectively. On both occasions, the Committee 
receives reports from the Group Finance Director and 
from the external auditors identifying any accounting or 
judgemental issues requiring its attention; 
 the external auditors present their audit plan at the 
September meeting; and
 the Committee meets to approve formal Interim 
Management Statements which are released to the market 
in January and August, in accordance with the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules.
The Committee has also formally reviewed and approved 
the arrangements by which Company employees may, in 
confidence, raise concerns about possible irregularities in 
financial reporting or other matters (so called “whistleblowing” 
procedures).
On an annual basis, the Committee also assesses annually the 
effectiveness of the external audit process. This assessment 
covers all aspects of the audit service provided by the 
Company’s external auditors. The Committee also reviews 
annually a report on the external auditors’ own quality control 
procedures.
The Committee has also established a set of guidelines covering 
the type of non-audit work that can be assigned to auditors. 
These relate to further assurance services – where the auditors’ 
detailed knowledge of the Group’s affairs means that they may 
be best placed to carry out such work. This extends to, but is 
not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, regulatory 
reports, and on occasions, work in connection with disposals. 
Work in connection with acquisitions, including due diligence 
reviews, is generally not provided by the auditors, but is placed 
with other firms.
Taxation services are generally not provided by the auditors; 
a separate firm is retained to provide tax advice, including any 
assistance with tax compliance matters generally, except in 
Canada, where the auditors provide some assistance on the tax 
computations.
In other circumstances, proposed assignments are put out 
to tender and decisions to award work taken on the basis of 
demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
The Committee receives an annual report which provides details 
of any assignments and related fees carried out by the auditors 
in addition to their normal audit work, and these are reviewed 
against the above guidelines.  34 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Corporate Governance continued
The Committee received reports from management on two 
incidences of fraud which occurred during the year.  In April 
2010, one of the Group’s UK businesses was subject to a 
sophisticated bank related fraud, carried out by an overseas third 
party, pretending to be a potential customer. 
In July 2010, management discovered fraud in one of its 
overseas businesses, carried out by an employee who incurred 
unauthorised transactions on a company credit card.
The Group lost £106,000 in aggregate as a consequence of 
these two matters; the Committee concluded that both frauds 
were one-off opportunistic frauds and were not an indication of 
inadequate internal controls. However existing internal controls, 
which may have prevented these occurrences, have been 
strengthened and reinforced in each of the businesses.
Communications with Shareholders
The Company maintains regular contact with major 
shareholders to communicate clearly the Group’s objectives 
and monitors movements in significant shareholdings. The 
Company recognises the importance of communicating with 
its shareholders and does this through its Annual and Interim 
Reports, Interim Management Statements and at the Annual 
General Meeting and through the processes described below.
Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive Officer 
and Group Finance Director and presentations are made on the 
operating and financial performance of the Group and its longer 
term strategy. The slide presentations made to representatives 
of the investment community following the announcement of 
the Preliminary and Interim results are made available on the 
Company’s website at www.diplomaplc.com
The non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the 
views of institutional shareholders and an independent insight 
is sought through research carried out twice a year by the 
Company’s advisors.
Through these processes, the Board is kept abreast of key 
issues. The opportunity for shareholders to meet the Chairman 
or Senior Independent Director, separately from the Executive 
Directors, is available on request.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders 
at least twenty working days prior to the meeting and includes 
a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue. In 
the absence of a poll being called, proxy votes cast are declared 
after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary 
generally deal with questions from individual shareholders. 
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at 
the Company’s Annual General Meeting when the Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer give a statement on the Group’s 
performance during the year, together with a statement on 
current trading conditions. The Chairman of the Board and of the 
Remuneration and Audit Committees will normally be available 
to answer questions at the meeting. 35 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Remuneration Report
Section 3: Governance
This Report is presented to shareholders by the Board and provides information on Directors’ remuneration. This Report complies with 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and also sets out how the principles of the FRC Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance (“the Code”) issued in June 2003 and updated in June 2008, relating to Directors’ remuneration are applied.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 12 January 2011, inviting them to consider and approve this 
Report.
Performance
The Board recognises the importance of linking remuneration policies to the performance of the Group and shareholder return.
The graph below shows the total shareholder return for a holding of the Company’s ordinary shares for the five financial years to 
30 September 2010. This is compared to the total shareholder return for a hypothetical holding in the FTSE mid-250 index (excluding 
investment trusts). This was chosen as the Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”) believes it is the most appropriate index to 
which the Company’s performance can be compared and it is the index which is used for the purposes of the Long Term Incentive 
Plan.
Total shareholder return is the growth in value of a share plus the value of dividends re-invested in the Company’s shares on the day on 
which they are paid.
Oct-05 Apr-06 Oct-06 Apr-07 Oct-07 Apr-08 Oct-08 Apr-09 Oct-09 Oct-10 Apr-10
Diploma TSR (rebased to 100)
FTSE All Share (ex Inv. Trusts) TSR (rebased to 100)
50.00
100.00
150.00
200.00
250.00
The five year total shareholder return figures for Diploma PLC and the FTSE mid-250 index were as follows:
FTSE
Diploma mid-250
September 2005    100 100
September 2010 249 125
+149% +25% 36 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Remuneration Report continued
Remuneration Committee
The Committee is governed by formal terms of reference agreed 
by the Board and comprises two non-Executive Directors and 
the Chairman. The written terms of reference were reviewed 
and updated during 2005 and are published on the Company’s 
website. The Committee comprises IM Grice who is the 
Chairman, JW Matthews and JL Rennocks. The Committee 
determines the specific remuneration packages, including 
share schemes, of the Executive Directors and also monitors 
the remuneration of other senior executives who report to the 
Executive Directors. The Chief Executive attends meetings 
at the invitation of the Committee to provide guidance as 
appropriate on the impact of remuneration policy and advice on 
the performance of Executive Directors. The Chief Executive 
does not attend meetings when his own position is discussed. 
Any matter affecting the Chairman is discussed by the 
Committee without the Chairman present.
As indicated in last year’s report, in 2010 the Committee 
appointed Kepler Associates to conduct a review of the 
Company’s long term incentive arrangements for Executive 
Directors. The Company’s existing long-term incentive plan 
(“LTIP”) has been in place since 2004 and will expire in 2011.
As part of this review, the Committee received a written report 
from Kepler Associates and met with their consultants to 
discuss their recommendations. As a result of this exercise, as 
well as other routine business, the Committee met seven times 
during the year. 
Following advice from Kepler Associates, the Committee is 
proposing to seek shareholders’ approval for the adoption of 
new long-term incentive plans comprising a Performance Share 
Plan (“PSP”) and a Share Matching Plan (“SMP”). The PSP will 
have a structure similar to the LTIP. The new SMP will offer 
an additional reward opportunity in return for an investment 
in shares and will provide a mechanism to reward exceptional 
performance. 
These proposals will be set out in detail in a Circular to 
Shareholders for review and if thought fit, for approval at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting on 12 January 2011. The 
Remuneration Committee believes that these proposals are 
important to the Company being able to continue to motivate 
and retain its Executive Directors and are in the interests of 
Shareholders. The targets for the PSP represent a significant 
strengthening of the EPS performance condition and the 
maintenance of a stretching TSR condition. Additional reward 
will result only from Executive Directors making a significant 
personal investment in Company shares (as part of the SMP) 
and in large part for delivering performance above the upper-
quartile of the market. Accordingly, the proposals have the full 
support of both the Remuneration Committee and the entire 
Board.
Remuneration Policy
This Remuneration Report sets out the Company’s policy on 
Directors’ remuneration for 2010 and, so far as practicable, for 
subsequent years. In framing this policy the Committee has 
given full consideration to the provisions of the Code.
The Company’s policy for Executive Director remuneration is 
that total remuneration (basic remuneration plus short term and 
long term remuneration) should reward both short and long term 
results, delivering competitive rewards for target performance.
The Company’s policy for basic Director remuneration is to pay 
competitive market salaries and associated benefits, having 
regard to the Directors’ experience, the size and complexity of 
the job, relative remuneration levels throughout the Group and 
any other relevant factors, such as business sector expertise.
Share ownership is encouraged. Equity-based reward 
programmes align the interests of Executive Directors with 
those of shareholders and the long term success of the Group.
The Committee considers that a successful remuneration 
policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of 
future changes in the Company’s business environment and 
in remuneration practice. Any changes in policy for years after 
2010 will be described in future Remuneration Reports. Any 
statements in this Report in relation to remuneration policy for 
years after 2010 should be considered in this context.
Components of Remuneration
The current elements of remuneration for Executive Directors 
are as follows:
Salary and Benefits
The Committee reviews salaries taking account of Group and 
personal performance. Account is also taken of the levels of 
pay awarded elsewhere in the sector and competitive market 
practice.
The value of non-salary benefits for Executive Directors is 
included in the table of remuneration on page 38 and comprises 
health insurance and cash payments in lieu of a car. The value of 
these benefits is not pensionable, but is assessable to tax.
Short Term Incentives
The Company operates an annual performance related cash 
bonus scheme for Executive Directors. The maximum bonus 
payment under this scheme in 2010 is 100% of basic salary 
for the Chief Executive Officer and 80% for other Executive 
Directors. On target bonus is 60% for the Chief Executive 
Officer and 50% for other Executive Directors. The bonus for 
the Chief Executive Officer is wholly dependent on the financial 
performance of the Group; the bonus for the other Executive 
Directors is 75% based on the financial performance of the 
Group, with the remaining 25% subject to achievement of 
specified personal objectives.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The Company’s LTIP for Executive Directors provides for annual 
grants to Executive Directors. It is intended that this LTIP will be 
replaced by the new PSP in January 2011, as described above. It 
is intended that no further awards will be made under the LTIP.
Under the existing LTIP, Executive Directors are awarded rights 
to acquire ordinary shares. Each award made under the LTIP is 
subject to performance conditions which will determine how 
many, if any, of the shares under the award the participant is 
entitled to receive after the three year performance period. The 
value of awards made to a participant in any year have been 
equal to 100% of basic salary.
In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be 
issued or placed under option under any executive share plan 
established by the Company, may not exceed 5% of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time. In 
any ten-year period the number of shares which may be issued  37 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 3: Governance
or placed under option, under any all-employee share plan 
established by the Company, may not exceed 10% of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company, from time to time.
Two performance conditions apply to the awards so that the 
vesting of 50% of the award will be linked to earnings per share 
(“EPS”) growth and 50% will be linked to Total Shareholder 
Return (share price growth and reinvested dividends) (“TSR”), 
measured by comparison with the FTSE mid-250 index 
(excluding investment trusts).
The first performance condition is that the average annual 
compound growth in the Company’s earnings per share (“EPS”) 
over the three consecutive financial years, following the year 
prior to the grant, must exceed the annual compound growth 
rate in the UK Retail Price Index (RPI) plus 3% per annum, over 
the same period. At this level of performance, 30% of the award 
relating to EPS performance would vest. Full vesting of the 
award relating to EPS performance requires that the Company’s 
average annual compound growth in EPS exceeds the 
compound growth in RPI plus 5% per annum over the period. 
Between these two points, an increasing proportion of vesting 
occurs at RPI plus 3.5%, RPI plus 4% and RPI plus 4.5%. For 
the purposes of this condition, EPS will comprise adjusted EPS 
as defined in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 
The definition of adjusted EPS remains consistent with the 
definition of EPS approved by the Remuneration Committee in 
previous years.
EPS was chosen as the appropriate measure of performance 
as it provides an absolute benchmark of the Company’s 
performance and is therefore a suitable balance to the relative 
TSR performance measurement.
The second performance condition compares the growth of 
the Company’s TSR over a three year period to that of the 
companies in the FTSE mid-250 index (excluding investment 
trusts). The Company’s ranking amongst the comparator 
companies determines the percentage of shares which will vest 
to a participant. For the participant to receive the full number of 
shares awarded, the Company must rank in the top quartile of 
the comparator group. Where the Company’s performance is at 
the median, 30% of any award is vested. Between these two 
points, vesting is on a straight-line basis. Where performance 
over the three year period does not reach the median ranking, 
no shares are vested, the relevant award lapses and there is no 
re-testing of performance.
The TSR performance condition was chosen as the Committee 
believes that TSR is an appropriate method of comparing the 
performance of the Company to that of its peers. The FTSE 
mid-250 index (excluding investment trusts) was chosen as the 
comparator group as there are a limited number of companies 
which are directly comparable to the Company and the index was 
therefore felt to be a suitable yardstick of relative performance.
Subsisting awards may vest before their vesting date in the 
event of a change of control of the Company, in accordance 
with the rules of the LTIP. Benefits under the LTIP are not 
pensionable.
The Company’s Employee Benefit Trust waives dividends on 
all the shares held for the purposes of the Company’s LTIP. 
In 2010, the Remuneration Committee agreed that participating 
executive directors in the LTIP may receive discretionary 
payments equal to the net dividend paid (excluding any tax 
credit) on shares in their LTIP awards which have vested, but 
are unexercised.  Such discretionary payments will be made 
in respect of awards granted under the LTIP in 2007 and 
subsequent years. 
Awards under this LTIP have been made annually by the 
Remuneration Committee to BM Thompson, I Henderson 
and NP Lingwood. The final award under the LTIP was made 
on 18 November 2009. Following the end of the relevant 
performance period, the number of shares over which an award 
vests is determined and a participant may then exercise the 
award on payment of £1 at any time within ten years of the date 
of grant. The numbers of shares over which the 2007 awards 
have vested at 30 September 2010 are set out on page 39. The 
outstanding awards will vest on 30 September 2011 and 2012
respectively, subject to the performance conditions set out 
above, measured over three year performance periods ending on 
30 September 2011 and 2012.
Pension Arrangements
The Executive Directors receive pension contributions from the 
Company which are paid into money-purchase schemes. No 
Directors are members of the Group’s defined benefit schemes. 
The pension contributions are 20.0% (2009: 20.0%) of base 
remuneration, excluding bonuses.
In September 2010, the Company established an unregistered 
retirement benefits scheme, known as the Diploma Holdings 
PLC Employer-Financed Retirement Benefits Scheme (“the 
Scheme”). The Scheme was established for Executive Directors 
and higher paid UK employees in the Group as an alternative 
to the employees’ current pension arrangements and contains 
all the key features of a conventional registered pension plan. 
At 30 September 2010, no contributions had been paid into 
the Scheme.  In light of the statement issued on 14 October 
2010 by HM Treasury and HM Revenue and Customs, entitled 
“Restricting Pensions Relief”, the Committee is likely to review 
further in 2011 the provision of pensions to Executive Directors 
and higher paid employees.  
Relative Performance of Remuneration Elements
The Committee’s view is that the performance related elements 
of the remuneration package for Executive Directors should be a 
significant element of the total. This serves to align the interests 
of such Directors with shareholders. Assuming full payment of 
all elements, more than 60% of the total remuneration of each 
of the Executive Directors would be performance related.
Service Contracts – Executive Directors
The service agreements of the Executive Directors include the 
following terms:
Date of Contract Notice Period
BM Thompson 13 July 2000 12 months
I Henderson 1 August 2000 12 months
NP Lingwood 3 July 2001 12 months 38 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Remuneration Report continued
Total Remuneration of the Directors
The total remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2010 is set out below.
Fixed emoluments
Salary
& fees
£000
Other
benefits
£000
Performance
based
bonus
£000
2010
Total
£000
2009
Total
£000
IM Grice 35 – – 35 35
I Henderson 210 11 168 389 268
NP Lingwood 220 12 176 408 269
JW Matthews 35 – – 35 35
JL Rennocks 70 – – 70 70
BM Thompson 345 14 345 704 456
915 37 689 1,641 1,133
The pension contributions paid on behalf of the Directors are as follows:
2010
£000
2009
£000
BM Thompson 69 68
I Henderson 42 41
NP Lingwood 44 41
155 150
The Executive Directors are subject to rolling contracts and 
offer themselves for re-election as Directors at least every 
three years in accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association. Payments on termination for Executive Directors 
are restricted to the value of salary and contractual benefits for 
the notice period. There is no predetermined special provision 
for Executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event 
of loss of office. The Remuneration Committee would consider 
the circumstances of individual cases of early termination and 
determine compensation payments accordingly.
Non-Executive Directors
The fees for the non-Executive Directors are determined by the 
Board as a whole, having regard to market practice. Business 
expenses are also reimbursed.
The non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service, 
but are appointed pursuant to letters of appointment. Such 
appointments are for a one year term and the Company’s policy 
is for re-appointment to be on an annual basis. Non-Executive 
Directors are not eligible to participate in any incentive plan 
or Company pension arrangement and are not entitled to any 
payment in compensation for any early termination of their 
appointment. They are due for re-appointment to the Board on 
the following dates:
Date of
Re-appointment Renewal
IM Grice 24 January 2011 Annual
JW Matthews 24 July 2011 Annual
JL Rennocks 11 July 2011 Annual
All Directors’ appointments are subject to approval of the 
shareholders in General Meeting sought on a three yearly basis.
During the year ended 30 September 2010 the non-Executive 
Directors each received a fee of £35,000 per annum (2009:
£35,000). The Chairman, who is a non-Executive Director, 
received a fee of £70,000 per annum (2009: £70,000) for his 
services during the year ended 30 September 2010. 39 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 3: Governance
Long Term Incentive Plan
On 18 November 2009 the Executive Directors received a share award with a face value of one times salary as set out below. On 
30 September 2010 the performance period relating to the award made on 17 December 2007 ended and the LTIP awards vested and 
became exercisable by each of the Directors, as set out below.
LTIP shares
held at
30 Sept
2009 Number
LTIP shares
awarded
during the
year ended
30 Sept 2010
Number
LTIP shares
vested on
30 Sept 2010
(note 1)
Number
LTIP shares
lapsed on
30 Sept 2010
Number
Share price
on date of
award
Vesting
date
Total
LTIP shares
held at
30 Sept 2010
Number
BM Thompson
17 December 2007 178,225 – 178,225 – 184.6p 30 Sept 2010 –
17 December 2008 276,423 – – – 123.0p 30 Sept 2011 276,423
18 November 2009 – 204,748 – – 168.5p 30 Sept 2012 204,748
I Henderson
17 December 2007 106,715 – 106,715 – 184.6p 30 Sept 2010 –
17 December 2008 168,293 – – – 123.0p 30 Sept 2011 168,293
18 November 2009 – 124,629 – – 168.5p 30 Sept 2012 124,629
NP Lingwood
17 December 2007 106,715 – 106,715 – 184.6p 30 Sept 2010 –
17 December 2008 168,293 – – – 123.0p 30 Sept 2011 168,293
18 November 2009 – 130,564 – – 168.5p 30 Sept 2012 130,564
Note:
1.  The awards which vested on 30 September 2010 were calculated in accordance with the performance conditions described on pages 36 and 37. The 
awards may be exercised at any time before 17 December 2017 on payment of £1. In aggregate 100% of the total LTIP award granted on 17 December 
2007 vested unconditionally and became exercisable.

three year period ended 30 September 2010 was 13.0% pa; this compares with an annual compound growth rate in RPI +5.0% over the same period 
of 7.6% pa. Accordingly 100% of the shares relating to this award (representing 50% of the total award) vested unconditionally.
 61.5% over the three year period ended 30 September 2010; this growth 
gave the Company a ranking of 26 in the comparator group and put the Company in the 87 percentile. The median TSR was -20.8% and the lower 
threshold of the upper quartile was 17.4%. Accordingly 100% of the shares relating to this part of the award (representing 50% of the total award)
vested unconditionally.
Directors’ Shareholdings
Ordinary shares of 5p each
At
22 November
2010
Number
At
30 September
2010
Number
At
1 October
2009
Number
IM Grice 20,000 20,000 20,000
I Henderson 416,604 416,604 534,604
NP Lingwood 150,000 150,000 100,000
JW Matthews –– –
JL Rennocks 73,766 73,766 223,766
BM Thompson 1,125,000 1,125,000 1,215,039
Note:
1.  The above table excludes interests in the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan, disclosed above. 40 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Remuneration Report continued
As described above, following the vesting of the LTIP awards the Executive Directors are able to exercise their vested awards to 
acquire ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company for an aggregate consideration of £1. The underlying shares are held by the Diploma 
Employee Benefit Trust and are transferred to the participant on exercise. Whilst ordinary shares are held within the Diploma Employee 
Benefit Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are exercisable by the trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties. 
At 30 September 2009 and 2010 the number of shares which are the subject of vested LTIP awards and are held by each Director 
were as follows:
Vested LTIP awards Share price Amount
At
30 Sept
2009
Number
Exercised
during
2010
Number
Vested
during 2010
Number
At
30 Sept
2010
Number
At
30 Sept
2009
At
30 Sept
2010
At
30 Sept
2009
£
At
30 Sept
2010
£
BM Thompson 175,132 (175,132) 178,225 178,225 173.0p 284.5p 302,978 507,050
I Henderson 105,079 (105,079) 106,715 106,715 173.0p 284.5p 181,787 303,604
NP Lingwood 105,079 (105,079) 106,715 106,715 173.0p 284.5p 181,787 303,604
Note:
1.  On 16 November 2009, each participant exercised their option to acquire shares which had vested at 30 September 2009, for consideration of £1.
The share price at the date of exercise was 165.0p.
2. The share price during the year to 30 September 2010 ranged from 161.0p to 284.5p.
The information set out above under the headings Total Remuneration of the Directors, Long Term Incentive Plan and Directors’ 
Shareholdings has been audited. All other information provided in the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
This Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
IM Grice
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
22 November 2010 41 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
for the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
including the Group and Parent Company financial statements, 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Parent Company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Group 
financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union (“EU”) and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations 
and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Standards (UK Accounting Standards).
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial position 
and the performance of the Group; the Companies Act 2006 
provides in relation to such financial statements, that references 
in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving 
a true and fair view, are references to their achieving a fair 
presentation. 
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently. 
 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent. 
 For the Group financial statements, state whether they 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted 
by the EU.
 For the Parent Company financial statements, state 
whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the Parent Company financial statements.
 Prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors confirms that so far as he is aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware and that he has taken all steps that he ought to 
have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
 the Group’s consolidated financial statements, prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and 
the Parent Company financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
of the Group and Parent Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
 the Annual Report includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Group and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 22 November 2010 and is signed on its behalf by:
BM Thompson NP Lingwood
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director 42 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 30 September 2010
Continuing businesses Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Revenue 3,4 183.5 160.0
Cost of sales (115.5) (101.7)
Gross profit 68.0 58.3
Distribution costs (4.4) (4.1)
Administration costs (35.0) (31.7)
Operating profit 3 28.6 22.5
Financial expense, net 6 (1.9) (2.0)
Profit before tax 26.7 20.5
Tax expense 7 (8.8) (7.1)
Profit for the year from continuing businesses 17.9 13.4
Profit from discontinued businesses 22 5.1 0.9
Profit for the year 23.0 14.3
Attributable to: 
  Shareholders of the Company 21.5 13.0
  Minority interests 20 1.5 1.3
23.0 14.3
Earnings per share 9
Basic and diluted earnings – continuing 14.6p 10.8p
Basic and diluted earnings – discontinued 4.5p 0.8p
Basic and diluted earnings – continuing and discontinued 19.1p 11.6p
Alternative Performance Measures (note 2)
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Operating profit 28.6 22.5
Add: Acquisition related charges 11 3.5 3.1
Adjusted operating profit 3,4 32.1 25.6
Add/(deduct): Net interest income/(expense) 6 0.1 (0.1)
Adjusted profit before tax 32.2 25.5
Adjusted earnings per share 9 18.9p 14.8p
The notes on pages 46 to 73 form part of these financial statements. 43 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 30 September 2010
The notes on pages 46 to 73 form part of these financial statements.
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit for the year 23.0 14.3
Exchange rate adjustments on foreign currency net investments 1.9 10.7
Losses on fair value of cash flow hedges (0.4) (0.4)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 24 (1.8) (3.1)
Deferred tax on items recognised in equity 13 0.6 1.0
Other comprehensive income for the year 0.3 8.2
Total comprehensive income for the year 23.3 22.5
Attributable to: 
  Shareholders of the Company 21.8 21.2
  Minority interests 1.5 1.3
23.3 22.5
Consolidated Statement of Changes
in Shareholders’ Equity
For the year ended 30 September 2010
Note
Share
capital
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 1 October 2008 5.7 8.0 0.7 93.7 108.1
Total comprehensive income – 10.7 (0.4) 10.9 21.2
Share-based payments 5 – – – 0.5 0.5
Dividends 8 – – – (8.4) (8.4)
At 30 September 2009 5.7 18.7 0.3 96.7 121.4
Total comprehensive income – 1.9 (0.4) 20.3 21.8
Share-based payments 5 – – – 0.5 0.5
Purchase of minority interests 19 – – – 2.5 2.5
Future purchase of minority interests 19 – – – (0.6) (0.6)
Purchase of own shares – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Dividends 8 – – – (9.1) (9.1)
At 30 September 2010 5.7 20.6 (0.1) 109.9 136.1 44 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
The notes on pages 46 to 73 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
As at 30 September 2010
Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 67.3 59.6
Acquisition intangible assets 11 22.7 21.2
Other intangible assets 11 0.6 0.8
Property, plant and equipment 12 11.1 11.6
Deferred tax assets 13 2.4 2.1
104.1 95.3
Current assets
Inventories 14 32.0 28.0
Trade and other receivables 15 30.5 25.2
Assets held for sale – 5.4
Cash and cash equivalents 17 30.1 21.3
92.6 79.9
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 (32.3) (23.3)
Current tax liabilities (2.0) (1.8)
Other liabilities 19 (13.0) (3.1)
Liabilities associated with assets held for sale – (3.5)
(47.3) (31.7)
Net current assets 45.3 48.2
Total assets less current liabilities 149.4 143.5
Non-current liabilities
Retirement benefit obligations 24 (5.3) (4.7)
Other liabilities 19 (1.2) (10.6)
Deferred tax liabilities 13 (3.7) (4.1)
Net assets 139.2 124.1
Equity
Share capital 5.7 5.7
Translation reserve 20.6 18.7
Hedging reserve (0.1) 0.3
Retained earnings 109.9 96.7
Total shareholders’ equity 136.1 121.4
Minority interests 20 3.1 2.7
Total equity 139.2 124.1
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 November 2010 and signed on its behalf by:
BM Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
NP Lingwood
Group Finance Director 45 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 30 September 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
Continuing businesses Note
2010
£m
2009
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Cash flow from operations 23 34.3 34.2
Interest income received, net 0.1 –
Tax paid (9.3) (9.0)
Net cash from operating activities 25.1 25.2
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) 21 (8.1) (11.1)
Acquisition of minority interests 21 (2.5) –
Disposal of subsidiaries (net of cash disposed) 22 6.4 –
Deferred consideration paid 19 (0.4) (1.1)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment – 0.1
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12 (1.2) (1.5)
Purchase of other intangible assets 11 (0.1) (0.3)
Net cash used in investing activities (5.9) (13.9)
Cash flow from financing activities
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (9.1) (8.4)
Dividends paid to minority interests 20 (1.1) (0.7)
Purchase of own shares (0.4) –
Net cash used in financing activities (10.6) (9.1)
Net cash (used in)/from discontinued businesses 22 (0.5) 1.7
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 8.1 3.9
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 21.3 15.7
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 0.7 1.7
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 17 30.1 21.3
Alternative Performance Measures (note 2)
2010
£m
2009
£m
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 8.1 3.9
Add: Dividends paid to shareholders 9.1 8.4
Dividends paid to minority interests 1.1 0.7
Acquisition of subsidiaries/minority interests 10.6 11.1
Deferred consideration paid 0.4 1.1
Free cash flow – continuing and discontinued businesses 29.3 25.2
Add/(deduct): Free cash flow – discontinued businesses 0.5 (1.7)
Free cash flow – continuing businesses 29.8 23.5
The notes on pages 46 to 73 form part of these financial statements. 46 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2010
1. General Information
Diploma PLC is a public limited company registered and domiciled in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.  
The address of the registered office is 12 Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6AX.  The consolidated financial statements comprise 
the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) and were authorised by the Directors for publication on 
22 November 2010. These statements are presented in UK sterling, with all values rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand, 
except where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as 
adopted by the European Union, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The financial statements of the Parent company, Diploma PLC, have been prepared in accordance with “UK GAAP”, and are set out in 
a separate section of the Annual Report on pages 74 to 75.
2. Alternative Performance Measures
The Group uses a number of alternative (non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“non-GAAP”)) financial measures which are not 
defined within IFRS.  The Directors use these measures in order to assess the underlying operational performance of the Group and as 
such, these measures are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures.  The following non-GAAP measures are 
referred to in this Annual Report.
2.1 Adjusted operating profit
At the foot of the consolidated income statement, “adjusted operating profit” is defined as operating profit before amortisation and 
impairment of acquisition intangible assets, acquisition costs and adjustments to deferred consideration (collectively, “acquisition 
related charges”). The Directors believe that adjusted operating profit is an important measure of the underlying operational 
performance of the Group.
2.2 Adjusted profit before tax
At the foot of the consolidated income statement, “adjusted profit before tax” is separately disclosed, being defined as profit before 
tax and before the costs of restructuring or rationalisation of operations, the profit or loss relating to the sale of property, fair value 
remeasurements under IAS 32 and IAS 39 in respect of future purchases of minority interests, and acquisition related charges. The 
Directors believe that adjusted profit before tax is an important measure of the underlying performance of the Group.
2.3 Adjusted earnings per share
“Adjusted earnings per share” is calculated as the total of adjusted profit, less income tax costs, but excluding the tax impact on the 
items included in the calculation of adjusted profit and the tax effects of goodwill in overseas jurisdictions, less profit attributable to 
minority interests, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.  The Directors believe that 
adjusted earnings per share provides an important measure of the underlying earning capacity of the Group.
2.4 Free cash flow
At the foot of the consolidated cash flow statement, “free cash flow” is reported, being defined as net cash flow from operating 
activities, after net capital expenditure on fixed assets and including proceeds received from business disposals, but before expenditure 
on business combinations and dividends paid to both minority shareholders and the Company’s shareholders.  The Directors believe 
that free cash flow gives an important measure of the cash flow of the Group, available for future investment.
2.5 Trading capital employed
In the segment analysis in note 3, “trading capital employed” is reported, being defined as net assets less cash and cash equivalents 
and after adding back retirement benefit obligations, deferred tax, amounts in respect of future purchases of minority interests and 
adjusting goodwill in respect of the recognition of deferred tax on acquisition intangible assets.  Return on trading capital employed is 
defined as being adjusted operating profit, divided by trading capital employed plus all historic goodwill and as adjusted for the timing 
effect of major acquisitions and disposals. Return on trading capital employed at the sector level does not include historic goodwill. The 
Directors believe that return on trading capital employed is an important measure of the underlying performance of the Group.
3. Business Segment Analysis
For management reporting purposes, the Group is organised into three main business segments: Life Sciences, Seals and Controls. 
These segments form the basis of the primary reporting format disclosures below. The principal activities of each of these segments is 
described in the Business Review on pages 14 to 28. Segment revenue represents revenue from external customers; there is no inter-
segment revenue. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment, as well as those that can be 
allocated on a reasonable basis.
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Revenue – existing businesses 55.0 49.9 59.6 48.2 68.0 61.9 182.6 160.0
              – acquisitions 0.4 – 0.5 – – – 0.9 –
Revenue 55.4 49.9 60.1 48.2 68.0 61.9 183.5 160.0
Adjusted operating profit – existing businesses 11.8 10.6 8.8 5.5 11.3 9.5 31.9 25.6
– acquisitions 0.1 – 0.1 – – – 0.2 –
Adjusted operating profit 11.9 10.6 8.9 5.5 11.3 9.5 32.1 25.6
Acquisition related charges (note 11) (1.6) (1.4) (1.5) (1.3) (0.4) (0.4) (3.5) (3.1)
Operating profit 10.3 9.2 7.4 4.2 10.9 9.1 28.6 22.5 47 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
3. Business Segment Analysis (continued)
Segment assets exclude cash and cash equivalents, deferred tax assets and corporate assets that cannot be allocated on a reasonable 
basis to a business segment. Segment liabilities exclude retirement benefit obligations, deferred tax liabilities and corporate liabilities 
that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business segment. These items are shown collectively in the following analysis as 
“unallocated assets” and “unallocated liabilities”, respectively.
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Operating assets 17.6 15.6 27.1 23.6 25.9 23.3 70.6 62.5
Goodwill 38.2 32.5 14.2 12.0 14.9 15.1 67.3 59.6
Acquisition intangible assets 9.9 10.9 11.5 8.8 1.3 1.5 22.7 21.2
65.7 59.0 52.8 44.4 42.1 39.9 160.6 143.3
Unallocated assets:
– Deferred tax assets 2.4 2.1
– Cash and cash equivalents 30.1 21.3
– Assets held for sale – 5.4
– Corporate assets 3.6 3.1
Total assets 196.7 175.2
Operating liabilities (11.3) (9.0) (8.0) (4.8) (12.2) (9.3) (31.5) (23.1)
Unallocated liabilities:
– Deferred tax liabilities (3.7) (4.1)
– Retirement benefit obligations (5.3) (4.7)
– Future purchases of minority interests (13.2) (13.1)
– Liabilities associated with assets held for sale – (3.5)
– Corporate liabilities (3.8) (2.6)
Total liabilities (57.5) (51.1)
Net assets 139.2 124.1
Other segment information
Capital expenditure 0.7 0.6 0.5 1.1 0.1 0.1 1.3 1.8
Depreciation (including software) 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.4 0.6 2.1 2.2
Alternative Performance Measures (note 2)
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Net assets 139.2 124.1
Add/(less):
– Deferred tax, net 1.3 2.0
– Retirement benefit obligations 5.3 4.7
– Future purchases of minority interests 13.2 13.1
– Cash and cash equivalents (30.1) (21.3)
– Adjustment to goodwill (4.7) (4.5) (1.3) (1.4) (0.6) (0.6) (6.6) (6.5)
Group trading capital employed 122.3 116.1
Assets held for sale, net – (1.9)
Corporate liabilities/(assets), net 0.2 (0.5)
Segment trading capital employed 49.7 45.5 43.5 38.2 29.3 30.0 122.5 113.7 48 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2010
4. Geographic Segment Analysis by Origin
Revenue
Adjusted
operating profit Gross assets
Trading capital 
employed
Capital
expenditure
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
United Kingdom 55.9 50.1 8.4 6.8 50.0 49.3 19.2 28.4 0.3 0.1
Rest of Europe 35.1 32.6 4.5 3.9 33.2 34.8 19.6 21.0 0.1 0.2
North America 92.5 77.3 19.2 14.9 113.5 91.1 83.5 66.7 0.9 1.5
183.5 160.0 32.1 25.6 196.7 175.2 122.3 116.1 1.3 1.8
5. Group Employee Costs
The key management of the Group are the Executive Directors who have authority and responsibility for planning and controlling all 
significant activities of the Group. The Directors’ emoluments and interests in shares of the Company are given in the Remuneration 
Report on pages 35 to 40. The charge for share-based payments of £0.5m relate to the Group’s share schemes, described in the 
Remuneration Report. The fair value of services provided as consideration for part of the grant of the LTIP awards has been based on a 
predicted future value model and was £0.2m (2009: £0.2m).
Group staff costs, including Directors’ emoluments, are as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Wages and salaries 32.1 29.3
Social security costs 2.9 2.8
Pension costs – defined contribution 0.7 0.7
Share-based payments 0.5 0.5
36.2 33.3
The average number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year were:
2010
Number
2009
Number
Life Sciences 199 207
Seals 371 358
Controls 234 248
Corporate 10 10
Number of employees – average 814 823
Number of employees – year end 847 809
6. Financial Expense, net
2010
£m
2009
£m
Interest and similar income
– interest receivable on short term deposits 0.2 0.1
– net finance income from defined benefit pension scheme (note 24) 0.1 –
0.3 0.1
Interest expense and similar charges
– bank commitment fees (0.1) (0.1)
– unwinding of discount on provisions (0.1) –
– net finance expense from defined benefit pension scheme (note 24) – (0.1)
(0.2) (0.2)
Net interest income/(expense) 0.1 (0.1)
– fair value remeasurement of put options (note 19) (2.0) (1.9)
Financial expense, net (1.9) (2.0)
The fair value remeasurement of £2.0m (2009: £1.9m) includes £1.1m (2009: £1.1m) which relates to the unwinding of the discount on 
the liability for future purchases of minority interests. 49 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
7. Tax Expense
2010
£m
2009
£m
Current tax
The tax charge is based on the profit for the year of the continuing businesses and comprises:
   UK corporation tax 2.2 2.4
   Overseas tax 7.0 5.2
9.2 7.6
Adjustments in respect of prior year:
   Overseas tax (0.1) –
(0.1) –
Total current tax 9.1 7.6
Deferred tax
The deferred tax credit based on the origination and reversal of timing differences comprises:
   United Kingdom (0.1) (0.2)
   Overseas (0.2) (0.3)
Total deferred tax (0.3) (0.5)
Total tax on profit for the year 8.8 7.1
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year:
The difference between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation 
tax to the profit before tax is as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit before tax 26.7 20.5
Tax on profit at UK effective corporation tax rate of 28% (2009: 28%) 7.5 5.7
Effects of:
  Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 1.0 0.7
  Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods (0.1) –
Fair value remeasurements 0.6 0.5
  Other permanent differences (0.2) 0.2
Total tax on profit for the year 8.8 7.1
The Group earns its profits in the UK and Overseas. The UK corporation tax rate is 28% (2009: 28%) and this rate has been used for 
tax on profit in the above reconciliation. The Group’s overseas tax rate is higher than that in the UK, primarily because the profits 
earned in North America are taxed at rates varying from 28% to 40%. The tax relating to the discontinuing business is £0.2m credit 
(2009: £0.3m charge), as set out in note 22. 50 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2010
8. Dividends
2010
pence
per share
2009
pence
per share
2010
£m
2009
£m
Interim dividend, paid in June 2.8 2.5 3.1 2.8
Final dividend of the prior year, paid in January 5.3 5.0 6.0 5.6
8.1 7.5 9.1 8.4
The Directors have proposed a final dividend in respect of the current year of 6.2p (2009: 5.3p) which will be paid on 19 January 2011, 
subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 12 January 2011. The total dividend for the current year, subject 
to approval of the final dividend, will be 9.0p (2009: 7.8p). 
The Diploma Employee Benefit Trust holds 732,973 (2009: 868,263) shares, which are not eligible for dividends.
9. Earnings Per Share
Basic and diluted earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary 5p share are calculated on the basis of the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year of 112,577,283 (2009: 112,316,906) and the profit for the year attributable to shareholders of £21.5m (2009: £13.0m). 
There were no potentially dilutive shares.
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share, which is defined in note 2, is calculated as follows:
2010
pence
per share
2009
pence
per share
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit before tax – continuing businesses 26.7 20.5
Tax expense (8.8) (7.1)
Minority interests (1.5) (1.3)
14.6 10.8 16.4 12.1
Profit from discontinued businesses 4.5 0.8 5.1 0.9
Earnings for the year attributable to shareholders of the Company 19.1 11.6 21.5 13.0
Acquisition related charges 3.1 2.7 3.5 3.1
Fair value remeasurements 1.8 1.7 2.0 1.9
Tax effects on goodwill, acquisition intangible assets and fair value remeasurements (0.6) (0.4) (0.6) (0.5)
Profit from discontinued businesses (4.5) (0.8) (5.1) (0.9)
Adjusted earnings – continuing businesses 18.9 14.8 21.3 16.6 51 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
10. Goodwill
Life Sciences
£m
Seals
£m
Controls
£m
Total
£m
At 1 October 2008 30.6 8.9 12.1 51.6
Acquisitions 1.4 2.1 – 3.5
Reclassification (2.4) – 2.4 –
Exchange adjustments 2.9 1.0 0.6 4.5
At 30 September 2009 32.5 12.0 15.1 59.6
Acquisitions (note 21) 3.7 2.5 – 6.2
Adjustment to prior year goodwill – (0.2) – (0.2)
Exchange adjustments 2.0 (0.1) (0.2) 1.7
At 30 September 2010 38.2 14.2 14.9 67.3
The Directors carry out an impairment test on all goodwill generally twice a year. Goodwill is ascribed to a business which, for the 
purpose of these impairment tests, is referred to as a cash generating unit.
The impairment test requires each cash generating unit to prepare “value in use” valuations from discounted cash flow forecasts. The 
cash flow forecasts are initially based on the annual budgets and five year strategic plans, prepared by each business.
The key assumptions used to prepare the cash flow forecasts relate to gross margin, growth rates and discount rates. The gross 
margins are assumed to remain sustainable, which is supported by historical experience; growth rates generally approximate to the 
long term average rates for the markets in which the business operate, unless there are particular factors relevant to a business, such 
as start-ups. The growth rates used in the cash flow forecasts vary between 2-5% across all sectors over the next five years and trend 
down towards 2.0% over the longer term. 
The cash flow forecasts are discounted to determine a current valuation, using a pre-tax discount rate of ca. 13% (2009: 13%). This 
rate is based on the characteristics of lower risk non-technically driven, distribution businesses with robust capital structures, which is 
broadly consistent with each of the Group’s businesses.
Based on the criteria set out above, no impairment of the value of goodwill was identified.
The Directors have also carried out sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions to determine whether a “reasonably possible change” 
in any of these assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill. This analysis indicates that a “reasonably possible change” in 
these key assumptions would be unlikely to give rise to an impairment charge to goodwill in any of the businesses in the Controls or 
Life Sciences segments. However, a reduction of 2% in revenue growth in the medium term in some of the businesses in the Seals 
sector would result in an impairment charge of up to £1.0m. The headroom in the cash flow forecasts before any sensitivities and 
based on the original assumptions, in respect of the businesses in the Seals sector is £2.0m. 52 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2010
11. Acquisition and Other Intangible Assets
Customer
relationships
£m
Supplier
relationships
£m
Trade
names and
databases
£m
Total
acquisition
intangible
assets
£m
Other
intangible
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2008 12.5 9.2 1.1 22.8 2.3 25.1
Additions – – – – 0.3 0.3
Acquisitions 2.7 – 1.5 4.2 – 4.2
Disposals – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Exchange adjustments 1.1 0.8 – 1.9 0.1 2.0
Reclassified as held for sale – – – – (0.4) (0.4)
At 30 September 2009 16.3 10.0 2.6 28.9 2.1 31.0
Additions – – – – 0.1 0.1
Acquisitions (note 21) 4.5 – – 4.5 – 4.5
Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.3 – 0.4 – 0.4
At 30 September 2010 20.9 10.3 2.6 33.8 2.2 36.0
Amortisation
At 1 October 2008 2.4 1.5 0.3 4.2 1.1 5.3
Charge for the year 1.8 1.1 0.2 3.1 0.4 3.5
Disposals – – – – (0.2) (0.2)
Exchange adjustments 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.5
On assets reclassified as held for sale – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
At 30 September 2009 4.4 2.7 0.6 7.7 1.3 9.0
Charge for the year 1.9 1.1 0.3 3.3 0.3 3.6
Exchange adjustments – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
At 30 September 2010 6.3 3.9 0.9 11.1 1.6 12.7
Net book value 
At 30 September 2010 14.6 6.4 1.7 22.7 0.6 23.3
At 30 September 2009 11.9 7.3 2.0 21.2 0.8 22.0
Acquisition related charges are £3.5m (2009: £3.1m) and comprise £3.3m (2009: £3.1m) of amortisation of acquisition intangible assets 
and £0.2m (2009: £Nil) of acquisition costs.
Acquisition intangible assets relate to items acquired through business combinations which are amortised over their useful economic 
life.
Economic
life
Customer relationships 5-15 years
Supplier relationships 7-10 years
Databases and trade names 5-10 years
The amount in respect of customer relationships was valued using a discounted cash flow model; the databases were valued using a 
replacement cost model; the amount in respect of supplier relationships and trade names were valued on a relief from royalty method.
Other intangible assets comprise computer software that is separately identifiable from plant and equipment and includes software 
licences. 53 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
12. Property, Plant and Equipment
Freehold
properties
£m
Leasehold
properties
£m
Plant &
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2008 8.4 1.0 14.1 23.5
Additions – – 1.6 1.6
Acquisitions – – 0.2 0.2
Disposals – – (1.5) (1.5)
Exchange adjustments 0.4 0.1 1.5 2.0
Reclassified as held for sale – – (1.4) (1.4)
At 30 September 2009 8.8 1.1 14.5 24.4
Additions – – 1.2 1.2
Disposals – – 0.5 0.5
Exchange adjustments – – 0.4 0.4
At 30 September 2010 8.8 1.1 16.6 26.5
Depreciation
At 1 October 2008 1.8 0.5 9.6 11.9
Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 1.9 2.1
Disposals – – (1.3) (1.3)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 – 1.0 1.1
On assets reclassified as held for sale – – (1.0) (1.0)
At 30 September 2009 2.0 0.6 10.2 12.8
Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.8
Disposals – – 0.5 0.5
Exchange adjustments – – 0.3 0.3
At 30 September 2010 2.1 0.7 12.6 15.4
Net book value 
At 30 September 2010 6.7 0.4 4.0 11.1
At 30 September 2009 6.8 0.5 4.3 11.6
Land included above, but not depreciated, is £2.0m (2009: £2.0m). Capital commitments contracted, but not provided, were £Nil 
(2009: £Nil).
Freehold properties includes ca.150 acres of land at Stamford (“the Stamford land”) which comprises mostly farm land and former 
quarry land. In the Directors’ opinion the current value of this land is £0.5m (net book value: £Nil) (2009: £0.5m and £Nil, respectively). 54 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2010
13. Deferred Tax
The movement on deferred tax is as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
At 1 October (2.0) (3.3)
Credit for the year (note 7) 0.3 0.5
Acquisitions – 0.1
Accounted for in equity 0.6 1.0
Exchange adjustments (0.2) (0.3)
At 30 September (1.3) (2.0)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle 
the balances net.
Assets Liabilities Net
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.2 (0.5) (0.5) (0.2) (0.3)
Goodwill and intangible assets – 0.1 (4.6) (4.9) (4.6) (4.8)
Retirement benefit obligations 1.4 1.3 – – 1.4 1.3
Inventories 0.7 0.9 – – 0.7 0.9
Share-based payments 0.1 0.1 – – 0.1 0.1
Other temporary differences 1.3 0.8 – – 1.3 0.8
3.8 3.4 (5.1) (5.4) (1.3) (2.0)
Set off of deferred tax (1.4) (1.3) 1.4 1.3 – –
2.4 2.1 (3.7) (4.1) (1.3) (2.0)
No deferred tax has been provided for unremitted earnings of overseas Group companies as the Group controls the dividend policies 
of its subsidiaries. Unremitted earnings may be liable to overseas taxation (after allowing for double taxation relief) if they were to be 
distributed as dividends. The aggregate amount for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised in respect of unremitted 
earnings was £1.2m (2009: £0.7m).
14. Inventories
2010
£m
2009
£m
Finished goods and goods held for resale 32.0 28.0
Inventories are stated net of impairment provisions of £3.6m (2009: £3.4m). During the year £1.0m (2009: £1.1m) was recognised as 
an expense relating to the write-down of inventory to net realisable value.
15. Trade and Other Receivables
2010
£m
2009
£m
Trade receivables 28.5 23.7
Less: Impairment provision (0.6) (0.5)
27.9 23.2
Other receivables 1.4 0.8
Prepayments and accrued income 1.2 1.2
30.5 25.2 55 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
15. Trade and Other Receivables (continued)
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date, by currency was:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Sterling 10.0 8.6
US Dollars 6.8 5.0
Canadian Dollars 7.0 4.6
Euro 2.8 3.5
Other 1.9 2.0
28.5 23.7
Trade receivables, before impairment provisions, are analysed as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Not past due 23.1 19.7
Past due, but not impaired 4.6 3.4
Past due, but partially impaired 0.8 0.6
28.5 23.7
The ageing of trade receivables classed as past due, but not impaired is as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Up to one month past due 3.5 2.4
Between one and two months past due 0.8 0.8
Between two and four months past due 0.2 0.2
Over four months past due 0.1 –
4.6 3.4
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
At 1 October 0.5 0.6
Charged against profit, net 0.2 –
Utilised by write off (0.1) (0.1)
At 30 September 0.6 0.5
16. Trade and Other Payables
2010
£m
2009
£m
Trade payables 16.5 11.5
Other payables 2.8 1.9
Other taxes and social security 1.2 1.7
Accruals and deferred income 11.8 8.2
32.3 23.3 56 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2010
16. Trade and Other Payables (continued)
The maximum exposure to foreign currency risk for trade payables at the reporting date, by currency was:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Sterling 5.6 3.9
US Dollars 6.7 4.2
Canadian Dollars 0.4 0.7
Euro 3.1 2.5
Other 0.7 0.2
16.5 11.5
17. Cash and Cash Equivalents
Sterling
£m
US$
£m
Can$
£m
Euro
£m
2010
Total
£m
Sterling
£m
US$
£m
Can$
£m
Euro
£m
2009
Total
£m
Cash at bank 2.7 3.5 1.5 1.4 9.1 1.0 2.8 1.5 1.2 6.5
Short term deposits 7.7 – 12.2 1.1 21.0 5.8 – 6.9 2.1 14.8
10.4 3.5 13.7 2.5 30.1 6.8 2.8 8.4 3.3 21.3
The short term deposits and cash at bank are both interest bearing at rates linked to the UK Base Rate, or equivalent rate.
18. Financial Instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than a limited number of forward foreign contracts, comprise cash and short term 
deposits, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables and other liabilities. Trade and other receivables and trade and other 
payables arise directly from the Group’s day to day operations. 
The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are those of credit, liquidity, foreign currency and interest rate. An 
explanation of each of these risks, how the Group manages these risks and an analysis of sensitivities is set out on page 26 within 
Risks and Uncertainties, which has been audited.
Further analyses of these risks are set out below:
a) Credit risk
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk was as follows:
Carrying amount
2010
£m
2009
£m
Trade receivables 27.9 23.2
Other receivables 1.4 0.8
Cash and cash equivalents 30.1 21.3
59.4 45.3
There is no material difference between the carrying amount of the financial assets and their fair value at each reporting date. An 
analysis of the ageing and currency of trade receivables and the associated provision for impairment is set out in note 15. An analysis of 
cash and cash equivalents is set out in note 17.  57 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
18. Financial Instruments (continued)
b) Liquidity risk
The Group has no cash loans or overdrafts at each reporting date. 
Carrying amount
2010
£m
2009
£m
Trade payables 16.5 11.5
Other payables 2.8 1.9
Other liabilities 14.2 13.7
33.5 27.1
The maturities of the undiscounted financial liabilities are as follows:
Less than one year 32.3 16.5
One-two years – 8.5
Two-five years 1.4 3.7
33.7 28.7
Less: Discount (0.2) (1.6)
33.5 27.1
There is no material difference between the carrying amount of these financial liabilities and their fair value at each reporting date. 
c) Currency risk
The Group’s main currency risk is its exposure to movements in US dollars, Canadian dollars and euros on trade receivables, trade 
payables and cash and cash equivalents balances. These balances are analysed by currency in notes 15, 16 and 17, respectively.
The Group holds forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge forecast transactional exposure of certain of the Group’s businesses 
to movements in the US dollar and euro. These forward foreign exchange contracts are classified as cash flow hedges and are stated 
at fair value. The net fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts used as hedges at 30 September 2010 was a £0.7m liability 
(2009: £0.3m liability). The amount removed from equity and taken to the consolidated income statement in cost of sales during the 
year was £0.1m (2009: £0.1m). The fair value of cash flow hedges taken to equity during the year was £0.3m (2009: £0.4m).
d) Interest rate risk
The Group does not undertake any hedging of interest rates. All cash deposits, held in the UK and overseas, are held on a short term 
basis at floating rates or overnight rates, based on the relevant UK Base Rate, or equivalent rate. 
An analysis of cash and cash equivalents at the reporting dates is set out in note 17.
e) Fair values
There are no material differences between the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities and their fair value. The basis for 
determining fair values are as follows:
–  Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are valued at year end spot rates adjusted for the forward points to the contract’s value date, and 
gains and losses taken to equity. No contract’s value date is greater than 24 months from the year end. (Level 1 as defined by 
IFRS 7 Financial Instrument: Disclosure).
–  Trade and other receivables/payables
As the majority of receivables/payables have a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the 
fair value. 
–  Other liabilities
The carrying amount represents a discounted value of the expected liability which is deemed to reflect the fair value.  58 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2010
19. Other Liabilities
2010
£m
2009
£m
Future purchases of minority interests 13.2 13.1
Deferred consideration 1.0 0.6
14.2 13.7
Analysed as:
Due within one year 13.0 3.1
Due after one year 1.2 10.6
The movement in the liability for future purchases of minority interests is as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
At 1 October 13.1 11.2
Released to retained earnings on acquisition (note 21) (2.5) –
Put options entered into during the year 0.6 –
Unwinding of discount 1.1 1.1
Fair value remeasurements 0.9 0.8
At 30 September 13.2 13.1
The Group retains put/call options to acquire the outstanding minority shareholdings in AMT, BGS and M Seals, which are exercisable 
between 1 October 2010 and 31 December 2013. The Group is engaged in discussions with the minority shareholders in AMT with a 
view to acquiring all of the outstanding 25% shareholding in AMT in 2011. This would be earlier than anticipated in the original put/call 
option agreements and therefore the liability to acquire these interests of £12.0m has been shown as falling due within one year. 
At 30 September 2010, the estimate of the financial liability to acquire the outstanding minority shareholdings was reassessed by 
the Directors, based on their current estimate of the future performance of the businesses and to reflect foreign exchange rates at 
30 September 2010. This led to a remeasurement of the fair value of these put options and the liability was increased by £0.9m 
(2009: £0.8m) by a charge to the consolidated Income Statement.
At 30 September 2010, deferred consideration of £1.0m comprised £0.8m payable to the vendors of All Seals, £0.1m payable 
to the vendors of the Fischer business and £0.1m payable to the vendors of BGS.  Deferred consideration of £0.3m was paid on 17 
December 2009 to the vendors of Meditech in final settlement of their performance payment and £0.1m was paid on 19 May 2010 
to the vendors of the trade and assets of RT/Dygert International Inc, in final settlement of their performance payment. The balance 
of £0.2m was not required and was released to goodwill (note 10).
20. Minority Interests
£m
At 1 October 2008 1.9
Share of profit for the year 1.3
Dividends paid (0.7)
Exchange adjustments 0.2
At 30 September 2009 2.7
Purchase of minority interests (0.1)
Share of profit for the year 1.5
Dividends paid (1.1)
Exchange adjustments 0.1
At 30 September 2010 3.1 59 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
21. Acquisition of Subsidiaries and Minority Interests
On 12 January 2010, the Group acquired the outstanding 8.2% of the ordinary share capital in Somagen Diagnostics Inc (“Somagen”) 
for £2.5m (C$4.3m) from the minority shareholders of Somagen, pursuant to put/call option agreements entered into at the time of the 
original acquisition in July 2004.  As a consequence, the future purchase of minority interest liability of £2.5m that was recognised in 
the consolidated financial statements at 30 September 2009 has been released to retained earnings.
On 30 July 2010, the Group acquired 80% of Big Green Surgical Company Pty Limited (“BGS”) for maximum consideration of £1.5m 
(A$2.5m), before expenses. The initial cash paid on acquisition was £1.4m (A$2.4m) and the balance of £0.1m (A$0.1m) was paid on 
29 October 2010, based on the net assets at completion. The outstanding 20% of shares are subject to put/call options, exercisable in 
2013, based on an agreed multiple of operating profit.
On 3 August 2010, Sommer Gmbh purchased the stock and customer list of ET Fischer Elektrotechnik (“Fischer”) for maximum 
consideration of £0.2m ( 0.3m), before expenses. The initial cash paid on acquisition was £0.1m ( 0.2m) and further amount up to 
£0.1m ( 0.1m) is payable, based on the revenue generated from those customers in the eighteen month period from the date of 
acquisition.
On 8 September 2010, the Group acquired 100% of All Seals Inc (“All Seals”) for maximum consideration of £7.8m (US$11.9m), 
before expenses. The initial cash paid on acquisition was £6.8m (US$10.5m); a further amount up to £1.0m (US$1.4m) is payable in 
March 2011, based on a number of factors, including principally, the results of All Seals in the year ending 31 December 2010.  At 
30 September 2010, £0.8m (US$1.3m) has been provided as deferred consideration.
The consideration for all of the acquisitions set out above was paid in cash and met from the Group’s existing cash resources.
Set out below is an analysis of the net book value and fair value of the net assets acquired and the consideration payable in respect of 
the acquisitions completed during the year.
Book value
£m
Fair value
£m
Acquisition intangible assets – 4.5
Inventories 0.9 0.8
Trade and other receivables 1.0 1.0
Trade and other payables (0.9) (1.0)
1.0 5.3
Minority’s share of net assets 0.1
Net assets acquired by the Group 5.4
Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed during the year 6.2
11.6
Satisfied by:
Cash paid, before acquisition expenses 10.8
Cash acquired (0.2)
Net cash paid 10.6
Provision for deferred consideration payable 1.0
Total consideration 11.6
Goodwill of £6.2m which arose on acquisitions completed during the year respresents the product know-how held by employees, 
prospects for sales growth from new customers and operating cost synergies. Goodwill and acquisition intangible assets acquired 
during the year of £10.7m, includes £7.1m that will be allowable for a tax deduction in future years.
Acquisition costs incurred during the year of £0.2m were expensed to the Consolidated Income Statement.
From the date of acquisition to 30 September 2010, the newly acquired businesses contributed £0.9m to revenue and £0.2m to 
operating profit. If the acquisition of these businesses had been made at the beginning of the financial year, these businesses would 
have contributed £5.2m to revenue and £0.5m to profit after tax. Profit after tax should not be viewed as indicative of the results of 
these businesses that would have occurred, if these acquisitions had been completed at the beginning of the year. 60 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2010
22. Discontinued Businesses
On 7 January 2010, the Group completed the disposal of the Manual Liquid Handling (“MLH”) business of Anachem Limited for a 
maximum consideration of £8.5m, before disposal costs. Initial cash proceeds of £7.7m were received, of which £0.8m is held in 
escrow; a further £0.8m may be receivable, depending on the revenues generated in the 12 months to 31 December 2010. 
The remainder of the business in Anachem Limited comprised the Instruments division which supplied laboratory automation products.    
This was transferred to a separate entity, Anachem Instruments Limited, prior to completion of the sale of the MLH business.
On 29 April 2010, the Group completed the disposal of Anachem Instruments Limited for a maximum consideration of £0.4m, before 
disposal costs. Initial proceeds of £0.2m were received in cash with a further £0.2m due to be received over the next two years.
There is no tax payable on the profit on disposal of these businesses of £5.5m.
Anachem Limited and Anachem Instruments Limited were both classified as discontinued businesses in 2009 and their net assets 
were classified as “held for sale” at 30 September 2009.
The results of the MLH business, until it was sold on 7 January 2010, and the results of Anachem Instruments, until it was sold on 
29 April 2010, are set out below:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Revenue 5.3 15.7
Cost of sales (4.3) (10.2)
Gross profit 1.0 5.5
Distribution costs (0.2) (0.6)
Administration costs (1.4) (3.7)
(Loss)/profit before tax (0.6) 1.2
Tax credit/(expense) 0.2 (0.3)
(Loss)/profit after tax (0.4) 0.9
Profit on disposal 5.5 –
Profit attributable to discontinued businesses 5.1 0.9
The assets and liabilities of Anachem Limited and Anachem Instruments Limited sold during the year ended 30 September 2010 were 
as follows: 
£m
Other intangible assets 0.3
Property, plant and equipment 0.3
Deferred tax 0.1
Inventories 1.6
Trade and other receivables 1.8
Trade and other payables (2.7)
Net assets disposed of 1.4
Profit on disposal 5.5
Consideration 6.9
£m
Satisfied by:
Cash received on completion 7.1
Less: Expenses of sale (0.2)
Less: Related disposal costs (0.4)
Less: Cash disposed (0.1)
Net cash proceeds received at 30 September 2010 6.4
Add: Cash held in escrow, net 0.5
Consideration 6.9 61 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
22. Discontinued Businesses (continued)
Cash flows from the discontinued businesses included in the consolidated Cash Flow Statement are as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
(Loss)/profit from discontinued businesses (0.4) 0.9
Depreciation/amortisation of tangible and other intangible assets 0.1 0.3
Tax (credit)/expense (0.2) 0.3
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital (0.5) 1.5
Decrease in working capital 0.5 0.5 
Cash paid into defined benefit scheme (note 24) (0.6) –
Cash flow from operating activities (0.6) 2.0
Tax recovered/(paid) 0.1 (0.2)
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (0.5) 1.8
Net cash used in investing activities – (0.1)
Net cash (used in)/from discontinued businesses (0.5) 1.7
As part of the agreement to dispose of the MLH business of Anachem Ltd, the Trustees of the Anachem Limited Retirement Benefit 
Scheme (“Scheme”) consented to the transfer of the residual liabilities in the Scheme to Diploma Holdings PLC (“DHPLC”). In return 
for their consent, a cash sum of £625,000 was paid directly into the Scheme and is included in the net cash outflow of £0.5m from the 
discontinued businesses in the year ended 30 September 2010.
Anachem Limited was previously reported within the Life Sciences business segment and within the United Kingdom geographic 
segment analysis.
2010
£m
2009
£m
Capital expenditure – 0.1
Depreciation (including software) 0.1 0.3
The aggregate payroll costs and average number of employees of the discontinued businesses were as follows:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Wages and salaries 1.1 3.7
Social security costs 0.1 0.4
Pension costs – defined contribution 0.1 0.2
1.3 4.3
2010
Number
2009
Number
Number of employees – average 110 118 62 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2010
23. Reconciliation of Cash Flow from Operating Activities
2010
£m
2009
£m
Profit for the year from continuing businesses 17.9 13.4
Depreciation/amortisation of tangible and other intangible assets 2.1 2.2
Acquisition related charges 3.5 3.1
Share-based payments expense 0.5 0.5
Financial expense, net 1.9 2.0
Tax expense 8.8 7.1
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 34.7 28.3
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (3.2) 6.0
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (4.0) 2.4
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 7.3 (2.3)
Cash paid into defined benefit schemes (note 24) (0.5) (0.2)
Cash flow from operating activities 34.3 34.2
24. Retirement Benefit Obligations
The Group maintains several defined benefit schemes in the UK, all of which are closed to future accrual and the assets of the 
schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds. The schemes are funded in accordance with rates recommended by 
independent qualified actuaries on the basis of triennial or shorter period reviews using the projected unit method. At 30 September 
2010, all of the Group’s defined benefit schemes were merged into a single scheme which was renamed Diploma Holdings PLC UK 
Pension Scheme. In connection with this merger, the sponsoring employer, Diploma Holdings PLC made an additional cash contribution 
of £120,000 to the merged scheme on 30 September 2010. A full funding valuation of the merged schemes will be undertaken as at 
30 September 2010.
Prior to the merger, the two principal defined benefit schemes (“the schemes”) were the Diploma Holdings PLC Permanent Staff 
Pension and Assurance Scheme (“the PLC Scheme”) and the Anachem Limited Retirement Benefits Scheme (“the Anachem 
Scheme”). 
Pension deficit included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Market value of schemes’ assets
Equities 12.9 11.1
Bonds 3.4 3.0
Cash – –
16.3 14.1
Present value of schemes’ liabilities (21.6) (18.8)
(5.3) (4.7)
Amounts credited/(charged) to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of defined benefit schemes:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Charged to operating profit – –
Interest cost (1.0) (1.0)
Expected return on schemes’ assets 1.1 0.9
Credited/(charged) to financial income/(expense) (note 6) 0.1 (0.1)
0.1 (0.1) 63 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
24. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income:
2010
£m
2009
£m
Experience adjustments on schemes’ assets 0.3 0.7
Changes in assumptions on schemes’ liabilities (2.2) (3.8)
Experience adjustments on schemes’ liabilities 0.1 –
Actuarial loss on schemes’ liabilities (1.8) (3.1)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, since the transition to 
IFRS, is £3.9m (2009: £2.1m).
Analysis of movement in the pension deficit:
2010
£m
2009
£m
At 1 October 4.7 1.7
Amounts (credited)/charged to income statement (0.1) 0.1
Contributions paid by employer (1.1) (0.2)
Actuarial loss 1.8 3.1
At 30 September 5.3 4.7
Analysis of the movements in the present value of the schemes’ liabilities:
2010
£m
2009
£m
At 1 October 18.8 14.2
Interest cost 1.0 1.0
Actuarial gain (0.1) –
Loss on changes in assumptions 2.2 3.8
Benefits paid (0.3) (0.2)
At 30 September 21.6 18.8
Analysis of the movements in the present value of the schemes’ assets:
2010
£m
2009
£m
At 1 October 14.1 12.5
Expected return on assets 1.1 0.9
Actuarial gain 0.3 0.7
Contributions paid by employer 1.1 0.2
Benefits paid (0.3) (0.2)
At 30 September 16.3 14.1
The actual return on schemes’ assets during the year was £1.4m (2009: £1.6m). 64 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2010
24. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)
Principal actuarial assumptions for the schemes at balance sheet dates:
2010 2009 2008
Inflation rate 3.2% 3.4% 3.8%
Expected rate of pension increases 3.2% 3.4% 3.8%
Discount rate 5.0% 5.5% 7.0%
Number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond age 65
 22.1 22.1 21.9
 25.0 25.0 24.8
Expected return on schemes’ assets*
Analysed as:
Equities 8.0% 8.0% 8.0%
Bonds 5.0% 5.5% 5.5%
Cash 1.0% 2.0% 4.5%
Demographic assumptions:
Basic mortality table used: 100% of PCMA00/PCFA00
Year the mortality table was published: 2003
Allowance for future improvements in longevity: Year of birth projections, with medium cohort improvements 
with adjustments to reflect expected scheme experience
Allowance made for members to take a cash lump sum on retirement: Members are assumed to take 100% of their maximum 
cash sum (based on current commutation factors)
Sensitivities:
Sensitivity of 2010 pension liabilities to changes in assumptions are as follows:
Impact on pension liabilities
Assumption Assumption Estimated Estimated
increase increase
%£m
Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% 11.1 2.4
Expected rate of pension increase Increase by 0.5% 4.2 0.9
Life expectancy Increase by 1 year 1.9 0.4
* The expected return for each class of scheme assets is based on a combination of historical performance, current market yields and advice from 
investment managers. 65 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
24. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)
Cash funding:
Accounting costs do not impact on the incidence or amount of cash contributions for defined benefit plans. Future cash contributions 
are determined based upon triennial actuarial valuations.
PLC Anachem
Date of last formal funding valuation 30 September 2008 30 September 2009
Deficit £1,508,000 £2,786,000
Funding level 84% 75%
Funding approach Assumes that schemes’ assets will 
outperform Government bonds by 
2.84% pa pre-retirement and 0.24% pa
post-retirement
Assumes that schemes’ assets will
outperform Government bonds by
2.15% pa pre-retirement and NIL% pa
post-retirement
Lump sum contributions per annum to
remove the deficit – on going £96,000 £216,000
– exceptional in 2010 £120,000 £625,000
Period over which the deficit is expected
to be removed 1 October 2009 – 30 September 2029 1 October 2009 – 30 June 2026
Expected contributions during FY2011 £96,000 £216,000
Current investment strategy 80% Equities/20% Bonds 85% Equities/15% Bonds
Number of deferred members at date of
actuarial valuation 137 187
History of experience gains and losses:
All experience adjustments are recognised directly in equity, net of related tax.
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Experience adjustments arising on schemes’ assets:
Amount (£m) 0.3 0.7 (3.4) 0.3 0.6
% of schemes’ assets 2% 5% 27% 2% 5%
Changes in assumptions arising on present value of schemes’ liabilities:
Amount (£m) (2.2) (3.8) 3.0 2.3 (0.6)
% of present value of schemes’ liabilities 10% 20% 21% 14% 3%
Experience adjustments arising on present value of schemes’ liabilities:
Amount (£m) 0.1 – (0.1) 0.1 (0.6)
% of present value of schemes’ liabilities – –1%1%3%
Present value of schemes’ liabilities (21.6) (18.8) (14.2) (16.4) (18.0)
Market value of schemes’ assets 16.3 14.1 12.5 14.8 13.3
Deficit (5.3) (4.7) (1.7) (1.6) (4.7) 66 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2010
25. Commitments
At 30 September 2010 the Group has total lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
Land and Buildings
2010
£m
2009
£m
Lease payments due:
  Within one year 1.3 1.3
  Within two to five years 2.3 2.0
  After five years – 0.3
Total payable at 30 September 3.6 3.6
Operating lease payments made in respect of land and buildings during the year were £1.3m (2009: £1.4m).
26. Audit Fees
During the year the Group received the following services from the auditors:
2010
£’m
2009
£’m
Fees payable to the auditors for the audit of:
–  the Company’s annual report 0.1 0.1
–  the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
Total audit fees 0.2 0.2
Non audit fees of £7,000 (2009: £4,000) for taxation advisory services provided in Canada and £10,000 (2009: £10,000) in connection 
with the Interim Report, were paid to the Group’s auditors.
27. Exchange Rates
The following exchange rates have been used to translate the results of the overseas businesses:
Average Closing
2010 2009 2010 2009
US Dollar 1.56 1.54 1.58 1.60
Canadian Dollar 1.63 1.82 1.62 1.72
Euro 1.15 1.14 1.15 1.09 67 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) 
as endorsed by the European Union, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies reporting under 
IFRS. The accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied in 2010 and the comparative period. The following new 
standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and have been endorsed by the EU; these are 
mandatory for the first time for the year ending 30 September 2010 and are relevant to the Group:
 IAS 1 (revised) ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’;
 IAS 23 (revised) ‘Borrowing Costs’;
 IAS 27 (revised) ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’;
 IFRS 2 (revised) ‘Share-based Payment’;
 IFRS 3 (revised) ‘Business Combinations’; and 
 IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’.
IAS 1 (revised) ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ requires the presentation of a statement of comprehensive income and the 
presentation of the statement of changes in equity as a primary statement. The changes are merely presentational and have not 
impacted the Group’s reported profit or net assets.
IFRS 3 (revised) ‘Business Combinations’ applies to business combinations arising after 1 October 2009.  Amongst other changes, the 
revisions effected by the new standard require subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration payable in respect of 
an acquisition to be recognised in the income statement rather than against goodwill, and require transaction costs attributable to an 
acquisition to be recognised immediately in the income statement. These changes have been applied for acquisitions acquired during 
the year.
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ requires that operating segments should be determined on the basis of those segments whose 
operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, which has been determined to be the Board. This has 
not impacted the Group’s presentation of its results and the Group continues to report using the same three business segments as 
previously.
IAS 23 (revised) ‘Borrowing Costs’, IAS 27 (revised) ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’ and IFRS 2 (revised) ‘Share-
based Payment’ have had no impact on the results or net assets of the Group.
1 Group Accounting Policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial 
instruments which are held at fair value. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as 
discussed in the Directors’ Report on page 29.
1.2 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its 
subsidiaries). Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income 
statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with 
those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis. All intra-group transactions, 
balances, income and expenses are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Non-controlling interests, defined as minority interests, in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the 
Group’s equity therein. Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and 
the minority’s share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
1.3 Divestments
The results and cash flows of major lines of businesses that have been divested have been classified as discontinued businesses.
1.4 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to 
customers, after deducting sales allowances and value added taxes. Revenue is recognised when the risk and rewards of ownership 
transfers to the customer, which depending on individual customer terms, is at the time of despatch, delivery or upon formal customer 
acceptance. Provision is made for returns where appropriate. Service revenue received in advance is deferred and recognised over the 
period of the contract.
Group Accounting Policies
For the year ended 30 September 2010 68 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Group Accounting Policies continued
For the year ended 30 September 2010
1.5 Employee benefits
The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type. The defined benefit schemes 
are closed to the accrual of future benefits.
  (a) Defined contribution pension plans
Contributions to the Group’s defined contribution schemes are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they fall due.
  (b) Defined benefit pension plans
The deficit recognised in the balance sheet for the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes is the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated 
by independent actuaries using the projected unit cost method and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest 
rates on high quality corporate bonds. The pension expense for the Group’s defined benefit plans is recognised as follows:
(i)  Within profit before tax:
Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments – where the item that gave rise to the settlement or 
curtailment is recognised in operating profit;
Interest cost on the liabilities of the schemes – calculated by reference to the scheme liabilities and major 
assumptions, including the discount rate, at the beginning of the year; and
Expected return on the assets of the schemes – calculated by reference to the scheme assets and long-term expected 
rate of return at the beginning of the year.
(ii)  Within the statement of recognised income and expense:
Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the schemes arising from actual experience and any 
changes in assumptions at the end of the year.
  The Group has adopted a policy of recognising all actuarial gains and losses for all of its defined benefit schemes in the period in 
which they occur, outside the income statement, in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
  (c) Share-based payments
The Executive Directors of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby 
the Directors render services in exchange for shares in the Company, or rights over shares (“equity-settled” transactions).
  Equity-settled transactions are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date takes 
account of the effect of market based measures, such as the Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) targets upon which vesting of part 
of the award is conditional, and is expensed to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a 
corresponding credit to equity. The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted to take account of shares forfeited by Executives 
who leave during the performance or vesting period and, in the case of non-market related performance conditions, where it 
becomes unlikely that shares will vest. For the market based measure, the Directors have used a predicted future value model to 
determine fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
  The Group operates an Employee Benefit Trust for the granting of shares to Executives. The cost of shares in the Company 
purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust are shown as a deduction from equity.
1.6 Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which that entity operates. For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial 
position of each entity are translated into UK sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
  (a) Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency:
Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are initially recorded at the rates of 
exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each subsequent balance sheet date:
(i)  Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences 
arising on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the income statement;
(ii)  Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated; and
(iii)  Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are retranslated using the exchange rates at the date 
the fair value was determined. Where a gain or loss on non-monetary items is recognised directly in equity, any exchange 
component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity and conversely, where a gain or loss on a non-monetary 
item is recognised in the income statement, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised in the income 
statement.
  (b) Translation from functional currency to presentational currency:
When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Group’s presentational currency, its results and financial 
position are translated into the presentational currency as follows:
(i)  Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date;
(ii)  Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such an average 
rate does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used; and
(iii)  All resulting exchange differences are recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity; these 
cumulative exchange differences are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is 
disposed of. 69 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
  (c) Net investment in foreign operations:
Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation 
are recognised in the income statement in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the foreign operation as 
appropriate. In the consolidated Group accounts such exchange differences are initially recognised in translation reserves as a 
separate component of equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement on disposal of the net investment.
1.7 Taxation
The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement. 
Taxable profit excludes items of income and expense that are taxable (or deductible) in other years and also excludes items that are 
never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas tax, is calculated using rates 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Temporary 
differences arise primarily from the recognition of the deficit on the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, the difference between 
accelerated capital allowances and depreciation and for short term timing differences where a provision held against receivables or 
stock is not deductible for taxation purposes. However, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference 
arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other that in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction 
that affects neither the tax profit, nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the 
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is possible that the temporary difference will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, as the Group controls the 
dividend policies of its subsidiaries.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when the item on which the tax or charged is credited or charged 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all 
or part of the assets to be recovered. Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to enforce current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same fiscal authority.
1.8 Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost 
less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in 
bringing the asset into use, but excluding interest. All other repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the income statement in 
the period in which it is incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life. Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the 
asset is available for use and is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost, less residual value 
of the asset, over its estimated useful life as follows:
Freehold property – between 20 and 50 years Plant and equipment – plant and machinery between 3 and 7 years
Leasehold property – term of the lease – IT hardware between 3 and 5 years
  – fixtures and fittings between 5 and 15 years
The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at 
each financial year end. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as 
owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to 
its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses arising on 
disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
1.9 Intangible assets
All intangible assets, excluding goodwill arising on a business combination, are stated at their amortised cost or fair value less any 
provision for impairment.
  (a) Research and development costs
Research expenditure is written off as incurred. Development costs are written off as incurred until it can be demonstrated that 
the conditions for capitalisation as described in IAS 38 (Intangible Assets) are met. At which point further costs are capitalised 
as intangible assets up until the intangible asset is readily available for production and amortised on a straight-line basis over the 
asset’s estimated useful life.
  Costs are capitalised as intangible assets unless physical assets, such as tooling, exist when they are classified as property, 
plant and equipment.
  (b) Computer software costs
Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment its costs are capitalised as other intangible 
assets. Amortisation is provided on a straight line basis over its useful economic life of between three and seven years. 70 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Group Accounting Policies continued
For the year ended 30 September 2010
  (c) Acquired intangible assets – business combinations
Intangible assets that are acquired as a result of a business combination, including, but not limited to, customer lists, supplier 
lists, databases, technology and software and patents and that can be separately measured at fair value, on a reliable basis, are 
separately recognised on acquisition at the fair value, together with the associated deferred tax liability. Amortisation is charged 
on a straight line basis to the income statement over the expected useful economic lives.
  (d) Goodwill – business combinations
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration 
over the aggregate fair value of the identifiable intangible and tangible assets and net of the aggregate fair value of the liabilities 
(including contingent liabilities of businesses acquired at the date of acquisition). Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost 
and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Impairment testing is carried out annually or more 
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Goodwill on acquisitions is not 
amortised.
1.10 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of (i) its fair value less costs to sell and (ii) its value in use; its 
value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit, discounted 
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or 
cash-generating unit. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
  (a) Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit; cash-generating units for this purpose are the 
business entities which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored by the Group’s Board 
of Directors for internal and management purposes. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for 
impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
  If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated 
first to reduce the goodwill attributable to the cash-generating unit.
  An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
  (b) Impairment of other tangible and intangible assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of 
the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss. For the purposes of assessing impairment, 
assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows. Where it is not possible to 
estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit 
to which the asset belongs.
  Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the 
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years. 
A reversal of an impairment loss for tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill is recognised immediately in the income 
statement.
1.11 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, (generally calculated on a weighted average cost basis) and net realisable value, after 
making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving inventory. Cost comprises direct materials, duty and freight-in costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to 
make the sale.
1.12 Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument.
  (a) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value, do not carry any interest and are reduced by a charge for impairment for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts. Such impairment charges are recognised in the income statement.
  (b) Trade payables
Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are initially measured at their fair value.
  (c) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, interest bearing deposits, bank overdrafts and short-term highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the 
Group’s cash management system. 71 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
  (d) Put options held by minority interests
On exercise of put options held by minority shareholders in the Group’s subsidiaries, the purchase price of the shares is 
calculated by reference to the profitability of the relevant subsidiary at the time of exercise, using a multiple based formula. The 
net present value of the estimated future payments under these put options is shown as a financial liability. The corresponding 
entry is recognised in equity as a deduction against retained earnings. At the end of each year, the estimate of the financial liability 
is reassessed and any change in value is recognised in the income statement, as part of finance income or expense. Where the 
liability is in a foreign currency, any change in the value of the liability resulting from changes in exchange rates is recognised in 
the income statement.
  (e) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the effects of its 
exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange arising from operational and financial activities. In accordance with its treasury 
policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The fair value of forward foreign 
exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
  Under IAS39, hedging relationships are categorised by type and must meet strict criteria to qualify for hedge accounting. At the 
inception of the transaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item. The 
Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the financial instruments 
that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. The 
Group uses cash flow hedges (eg forward foreign exchange currency contracts) to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows of a 
highly probable forecast transaction.
  In relation to cash flow hedges, to hedge firm commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of 
the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly to equity and the 
ineffective portion is recognised in net profit or loss. For cash flow hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a 
liability, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same year in which the 
hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies 
for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in 
equity until the hedged transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss 
recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the year.
  The Group does not use financial instruments to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities 
that are attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss (fair value hedges). No financial instruments are used to 
hedge net investments in a foreign operation (net investment hedges).
1.13 Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risk and rewards of ownership to 
the lessee. Leases include hire purchase contracts which have characteristics similar to finance or operating leases. All other leases are 
classified as operating leases.
  (a) Finance leases
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, 
at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a 
finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to 
achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged to the income statement.
  (b) Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant 
lease. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over 
the expected lease term.
1.14 Other liabilities
Other liabilities are recognised when the Group has legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is possible that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation. Other liabilities are measured at the Director’s best estimate of the expenditure required 
to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
1.15 Dividends
The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the Annual General Meeting; interim dividends are charged in the period 
they are paid.
1.16 Share capital and reserves
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a 
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. The Group also maintains the following reserves:
(a)  Translation reserve – The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the 
financial statements of foreign businesses.
(b)  Hedging reserve – The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash 
flow hedging instruments that are determined to be an effective hedge.  72 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Group Accounting Policies continued
For the year ended 30 September 2010
(c)  Retained earnings reserve – The retained earnings reserve comprises total recognised income and expense for the year 
attributable to shareholders. Bonus issues of share capital and dividends to shareholders are also charged directly to this 
reserve. On acquisition of minority interests, the liability held in the consolidated financial statements for the future purchases 
of those minority interests is released to the retained earnings reserve. In addition the cost of acquiring shares in the 
Company and the liability to provide those shares to employees, is accounted for in this reserve. 
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury shares or 
indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is 
deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where 
such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction 
costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders. These shares are used to 
satisfy share awards granted to Directors under the Group’s share schemes. The trustee purchases the Company’s shares on the open 
market using loans made by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
1.17 Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards not yet effective
The following new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and have been endorsed by 
the EU, that are mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2010:
 Amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payments’: cash-settled share-based payment transaction;
 IFRS 9 (revised) ‘Financial Instruments – Classification and Measurement’;
 Amendment to IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’: revised definition of related parties;
 Amendment to IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’: classification of rights issues;
 Amendment to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’: eligible hedged items; and
 Annual Improvements to IFRSs issued April 2009 and May 2010.
The Group has considered the impact of these new standards and interpretations in future periods and no significant impact is 
expected on reported profit or net assets.
The Group has chosen not to early adopt any of these new standards and interpretations. 
2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements
In order to prepare these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 1 above, 
management has used estimates and judgements to establish the amounts at which certain items are recorded. Critical accounting 
estimates and judgements are those which have the greatest impact on the financial statements and require the most difficult and 
subjective judgements about matters that are inherently uncertain. Estimates are based on factors including historical experience and 
expectations of future events that management believe to be reasonable. However given the judgemental nature of such estimates, 
actual results could be different from the assumptions used. The critical accounting estimates and judgements are set out below:
2.1 Goodwill impairment
The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill has a value that will benefit the performance of the Group 
over future periods. To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least annually, of the carrying value 
of the Group’s capitalised goodwill, using discounted cash flow forecasts to derive the “value in use” to the Group of the capitalised 
goodwill. This calculation is usually based on projecting future cash flows over at least a five year period and using a terminal value to 
incorporate expectations of growth thereafter. A discount factor is applied to obtain a current value (“value in use”). The “fair value less 
costs to sell” of an asset is used if this results in an amount in excess of “value in use”.
Estimated future cash flows for impairment calculations are based on management’s expectations of future volumes and margins 
based on plans and best estimates of the productivity of the assets in their current condition. Future cash flows therefore exclude 
benefits from major expansion projects requiring future capital expenditure where that expenditure has not been approved at the 
balance sheet date.
Future cash flows are discounted using discount rates based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, adjusted if appropriate 
for circumstances specific to the asset being tested. The weighted average cost of capital is impacted by estimates of interest rates, 
equity returns and market and country related risks. The Group’s weighted average cost of capital is reviewed on an annual basis.
The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Group’s 
businesses for this purpose. Changes to the assumptions and discount rates used in making these forecasts could significantly alter 
the Directors’ assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
2.2 Retirement benefits
The Group’s financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension retirement benefits to 
current and former employees. It is the Directors’ responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the 
costs of meeting such future obligations. These assumptions are set after consultation with the Group’s actuaries and are consistent 
with those assumptions used to determine the financing elements related to the Schemes’ assets and liabilities. Whilst the Directors 
believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect the Group profit and financial 
position. Details of these assumptions, which are based on advice from the Group’s actuaries, are set out in note 24. 73 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
2.3 Taxation
The Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions around the world. Tax regulations generally are complex and in some jurisdictions 
agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities can take several years. Consequently, at the balance sheet date tax liabilities and 
assets are based on management’s best estimate of the future amounts that will be settled. While the Group aims to ensure that the 
estimates recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
Deferred tax assets mainly represent timing differences that the Group expects to recover at some time in the future and by their 
nature, the amounts recorded are therefore dependent on management’s judgement about future events. Account has also been taken 
of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values at which these deferred tax assets are recognised. If these forecast profits 
do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the timing difference might be recognised, 
then the value of the deferred tax asset will need to be revised in a future period.
2.4 Current assets
In the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to establish the net realisable value of various elements of working capital, 
principally inventory and trade receivables. Impairment charges are made against obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or doubtful 
debts.
The decision to make an impairment charge is based on the facts available at the time the financial statements are approved and 
are also determined by using profiles, based on past practice, applied to certain aged inventory and trade receivables categories. 
In estimating the collectability of trade receivables, judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current 
creditworthiness of each customer and related ageing of the past due balances. Specific accounts are assessed in situations where a 
customer may not be able to meet its financial obligations due to deterioration of its financial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
2.5 Property, plant and equipment
It is Group policy to depreciate its property, plant and equipment assets, except freehold land, on a straight-line basis over their 
estimated useful lives. This applies an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the delivery of goods and services. A key 
element of this policy is the estimate of the useful life applied to each category of property, plant and equipment which, in turn, 
determines the annual depreciation charge. Variations in asset lives could impact Group profit through an increase or decrease in the 
depreciation charge.
2.6 Future purchases of minority interests
The Group’s financial statements include a financial liability for the net present value of the expected amount that it will pay in future 
years to acquire the outstanding shares held by minority shareholders in the Group’s subsidiaries. This amount is based on the 
Directors’ estimate of the future profitability of the relevant subsidiary and on an assumption of the exchange rates prevailing at the 
time the payment is made. Any changes to the estimated profitability of the relevant business and/or changes to the assumption of the 
relevant exchange rate, will change the estimate of this financial liability. 74 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
2010 2009
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments   c 72.0 70.2
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings    (42.3) (41.0)
Total assets less current liabilities 29.7 29.2
Capital and reserves
Called up equity share capital   d 5.7 5.7
Profit and loss account    24.0 23.5
29.7 29.2
The financial statements of Diploma PLC, company number 3899848, were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 November 2010 
and signed on its behalf by:
BM Thompson NP Lingwood
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director
The notes on page 75 form part of these financial statements.
Reconciliation of Movements in
Shareholders’ Funds
For the year ended 30 September 2010
Profit and
Share loss
capital account Total
£m £m £m
At 1 October 2009   5.7 23.5 29.2
Retained profit for the year   – 0.3 0.3
Transfer of own shares, net   – 0.2 0.2
At 30 September 2010 5.7 24.0 29.7
Parent Company Balance Sheet
As at 30 September 2010 75 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
75 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
a) Accounting Policies
a.1 Basis of accounting
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and 
applicable UK accounting standards. A summary of the accounting policies of the Parent company (“the Company”) is set out below. 
As permitted by section 404 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account is presented for the Company. 
a.2 Investments and dividends
Investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment. Dividend income is recognised when received. Dividend distributions are 
recognised in the Company’s financial statements in the year in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. 
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
a.3 Employment Benefit Trust and Employee Share Schemes
Shares held by the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”) are stated at cost and accounted for as a deduction from 
shareholders’ funds in accordance with UITF 38. Shares that are held by the Trust are not eligible for dividends until such time as the 
awards have vested to the employees.
b) Directors’ Remuneration
No emoluments are paid directly by the Company; information on the Directors’ remuneration and interests in the share capital of the 
Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 40.
c) Investments
£m
Shares in Group undertakings
At 1 October 2009     70.2
Additions 1.8
At 30 September 2010     72.0
Details of the principal subsidiaries are set out on page 78.
d) Share Capital
  2010 2009 2010 2009
   Number Number £m £m
Allotted, issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p each
At 30 September 113,239,555 113,239,555 5.7 5.7
During the year 385,290 shares were transferred from the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust to participants in connection with vesting 
of awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan. On 19 March 2010, the Trust purchased a further 250,000 of shares for £0.4m. 
In accordance with UITF 38, the purchase cost of own shares, net of shares which have vested, are shown as a movement in 
shareholders’ funds.
At 30 September 2010 the Trust held 732,973 (2009: 868,263) ordinary shares in the Company representing 0.6% of the called up 
share capital. The market value of the shares at 30 September 2010 was £2.1m (2009: £1.5m).
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2010 76 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Independent Auditors’ Reports
For the year ended 30 September 2010
Independent Auditors’ Report on the Group financial statements to the Members of Diploma PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2010 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated cash flow statement, the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity, the Group 
accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 27. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for the Financial Statements, the directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
  the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ Report in relation to going concern; and
  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent company financial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended and on the information in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
Ian Waller (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
22 November 2010 77 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
77 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Independent Auditors’ Report on the Parent Company financial statements to the Members of Diploma PLC
We have audited the Parent company financial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2010 which comprise 
the Parent company balance sheet, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds and the related notes a) to d). The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for the Financial Statements, the directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the Parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit the Parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Parent company financial statements:
  give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent company’s affairs as at 30 September 2010;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the Parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
  the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2010.
Ian Waller (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London
22 November 2010  78 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Group Country of
percentage of incorporation
equity capital or registration
Life Sciences
a1-envirosciences Limited 100% England
a1-envirosciences GmbH 100% Germany
a1-safetech AG  100% Switzerland
Somagen Diagnostics Inc  100% Canada
AMT Vantage Holdings Inc  75% Canada
Big Green Surgical Company Pty Limited 80% Australia
Seals
Hercules Sealing Products Inc 100% USA
RTD Seals Corp 100% USA
All Seals Inc 100% USA
HKX Inc 100% USA
Hercules Europe BV 100% Netherlands
M Seals A/S 90% Denmark
FPE Limited 100% England
Controls
IS Rayfast Limited 100% England
IS Motorport Inc 100% USA
Clarendon Engineering Supplies Limited 100% England
Cabletec Interconnect  Components Systems Limited 100% England
Sommer GmbH 100% Germany
Filcon GmbH 100% Germany
HA Wainwright (Group) Limited 100% England
Hitek Limited 100% England
Other Companies
Diploma Holdings PLC 100% England
Diploma Holdings Inc 100% USA
A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the next Annual Return of Diploma PLC filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Principal Subsidiaries 79 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Section 4: Financial Statements
Financial Calendar and Shareholder Information
Announcements (provisional dates):
Interim Management Statement released 12 January 2011
Interim Management Statement released 1 August 2011
Half Year Results announced 17 May 2011
Preliminary Results announced 21 November 2011
Annual Report posted to shareholders 5 December 2011
Annual General Meeting 11 January 2012
Dividends (provisional dates)
Interim announced 17 May 2011
Paid 22 June 2011
Final announced 21 November 2011
Paid (if approved) 18 January 2012
Annual Report: Copies can be obtained from the Company Secretary at the address shown below.
Share Registrar – Computershare Investor Services PLC: The Company’s Registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC, 
PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH. Telephone: 0870 7020010. Their website for shareholder enquiries is 
www.computershare.co.uk
Shareholders’ enquiries: If you have any enquiry about the Company’s business or about something affecting you as a shareholder
(other than questions dealt with by Computershare Investor Services PLC) you are invited to contact the Company Secretary at the
address shown below.
Secretary and Registered Office:
N P Lingwood FCA, 12 Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6AX. Telephone: 020 7549 5700. Fax: 020 7549 5715. 
Registered in England and Wales, number 3899848.
Web site: Diploma’s web site is www.diplomaplc.com 80 Diploma PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Five Year Record
For the year ended 30 September 2010
Five Year Record
For the year ended 30 September 2010
  2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
Continuing businesses  £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue  183.5 160.0 156.2 124.5 112.1
Adjusted operating profit  32.1 25.6 26.6 20.7 18.1
Finance income/(expense)  0.1 (0.1) 0.2 1.2 1.0
Adjusted profit before tax  32.2 25.5 26.8 21.9 19.1
Acquisition related charges  (3.5) (3.1) (2.7) (1.0) (0.3)
Property profits  – – – – 11.1
Fair value remeasurements  (2.0) (1.9) (3.0) – –
Profit before tax  26.7 20.5 21.1 20.9 29.9
Tax expense  (8.8) (7.1) (7.2) (7.1) (6.6)
Profit for the year from continuing businesses  17.9 13.4 13.9 13.8 23.3
Profit from discontinued businesses  5.1 0.9 0.5 1.0 0.9
Profit for the year  23.0 14.3 14.4 14.8 24.2
Capital structure
Equity shareholders’ funds  136.1 121.4 108.1 90.7 92.9
Minority interest  3.1 2.7 1.9 1.8 1.6
Add/(less): cash and cash equivalents  (30.1) (21.3) (15.7) (12.4) (36.7)
Add/(less): retirement benefit obligations  5.3 4.7 1.7 1.6 4.7
Add/(less): future purchases of minority interests  13.2 13.1 11.2 11.8 –
Add/(less): deferred tax, net  1.3 2.0 3.3 3.6 (3.4) 
Add/(less): adjustment to goodwill in respect of deferred tax  (6.6) (6.5) (6.0) (5.6) –
Trading capital employed  122.3 116.1 104.5 91.5 59.1
Net increase/(decrease) in cash  8.6 2.2 2.0 (25.3) 9.8
Add:  dividends paid  10.2 9.1 7.8 5.7 5.0 
acquisition of businesses  11.0 12.2 7.9 31.6 8.0
Free cash flow  29.8 23.5 17.7 12.0 22.8
Per ordinary share (pence)
Basic earnings  14.6 10.8 11.4 11.8 20.3
Adjusted earnings  18.9 14.8 16.0 13.1 11.8
Dividends  9.0 7.8 7.5 5.4 4.6
Total shareholders’ equity  120 107 95 80 82
Dividend cover  2.1 1.9 2.1 2.4 2.6
Ratios  % % % % %
Return on trading capital employed  22.1 19.0 22.4 25.5 25.1
Operating margin  17.5 16.0 17.0 16.6 16.1
 
Continuing and discontinued businesses  £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue  188.8 175.7 172.3 140.7 128.2
Adjusted profit before tax  31.6 26.7 27.5 23.3 20.4
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share (pence)  18.5 15.6 16.4 14.0 12.6
Notes
1  Return on trading capital employed represents operating profit, before acquisition related charges, as a percentage of trading capital employed (as 
adjusted for the effect of the timing of major acquisitions and disposals). Trading capital employed is calculated as defined in note 2 to the consolidated 
financial statements.
2  Adjusted earnings per share is calculated in accordance with note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
3  Total shareholders’ equity per share have been calculated by dividing equity shareholders’ funds by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the year end.
4 Dividend cover is calculated on adjusted earnings as defined in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
5  On 21 January 2008 the Company undertook a bonus issue of four new ordinary shares of 5 pence each for each ordinary share held by shareholders of 
the Company. The comparative amounts have been restated to reflect this bonus issue.
6  Acquisition costs have been charged against profit from 1 October 2009; prior to 1 October 2009 acquisition costs were included as part of the cost of 
investment. Design: Energy Design Studio  T. +44 (0)20 7249 1881
Production: Imprima Limited  T. +44 (0)20 7105 0300 12 Charterhouse Square
London EC1M 6AX
T. +44 (0)20 7549 5700
F. +44 (0)20 7549 5715
www.diplomaplc.com
Diploma PLC
