 Diploma PLC
Annual Report  
& Accounts 2011
Diploma PLC Annual Report  & Accounts 2011 Diploma PLC
Our business
Our Sectors
Diploma PLC is an international group of businesses supplying 
specialised technical products and services. We operate globally  
in three distinct sectors: 
Life Sciences Suppliers of consumables, instrumentation and  
related services to the healthcare and environmental industries. 
Seals Suppliers of hydraulic seals, gaskets, cylinders, components  
and kits for heavy mobile machinery and industrial equipment.
Controls Suppliers of specialised wiring, connectors, fasteners  
and control devices for technically demanding applications.
1. Overview 
 01 Financial Highlights
 02 Chairman’s Statement
2. Group Performance 
 04 Chief Executive’s Review
 10 Sector Review
  – Life Sciences
  – Seals
  – Controls
 17  Finance Review
 20 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
3. Governance 
 24 Board of Directors and Advisors
 26 Corporate Governance
 30 Audit Committee
 32 Remuneration Report
 42 Other statutory Information
Sections 1–3 make up the Directors’ Report in accordance  
with the Companies Act 2006.
4. Financial Statements 
 46 Consolidated Financial Statements
 50 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
 67 Group Accounting Policies
 74 Parent Company Balance Sheet
 75  Notes to the Parent Company Financial 
Statements
 76 Independent Auditor’s Reports
 79 Financial Calendar and Shareholder Information
 80 Five Year Record 01
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Financial Highlights
Year ended 30 September 2011
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Revenue 230.6 183.5 +26%
Adjusted operating profit
1
45.2 32.1 +41%
Adjusted operating margin
1
19.6% 17.5% 
Adjusted profit before tax
1,2
44.9 32.2 +39%
Profit before tax 39.2 26.7 +47%
Profit for the year
3
27.6 23.0 +20%
Free cash flow 25.0 29.8 –16%
Pence Pence
Adjusted earnings per share
1,2
27.9 18.9 +48%
Basic earnings per share 24.0 14.6 +64%
T otal dividends per share 12.0 9.0 +33%
Free cash flow per share 22.1 26.3 –16%
1 Before acquisition related charges.
2 Before fair value remeasurements.
3 Profit for the year is stated after tax and includes the profit on sale of the discontinued businesses in the prior year.  
All other reported results relate to continuing businesses.
Note:
Diploma PLC uses alternative performance measures as key financial indicators to assess the underlying performance of 
the Group. These include adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share and free cash 
flow. The narrative in the Annual Review is based on these alternative measures and an explanation is set out in note 2 to 
the consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report & Accounts.
Continued strong 
performance Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
02
Chairman’s Statement
As I enter my tenth year as a Director of the Company, 
it is particularly encouraging to report another year of 
excellent progress at Diploma with key performance 
indicators all hitting record levels.
These results continue to demonstrate the strength and 
resilience of the Group’s business model which has 
enabled it to report consistent profitable growth over 
the past ten years. In July 2002 when I joined the 
Company, the Group had recently emerged from a 
major restructuring programme, having divested a 
number of traditional core businesses and returned a 
large proportion of the cash proceeds (ca. £70m) to 
shareholders. The Group had just reported pre-tax 
profits of £10.0m on revenues of £66.3m in respect of 
its continuing businesses. At the same time the Group’s 
market capitalisation was below £100m and total 
dividends were 2.6p per share. 
Over the ten years since then, the Group has generated 
strong double digit compound growth in revenues 
through a combination of steady organic growth and 
value enhancing acquisitions. Profits and dividends over 
this period have increased by a factor of more than four 
times. The total shareholder return (“TSR”) has also 
grown strongly relative to the FTSE mid-250 index 
(excluding investment trusts) (“FTSE 250”) which we have 
always seen as a benchmark for our performance. This 
strong relative performance was recognised in October 
of this year when the Company achieved the important 
milestone of promotion to the FTSE 250. 
Towards the end of this year, the Board approved 
proposals to further expand the activities in a number 
of key businesses by moving their existing activities to 
new enlarged facilities. These facilities will enable the 
momentum of growth to be sustained, within the 
constraints of an uncertain economic outlook. I remain 
confident that with its broader base of businesses, the 
resilience of its business model and its depth of 
resources, the Group is well placed to continue to make 
further progress in the next ten year period.
2011 Results
Group revenue increased by 26% to £230.6m (2010: 
£183.5m) with the businesses continuing to benefit from 
strong customer demand and with acquisitions 
completed over the past eighteen months, contributing 
£17.2m to this year’s Group result. The on-going focus 
on adding value to our delivery of product and services, 
together with the benefit of cost reductions carried 
out in 2009 has led to a further increase in adjusted 
operating margins to 19.6% (2010: 17.5%). As a result there 
was a substantial increase in adjusted operating profit, 
up by 41% to £45.2m (2010: £32.1m). Underlying Group 
revenues and adjusted operating profit increased by 17% 
and 31% respectively, after adjusting for the contribution 
from acquisitions and from the impact of currency 
movements on the translation of overseas results.
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 39% to £44.9m 
(2010: £32.2m) and adjusted earnings per share, which 
were boosted by the purchase of minority interests, 
increased by 48% to 27.9p (2010: 18.9p).
Free cash flow of £25.0m was generated as the 
businesses took advantage of better supply of product to 
rebuild working capital from the exceptionally low level 
last year. Last year’s free cash flow of £29.8m included 
£6.4m from the disposal of the Anachem businesses. 
Strong Balance Sheet
Given the current uncertainty in the global financial 
markets, the Board continues to focus on ensuring that it 
has sufficient financial resources to take advantage of 
acquisition opportunities. An important part of this 
process was the securing of new bank facilities, earlier in 
the year, which can provide up to £40m of borrowings. 
These facilities, together with net cash of £12.2m held at 
30 September 2011, ensure that the Group continues to 
maintain a strong balance sheet. 
Acquisitions 
During the year the Group spent £28.2m on acquisitions, 
principally in the Canadian Healthcare sector, with the 
acquisition of Carsen Medical Inc. (“CMI”) in December 
2010 and the purchase of the outstanding 25% minority 
shares in AMT. This latter acquisition of minorities 
facilitated the merger of AMT’s endoscopy business with 
CMI with effect from 30 September 2011. 
John Rennocks
Chairman 03
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
27.9
18.9
14.8
16.0
13.1
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
258
222
129
107
150
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
12.0
9.0
7.8
7.5
5.4
It remains an important part of the Board’s strategy to 
accelerate growth through carefully selected, value 
enhancing acquisitions. A cornerstone of our acquisition 
programme has always been to target businesses where 
we see the opportunity for above average growth soon 
after the activities have been integrated into the Group.
 
We believe that the current stage of the business cycle 
provides a reasonably good environment for making 
such acquisitions. Good recent performance by target 
companies allows for sensible valuation discussions to be 
held with sellers, while the general economic uncertainty 
may encourage them to feel that the time may be right 
to sell their companies. 
Dividends
As a result of the excellent progress made by the 
Company during the year, the Board is recommending 
an increase in the final dividend of 37% to 8.5p per share 
(2010: 6.2p) which, subject to shareholder approval at the 
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 25 January 2012, 
to shareholders on the register at 9 December 2011. 
The total dividend per share for the year will be 12.0p 
which represents a 33% increase on 2010 and represents 
the twelfth successive year that the Company has 
reported an increase in dividends paid to shareholders. 
Governance
The importance of maintaining high standards of 
governance within the Company has been re-
emphasised this year with the implementation of 
recommendations set out in the updated UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The development of strong 
governance is a continuous process and I will be working 
closely with my Board colleagues this year to ensure that 
the Company’s governance standards and procedures 
are appropriate to meet the requirements of a FTSE 350 
constituent member. These requirements are set out 
further in the Chairman’s foreword to the statement on 
Corporate Governance set out on page 26 of the 
Annual Report & Accounts. 
Employees
Our employees are our most important asset and we 
continue to invest time and resources into developing 
strong management groups and committed staff teams. 
We encourage an entrepreneurial culture within our 
businesses so that our employees feel responsible for 
their own businesses while being able to draw on the 
resources of a larger group. I wish to thank all of our 
employees for their exceptional efforts in helping to 
deliver this year’s very strong financial performance. 
 
Outlook
The financial performance of the Group this year has 
benefited from strong trading in its principal markets. 
While trading remains robust, underlying organic 
growth is expected to trend towards our target “GDP 
plus” levels when measured against increasingly 
demanding comparatives.
With a resilient business model, a good geographic 
spread of activities and supported by a strong balance 
sheet, the Group is well placed to withstand further 
shocks to the global economy. With this background, a 
combination of consistent organic growth, together with 
a favourable environment for acquisitions, provide the 
Board with confidence that further progress will be made 
in the new financial year.
John Rennocks
Chairman
21 November 2011
+19% p.a.
EPS growth 
+21% p.a.
TSR growth
+21% p.a.
Dividend growth
Adjusted EPS in pence TSR index, 2006 = 100 Dividends in pence per share
Five year performance Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
04
Chief Executive’s Review
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
Principal corporate objectives
Achieve double digit growth in adjusted EPS over the 
business cycle
Adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”), measured over the 
business cycle, provides an absolute benchmark of the 
Company’s performance. Over the last five years, 
adjusted EPS has grown at a compound growth rate of 
19% p.a. through a combination of steady organic 
growth and carefully targeted acquisitions.
Generate TSR growth in the upper quartile of the  
FTSE 250 
Total shareholder return (“TSR”) is the growth in value of 
a share plus the value of dividends re-invested in the 
Company’s shares on the day on which they are paid. 
Our business model
Essential SOlu TiOnS
We provide solutions to 
meet customer needs, 
combining:
•	 Highly responsive 
customer service
•	 Deep technical 
knowledge and support
•	 Value adding activities
Essential vAlu ES
We encourage an 
entrepreneurial culture in 
our businesses:
•	 Decentralised 
management model
•	 Ensures businesses are 
agile and responsive to 
change
Essential PRODuCTS
We focus on businesses 
which supply essential 
products and services:
•	 Funded by customers’ 
operating rather than 
capital budgets
•	 Providing recurring 
income and stable 
revenue growth
This is measured against the TSR growth of the FTSE 
mid-250 index (excluding investment trusts) (“FTSE 250”). 
The last five years have seen a compound TSR growth 
for Diploma of 21% p.a., which represents upper quartile 
performance as compared with the FTSE 250, where 
median TSR growth has been 3% p.a. 
Deliver progressive dividend growth with two times 
dividend cover
Diploma follows a progressive dividend policy with a 
target cover of two times on an adjusted EPS basis. Over 
the last five years, dividends have steadily grown at the 
rate of 21% p.a. and this continues the trend of increasing 
dividends in each of the last 12 years.  05
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Total revenue £m
230.6
183.5
160.0
156.2
124.5
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Underlying organic revenue growth % p.a.
+17%
+11%
-12%
+8%
+6%
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Operating margin as % of revenue
19.6%
17.5%
16.0%
17.0%
16.6%
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Acquisition spend £m
£28.2m
£11.0m
£12.2m
£7.9m
£31.6m
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Free cash ﬂow £m
£25.0m
£29.8m
£23.5m
£17.7m
£12.0m
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
ROTCE %
25.4%
22.1%
19.0%
22.4%
25.5%
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Working capital as % of revenue
16.1%
15.4%
17.6%
17.2%
17.3%
Next level objectives Key performance indicators 
Total revenue growth: % p.a.
Operating margins: % of revenue
Acquisition spend and ROI
Free cashflow: £m 
Working capital as % of revenue
Underlying organic revenue growth: % p.a.
ROTCE: %
Maintain stable attractive margins
Operating margin is an important measure of the 
success of the businesses in achieving superior 
margins by offering strongly differentiated products 
and customer focused solutions, as well as by  
running efficient operations. 
Accelerate growth through carefully selected 
value enhancing acquisitions
To complement the Group’s organic growth 
strategy, the Group has an on-going acquisition 
programme, designed to accelerate growth and 
to facilitate entry into related strategic markets. 
Generate consistently strong cash flow to fund 
growth strategy and dividends
Free cash flow is defined as the cash flow 
generated after tax, but before acquisitions and 
dividends. This measures the success of the  
Group and its businesses in turning profit into  
cash through the careful management of  
working capital and investments in fixed assets. 
Create value by consistently exceeding 20% ROTCE
Return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) is 
defined as adjusted operating profit as a percentage 
of trading capital employed (“TCE”). TCE excludes  
net cash and non-operating assets and liabilities, but 
includes all goodwill and acquired intangible assets. 
Generate stable “GDP plus” organic revenue 
growth over the business cycle
The businesses target organic revenue growth, 
over the economic cycle, at a rate of 5–6% p.a. 
(“GDP plus” growth), with higher growth rates 
achieved at the Group level through carefully 
selected value enhancing acquisitions. 
16%
p.a. 
compound
+
6%
p.a. 
average
17-18% average
>
20% ROI 
£22m 
p.a. 
average
17% average
23% average
“ Our business model has delivered 
record performance in the year.” Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
06
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Business Model
The Group comprises a number of high quality, 
specialised businesses supplying technical products 
and services to customers in the Life Sciences, Seals 
and Controls industries. The Group’s business model 
is designed to achieve the twin objectives of stable 
organic revenue growth and sustainable attractive 
margins. Growth is then accelerated through carefully 
selected, value-enhancing acquisitions which fit the 
Group’s business model and offer entry into new 
strategic markets.
We aim to achieve these objectives by focusing on 
businesses which supply essential products and services 
which are funded by the customers’ operating rather 
than their capital budgets, providing recurring income 
and stable revenue growth. Our businesses then design 
their individual business models to closely meet the 
requirements of their customers, offering a blend of 
high quality customer service, deep technical support 
and value adding activities. By supplying essential 
solutions, not just products, we build strong long-term 
relationships with our customers and suppliers, which 
support attractive and sustainable margins. Finally we 
encourage an entrepreneurial culture in our businesses 
through our decentralised management structure. We 
want our managers to feel that they have the freedom 
to run their own businesses, while being able to draw 
on the support and resources of a larger group. These 
essential values ensure that decisions are made close  
to the customer and that the businesses are agile  
and responsive to changes in the market and the 
competitive environment. 
The Group’s business model has been closely tested 
over the last three years. The businesses proved their 
resilience through the 2009 global downturn with 
Group revenues growing by 2% (albeit a decline on 
an underlying basis) and operating margins held at 
a creditable 16% of revenue. As markets have slowly 
recovered following the recession, the Group has moved 
forward strongly, posting seven quarters of growth 
in revenues and profits since the recovery started in 
early 2010 and outperforming economic and market 
benchmarks. This level of relative performance confirms 
that the operating businesses have succeeded in further 
penetrating their markets by maintaining high customer 
service levels and adding product lines through 
the downturn. 
Operating Performance
In 2011, revenues increased by 26% to £230.6m (2010: 
£183.5m) with underlying growth of 17% after adjusting 
for currency effects and acquisitions. As revenues have 
increased, the businesses have continued to manage 
costs carefully in view of continuing uncertainty over the 
sustainability of the recovery. With the resulting benefits 
of operational leverage, adjusted operating margins have 
increased to 19.6% of revenue (2010: 17.5%). 
The operating margins achieved this year are well above 
the three year average of ca. 18% of revenue. It is likely 
that over time operating margins will gradually trend 
back towards this average, as resources will need to be 
increased to support higher levels of revenue. In addition, 
there will be increased investment in fixed assets to 
ensure that the IT environment and the facilities in the 
businesses provide a robust foundation for further 
growth; this investment will result in higher operating 
costs and depreciation. In 2012, for example, three of 
the businesses will be moving into new facilities at a total 
cost of ca. £1m – the IS-Group in Swindon, RT Dygert in 
Minneapolis and Vantage Endoscopy in Toronto.
Free cash flow in 2011 has again been strong at £25.0m 
against a very strong prior year comparative (2010: 
£29.8m), which had been boosted by the proceeds from 
the sale of the Anachem businesses, as well as by a 
reduction in working capital across the Group. During 
2010, working capital had fallen to the level of 15.4% of 
revenue as suppliers struggled to keep pace with 
increasing demand for their products. By the end of the 
2011 financial year, working capital had moved back to a 
more normal level of 16.1% of revenue, with an additional 
investment of £7.4m. 
During the year, £28.2m was invested in acquisitions, 
principally in the Canadian Healthcare business. Return 
on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) has increased to 
25.4% (2010: 22.1%) principally driven by the improved 
operating margins. 
Sector Developments
The Group’s strategic objective is to build more 
substantial, broader based businesses in each of its 
chosen sectors through a combination of organic growth 
and acquisition. Good progress was made in the year in 
executing this strategy in each of the three sectors and 
the key developments this year are summarised below.  07
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
l ife Sciences
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Revenue 74.4 55.4 +34%
Operating profit 17.1 11.9 +44%
Operating margin 23.0% 21.5%
The Life Sciences businesses increased revenues in 
2011 by 34%, boosted by the contribution from the 
acquisition in December 2010 of CMI and also modest 
currency translation benefits. Underlying sector revenues 
increased by 12% after adjusting for the acquisition and 
currency effects. Operating margins increased by 150 
basis points to 23.0% (2010: 21.5%), mainly driven by 
improved profitability in the Environmental business. 
The Group’s Healthcare businesses in Canada and 
now Australia (“Diploma Healthcare Group” or “DHG”), 
account for almost 80% of the Life Sciences sector 
revenues. They operate in healthcare markets which are 
largely public sector funded and where the demand from 
growing, aging and well-educated patient populations 
drives a steady growth in funding (on average 6–7% p.a. 
growth over 15 years in Canada). Within these markets, 
the DHG businesses supply specialised products which 
are used in the pathology laboratories, operating rooms 
(“OR”) and endoscopy suites of the hospitals as well as 
private clinics. During the recession there were initiatives 
to control costs including limits imposed on the number 
and cost of specific medical procedures and diagnostic 
tests and extended tender processes for capital 
equipment. However, overall Healthcare expenditure has 
continued to grow steadily in real terms and there has 
been some evidence of an easing of capital approvals.
The DHG business model is built on the supply, on an 
exclusive basis, of high quality, manufacturer branded 
products secured by long-term distribution agreements. 
Strong customer relationships are forged through high 
levels of customer service, with highly qualified and 
experienced technical sales and product application 
staff working closely with the surgeons, OR nurses 
and laboratory technologists. A large proportion (over 
60%) of DHG’s revenues are secured under multi-year 
customer contracts.
During the year, DHG expanded its business in Canada 
through the acquisition of CMI, a supplier of medical 
devices, consumables and service to GI Endoscopy 
suites in hospitals and clinics across Canada. CMI shares 
a common customer base with the endoscopy business 
within our existing AMT company and the products are 
very complementary with few overlaps. With effect from 
the start of the new financial year, the businesses were 
combined under a single management team, with the 
new name of Vantage Endoscopy (“Vantage”) and with 
plans to relocate to a new facility in the first half of the 
year. Vantage is now able to offer to its GI Endoscopy 
customers, the most complete range of products, 
including endoscopic imaging and reprocessing systems, 
therapeutic technologies and devices and other essential 
accessories and service support.
There are now three similar sized, growing DHG 
businesses in Canada, the Somagen clinical diagnostics 
business, AMT’s core electrosurgery business and 
Vantage. Each of these businesses has good potential for 
further growth by continuing to penetrate core markets, 
as well as by adding new product lines and suppliers. 
In Australia, BGS is a smaller version of AMT which was 
acquired towards the end of 2010. During the year 
investment was made to generate stronger growth by 
employing direct sales staff to replace sub-distributors in 
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and New Zealand. 
The remaining 20% of the sector revenues are generated 
by the a1-group of Environmental businesses in Europe, 
which supply a range of products used in Environmental 
Testing and Health & Safety applications. The market 
demand is largely driven by regulation which ensures 
steady demand for the essential consumable products, 
though customers do defer capital expenditure during 
economic downturns. 
The a1-envirosciences group, following its restructuring 
in 2010, now has its principal operations in Germany 
and Switzerland with other Northern European markets 
served through sales and service staff. The benefits 
of the restructuring have been seen this year in the 
improvement in operating margins. The CBISS business 
in the UK has seen good growth in its sales of emissions 
monitoring systems, both in replacement systems for 
traditional power stations and new systems for alternative 
power plants (e.g. waste, biofuels, syngas). Demand for 
gas detection products has also been strong.  Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
08
Seals
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Revenue 80.0 60.1 +33%
Operating profit 14.9 8.9 +67%
Operating margin 18.6% 14.8%
The Seals sector businesses increased revenues in 2011 
by 33%, boosted by a full year contribution from All Seals, 
acquired in September 2010, and despite modest currency 
translation losses. Underlying sector revenues increased 
by 26% after adjusting for the acquisition and currency 
effects. Operating margins increased by 380 basis points 
to 18.6% (2010: 14.8%), demonstrating the effects of 
operational leverage in this business, as increases in 
operating costs lagged the strong increase in revenue. 
Currently just over 60% of Seals sector revenues are 
generated from the Aftermarket businesses of HFPG 
(Hercules, Bulldog and HKX) and FPE. Own brand sealing 
products, sourced from the same seal manufacturers 
who supply to the original equipment OEMs, are supplied 
to a broad range of mobile machinery applications in 
heavy construction, logging, mining, agriculture, material 
handling and refuse collection. The principal market 
drivers are therefore the growth in the general industrial 
economy and in particular heavy construction. 
In the core Aftermarket business in North America, the 
key to success is the ability to provide a next day delivery 
service from inventory, for seals and seal kits used in 
a broad range of different manufacturers’ machinery 
and different applications. Typically the first three years 
of equipment life is controlled by the OEMs through 
product warranty and lease terms. However, after the 
equipment is sold into the pre-used market or moves out 
of warranty, Hercules has a very compelling offering to 
customers by providing a responsive, next day delivery 
service for these time critical items.
The Aftermarket business was insulated from the worst 
of the 2009 recession, by its focus on customers’ 
operational rather than capital budgets. As a result, 
it rebounded less strongly in 2010. In 2011, however, 
revenues increased by over 25% which suggests a 
significant increase in market share driven by the high 
level of customer service levels maintained during 
the downturn.
 
Outside North America, the main focus for development 
has been in Europe where good progress has been made 
in both direct sales in the UK and Benelux countries, 
as well as the appointment of sub-distributors to 
distribute Hercules seal kits in other mainland European 
countries. Initiatives are also being developed to increase 
penetration in other developing markets in Asia Pacific 
and South America.
The Industrial OEM business now represents close to 
40% of sector revenues following the addition of All 
Seals to the RT Dygert and M Seals businesses. These 
companies supply seals, O-rings and custom moulded 
and machined parts to a range of specialised Industrial 
OEM customers. Applications include spray painting 
guns, water filtration, wind power mills, hearing aids and 
medical devices. On a like-for-like basis, these businesses 
have increased revenues by 25% in 2011 and are 
experiencing demand well ahead of pre-recession levels.
The acquisition of All Seals has extended the Group’s 
coverage in the US, with its strong position in California 
and the South Western States complementing RT 
Dygert’s strength in the Mid-western States. M Seals has 
further penetrated its core Scandinavian markets from its 
operations in Denmark and Sweden and has established 
a wholly owned foreign enterprise (“WOFE”) in Tianjin to 
trade directly with wind power customers in China. 
Controls
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Revenue 76.2 68.0 +12%
Operating profit 13.2 11.3 +17%
Operating margin 17.3% 16.6%
The Controls sector businesses increased revenues in 
2011 by 12% in both UK sterling and constant currency 
terms. Operating margins increased by 70 basis points to 
17.3% (2010: 16.6%). 
The IS-Group (UK), Sommer and Filcon businesses 
supply high performance wiring, connectors, fasteners 
and control devices used in a range of technically 
demanding applications. The businesses offer high 
quality, manufacturer branded products sourced under 
the terms of long term exclusive distribution agreements. 
Strong customer relationships are based on ex-stock 
availability of product, responsiveness, technical 
advice on product applications and a range of value 
added services. 
Chief Executive’s Review continued 09
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
The largest end user sector is Defence & Aerospace. 
Here, the businesses do not typically supply to 
major platform OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers, who are 
mostly served direct by the manufacturers. Rather, 
the businesses supply into repair, refurbishment and 
upgrade programmes, as well as supplying to Tier 2 
electronics customers, where ex-stock availability and 
responsiveness are important. The businesses therefore 
are less exposed to cutbacks and postponements in 
major defence programmes as a result of the Strategic 
Defence Reviews in the UK and Germany; though 
inevitably there will be some impact longer term at 
the sub-contractor and component supply level. In 
Commercial Aerospace, the businesses supply products 
principally for the initial installation and subsequent 
upgrades of aircraft interiors. After falling back in 2009, 
demand picked up in 2010 and as passenger numbers 
continue to recover, the sector appears to be returning to 
its long-term projected growth rate of ca. 5% p.a.
The businesses also supply to a range of specialised 
technical applications in the General Industrial market. 
The underlying market drivers are the growth of the 
industrial economies in Europe (in particular the UK 
and Germany), but demand tends to be more stable 
in the specialised sub-sectors in which we operate. In 
Motorsport, activity increased sharply with a successful 
F1 racing season and growth in the Indycar and Nascar 
series in the US, the DTM series in Germany and the 
World Rally Championship. Medical Equipment is 
another specialised market where demand has been 
stable and in Energy, there has been strong demand 
from the manufacturers of electrical generators and 
commercial batteries. The closure of the older nuclear 
plants in Germany will also require infrastructure 
investment in the power distribution network. 
Hawco serves the Commercial Refrigeration market 
in the UK which continues to be buoyant, driven 
by investment by the major food retailers in new 
convenience stores and in energy saving technologies 
when refurbishing existing outlets.
Acquisition Activity
Over the last five years, the Group has invested ca. £91m 
in acquisitions across the sectors and geographies – an 
average of ca. £18m p.a. The success in financial terms 
can be measured broadly by the profit return on the total 
investment which currently stands at over 20%. In 2011, 
a total of £28.2m was invested, mainly in the Canadian 
Healthcare business in the acquisition of CMI and the 
purchase of the 25% minority shareholdings in AMT. 
While the time and effort invested in the acquisition 
programme is a sustained activity, the results can be 
more irregular. We find that most success tends to 
come at times when the business cycle is changing 
and creating uncertainty. For example, when markets 
are slowing down after an extended period of growth, 
this may encourage owners to sell ahead of a market 
downturn. Alternatively, in the early stages of recovery, 
when confidence is building in future projections, 
owners who have delayed selling during a downturn may 
come back to the table. With the performance of many 
businesses having recovered since the 2009 recession, 
but uncertainty remaining as to the sustainability of the 
recovery, we believe that there will continue to be good 
opportunities for value adding acquisitions.
Summary and Outlook
The continued strong performance of the Group and 
the resilience shown over the last five years gives us 
confidence that we can maintain the “GDP plus” levels 
of underlying revenue growth over the business cycle. 
The Group is well diversified by geography and business 
area and the business model supports stable revenue 
growth and sustainable, attractive margins. Although 
general economic uncertainty over the strength 
of global markets continues to grow, we see good 
opportunities for future development, both organically 
and through acquisition. 
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
21 November 2011 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
10
Sector Review
Sector Performance
Life Sciences
32%
of revenues 
Geography
1
75%  Canada
20% Europe
5% ROW
Customers
79%  Clinical
9% Utilities
6% Industrial
4% Chemical & Petrochemical
2% Life Sciences Research 
Products
68%  Consumables
23% Instrumentation
9% Service 
223 employees worldwide 
1 By destination. 
Seals
35%
of revenues 
Geography
1
70%  North America
15% Europe
15% ROW
Customers
42%  Heavy Construction
33% Industrial OEMs
16% General Industrial
5% Dump & Refuse Trucks
4% Logging & Agriculture 
Products
62%  Seals & Seal Kits
15% O-rings
10% Attachment Kits
6% Gaskets
7% Cylinders & Other
432 employees worldwide 
Controls
33%
of revenues 
Geography
1
56%  UK 
39% Continental Europe
5% ROW
Customers
28%  Defence & Aerospace
28% General Industrial
19% Commercial Refrigeration
13% Motorsport
7% Energy & Utilities
5% Medical & Scientific
Products
39%  Wire & Cable
23% Connectors
19% Equipment & Components
11% Control Devices
8% Fasteners
245 employees worldwide 
Geography
1
Europe
43%
23%  UK 
20%  Continental Europe
1 By destination. 
Rest of World
7%
North America
50%
22%  US 
28%  Canada  11
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Life Sciences
Sector Definition and Scope
The l ife Sciences sector businesses supply a range of 
consumables, instrumentation and related services to 
the healthcare and environmental industries
The Diploma Healthcare Group (“DHG”) in Canada 
comprises three principal operating businesses which 
supply to the 500–600 hospitals across the country as 
well as to private clinics. Somagen Diagnostics 
(“Somagen”), based in Edmonton, Alberta supplies a range 
of consumables and instruments used in the diagnostic 
testing of blood, tissue and other samples in hospital 
pathology laboratories. It is also a leading supplier to the 
growing assisted reproductive technology (“ART”) 
market. AMT Electrosurgery (“AMT”), based in Kitchener, 
Ontario, supplies specialised electrosurgery equipment 
and consumables for use in hospital operating rooms. 
Vantage Endoscopy (“Vantage”) supplies medical devices 
and related consumables and services to GI Endoscopy 
suites in hospitals and private clinics. Vantage combines 
the former AMT Endoscopy business with Carsen 
Medical Inc. (“CMI”), acquired in December 2010.
 
DHG operates in Australia and New Zealand through Big 
Green Surgical (“BGS”), located near Sydney, Australia. 
BGS is a smaller, more narrowly focused version of the 
AMT business in Canada and shares a number of 
common suppliers.
The a1-group is a supplier to Environmental testing 
laboratories and to Health & Safety engineers. The 
a1-envirosciences business has locations in Dusseldorf in 
Germany and Basel in Switzerland and also has sales and 
service resources across Northern Europe. It supplies a 
range of specialised analysers for detecting and 
measuring specific elements in liquids, solids and gases 
and also supplies a range of containment enclosures for 
potent powder handling. The CBISS business, located in 
Tranmere in the UK, supplies equipment and services for 
the monitoring and control of environmental emissions, 
as well as a range of gas detection devices.
Market Drivers
The DHG businesses in Canada supply into the 
Healthcare sector which is mostly public sector funded. 
The principal demand driver is therefore the level of 
healthcare spending by the Canadian Government.
C$bn 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Public sector 
healthcare 
expenditure in 
Canada 105.8 113.2 121.1 128.6 135.1
Total healthcare 
expenditure in 
Canada 151.3 161.6 171.8 182.1 191.6
Total health 
expenditure as a 
% of GDP n.a. n.a. 10.7% 11.9% 11.7%
Source: Canadian Institute for Health Information.
The Canadian Healthcare industry is a proven, long-term 
growth environment for medical device distribution. 
A growing, aging and well-educated population 
demands high standards of service delivery, helping to 
ensure on-going growing demand. Per capita healthcare 
spending in Canada is in the top 20% of OECD countries. 
The Canadian Health Act (“the Act”) ensures universal 
coverage for all insured persons for all medically 
necessary services provided by hospitals, physicians and 
other healthcare providers. The Provinces are responsible 
for the delivery of the healthcare services, but the Federal 
Government controls delivery through Federal-Provincial 
transfer payments, which represent the largest source of 
revenues for the Provinces.
The relative stability and consistency in funding by each 
of the Provinces, guaranteed through the Act, ensures 
that the market remains well funded through the 
economic cycle. Over many years, healthcare 
expenditure has grown steadily in the range 6–7% p.a. 
with annual variations mostly dependant on the periodic 
additional tranches of funding provided by individual 
Provinces. Healthcare continues to be the single largest 
budget category for Provincial governments and the 
improved delivery of healthcare services has a high 
profile in recent and current election campaigns.
Hospitals continue to represent the single largest 
component of public sector healthcare spending, 
accounting for over 40% of public healthcare spending. In 
2010, hospital spending increased by 6.2% and the trend 
of hospital spending outpacing total healthcare spending 
is expected to continue, driven by the aging population.
The Healthcare market in Australia shares many of the 
same attractive characteristics as that of Canada. While 
privately funded healthcare is more prevalent, public 
sector healthcare funding is large and growing and 
supported by a stable, resource based economy. As with 
Canada, there is a large geography to be covered, low 
population density and purchasing processes that vary 
by State. These characteristics necessarily demand a 
significant investment by manufacturers in technical 
sales and service resource which makes the specialised 
distribution model very attractive as an efficient way to 
serve the market.
The a1-group supplies to customers in the Environmental 
industry across Europe. The market demand is largely 
driven by Environmental and Health & Safety regulations. 
Growth in recent years has been driven by the need to 
be compliant with a range of EU regulations including:
•	 legislation or regulatory obligations relating to the 
environment, pollutants or potentially hazardous 
contaminants;
•	 the growing importance to companies of protecting 
the workforce from contact with potentially 
hazardous materials; and
•	 greater use of new technologies in process control 
and integrated pollution control.
Since market demand is driven by regulation, this ensures 
reasonably steady demand for essential consumable 
products and service, though customers do defer capital 
expenditure during downturns in the economy. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
12
Sector Performance
life Sciences statistics
2011 2010
Revenue £74.4m £55.4m
Adjusted Operating Profit £17.1m £11.9m
Operating Margin 23.0% 21.5%
Free Cash Flow £11.6m £10.1m
Trading Capital Employed £77.5m £49.7m
ROTCE 23.1% 24.0%
The Life Sciences businesses increased revenues in 2011 
by 34% to £74.4m (2010: £55.4m). Sector revenues were 
boosted by the contribution from the CMI business in 
Canada, acquired in December 2010 and there were also 
modest benefits on translation from a stronger Canadian 
dollar relative to UK sterling. After adjusting for the 
acquisition and currency effects, underlying sector 
revenues increased by 12%. 
Adjusted operating profits, which also benefited from  
the CMI acquisition and the stronger Canadian dollar, 
increased by 44% to £17.1m (2010: £11.9m). Adjusted 
operating margins increased to 23.0% (2010: 21.5%),  
with the increase driven mainly by improved profitability 
in the Environmental business following the prior 
year restructuring.
Capital expenditure in the sector was £0.8m, including 
£0.4m invested in field equipment for placement by the 
Canadian Healthcare businesses. The balance was 
invested in upgrading the IT environment for sales and 
back office functions. Free cash flow of £11.6m was 
generated in the sector (2010: £10.1m) reflecting the 
strong after tax cash flow from trading.
Revenues from the DHG businesses increased by 44% in 
UK sterling terms and by 41% in Canadian dollar terms. 
Revenues were boosted by the acquisition during the year 
of CMI and a full year contribution from BGS and by the 
recognition of revenues for an exceptional sale of face 
shields. After adjusting for these items, underlying 
revenues increased by 12% in Canadian dollars.
All of DHG’s businesses in Canada experienced an easing 
of capital budgets, resulting in strong instrumentation 
sales from various public tenders by the hospitals. 
Somagen increased revenues by 7%, with good success 
in renewing longer term reagent rental contracts; the 
renewals were often linked to the sale or placement of 
innovative new instruments from our core suppliers. In 
addition, Somagen has achieved good growth in newer 
target markets including assisted reproductive 
technology (“ART”), fecal occult blood testing to screen 
for colorectal cancer and non-clinical microbiology in 
the food and pharmaceutical industries.
AMT increased revenues in its electrosurgery and surgical 
products business by 19%, with underlying growth of 
14%, before the exceptional face shield revenues. AMT 
experienced product shortages from a key supplier in the 
first half of the year, but was able to manage the allocation 
of products to customers to ensure that no operating 
procedures were affected. This inevitably impacted the 
resources that could be applied to other initiatives, but in 
spite of this, AMT managed to achieve strong double digit 
growth in sales of its core electrosurgery and smoke 
evacuation products. BGS, a smaller version of AMT in 
Australia, increased revenues by more than 20% on a 
like-for-like basis. Since its acquisition, significant 
investment has been made in BGS to introduce direct 
sales resources to replace sub-distributors in Victoria, 
Queensland, South Australia and New Zealand. 
In December 2010, the acquisition was completed  
of CMI, a leading distributor of medical devices, 
consumables and services supplied to GI Endoscopy 
suites in hospitals and private clinics across Canada. CMI 
shares a common customer base with AMT’s Endoscopy 
business and the products are very complementary with 
few overlaps. The two businesses, operating individually 
during the year, performed strongly with aggregate 
revenues increasing by 21% on a like-for-like basis. 
With effect from the start of the new financial year, 
the businesses have been combined under a single 
management team, with the new name of Vantage 
Endoscopy and with plans to relocate to a new facility. 
Vantage Endoscopy now supplies a complete range of GI 
endoscopy products, including imaging and reprocessing 
systems, therapeutic technologies and devices and 
other related accessories and service support. 
The a1-group increased revenues by 7%, with a1-
envirosciences revenues broadly similar to the prior year 
and CBISS revenues growing by 20%. In late 2010, the 
decision was taken to consolidate the UK operations of 
a1-envirosciences into Germany and to exit from certain 
lower margin export sales activities. The reorganisation 
has been successful and has enabled a1-envirosciences 
to return to solid profitability with a clear focus on higher 
margin opportunities. In Germany, the demand for 
elemental analysers from the petrochemical and bulk 
chemical industries remained very positive throughout 
the year and in the UK, there were solid sales into the 
petrochemical and water testing sectors. In Switzerland, 
sales of high value, custom stainless steel laboratory 
enclosures remained positive and in Germany and 
France, sales of the standard acrylic enclosures delivered 
excellent growth. 
CBISS experienced strong growth across its product 
range. The continuous emissions monitoring (“CEMS“) 
business delivered significant growth as new power 
stations came on line and operators replaced outdated 
monitoring equipment in existing installations. The value 
of active prospects remained high throughout the year 
as funding became more readily available for alternative 
power plants (waste, biofuels, syngas) and concerted 
efforts were made to remove bottlenecks in the planning 
process. Service contract revenues also expanded as 
the installed CEMS base grew. In addition, CBISS had 
significant success, through highly focused marketing 
campaigns, with an expanded range of consumable 
and low-cost gas detection products.
Sector Review continued
Life Sciences continued 13
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Sector Definition and Scope
The Seals sector businesses supply a range of hydraulic 
seals, gaskets, cylinders, components and kits used in 
heavy mobile machinery and specialised 
industrial equipment.
The Hercules Fluid Power Group (“HFPG”) supplies to 
the Aftermarket through the Hercules, Bulldog and HKX 
businesses and to Industrial OEM’s (“Original Equipment 
Manufacturers”) and equipment dealers through the RT 
Dygert and All Seals businesses.
Hercules is the core Aftermarket business based in 
Clearwater, Florida and provides a next day delivery service 
throughout the US, for seals, seal kits and cylinders used in 
a range of heavy mobile machinery applications. Hercules 
in Canada offers the same range of products from its 
two branch operations located in the provinces of 
Ontario and Quebec. In Europe, Hercules has centred its 
operations in the Netherlands. Bulldog, based in Reno, 
supplies a range of gasket and seal kits for heavy duty 
diesel engines, transmissions and hydraulic cylinders 
used in off road and marine applications. HKX is based 
near Seattle and supplies hydraulic kits used in the 
installation of attachments on excavators. 
The Industrial OEM businesses in North America 
comprise RT Dygert, with operations in Minneapolis and 
Chicago and All Seals, based in Santa Ana, California. 
Both companies supply seals, O-rings and custom 
moulded and machined parts to a range of Industrial 
OEM customers, cylinder manufacturers and sub-
distributors. Applications range from spray painting guns 
to water filtration to medical devices.
FPE is based in the UK, with operations in Darlington and 
Doncaster, and supplies a range of seals, seal kits, 
cylinder parts and sealants to ram repairers, mobile and 
heavy plant operators, mechanical handling and process 
control companies.
M Seals is a specialised distributor of O-rings, moulded 
parts, PTFE products and shaft seals, supplied to a range 
of specialised Industrial OEM customers. Products range 
from the finest precision seals for hearing aids to large 
heavy duty seals for wind power mills. M Seals has 
operations in Espergaerde in Denmark, Halmstad in 
Sweden and Tianjin in China.
Market Drivers
The Aftermarket businesses supply sealing products to 
support a broad range of mobile machinery in 
applications including heavy construction, logging, 
mining, agriculture, material handling (lift trucks, fork lifts 
and dump trucks) and refuse collection. Products are 
generally used in the repair and maintenance of 
equipment after it has completed its initial warranty 
period or lease term, or has been sold on in the pre-used 
market. The main customers are machinery and cylinder 
repair shops, engine and transmission rebuilders and 
tractor parts distributors. The principal market drivers are 
the growth in the general industrial economy and in 
particular, heavy construction. 
The customers of the Industrial OEM businesses are 
manufacturers of a wide range of specialised industrial 
(and some retail) products. The principal market driver in 
the OEM sector is therefore general growth in the 
industrial economy.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
US real GDP 
growth
1
+2.7% +1.9% +0.0% -2.6% +2.2%
Annual US 
construction 
spending $bn
2
1,168 1,151 1,072 908 804
US mobile 
hydraulic 
shipments $m
3
2,766 2,626 2,913 1,669 2,515
Source: 
1  Bureau of Economic Analysis – US Department of Commerce.
2  US Census Bureau.
3  National Fluid Power Association.
In the United States, the residential construction sector 
has continued to be subdued, as has spending on 
infrastructure construction. However, shipments of mobile 
hydraulic equipment, which among other items includes 
pumps, cylinders and seals, registered substantial increases 
to levels which suggest a substantial degree of re-stocking 
by customers in the US and increased exports driven again 
by re-stocking, but also by a relatively weak US dollar. 
In Canada, there was strong economic growth in 2010 
resulting in a 3.4% increase in GDP . Although overall 
growth has slowed more recently, the overall 
environment remains favourable. In mainland Europe, 
activity levels were broadly maintained until the first 
quarter of 2011 when sovereign debt concerns appear to 
have put a halt to economic growth. Most European 
governments have been forced to implement austerity 
programs, but they are also looking at ways to stimulate 
the economies. It is not yet clear how these programs 
will impact on future construction spending. 
In general, the Aftermarket businesses have experienced 
enhanced demand for products as repair and refitting of 
used equipment has continued well into 2011. The 
Industrial OEM businesses have continued to experience 
strong demand in an improved manufacturing 
environment. 
Sector Performance
Seals statistics
2011 2010
Revenue £80.0m £60.1m
Adjusted Operating Profit £14.9m £8.9m
Operating Margin 18.6% 14.8%
Free Cash Flow £6.9m £7.9m
Trading Capital Employed £46.8m £43.5m
ROTCE 31.8% 20.6%
Seals Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
14
The Seals businesses saw revenues increase in UK sterling 
terms by 33% to £80.0m (2010: £60.1m). The results 
benefited from a full twelve months contribution from All 
Seals, partly offset by currency translation losses. After 
adjusting for the All Seals acquisition and the impact of 
currency translation, underlying sector revenues 
increased by 26%. Adjusted operating profits increased 
by 67% to £14.9m (2010: £8.9m) and operating margins 
increased to 18.6% (2010: 14.8%), driven by operational 
leverage as increases in operating costs have lagged the 
strong increase in revenues. 
Capital expenditure in the sector was £0.6m with the major 
elements being investment in two new custom seal 
making machines and further investment in completing 
the warehouse automation project in Clearwater. Free cash 
flow of £6.9m was generated in the year compared with 
£7 .9m in 2010, as working capital returned to historic levels 
and tax payments increased sharply on higher profits.
HFPG underlying revenues, adjusted for the acquisition 
of All Seals, increased by 26% in US dollar terms. The 
Aftermarket businesses grew revenues by 27% and the 
Industrial OEM businesses by 22% on a like-for-like basis. 
Hercules US, the core Aftermarket seal business which 
services the US, Central and South America and other 
selected export markets, increased revenues by 19%. The 
recovery, which had gained momentum in the second 
half of 2010, continued to strengthen in 2011 and 
Hercules US made significant gains across all product 
categories and all geographies. The core seal products 
recorded the most significant overall gains, boosted by 
strong seal kits sales for construction equipment. 
There was significant and sustained demand from the 
core equipment repair customers in the US, who 
continued to report heavy utilisation of their workshops. 
Hercules US also benefited from its superior stocking 
profile and purchasing power, during a year in which 
most seal manufacturers were either unable to satisfy 
demand or were quoting unacceptably long lead times. 
Although Hercules US itself had to manage supply 
shortages, the company was able to take end-user sales 
from competitors and to supply selected sub-distributors 
with product that would normally be purchased directly 
from manufacturers. The South American and other 
export business grew by 27% with good gains across all 
geographies, including the Far East.
Hercules Canada, Hercules Europe and Bulldog together 
increased revenues by 26%. Hercules Canada had 
another excellent year and delivered significant sales 
growth from a wide range of customers across all 
Provinces. Hercules Europe, based in the Netherlands, 
continued to extend its reach into mainland European 
countries through the development of sub-distributors. 
Bulldog sells its products through a worldwide network 
of dealers that buy in relatively large quantities to take 
advantage of volume discounting and lower, 
consolidated, freight charges. Bulldog delivered a 
particularly strong performance in international markets 
which account for ca. 80% of sales. In the earlier part of 
the year, orders from the Middle East were buoyant and 
in the second half there was significant activity from 
Malaysia, Australia and South Africa. Bulldog’s sales to the 
highly competitive US domestic market also grew 
steadily for the second consecutive year.
HKX had an exceptional year, growing revenues by over 
60%. HKX’s traditional customers are the North American 
franchised dealers of the leading excavator 
manufacturers. Sales of new excavators collapsed in 
2009 and HKX took action to extend its business model 
to target the retro-fit attachment sector and to expand 
internationally. Although still significantly below the 
historical peak, sales of new excavators grew strongly in 
2011, boosted by new environmental legislation in the 
US. HKX was well positioned to resume its leading 
position in this sector as well as continuing to develop its 
extended offering to a generally more stable 
construction market. 
In the Industrial OEM businesses, RT Dygert and All Seals 
both delivered strong performances with combined 
revenues growing by 22% on a like-for-like basis. The 
results were achieved despite product shortages in early 
2011 caused by capacity constraints at key suppliers and 
raw material price and availability issues. During the year, 
RT Dygert continued to develop its sales reach and 
acquired new customers in its target industries, building 
on the recovery that began in the second half of 2010. 
The sales momentum in the general industrial sector 
continued throughout 2011 and further growth was 
added with the recovery of the Mid-Western hydraulic 
cylinder manufacturers. 
All Seals was acquired in September 2010 and delivered 
good sales growth in 2011. The general industrial 
customers again provided positive sales momentum and 
the expanded sales team developed new opportunities in 
the large, Californian market. Plans are under way to add 
additional sales support and technical resources to allow 
the business to build on its solid base and expand its 
reach in the Western United States.
The FPE and M Seals businesses in Europe both had 
excellent years with aggregate revenues growing by over 
25%. In the UK, FPE made substantial gains in the sale of 
standard seals, cylinder parts and manufactured 
products and export sales were also very strong as 
sub-distributors continued to purchase in larger 
quantities. M Seals continued to build on the recovery 
that began in mid-2010 and delivered strong sales 
growth from its traditional industrial customers in 
Denmark and Sweden as confidence returned in both 
domestic and export markets. In particular, there were 
substantial increases in sales to the wind power market, 
where M Seals is a key supplier of large bearing seals to 
the industry-leading players in Western Europe and the 
US. During the year, M Seals established a wholly owned 
foreign enterprise (“WOFE”), registered in Tianjin, China, 
in order to trade directly with the key companies in the 
developing Chinese wind power sector.
Sector Review continued
Seals continued 15
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Controls
Sector Definition and Scope 
The Controls sector businesses supply specialised 
wiring, connectors, fasteners and control devices used 
in a range of technically demanding applications.
The IS-Group supplies high performance wiring, 
interconnect, electro-mechanical and fastener products 
for use in a range of technically demanding applications 
in industries including Defence & Aerospace, Motorsport, 
Energy, Medical and General Industrial. The IS-Group 
also supplies a range of its own manufactured products, 
including flexible braided products for earthing and 
lightning protection, power shunt connectors, and 
multi-core cables.
The IS-Rayfast, Cabletec and Clarendon businesses are 
located in the UK in Swindon, Weston-Super-Mare and 
Leicester, respectively. The businesses serve the UK 
market, as well as supplying to other sub-distributors 
across Continental Europe. IS-Connect is located in 
Indianapolis to serve the Motorsport market in the US, as 
well as other specialised technical applications. A 
representative office has also been established in Beijing, 
China with an initial focus on Aftermarket requirements 
in the Commercial Aerospace and Industrial sectors.
The Sommer business is located in Stuttgart, Germany 
and also supplies high performance wiring and other 
interconnect products. A range of value adding activities 
enhances the customer offering, including marking of 
protective sleeves, cut-to-length tubing, kitting and 
prototype quantities of customised multi-core cables.
Filcon is located in Munich and supplies specialist 
connectors principally into the Defence & Aerospace 
markets in Germany. Filcon offers connector assembly as 
a value-added service. Hawco supplies a range of control 
devices used in the sensing, measurement and control of 
temperature and pressure. Applications range from 
chilled cabinets for supermarkets, bars and restaurants to 
fire detection systems. Hawco has its operations in 
Guildford and Bolton, in the UK.
Market Drivers
The Controls sector businesses focus on specialised, 
technical applications in a range of industries including 
Defence & Aerospace, Motorsport, Medical Equipment, 
Energy, Commercial Refrigeration and General Industrial. 
The key market drivers in Defence & Aerospace are 
national defence budgets and commercial aerospace 
passenger activity.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Defence 
equipment 
budgets:
 UK – £bn
1
6.8 7.2 7.9 8.7 9.0
 Germany – €bn
2
8.2 8.6 9.5 10.3 10.4
Commercial 
aerospace
Market growth
3
+5.2% +7.2% +1.6% -2.0% +7%
Sources:
1 MOD UK Defence Statistics.
2 Federal Ministry of Finance – Germany.
3 Boeing and Airbus market outlook – revenue passenger kilometres.
The Defence equipment budgets in the UK and Germany 
grew strongly until 2009 and, although growth slowed in 
2010, spending remained at an historical high and 
growth over the five year period to 2010 averaged 7% p.a. 
in the UK and 6% p.a. in Germany. Moving forward, 
spending will inevitably be impacted by the Strategic 
Defence Reviews in the UK and Germany. 
The IS-Group businesses in the UK and Sommer in 
Germany focus primarily on refurbishment, upgrade and 
maintenance programmes, as well as supplying to Tier 2 
electronics suppliers. The businesses typically only supply 
to OEMs and the Tier 1 suppliers when ex-stock availability 
and responsiveness are important; they have therefore 
been less exposed to cutbacks and postponements in 
major defence programmes. Filcon has a greater 
involvement in the major capital projects through its 
supply of connectors. However, Filcon has its products 
designed-in to a broad range of air, sea and land 
applications and is not overexposed to individual projects. 
In the Commercial Aerospace sector, the businesses 
supply products principally for the initial fit out of aircraft 
interiors and then their subsequent upgrade and 
refurbishment. The Commercial Aerospace market 
declined in 2009 as a result of the global economic 
downturn before recovering in 2010 and posting a 
healthy 7% growth. As passenger numbers continue to 
recover, the sector appears to be returning to its long-
term projected growth rate of ca. 5% p.a.
The businesses also supply to a range of specialised 
technical applications in the General Industrial sector 
where the underlying market drivers are the growth of 
the industrial economies.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
UK real GDP 
growth
1
+2.8% +2.7% -0.1% -4.9% +1.3%
UK production 
index
2
100.0 100.5 97.6 87.2 90.3
Germany real GDP
 growth
1
+3.6% +2.8% +0.7% -4.7% +3.5%
Sources:
1  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
2  The Office of National Statistics – Index of Production for Manufacturing.
In the UK, manufacturing demand has remained 
relatively stable through 2010 and into the first half of 
2011. In Germany, there was a sharp recovery in 2010 
and into the first quarter of 2011 but growth has 
subsequently flattened out.
In Motorsport, activity increased sharply due to continued 
competitiveness within F1 across the grid, combined with 
greater financial stability in a number of teams. In the 
World Rally & DTM (Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters) 
competitions, changes to car specifications and new 
entrants such as Mini have stimulated interest in these 
series. The Medical Equipment market (particularly in 
Germany) remained stable and, in Energy, there was 
strong demand from the manufacturers of electrical 
generators and commercial batteries. In Germany, the  Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
16
decision to close down eight of the older nuclear power 
plants will require changes to be made to the power 
distribution network and infrastructure spending may 
need to be increased in future years.
The UK Commercial Refrigeration market continued to 
be boosted by the major retailers continuing to invest in 
new, convenience stores and in energy saving 
technologies when refurbishing existing outlets. 
Sector Performance
Controls statistics
2011 2010
Revenue £76.2m £68.0m
Adjusted operating profit £13.2m £11.3m
Operating margin 17.3% 16.6%
Free cash flow £9.8m £9.9m
Trading capital employed £30.0m £29.3m
ROTCE 44.0% 38.6%
The Controls businesses increased revenues in 2011 by 
12% to £76.2m (2010: £68.0m) on a UK sterling basis, 
with the same level of growth on a constant currency 
basis. Adjusted operating profits increased by 17% 
to £13.2m (2010: £11.3m), with operating margins 
increasing to 17.3% (2010: 16.6%). 
Capital expenditure in the sector was £0.3m, mainly for 
the completion of a new ERP system in the Sommer 
operation. Free cash flow of £9.8m (2010: £9.9m) 
remained at a similar level to last year reflecting a small 
increase in both working capital and tax payments.
The IS-Group increased revenues by 16%, with the UK 
businesses growing by 18% and Sommer in Germany 
growing by 12%. In the UK, the IS-Group’s sales to the 
Defence sector showed a modest decline from the 
historical high point achieved in the prior year but there 
was continuing demand from a wide range of customers 
that build or repair ground vehicles, large field guns and 
weapons systems. The military marine sector benefited 
from continuing work on Astute submarines and on 
torpedo systems, while military aerospace sales included 
components for the A340 landing gear and the Hawk jet 
trainer. Commercial Aerospace sales were positive as 
confidence returned to the sector and airlines 
commissioned the fit-out of new aircraft; in particular, 
there was good demand for parts for economy and 
premier class seating and for new galleys in new and 
refurbished aircraft. 
Sales of electrical harness components and aerospace 
grade fasteners to the Motorsport sector were 
exceptionally strong in the year. In a successful F1 racing 
season, the IS-Group benefited from increased demand 
from the larger teams, boosted by the re-introduction of 
KERS (Kinetic Energy Recovery System) and increased sales 
of fastener products to the F1 teams based in mainland 
Europe. Sales to the two key US racing series, IndyCar 
and Nascar, also showed excellent growth in the year.
The General Industrial sector in the UK delivered strong 
growth with very positive demand across multiple 
sub-sectors including rail, specialist automotive, leisure 
marine, mining equipment and sub-sea activities. The 
Energy sector also delivered very significant sales growth 
for the IS-Group in 2011 with strong cabling and power 
shunt sales to generator manufacturers and significantly 
increased demand for components for batteries used in 
Uninterrupted Power Supply (“UPS”) applications. 
In Germany, Sommer was well positioned to take 
advantage of the sharp recovery in the General Industrial 
base and enjoyed a very strong first half in 2011 with 
buoyant sales to multiple segments including electronics, 
motors, valves, harnessing and specialist automotive. 
Motorsport sales were also very strong as confidence 
returned to the German auto industry and the key players 
invested in engines and cars for the F1, DTM and Le Mans 
series. Energy sales were buoyant and were boosted by 
the contribution from Fischer, the small acquisition made 
in August 2010. Defence sales remained subdued as 
concerns over the German defence budget caused 
uncertainty and spending slowed. Aerospace sales were 
on a par with the prior year with good sales to the 
satellite sector being mostly offset by a general 
slowdown in sales to the manufacturers of smaller 
aircraft. Medical sales were also at a similar level to the 
high point achieved in 2010.
Filcon has a reasonably concentrated customer base for 
its high performance connector products, with its core 
customers being the Tier 1 German Defence and 
Aerospace OEM’s. The continuing review of German 
defence spending delayed the commencement of 
several projects and the quantity of components 
supplied by Filcon to the EFA programme continued to 
reduce as expected. Despite this background, Filcon’s 
sales were only modestly lower than in the prior year, as 
the company supplies to a wide range of individual 
applications including four separate helicopter projects 
and other projects in the specialist military radio sector. 
Filcon also supplies its specialised connectors to the 
Motorsport sector, where the buoyant F1 series ensured 
strong sales throughout the year.
Hawco continued to build on its positioning as a 
specialist supplier of energy efficient components to the 
UK commercial refrigeration sector. A year of very solid 
growth was again driven primarily by the major food 
retailers opening new stores and refurbishing existing 
locations. Hawco also extended its reach into the 
attractive fast food retail sector by offering a range of 
both cooling and heating components to match the 
needs of individual franchises. 
Sector Review continued
Controls continued 17
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Finance Review
Continued Strong Performance
In 2011 Diploma achieved very strong growth in 
operating profits, supported by robust cash generation 
as demand continued to remain buoyant in each of the 
Group’s principal markets. Revenue increased by 26% to 
£230.6m (2010: £183.5m) and adjusted operating profit, 
which is before acquisition related charges, increased by 
41% to £45.2m (2010: £32.1m). The adjusted operating 
margin increased to a record 19.6% from 17.5% in the 
2010 financial year, demonstrating the high degree of 
operational leverage in the Group’s businesses and in the 
North American Seals businesses in particular. In the 
medium term, this level of operating margin is likely to 
fall back slightly as new investment is made in the 
businesses to add resource and upgrade the 
infrastructure to support future growth in the Group. 
Adjusted operating profit in the second half of the year of 
£23.1m (2010: £17.5m) was 32% ahead of the 
comparable period last year and represented 51% of 
the full year’s operating profit. This compared with an 
increase in operating profits of 51% in the first half of 
the year.
These results demonstrate that the recovery in 2010, 
following the 2009 recession, continued to be strong 
throughout much of 2011. Against increasingly 
demanding comparatives, the growth rates moderated 
slightly towards the end of the financial year. 
Substantial increase in underlying Operating Profits
Acquisitions completed during both 2010 and 2011 
incrementally contributed £17.2m and £3.2m to revenues 
and adjusted operating profit, respectively. 
The net impact on the Group’s results from the 
translation of the results of the overseas businesses to UK 
sterling was much smaller than in previous years. This 
year Group revenues and adjusted operating profits were 
reduced by £0.5m and £Nil respectively, as the impact of 
a weaker US dollar offset the benefit of a stronger 
Canadian dollar. On a transaction basis, a small gain to 
the gross margin of the UK businesses, from the volatility 
of the Euro during the year, was offset by a small net loss 
to gross margins in the Canadian Healthcare businesses 
from the effect of their US dollar hedging programme. 
On an underlying basis, revenues and adjusted operating 
profit increased by 17% and 31% respectively, after 
adjusting for these items.
Adjusted Profit, Earnings per Share and Dividends
Adjusted profit before tax increased 39% to £44.9m 
(2010: £32.2m), after net interest expense of £0.3m 
(2010: income of £0.1m). IFRS profit before tax, which is 
after acquisition related charges of £4.8m (2010: £3.5m) 
and fair value remeasurements of £0.9m (2010: £2.0m), 
was £39.2m (2010: £26.7m).
The Group’s adjusted effective accounting tax charge 
represented 28.7% (2010: 29.2%) of adjusted profit before 
tax which was also broadly consistent with the cash tax 
rate of 27.6%. This year’s effective rate benefited from a 
reduction in the statutory corporate tax rates in both the 
UK and in Canada, although this was somewhat offset by 
the higher proportion of profits contributed by HFPG in 
the US, where the effective tax rate is ca. 38%. 
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 48% to 27.9p, 
compared with 18.9p last year, which was much larger 
than the increase in adjusted profit. This larger increase 
reflected the impact of buying-out the 25% minority 
interest in AMT during the year. IFRS basic earnings per 
share increased to 24.0p (2010: 14.6p).
In light of the strong increase in earnings, the Directors 
have recommended an increase in the final dividend to 
8.5p per share; this gives a total dividend for the year of 
12.0p per share which represents an increase of 33% on 
the prior year. 
The dividend cover increases to 2.3 times which is larger 
than previous years, but reflects a degree of caution, 
given the current uncertainty in the direction of 
global markets.
Robust Free Cash Flow 
The Group continued to generate strong free cash flow 
of £25.0m in 2011, despite the return of working capital 
to more normal levels. Last year’s free cash flow was 
£29.8m, but this included £6.4m of proceeds from the 
sale of the Anachem businesses. Free cash flow is before 
expenditure on acquisitions or returns to shareholders.
n igel l ingwood
Group Finance Director Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
18
Operating cash flow increased to £40.3m (2010: £34.3m) 
after investing £7.4m (2010: £0.1m reduction) in working 
capital, mainly to rebuild inventories during the year to 
support the current level of trading activity. The ratio of 
working capital to revenues at 30 September 2011 was 
16.1% (2010: 15.4%) which was still below the longer run 
average of ca. 17%. 
Group tax payments increased to £12.4m (2010: £9.3m) 
in line with the increase in taxable profits and £1.6m 
(2010: £0.4m) was spent on funding the Employee 
Benefit Trust to allow it to purchase ordinary shares in the 
Company. Capital expenditure increased to £1.7m (2010: 
£1.3m) but remained below the £2.1m charge for 
depreciation. The Canadian Healthcare businesses spent 
£0.4m on acquiring field equipment in support of their 
customer contracts with Canadian hospitals. In Seals, 
HFPG spent £0.3m on two new custom seal machines 
and a further £0.2m on completing the warehouse 
automation project in Clearwater. Other capital 
expenditure of £0.8m included enhancements to 
existing facilities and further investment in the IT 
infrastructure across the Group, including £0.2m on 
a new ERP system in Sommer.
The Group spent £28.2m (2010: £11.0m) of its cash 
resources on acquiring businesses, including minority 
interests, during the year and £14.8m (2010: £10.2m) 
on paying dividends to both Company and 
minority shareholders.
 
Significant Reduction in l iabilities to Minority 
Shareholders
During the year the Group acquired the outstanding  
25% minority shareholding in AMT, one of the Group’s 
Healthcare businesses in Canada, for £12.5m. These 
shares were acquired through the exercise of put/call 
options, agreed at the time of acquisition in 
September 2007 . 
Following this transaction, the liability retained by the 
Group to purchase the remaining minority shareholdings 
has fallen significantly to £2.0m (2010: £13.2m). This 
liability relates to minority shareholdings held in M Seals 
and BGS and in HPS, which is a small subsidiary of the RT 
Dygert seals business; the majority of this liability will be 
payable in December 2012 to acquire the outstanding 
10% minority shareholdings in M Seals. These liabilities 
arise under put/call options entered into at the time of 
acquisition and are based on the Directors’ estimate of 
the Earnings Before Interest and Tax (“EBIT”) of these 
businesses when the options crystallise.
Based on the expected performance of these businesses, 
the Directors have reassessed the potential liability at 
30 September 2011 to acquire the remaining outstanding 
minority interests. The fair value remeasurement of 
these options has led to a financial charge of £0.9m 
(2010: £2.0m) being made in the consolidated 
Income Statement. 
value Enhancing Acquisitions 
The Group spent £28.2m on acquisitions during the 
year, including £12.5m on acquiring the outstanding 
25% minority shares in AMT. Expenditure of £14.8m was 
paid during the year to acquire the Canadian healthcare 
business of CMI in December 2010; a provision of 
£1.1m has also been made at the year-end for deferred 
consideration relating to this acquisition. These 
acquisitions, including those made towards the end of  
the last financial year, have made a strong contribution to 
earnings this year. During the year deferred consideration 
of £0.9m was also paid in connection with three smaller 
acquisitions completed last year. 
Acquisition intangible assets of £9.3m were recognised 
on completion of these acquisitions, as well as goodwill 
of £20.4m, reflecting the amount paid in excess of the 
value of the net assets. The acquisition of the minority 
interest in AMT accounted for £13.1m of this goodwill 
and the balance of £7.3m comprised the value in CMI 
relating to both the prospects for sales growth in the 
future (from both new customers and new products) and 
from operating cost synergies. 
Excellent Return on Trading Capital and Strong 
Balance Sheet
The Group achieved an excellent return on trading 
capital employed (“ROTCE”) of 25.4% in 2011 (2010: 
22.1%). ROTCE is a pre-tax measure and includes all 
gross historic goodwill and intangible assets and 
represents an indication of the profitability of the Group. 
This improved return arose from a combination of the 
growth in profits and from strong management of 
working capital across the businesses. 
In absolute terms, trading capital employed, which 
represents the amount of operational assets held by the 
businesses, increased by £30.6m to £152.9m (2010: 
£122.3m). The majority of this increase arose from the 
acquisition of intangible assets with the balance being 
contributed by investment in working capital to meet the 
stronger trading environment. 
The Group recognises the importance of maintaining a 
strong balance sheet, particularly during this period of 
uncertainty in the global financial markets. At 30 
September 2011 the Group held net cash funds of 
£12.2m, with £17.8m of cash balances offset by £5.6m of 
borrowings. The cash funds are generally repatriated to 
the UK, unless they are required locally to meet certain 
commitments, including acquisitions. 
Finance Review continued 19
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
The Group borrowings of £5.6m at the year-end were 
drawn from the Group’s £20m revolving credit facility to 
help finance the purchase of the minority interests earlier 
during the year. The Group has an option to extend these 
bank facilities to £40m, subject to market pricing, and 
these facilities remain available until November 2013. 
l and at Stamford
The Group continues to retain approximately 150 acres 
of farm and former quarry land in Stamford which relates 
to a former legacy busines. This land is included in the 
balance sheet at £Nil and in the opinion of the Directors, 
it is unlikely to be worth more than £0.5m in its present 
condition. The Directors anticipate that this land will 
continue to be leased to a local farmer and there is no 
intention to dispose of this land in the foreseeable future.
valuation of Merged Pension Scheme 
The Group successfully completed the merger of its four 
small closed defined benefit pension schemes at 30 
September 2010 and during 2011 finalised an actuarial 
funding valuation of the merged Scheme as at that date. 
The funding deficit in the newly merged Scheme was 
£2.7m, representing a funding level of 87%. The 
Company has agreed with the Trustees to continue to 
pay £320,000 into the Scheme each year (increasing by 
2% p.a.) with the objective of eliminating the deficit within 
ten years. With the scheme merger now completed, 
attention will be focused on exploring opportunities to 
reduce the Group’s pension liability through the use of 
structured insurance products.
 
On an accounting basis, the net pension liability 
increased marginally at 30 September 2011 to £5.4m 
(2010: £5.3m). The higher accounting deficit reflects the 
accounting requirement to value the liabilities at a more 
conservative market discount rate, compared with the 
higher discount rate used in the funding valuation. 
Both the funding and accounting valuations have 
benefited this year from HM Government’s decision 
earlier in the year to use the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) 
instead of the Retail Price Index (“RPI”) as the basis for 
statutory inflation increases in certain pension benefits. 
The benefit to the accounting valuation from the change 
to CPI is ca. £1.4m and this is included in the 
consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Pension benefits to existing employees, including the 
Executive Directors, are provided through defined 
contribution schemes at an aggregate cost in 2011 of 
£0.8m (2010: £0.7m).
Measuring Financial Performance 
The Group continues to use a number of specific 
measures to assess the performance of the Group and 
these are referred to throughout this Annual Report in 
the discussion of the performance of the businesses. 
These measures are not defined in IFRS, but are used 
by the Board to assess the underlying operational 
performance of the Group and its businesses. As such 
the Board believes these performance measures are 
important and should be considered alongside the IFRS 
measures. The alternative performance measures, which 
have been used in this Annual Report, are described in 
note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors 
(including those which the Group cannot influence, 
principally currency exchange rates) that have affected 
the results of the Group’s business and which are 
reflected in the consolidated financial statements 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as adopted by the 
European Union.
There have been no new accounting or disclosure 
requirements this year that have impacted the Group’s 
consolidated financial statements.  Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
20
Principal Risks and uncertainties
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the Group’s annual planning cycle and market specific risks are 
evaluated as part of the annual budgeting process.
Each operating business is required each year to identify 
and document the significant strategic, operational and 
financial and accounting risks facing the business. For 
each significant risk, a number of scenarios are mapped 
out and an assessment is made of the likelihood and 
impact of each risk scenario. Finally, plans and processes 
are established which are designed to control each risk 
and minimise its potential impact.
The risk assessments from each of the operating 
businesses are reviewed with the Executive Directors and 
a consolidated risk assessment is reviewed by the Board.
The principal risks and uncertainties which are currently 
judged to have the largest potential impact on the 
Group’s long-term performance are set out below.
Risk: Strategic
Downturn in major markets
Adverse changes in the major markets in which the 
businesses operate can have a significant impact on 
performance. The effects will either be seen in terms of 
slowing revenue growth, due to reduced or delayed 
demand for products and services, or pressure on 
margins due to increased competitive pressures.
A number of characteristics of the Group’s businesses 
moderate the impact of economic and business cycles 
on the Group as a whole:
•	 The Group’s businesses operate in three different 
sectors with different cyclical characteristics and 
across a number of geographic markets, as set out 
on page 10.
•	 The businesses offer specialised products and 
services; this offers a degree of protection against 
customers quickly switching business to achieve a 
better price.
•	 A high proportion of the Group’s sales comprise 
consumable products and service contracts which 
are purchased as part of customers’ operating 
expenditure, rather than through capital budgets.
•	 In the majority of cases the products are used in 
repair, maintenance and refurbishment applications, 
rather than original equipment manufacture.
Mitigation
The businesses identify key market drivers and monitor 
the trends and forecasts, as well as maintaining close 
relationships with key customers who may give an early 
warning of slowing demand. Changes to cost levels and 
inventories can then be made in a measured way to 
mitigate the effects.
Loss of key supplier(s)
For manufacturer-branded products, there are risks to 
the business if a major supplier decides to cancel the 
distribution agreement or if the supplier is acquired by a 
company which has its own distribution channels in the 
relevant market. There is also the risk of a supplier taking 
away exclusivity and either setting up direct operations or 
establishing another distributor.
In times of rapid economic expansion in activity, such as 
after a global recession, the lead times to supply key 
product can become very long.
No supplier represents more than 15% of Group revenue 
and only five suppliers represent more than 2% each of 
Group revenue.
Relationships with suppliers have normally been built up 
over many years and a strong degree of interdependence 
has been established. The average length of the principal 
supplier relationships in each of the sectors is over 
ten years.
Strength of relationship with supplier and volume of 
activity generally ensures continuity of supply when 
there is shortage of product.
Mitigation
Actions to mitigate the risks include:
•	 Long term, multi-year exclusive contracts signed 
with suppliers with change of control clauses, where 
possible, included in contracts for protection or 
compensation in the event of acquisition.
•	 Collaborative projects and relationships maintained 
with individuals at many levels of the supplier 
organisation, together with regular review meetings 
and adherence to contractual terms.
•	 Regular review of inventory levels.
•	 Bundling and kitting of products and provision of 
added value services.
•	 Periodic research of alternative suppliers as part of 
contingency planning. 21
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Risk: Strategic continued
Loss of major customer(s)
The loss of one or more major customers can be a 
material risk.
The nature of the Group’s businesses is such that there  
is not a high level of dependence on any individual 
customers and no customer represents more than 5% of 
sector revenue or more than 2% of total Group revenue.
Mitigation
Specific large customers are important to individual 
operating businesses and a high level of effort is invested 
in ensuring that these customers are retained and 
encouraged not to switch to another supplier. 
In addition to providing high levels of customer service, 
close integration is established where possible with 
customers’ systems and processes.
Product liability
There is a risk that products supplied by a Group business 
may fail in service, which could lead to a claim under 
product liability. The businesses, in their Terms and 
Conditions of sale with customers, will typically mirror 
the Terms and Conditions of sale from the suppliers. 
In this way the liability can be limited and subrogated 
to the supplier.
However, if a legal claim is made it will typically draw in our 
business as a party to the claim and the business may be 
exposed to legal costs and potential damages if the claim 
succeeds and the supplier fails to meet its liabilities for 
whatever reason. Product liability insurance can be 
limited in terms of its scope of insurable events, such as 
product recall. 
During 2011, the Group settled a small claim received 
from a customer in respect of product failure which it 
was unable to recover from the supplier. However, there 
have been no similar claims during the past ten years.
Mitigation
Technically qualified personnel and control systems are 
in place to ensure products meet quality requirements. 
The Group has also established Group-wide product 
liability insurance which provides worldwide umbrella 
insurance cover of £10m in all sectors. 
The Group’s businesses may also elect not to supply 
products if they are not fully confident that the products 
will meet the demands of the operating environment.
Loss of key personnel
The success of the Group is built upon strong, 
self-standing management teams in the operating 
businesses, committed to the success of their respective 
businesses. As a result, the loss of key personnel can 
have a significant impact on performance, at least for 
a time. 
Average age of our senior managers making up the 
self-standing management teams in the operating 
businesses is 43 with an average length of service of  
ten years. 
As set out on page 43, the average length of service for 
all personnel in the Group is over five years.
Mitigation
Contractual terms such as notice periods and non-
compete clauses can mitigate the risk in the short term. 
However, more successful initiatives focus on ensuring a 
challenging work environment with appropriate reward 
systems. The Group places very high importance on 
planning the development, motivation and reward for 
key managers in the operating businesses such as:
•	 Ensuring a challenging working environment where 
managers feel they have control over, and 
responsibility for their businesses. 
•	 Establishing management development programmes 
to ensure a broad base of talented managers.
•	 Offering a balanced and competitive compensation 
package with a combination of salary, annual bonus 
and long-term cash incentive plans targeted at the 
individual business level.
•	 Giving the freedom, encouragement, financial 
resources and strategic support for managers 
to pursue ambitious growth plans. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
22
Risk: Operational
Major damage to premises
The Group’s businesses mostly operate from combined 
office/warehouse facilities which are dedicated to each 
business and not shared with other Group businesses. 
Major damage to the facilities from fire, malicious 
damage or natural disaster would impact the businesses 
for a period until the damage is repaired or alternative 
facilities have been established.
However, the Group has not suffered any major damage 
to premises in recent years and in Clearwater, Florida 
there has been no significant hurricane activity for at 
least the last three years.
Mitigation
The business where the risk is greatest is Hercules in 
Clearwater, Florida which is most at risk from an 
environmental disaster caused by a hurricane or tornado. 
The building structure has been designed to withstand 
150mph winds and a specific disaster plan has been 
drawn up and is regularly reviewed. 
This includes:
•	 Backup power generator.
•	 Materials on hand to secure the facility.
•	 Communications reroute to other branches or interim 
locations.
•	 IT recovery plan using backup server in separate 
location.
•	 Regular building inspection and weather monitoring.
•	 Plans to drop-ship product from suppliers direct 
to customers.
The other businesses have also developed plans to 
prevent incidents, including fire and security alarms and 
regular fire drills. Insurance policies are also in place 
including property, contents and business interruption 
cover which would mitigate the financial impact.
However, the priority in such an event is to become 
operational as quickly as possible to minimise disruption 
to customers. Plans to ensure a quick and orderly 
recovery have been developed by the businesses and 
are periodically reviewed. 
Loss of Information Technology (“IT”) systems
Computer systems are critical to the businesses since 
their success is built on high levels of customer service 
and quick response. A complete failure of IT systems, 
with the loss of trading and other records, would be 
more damaging to the businesses than major physical 
damage to facilities.
Mitigation
Business interruption insurance cover is held across the 
Group and contingency plans have been drawn up in all 
businesses. The recovery plans differ by individual 
business, but will include some or all of the following 
elements:
•	 Full data backups as a matter of routine and backup 
tapes stored in a fireproof safe.
•	 Backup servers identified and communication reroute 
options identified.
•	 Service contracts with IT providers with access to 
replacement servers.
•	 Uninterruptible power sources and backup generators 
where required.
•	 Virus checkers and firewalls. 
Principal Risks and uncertainties continued 23
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Risk: Financial and Accounting
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial 
and accounting risks, including foreign currency, liquidity, 
interest rate and credit. The policies for managing these 
financial risks, as well as the management of capital risks, 
are set out in note 18 to the consolidated financial 
statements. The principal financial and accounting 
risks are summarised below. The Group’s overall 
management of these risks is carried out by a central 
treasury team (Group treasury) under policies and
procedures which are reviewed and approved by 
the Board. Group treasury identifies, evaluates and 
where appropriate, hedges financial risks in close 
co-operation with the Group’s operating businesses. 
The Group treasury team does not undertake speculative 
foreign exchange dealings for which there is no 
underlying exposure.
Foreign currency risk – Translational exposure
Foreign currency risk is the risk that changes in currency 
rates will affect the Group’s results. The Group operates 
internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk 
arising from various currency exposures, primarily with 
respect to the US dollar, the Euro and the Canadian 
dollar. The Group also has operations outside the UK 
whose net assets are also exposed to foreign currency 
translation risk.
During the year ended 30 September 2011, ca. 75% of 
the Group’s revenue and operating profits were earned in 
currencies other than UK sterling. In comparison to the 
prior year, the net effect of currency translation was to 
increase revenue by £0.5m and to increase operating 
profit by £Nil. It is estimated that a strengthening of UK 
sterling by 10% against all the currencies in which the 
Group does business, would reduce operating profit,
before acquisition related charges and tax, by 
approximately £3.4m (7.5%) due to currency translation.
Currency exposures also arise from the net assets of the 
Group’s foreign operations. At 30 September 2011, the 
Group’s non-UK sterling trading capital employed in 
overseas businesses was £130.9m (2010: £103.1m), which 
represented 86% of the Group’s trading capital employed. 
It is estimated that a strengthening of UK sterling of 10% 
against all the non-UK sterling capital employed would 
reduce shareholders’ funds by £12.6m.
Details of average exchange rates used in the translation 
of overseas earnings and of year end exchange rates, 
used in the translation of overseas balance sheets, for 
the principal currencies used by the Group, are shown 
in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
Mitigation
The Group does not hedge translational exposure.
Foreign currency – Transactional exposure
The Group’s UK businesses are also exposed to foreign 
currency risk on purchases that are denominated in a 
currency other than their local currency, principally US 
dollars, Euro and Japanese yen. The Group’s Canadian 
and Australian businesses are also exposed to a similar 
risk as the majority of their purchases are denominated 
in US dollars.
Mitigation
The Group’s businesses may hedge up to 80% of 
forecast (being a maximum of eighteen months) foreign 
currency exposures using forward foreign exchange 
contracts. The Group classifies its forward foreign 
exchange contracts, hedging forecasted transactions,  
as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value. 
Risk: Accounting
Inventory obsolescence
Working capital management is critical to success in 
specialised distribution businesses as this has a major 
impact on cash flow. The principal risk to working capital, 
is in inventory obsolescence and write-off.
The charge against operating profit in respect of old or 
surplus inventory is generally ca. £0.7m per year, but 
inventories are generally not subject to technological 
obsolescence. 
Mitigation
Inventory write-offs are controlled and minimised by 
active management of inventory levels based on sales 
forecasts and regular cycle counts. Where necessary,  
a provision is made to cover excess inventory and 
potential obsolescence.  Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
24
Board of Directors and Advisors
John Rennocks (66)
1,2,3
n on-Executive Chairman
Appointed: Joined the Board in July 
2002 and appointed Chairman in 
January 2004.
Skills and experience: John is a 
Chartered Accountant with over  
40 years of experience in commerce 
and industry, including nearly 20  
years as the Finance Director of  
FTSE 100 companies. He has been  
a non-Executive Director of many 
companies in the past 17 years, 
including as Chairman of six other 
public or private companies across 
several industrial or support  
service sectors.
External appointments: John is 
currently Chairman of Intelligent 
Energy PLC and the Senior 
Independent Director of Inmarsat  
PLC and Babcock International  
Group PLC.
Bruce Thompson (56)
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed: Joined the Board in 1994 
as a Group Director and appointed 
Chief Executive Officer in 1996.
Skills and experience: Bruce started 
his career in the automotive industry, 
first as a design engineer and then  
in product marketing. He then spent 
three years in international marketing 
with a construction materials 
company, developing new markets  
in Europe, the Middle East and North 
Africa. Prior to joining Diploma, he was 
a Director with Arthur D Little Inc.,  
the technology and management 
consulting firm, initially in the UK  
and then as Director of the firm’s 
Technology Management Practice 
based in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
External appointments: None.
n igel l ingwood (52)
Group Finance Director and 
Company Secretary
Appointed: Joined the Company in 
June 2001 and appointed Group 
Finance Director in July 2001.
Skills and experience: Prior to 
joining the Company, Nigel was the 
Group Financial controller at Unigate 
PLC where he gained experience of 
working in a large multi-national 
environment and on a number of 
large corporate transactions. Nigel 
qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with Price Waterhouse London.
External appointments: None.
Member of: 
1 the Remuneration Committee 
2 the Audit Committee 
3 the Nomination Committee 25
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
John Matthews (67)
1,2,3
non-Executive Director
Appointed: Joined the Board in 2003.
Skills and experience: John is a 
Chartered Accountant and a former 
Managing Director and Head of 
Corporate Finance at County 
NatWest. Subsequent to this he  
was Deputy Chairman and Deputy 
Chief Executive at Beazer plc,  
an international civil engineering, 
construction, house building and 
aggregates group. He has also been 
Chairman of Crest Nicholson plc and 
Regus plc and a non-Executive 
Director of a number of listed and 
private companies.
External appointments: John is 
currently a member of the Board of 
SDL plc and Aurelian Oil & Gas plc 
and a member of the Advisory Board 
of Alexander Proudfoot.
ian Grice (58)
1,2,3
non-Executive Director
Appointed: Joined the Board in 
January 2007.
Skills and experience: A chartered 
engineer with over 35 years 
experience in the Support Services 
and Construction sectors, in the UK 
and International markets. Ian held 
senior roles in several industrial 
groups before joining the board of 
Alfred McAlpine plc in 1995 where he 
was Chief Executive Officer from 
2003 to 2008.
External appointments: Ian is 
currently a member of the 
Supervisory Board of Arcadis NV, and 
a non-Executive Director of three 
private companies.
iain Henderson (55)
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed: Joined the Board as a 
Director in 1998 and appointed  
Chief Operating Officer in 2005.
Skills and experience: Iain qualified as 
a chartered management accountant 
and began his career in the food 
industry, progressing to be an 
operations general manager with H J 
Heinz. Since 1988, Iain has specialised 
in the acquisition and development of 
small to medium sized enterprises 
(“SME”) within group structures. This 
was firstly within the privately owned 
Bricom MBO, where he ran ANC 
Holdings and from 1994 in a public 
company environment as a Director 
of Glenchewton plc and then 
Diploma PLC.
External appointments: None.
Advisors
investment Bankers
Lazard
50 Stratton Street
London W1J 8LL
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP 
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
HSBC Bank plc
City Corporate Banking Centre
60 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4 4TR
Corporate Stockbrokers
Numis Securities
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LT
Solicitors
Ashurst
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London EC2A 2HA Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
26
Corporate Governance
John Rennocks
Chairman
This section of the Annual Report & Accounts sets out 
how the Board and its Committees discharge their duties 
and how we apply the principles of good governance set 
out in the new UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The Board has always been committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance appropriate to a 
company of the size and complexity of Diploma PLC. 
The new Code, which is applicable to the Company 
from 1 October 2010, has introduced a number of new 
obligations on larger companies, some of which have not 
yet been adopted in Diploma, as permitted by the Code. 
These obligations include the requirement that more 
than half the Board should comprise independent 
directors, that the directors should be subject to annual 
re-election and that the Board should have externally 
facilitated performance evaluations. As a smaller 
company, I have always considered that it was more 
important that the Board operated within the spirit of 
the principles of corporate governance, rather than 
necessarily following regimented rules.
I firmly believe that good governance comes from 
a robust and effective Board which provides strong 
leadership to the Company and engages well with 
both management and shareholders. Throughout my 
tenure as Chairman, the Board has been made up of a 
good balance of Executive and non-Executive Directors 
whose skills have been carefully balanced and which has 
fostered an environment whereby constructive challenge 
and open debate is actively encouraged at all meetings. 
Over the ten years that I have been on the Board of 
Diploma, the Company has been very successful and 
has grown substantially to the point that the Company 
was recently promoted to the FTSE350. The Board 
recognises that with greater size comes greater 
accountability and I therefore intend with the support  
of the Board, to focus over the next eighteen months  
on developing the Board and its governance procedures 
so that it will be able to meet the higher standards set for 
large companies. 
With both myself and John Matthews having served 
on the Board for a number of years now, this process 
will include the addition of two further non-Executive 
Directors to the Board. A key element of our approach 
to Board structure has been and will be to seek to have a 
broad spread of skills blending together, so that we have 
a Board for which the overall strength is greater than 
“the sum of the parts”. We will ensure that the process 
takes account of the findings of the Davies Report on 
Boardroom diversity and recent amendments to the 
Code by the FRC.
Meanwhile I remain satisfied that the Board is well 
suited to our business and that the Board will continue 
to have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the Company to 
enable the Directors to discharge their duties and 
responsibilities effectively. 
Finally, I would like to encourage all shareholders to find 
the time to join us at our AGM on 18 January 2012 as it 
provides an excellent opportunity to meet all members 
of the Board.
John Rennocks
Chairman
Compliance Statement
The Governance report on pages 26 to 41 is 
designed to provide shareholders with a clear 
summary of the Group’s governance arrangements 
by reference to the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(“the Code”), published in June 2010 as it applied to 
the Company in 2011. Throughout the accounting 
period to which this report relates, the Directors 
believe that the Company has complied with all of 
the relevant Provisions set out in Sections A to E of 
the Code.
number of Board Meetings:
Directors and attendance 2011
John Rennocks (Chairman) 6/6
John Matthews 6/6
Ian Grice 6/6
Bruce Thompson 6/6
Iain Henderson 6/6
Nigel Lingwood 6/6 27
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Report on Corporate Governance
Compliance with the uK Corporate Governance Code
As a UK-listed company, Diploma PLC is required to state 
whether it has complied with the Main Principles of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) published 
by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010, 
throughout the year in review and, where the provisions 
have not been complied with, to provide an explanation. 
Diploma PLC is also required to explain how it has applied 
the Main Principles of the Code and this is set out below.
l eadership
The Company’s governance structure is based on the 
leadership principles set out in the Code. The core 
activities of the Board and its Committees are planned 
on an annual basis and this forms the basic structure 
within which the Board operates. The Board has adopted 
formal terms of reference which reflect the principles 
contained in the Code, and cover the following:
•	 Strategy – reviewing and agreeing strategy;
•	 Performance – monitoring the performance of the 
Group and also evaluating its own performance;
•	 Standards and values – setting standards and values 
to guide the affairs of the Group;
•	 Oversight – ensuring an effective system of internal 
controls is in place, ensuring that the Board receives 
timely and accurate information on the performance 
of the Group and the proper delegation of authority; 
and
•	 People – ensuring the Group is managed by individuals 
with the necessary skills and experience and that 
appointments to the Board are managed effectively. 
The terms of reference also sets out the separate and 
distinct roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive. 
The Board appoints the Chief Executive and monitors his 
performance in leading the Company and providing 
operational and performance management in delivering 
the agreed strategy. Specifically, he is responsible for 
developing, for the Board’s approval, appropriate values 
and standards to guide all activities undertaken by 
the Company.
The approval of acquisitions, for the most part, is a 
matter reserved for the Board, save that it delegates to 
the Chief Executive the responsibility for such activities to 
a specified level of authority. Similarly, there are authority 
levels covering capital expenditure which can be 
exercised by the Chief Executive. Beyond these levels of 
authority, projects are referred to the Board for approval.
Other matters reserved to the Board include treasury 
policies, internal control, risk management and the 
appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.  
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover  
with respect to legal action against its Directors.
To ensure that non-Executive Directors can constructively 
challenge and help proposals on strategy, the Board has 
adopted a process of reviewing and approving the agreed 
strategy for the Company on a two yearly basis. In 2010, 
the Board members undertook a formal strategy 
development review at the Group’s business in Edmonton, 
Canada. The next strategy meeting will be held in 2012. 
Effectiveness
The Board
The Board comprises three non-Executive Directors, 
including the Chairman, and three Executive Directors, 
providing an appropriate range of skill and experience. 
The biographical details of the Board members are set 
out on pages 24 and 25. The Board has six scheduled 
meetings each year and meets more frequently as 
required. It met on six occasions during the year under 
review and attendance at these meetings is set out in the 
chart opposite. 
The non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified 
terms and the details of their respective appointments 
are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 41.
The non-Executive Directors are determined by the 
Board to be independent in character and judgement 
and there are no relationships or circumstances which 
could affect, or appear to affect, a Director’s judgement. 
The Chairman, John Rennocks was considered 
independent by the Board both at the time of his 
appointment as Director on 12 July 2002 and as 
Chairman on 7 January 2004 and in accordance with the 
Code, the ongoing test of independence for the 
Chairman is not appropriate. John Matthews is the 
Senior Independent Director. 
All non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time 
commitments at appointment. The ability of individual 
Directors to allocate sufficient time to the discharge of 
their responsibilities is considered as part of the Directors’ 
annual evaluation process overseen by the Chairman. 
Any issues concerning the Chairman’s time commitment 
are dealt with by the Nominations Committee, chaired 
for this purpose by the Senior Independent Director. 
Non-Executive Directors are required to inform the 
Board of any changes to their other appointments. 
There are three standing Committees of the Board to 
which various matters are delegated. Membership of the 
Committees is set out on pages 24 and 25 and terms of 
reference of each the Committees are set out on the 
Company’s website (www.diplomaplc.com). In order to 
ensure that undue reliance is not placed on particular 
individuals, the Board has decided that all its independent 
non-Executive Directors should serve on all Committees.  Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
28
During the year the Chairman has also held meetings 
with the non-Executive Directors, without the Executive 
Directors present.
Appointments to the Board
The Board has established a Nomination Committee 
which leads the process for Board appointments and 
makes recommendations to the Board. The members of 
the Nomination Committee are John Rennocks, who is 
the Chairman, and the two non-Executive Directors. The 
Committee would be chaired by the Senior Independent 
Director on any matter concerning the chairmanship of 
the Company. The Company Secretary is the Secretary 
to the Committee. 
The Nomination Committee has written terms of 
reference which are available on the Company’s website, 
covering the authority delegated to it by the Board. In 
carrying out its duties, the Committee will:
•	 Take responsibility for identifying and nominating, for 
the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board 
vacancies as and when they arise.
•	 Before making an appointment evaluate the balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and 
in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of 
the role and capabilities required for a particular 
appointment.
•	 In identifying suitable candidates, consider candidates 
on merit and against objective criteria and will take 
care that appointees have enough time available to 
devote to the position.
•	 Consider candidates from a range of backgrounds, 
both internally and externally and may use the 
services of external advisors to facilitate the search.
The Nomination Committee met once during the year 
under review at which proposals for development of the 
Board were discussed. 
information and professional development
An induction programme is agreed for all new directors 
aimed at ensuring that they are able to develop an 
understanding and awareness of the Company’s core 
processes, its people and businesses. This process 
includes visits to various operating businesses. In addition 
to the induction programme that all directors undertake 
on joining the Board, a programme of director 
awareness of the businesses has been developed 
through periodic visits to the principal business locations 
and presentations by senior management of the 
businesses to the Board. 
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive 
and Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that 
Directors are supplied with information in a timely 
manner that is in a form and of a quality appropriate to 
enable them to discharge their duties. In the normal 
course of business, the Chief Executive makes an oral 
report to the Board at each meeting and information is 
provided and reported through formal Board Reports 
that include information on operational matters and 
strategic developments. There are also reports on the 
performance of Group operations, financial performance 
relative to the Budget, business development and 
investor relations. 
The training needs of the Directors are periodically 
discussed at meetings with briefings as necessary on 
various elements of corporate governance and 
regulatory issues.
The Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Board 
on matters concerning governance and regulatory issues 
and ensures compliance with Board procedures. All 
Directors have access to his advice and a procedure also 
exists for Directors to take independent professional 
advice at the Company’s expense. No such advice was 
sought during the year. The appointment and removal of 
the Company Secretary and his remuneration are 
matters for the Board as a whole.
Historically, because of the relatively small size of the 
Company and to limit its costs, the Board has decided 
that the role of the Company Secretary should be 
combined with that of the Group Finance Director. As 
the Group continues to grow in both size and 
complexity, this appointment will be reviewed again by 
the Board in the new financial year.
Board evaluation
The Board’s annual evaluations of effectiveness are 
completed internally using specifically designed 
evaluation forms and under the direction of the 
Chairman. This exercise encompasses an evaluation 
of the performance of the Board as a whole, as well as 
of the Committees and individuals. Feedback on Board 
performance is presented to a meeting of the Board 
which agrees actions and objectives for the 
following year.
Re-election
All Directors to the Board are subject to election by the 
shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting 
following their appointment by the Board. The Board has 
decided to adopt the provision of the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code, whereby all Directors will be subject 
to re-election annually, commencing from the Annual 
General Meeting on 18 January 2012.
Corporate Governance continued
Report on Corporate Governance continued 29
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Remuneration
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration 
Committee responsibility for agreeing remuneration 
policy and the remuneration of the Executive Directors. 
The Committee is formed exclusively of independent 
non-Executive Directors and the Report of the 
Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 32 to 41.
Accountability 
The Board is committed to providing shareholders with 
a clear assessment of the Company’s financial position 
and prospects. This is achieved through this Annual 
Report & Accounts and through other periodic financial 
statements and announcements. 
The arrangements established by the Board for the 
application of risk management and internal control 
principles are set out on page 31. The Board has 
delegated to the Audit Committee oversight of the 
Group’s corporate reporting, management of the 
relationship with the auditors and review of the 
Company’s risk management and internal control 
procedures, further details of which can be found in the 
Audit Committee report on page 30. 
Relations with Shareholders
The Company has a well developed investor relations 
programme managed by the Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director. Through this programme the Company 
maintains regular contact with major shareholders to 
communicate clearly the Group’s objectives and 
monitors movements in significant shareholdings. 
Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive 
Officer and Group Finance Director through 
presentations made twice a year on the operating and 
financial performance of the Group and its longer term 
strategy. The Chief Executive Officer and Group 
Finance Director generally deal with questions from 
individual shareholders. 
All financial and trading announcements are published 
immediately on the Company’s website, www.
diplomaplc.com, including copies of the presentations 
made to analysts and key shareholders. 
The non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as 
to the views of institutional shareholders and an 
independent insight is sought through research carried 
out twice a year by the Company’s advisors.
Through these processes, the Board is kept abreast of 
key issues and the opportunity for shareholders to meet 
the Chairman or Senior Independent Director, separately 
from the Executive Directors, is available on request.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to 
shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the 
meeting and includes a separate resolution on each 
substantially separate issue. All shareholders have the 
opportunity to put questions at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting when the Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer give a statement on the Group’s 
performance during the year, together with a statement 
on current trading conditions. The Chairman of the 
Board and of the Remuneration and Audit Committees 
will normally be available to answer questions at 
the meeting.
In the absence of a poll being called, proxy votes cast are 
declared after each resolution dealt with on a show of 
hands. The results of the AGM resolutions are published 
on the Company’s website. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
30
John Matthews
Chairman of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises John Matthews 
(Chairman), John Rennocks and Ian Grice. Both John 
Matthews and John Rennocks are chartered 
accountants who have recent and relevant financial 
experience, as required by the Code. 
The meetings of the Committee are normally attended 
by the Executive Directors and the external auditor. In 
addition, the Chairman of the Committee meets privately 
with the external auditor at least twice each year. The 
Secretary to the Committee is Nigel Lingwood. 
Role of the Committee 
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are 
set out in written terms of reference which are available 
on the Company’s website (www.diplomaplc.com).  
They are as follows:
•	 to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of 
the Group and any formal announcements relating to 
the Group’s financial performance, reviewing 
significant financial judgements contained therein;
•	 to review the Group’s internal controls systems and 
risk management procedures;
•	 to make recommendations to the Board, for it to put 
to shareholders for approval in general meeting, in 
relation to the appointment, re-appointment and 
removal of the external auditor and to approve the 
terms of engagement of the external auditor;
•	 to review and monitor the external auditor’s 
independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of 
the audit process taking into consideration relevant 
UK professional and regulatory requirements;
•	 to develop and implement policy on the engagement 
of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, 
taking into account relevant guidance regarding the 
provision of non-audit services by the external 
auditor;
•	 to report to the Board, identifying any matters in 
respect of which it considers that action or 
improvement is needed and making 
recommendations as to the steps to be taken; and
•	 to consider annually whether there is a need for a 
formal internal audit function and make 
recommendation to the Board.
n umber of Committee Meetings:
Directors and attendance 2011
John Matthews (Chairman) 7/7
John Rennocks 7/7
Ian Grice 7/7
In addition, the Audit Committee has an important role 
to play through its responsibility for, and oversight of, the 
auditor relationship and auditor independence. The 
Committee reviewed the audit engagement in 2008 and 
following an audit tender process, recommended to the 
Board the appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor to the 
Company and Group.
The Committee has also established a set of guidelines 
covering the type of non-audit work that can be 
assigned to the external auditor. These relate to further 
assurance services – where the auditor’s detailed 
knowledge of the Group’s affairs means that they may  
be best placed to carry out such work. This extends to, 
but is not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, 
regulatory reports, and on occasions, work in 
connection with disposals. Work in connection with 
acquisitions, including due diligence reviews, is generally 
not provided by the auditor, but is placed with other firms.
Taxation services are generally not provided by the 
auditor; a separate firm is retained to provide tax 
advice, including any assistance with tax compliance 
matters generally, except in Canada and Denmark, 
where the auditor provides some assistance on the 
tax computations.
In other circumstances, proposed assignments are 
put out to tender and decisions to award work taken 
on the basis of demonstrable competence and 
cost effectiveness.
The Committee receives an annual report which provides 
details of any assignments and related fees carried out by 
the auditor in addition to their normal audit work, and 
these are reviewed against the above guidelines.
The Committee has also formally reviewed and approved 
the arrangements by which Company employees may, in 
confidence, raise concerns about possible irregularities in 
financial reporting or other matters (so called 
“whistleblowing” procedures).
Corporate Governance continued
Audit Committee 31
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Activities During the Year
The Audit Committee assists the Board in assuring the 
integrity of the financial statements and related disclosures. 
During the current year, the Committee carried out the 
following work:
•	 at its meetings in May and November, the Committee 
reviewed the Interim Report and the Annual Report & 
Accounts respectively. On both occasions, the 
Committee received reports from the Group Finance 
Director and from the external auditor identifying any 
accounting or judgemental issues requiring its 
attention; 
•	 in September the Committee met with the external 
auditor to discuss their audit plan process;
•	 in January and August the Committee met to approve 
formal Interim Management Statements which were 
released to the market, in accordance with the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules; and
•	 the Committee met on two further occasions during 
the year to review Trading Updates which the 
Company issued to the market. 
During the meetings, the Committee reviewed the 
information included in the Annual Report & Accounts  
to ensure that the information provided a fair review  
of the Group’s business. It also reviewed the external  
audit management letter and the procedures designed 
to ensure that the external auditor was aware of all 
“relevant audit information”, as required by the 
Companies Act 2006.
The Committee also assessed the effectiveness of the 
external audit process and the report on the external 
auditor’s own quality control procedures. This 
assessment covers all aspects of the audit service 
provided by the Company’s external auditor. 
Risk Management and internal Control
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control. 
The system of internal control is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material misstatement  
or loss. 
The Board has established a clear organisational 
structure with defined authority levels. The day to day 
running of the Group’s business is delegated to the 
Executive Directors of the Company. The Executive 
Directors visit each operating unit on a regular basis and 
meet with both operational and finance management 
and staff.
Key financial and operational measures are reported on a 
weekly and/or monthly basis and are measured against 
both budget and interim forecasts which have been 
approved and reviewed by the Board. On an annual 
basis, each business unit is required to prepare a risk 
assessment process on the key strategic, operational, 
financial and accounting risks to identify, evaluate and 
manage the significant risks to the Group’s business. 
They include common definitions of risk and ensure, as 
far as practicable, that the policies and procedures 
established by the Board are appropriate to manage the 
perceived risks to the Group. These assessments are 
supplemented by a detailed evaluation of the key 
financial controls of the business units which are critically 
reviewed by the Group’s internal auditor. The Committee 
will annually review the results of these assessments and 
identify the key strategic and operating risks of the 
Group. During the year, the risk assessment process 
revealed no significant risks of which the Board was not 
previously aware.
The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to 
have the largest potential impact on the Group’s long 
term performance are set out on pages 20 to 23.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s risk management and internal control systems. 
Taking into account the processes that have been 
designed and implemented for 2011, the Board, with the 
advice of the Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness 
of the risk management and internal control systems for 
the period from 1 October 2010 to the date of this report 
and is satisfied that the Group has in place effective risk 
management and internal control systems.
internal Audit
The Group’s finance department includes a full time 
internal auditor and a full programme of internal audit 
visits has been completed during the year. The scope of 
work carried out by internal audit generally focuses on 
the internal financial controls and risk management 
procedures operating within each business. Written 
reports are prepared on the results of each visit which 
sets out weaknesses identified during the work, together 
with recommendations to improve the control 
environment. These reports are reviewed and discussed 
with the Executive Directors. 
At the conclusion of the year, the internal auditor reports 
to the Committee on the results of the audit work carried 
out in the year and agrees an audit plan for the following 
financial year. There were no significant weaknesses 
identified during these audits, but a number of 
recommendations were made to improve internal review 
processes and risk management procedures, particularly 
in businesses where the opportunity to segregate duties 
was limited. 
The Committee continues to keep under review the 
need for a fully independent internal audit function in the 
Group. The Committee remains satisfied that the Group’s 
system of internal control is appropriate for a group of 
the size and nature of Diploma PLC and the Committee’s 
current view is that a separate formal independent 
internal audit function is not necessary. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
32
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Sep 11 Sep 10 Sep 09 Sep 08 Sep 07 Sep 06
Diploma (rebased) FTSE 250 (rebased, ex Inv Trusts)
ian Grice
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
n umber of Committee Meetings:
Directors and attendance 2011
Ian Grice (Chairman) 4/4
John Rennocks 4/4
John Matthews 4/4
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
report on remuneration for 2011, for which the Board will 
be seeking approval from shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting.
Diploma PLC’s remuneration policy continues to be 
focused on attracting, retaining and motivating the 
executive talent required for the delivery of the Group’s 
growth strategy in a competitive international market, 
while ensuring that remuneration is linked to the 
long-term performance of the Group. 
The Committee pays attention to the evolution of best 
corporate governance practice in the design of its 
remuneration framework and believes that the Group’s 
overall remuneration policy continues to be appropriate.
There continues to be a strong emphasis on 
performance related awards and the Committee took 
the opportunity to enhance this element of 
remuneration in adopting replacement long-term 
incentive arrangements earlier this financial year.
The Committee was satisfied that the previous Long 
Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) which was due to expire in 
2011, had been very effective in driving performance and 
that it provided an appropriate incentive for achieving 
upper quartile performance versus peers; however the 
Committee took the view that there should be some 
tougher targets, but also an incentive to deliver 
performance beyond this level.
The Committee, having taken advice from its 
independent advisers, Kepler Associates, decided to 
adopt a new Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) with a 
structure similar to the previous LTIP , with performance 
measured against earnings per share (“EPS”) and total 
shareholder return (“TSR”). However it was felt 
appropriate to introduce tougher EPS targets and to link 
the TSR target to an absolute return above the median 
performance of the FTSE 250 Index.
The Committee also decided to introduce a Share 
Matching Plan (“SMP”) to expand the range of 
performance which is incentivised and to further align 
the interests of Executive Directors with those of 
shareholders, by requiring Executive Directors to invest 
further in the Company’s shares.
Having consulted with shareholders on these proposals, 
the Committee was pleased to receive approval from 
shareholders for the new PSP and SMP , collectively the 
“new LTIP”, earlier this year at the Annual General Meeting.
There have been no further changes made to the 
Company’s remuneration policies during this current year.
ian Grice
Chairman
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over five years
Historical TSR performance
The graph opposite shows Diploma’s TSR  
performance for the five year period ended 
30 September 2011 (calculated in accordance 
with the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Regulations 2002 (the “Regulations”)) against 
the FTSE 250 index.
TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a 
company’s shares over a period. It includes dividends paid, the change  
in the capital value of the shares and other payments to or by shareholders 
within the period. 
Corporate Governance continued 
Remuneration Report 33
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Remuneration Committee
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are:
•	 setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board 
for approval the Group’s overall remuneration policy 
and strategy;
•	 setting, reviewing and approving individual 
remuneration arrangements for the Chief Executive 
and Executive Directors, including terms and 
conditions of employment and any changes;
•	 reviewing and monitoring remuneration 
arrangements for the senior managers of the 
operating businesses, including terms and conditions 
of employment and any policy changes; and
•	 approving the rules and launch of any Group share-
based incentive plan, and the granting of awards 
under any such plan.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found 
on the Diploma PLC website (www.diplomaplc.com) and 
copies are available on request.
Bruce Thompson, Chief Executive, attends meetings by 
the invitation of the committee to provide advice to the 
Committee to help it to make informed decisions. Nigel 
Lingwood, Company Secretary, attends meetings as 
Secretary to the Committee. 
The Committee also holds meetings without 
management and receives information and independent 
executive remuneration advice from Kepler Associates, 
an external consultancy appointed by the Committee. 
During 2010, Kepler Associates provided advice to the 
Committee on incentive schemes and other 
remuneration issues. Kepler Associates does not advise 
the Group on any other issues. 
Ashurst LLP also provides legal advice to the Committee 
on executive incentive schemes (as well as providing 
other legal services to the Group). 
Executive Directors
Remuneration policy
In defining the Group’s remuneration policy, the 
Committee takes into account advice received from 
external consultants and also the principles and best 
practice guidelines set by regulators and institutional 
shareholder bodies, including the Association of British 
Issuers (“ABI”). The Committee has also followed the 
principles of Section D of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code that relate to remuneration. 
The current intention is that the framework of this 
remuneration policy will apply for future years.
Performance based rewards
The Company has a well-developed, Group-wide 
performance management system which ensures that 
senior managers are rewarded based on performance. 
For Executive Directors, the Company operated the 
following performance-related incentive arrangements 
in 2011:
•	 an Annual Performance Bonus Scheme – designed to 
focus executives on the business priorities of the 
financial year and to reinforce individual and Group 
performance objectives; and
•	 Long-Term Incentives – designed to reward and retain 
Executives over the longer term while also aligning 
their interests with those of the Company’s 
shareholders. For awards made in January 2011, 
Executive Directors received grants of PSP and SMP 
awards. These awards aim to motivate participants to 
maximise Adjusted EPS and TSR, as measured against 
the FTSE mid-250 Index, excluding Investment Trusts 
(the “FTSE 250 index”).
The two incentive arrangements complement each 
other and enable the measurement and reward of both 
short and long-term performance. In particular, the 
Committee considers that these complementary 
incentive arrangements take appropriate account of 
business risk and align the reward arrangements of the 
Executive Directors with the delivery of sustained returns 
to shareholders. The Committee continues to consider 
that the three-year vesting period for its long-term 
incentives is appropriate. 
The FTSE 250 index was chosen because this is a 
recognised broad equity market index of which the 
Company is now a member.  Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
34
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
Nigel Lingwood Iain Henderson Bruce Thompson
1,024%
200%
100%
682%
100%
269%
%
60%
40%
80%
20%
Target Stretch
Shareholding guidelines
The Committee has adopted guidelines for Executive 
Directors, to encourage substantial long-term share 
ownership. These specify that, over a period of five years 
from the date of appointment, the Chief Executive 
should build up, and then retain, a holding of shares with 
a value equivalent to 200% of base salary. The guideline 
holding for other Executive Directors should be 100% of 
base salary. The guidelines also require that, in relation to 
the long-term incentive awards, vested shares (net of tax) 
should be retained by the individual until the required 
shareholding level is reached. 
Shareholdings at 30 September 2011 against guidelines
■ Guideline holdings
■ Actual holdings 
The chart above sets out the percentage of base  
salary held in shares by each of the Executive Directors, 
as compared with the guidelines.
Components of remuneration
The table on page 35 summarises the components of 
reward for Executive Directors of Diploma PLC.
The current remuneration package for Executive 
Directors comprises fixed and variable components.  
The variable components are the incentive arrangements 
referred to above and the fixed components are base 
salary and benefits (including pensions entitlements). 
The average proportion of total remuneration that was 
performance-related in 2011 is illustrated by the chart 
shown below. This shows that a significant proportion  
of each Executive Director’s total remuneration is 
performance-related at the target performance level.  
For stretch performance, the proportion of total 
remuneration that is performance-related is higher still. 
In estimating the relative contribution of those elements 
of remuneration that are performance related and those 
that are not (as required by Regulations), a number of 
assumptions have had to be made about the Company’s 
share price growth over the next three years and TSR 
performance relative to the FTSE 250 index. 
Composition of remuneration package for Executive Directors
As an average % of total remuneration at target and stretch performance 
■ Variable cash and share-based incentives
■ Fixed base salary, benefits and pension
Senior executives below the Executive Directors
The policies and practices with regard to the 
remuneration of senior executives below the Executive 
Directors are generally treated consistently with the 
Executive Directors. These senior executives all have a 
significant portion of their reward package linked to 
performance. Annual bonuses are linked to short term 
financial targets which are similar to the targets for the 
Executive Directors. They also participate in cash based 
long-term incentive plans which are focused on the 
operating profit growth of their businesses over rolling 
three year periods. The Committee reviews and monitors 
the senior executive remuneration arrangements.
Executive Directors’ base salaries
Executive Directors’ salaries are reviewed each year, with 
any changes normally taking effect from 1 October. This 
review takes into account market competitiveness, 
individual performance and experience. 
The base salary increases for the Executive Directors 
which took effect from 1 October 2010 are summarised 
in the table below. The salary increases awarded to the 
Executive Directors were in line with the average 
percentage base salary increases awarded across 
the Group.
Executive Director
Base salary at 
30 Sep 2011 
£’000
Base salary at 
30 Sep 2010 
£’000 % increase
Bruce Thompson 360 345 4.3
Iain Henderson 220 210 4.8
Nigel Lingwood 230 220 4.5
The Committee has regard to reward levels and practices 
in the Company’s businesses when determining 
remuneration levels for Executive Directors. In 
determining the annual base salary increases which 
applies from 1 October the Committee also considered 
the range of salary increases applying across the Group.  
Annual performance bonus
The annual performance bonus is a cash based scheme 
designed to reward Executive Directors for meeting 
stretching shorter term performance targets. At the start 
of the year (1 October), the Board sets stretching financial 
performance targets relating to Adjusted EPS, operating 
margins, free cash flow and return on trading capital 
employed (“ROTCE”). Individual objectives are also set for 
the Chief Operating Officer and the Group Finance 
Director relating to factors including operational 
performance and business development activities.
At the end of the financial year, the Committee meets to 
assess the performance of each Executive Director 
against the financial and individual objectives. Bonuses 
are paid in cash in December.
Corporate Governance continued
Remuneration Report continued 35
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Components of Remuneration
Summary of Reward components of Executive Directors:
Component Aim Description Further detail
Fixed Base Salary Attract and retain talent 
by ensuring that salaries 
are competitive.
Reflect the individual’s 
experience and role within 
the Group.
Benchmarked against levels 
of pay awarded elsewhere 
in sector and FTSE index.
Paid monthly in cash.
Reviewed annually, with 
increases taking effect from 
1 October.
Benefits Core Designed to be competitive 
within the market.
Core benefits include pension 
contributions (or cash 
alternative), life assurance, 
annual leave and medical 
insurance.
Pension contributions paid at 
20% (2010: 20%) of base salary 
and paid directly into personal 
savings schemes or as cash 
alternative.
Additional – These include cash in lieu 
of a company car and cash 
bonuses in lieu of dividends 
forgone on unexercised, but 
vested 2004 LTIP awards.
–
Variable Annual  
Performance Bonus
Designed to focus Executive 
Directors on achievement of 
the annual budget and other 
business priorities for the 
financial year.
Maximum 100% of salary for 
the Chief Executive Officer 
and 80% for other Executive 
Directors.
On target bonus is 60% for the 
Chief Executive Officer and 
50% for the other Executive 
Directors.
Dependent on specified 
financial metrics of the Group 
for the Chief Executive Officer.
For other Executive Directors 
75% is based on the financial 
metrics of the Group, with 
the remaining 25% subject 
to achievement of specific 
personal objectives.
Long Term Incentives – 
Share Awards
Incentivise Executive Directors 
to achieve superior returns 
and long-term value growth.
Align the interests of the 
Executive Directors and 
shareholders through building 
a shareholding.
Performance assessed 
over rolling three-year 
performance periods.
The final award under  
the 2004 LTIP was made  
on 18 November 2009.  
No further awards will be 
made under the 2004 LTIP.
The 2008 awards vested on 
30 September 2011, as set out 
on page 39.
The outstanding 2004 
LTIP awards will vest on 
30 September 2012.
The 2004 LTIP was replaced 
by the new LTIP, following 
approval by shareholders at  
the AGM on 12 January 
2011. The first awards under 
the new LTIP will vest on 
30 September 2013.
Awards are discretionary.
Awards do not vest until the 
third anniversary of the date 
of grant.
If employment ceases during 
three-year vesting period, 
award will normally lapse. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
36
l ong-term incentive plans
The Company operates long term incentive 
arrangements for Executive Directors. These are 
designed to reward and retain Executive Directors over 
the longer term, while also aligning their interests with 
those of Diploma PLC shareholders.
The Diploma PLC LTIP (“2004 LTIP”), having been in 
operation over a number of years, expired in 2011. It was 
replaced by the new LTIP comprising two incentive 
schemes; the Diploma PLC 2011 Performance Share Plan 
(“PSP”) and the Diploma PLC 2011 Share Matching Plan 
(“SMP”), following approval by the shareholders at the 
Company’s annual general meeting on 12 January 2011. 
The 2004 LTIP and the PSP which replaces it, operate in 
a similar way for Executive Directors of the Company. 
They both provide for a grant of conditional awards of a 
specified number of ordinary shares in the Company, or 
an option to acquire a specified number of shares at an 
exercise price determined by the Committee (which may 
be nil or a nominal amount). No payment is required for 
the grant of an award.
The SMP also operates for Executive Directors of the 
Company and again provides for a grant of conditional 
awards of a specified number of ordinary shares in the 
Company. In the case of the SMP however, an Executive 
Director must accept an invitation from the Committee 
to personally acquire or pledge shares for a period of 
three years. These acquired or pledged shares are held 
by a nominee for an Executive Director and will be 
released at the end of the three year performance period 
applying to the awards.
Awards, which are normally granted annually, must 
generally be made within 42 days after the announcement 
of the Company’s annual results. When making the 
decision on the level of award, the Committee takes into 
consideration a number of factors, including the face 
value of the award and plan dilution limits.
The face value of an award is equal to the number of 
shares, or shares under option, multiplied by the relevant 
share price. The relevant share price will be the mid-
market closing share price on the day before the award 
(however for the 2004 LTIP the share price was the 
average share price for the 30 days immediately 
preceding the award). A face value limit of 100% of base 
salary applies to each PSP or 2004 LTIP award to 
Executive Directors in normal circumstances. A face 
value limit of up to 100% of base salary is applied in 
respect of SMP awards.
All awards will normally vest three years after the date of 
grant. The vesting of awards is conditional on:
•	 continued employment;
•	 the Company’s growth in Adjusted EPS over a three 
year performance period; and
•	 the Company’s TSR performance over a three year 
performance period.
The latter two performance conditions apply to each 
award so that the vesting of 50% of the award is based on 
growth in Adjusted EPS and 50% of the award is based on 
the relative TSR performance. Each performance 
condition is measured over a three year period 
commencing on the first day of the financial year in 
which the award is made. There is no retesting of either 
performance metric.
The first performance condition is that the average 
annual compound growth in the Company’s Adjusted 
EPS over the three consecutive financial years, following 
the year prior to the grant, must exceed the annual 
compound growth rate in the UK Retail Price Index 
(“RPI”) over the same period as set out below.
% of awards vesting
n ew lT iP
Adjusted EPS growth (over 3 years) PSP SMP 2004 lT iP
RPI + 15% p.a. or above 100 200 100
RPI + 12% p.a. 100 100 100
RPI + 5% p.a. 45.5 45.5 100
RPI + 3% p.a. 30 30 30
Below RPI + 3% p.a. NIL NIL NIL
Where the Company’s Adjusted EPS performance is 
between these percentage bands, vesting of the award is 
on a straight line basis.
For the purposes of this condition, EPS will comprise 
adjusted EPS as defined in note 2 to the consolidated 
financial statements. The definition of adjusted EPS 
remains consistent with the definition of EPS approved 
by the Remuneration Committee in previous years.
The second performance condition compares the 
growth of the Company’s TSR over a three year period 
to that of the companies in the FTSE 250 index as set 
out below:
% of awards vesting
TSR relative to FTSE 250 index 
(over 3 years)
n ew lT iP
PSP SMP 2004 lT iP
Median + 15% p.a. or greater 100 200 (a)
Median + 12% p.a. 100 100 (a)
Median 30 30 30
Below Median NIL NIL NIL
(a) Under the 2004 LTIP, the TSR condition is based on the ranking of the 
Company’s performance in the comparator group, rather than on absolute 
performance. Where the Company’s TSR performance ranks in the top quartile 
of the comparator group, 100% of the awards will vest.
Where the Company’s relative TSR performance is 
between the median and the maximum performance 
condition, vesting of the award is on a straight line basis.
At 30 September 2011, the award made under the 2004 
LTIP on 17 December 2008 crystallised and 100% of the 
award vested as nil paid options. These options are 
exercisable by each individual at a price of £1 up until 17 
December 2018. An award made under the 2004 LTIP 
on 18 November 2009 remains outstanding and will 
Corporate Governance continued
Remuneration Report continued 37
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
crystallise at the end of the performance period at 30 
September 2012. Awards under the PSP and SMP were 
made on 24 and 27 January 2011 respectively, to Bruce 
Thompson, Iain Henderson and Nigel Lingwood. The 
amount of shares that vest under these Awards will be 
determined at the completion of the three year 
performance period at 30 September 2013. Full details of 
all of these awards are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Dilution
In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may 
be issued or placed under option under any executive 
share plan established by the Company may not exceed 
5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company 
from time to time. In any ten-year period, the aggregate 
number of shares which may be issued or placed under 
option, under all share plans established by the 
Company, may not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary 
share capital of the Company, from time to time.
Change of control
In the event of a change in control, vesting of award 
shares under the Company’s long-term incentive plans is 
not automatic and would depend on the extent to which 
performance conditions had been met at that time. Time 
pro-rating will apply if the Committee considers it 
appropriate, given the circumstances of the change 
of control.
Dividend accrual
The Committee may decide, on or before the grant of 
an award, that on exercise of the award, the participant 
may receive, in addition to the shares to which he then 
becomes entitled, a payment equal in value to the 
aggregate amount of the dividends (excluding any tax 
credit) which would have been paid to the participant in 
respect of those shares between the date on which the 
award vests and the option period commences and the 
date on which the option is exercised, as if they had been 
beneficially owned by him over that period. The payment 
may be made in cash or in an equivalent number 
of shares.
Pensions
The pension arrangements for Executive Directors are 
set out on page 40.
Service contracts
The Executive Directors’ service contracts, including 
arrangements for early termination, are carefully 
considered by the Committee and are designed to 
recruit, retain and motivate directors of the quality 
required to manage the Company. The Committee 
considers that a rolling contract with a notice period of 
one year is appropriate. 
The Executive Directors’ service contracts contain 
provisions for compensation in the event of early 
termination or change of control, equal to the value of 
salary and contractual benefits for the notice period. 
However when calculating termination payments, the 
Committee takes into account a variety of factors, 
including individual and Company performance, the 
obligation for the Director to mitigate his or her own loss 
(for example, by gaining new employment) and the 
Director’s length of service. Further details of the 
Executive Directors’ service contracts can be found on 
page 40.
The Committee considers that these provisions assist 
with recruitment and retention and that their inclusion is 
therefore in the best interests of shareholders. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
38
The following section of this Report provides details of the remuneration, service contracts or letters of appointment 
and share interests of all the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2011.
Executive Directors’ remuneration
Individual remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2011.
Fixed emoluments
Performance
based
bonus
(b)
£000
2011
Total
£000
2010
Total
£000
Salary
£000
Taxable
benefits
(a)
£000
Bruce Thompson 360 19 360 739 704
Iain Henderson 220 14 176 410 389
Nigel Lingwood 230 16 184 430 408
(a) Taxable benefits include medical insurance, life assurance, cash allowance in lieu of a car and a dividend entitlement on 2004 LTIP shares which have vested.
(b) The performance based bonus represent amounts payable only in respect of the 2011 incentive year and will be paid in December 2011.
Executive Directors’ interests in shares under the Diploma Pl C 2011 Performance Share Plan
Market 
price at  
date of  
award
Shares 
over which 
awards 
granted 
during  
the year
End of 
performance 
period vesting date
Shares 
over which 
awards  
held as at  
30 Sep 2011
Bruce Thompson 
24 January 2011 292.50p 123,077 30 Sep 2013 Nov 2013 123,077
iain Henderson 
24 January 2011 292.50p 75,214 30 Sep 2013 Nov 2013 75,214
n igel l ingwood 
24 January 2011 292.50p 78,632 30 Sep 2013 Nov 2013 78,632
(a) Executive Directors received grants of Performance Share Plan awards in January 2011 in the form of nil-cost options. Under normal circumstances, the awards will not 
vest and the options will not become exercisable until after the end of the three-year vesting period which began on the first day of the financial year in which the 
award is made, following assessment of the performance conditions and provided the Director remains in employment. Options are exercisable until the tenth 
anniversary of the award date. The level of vesting is dependent on the achievement of specified performance criteria at the end of the three-year performance period. 
The performance conditions for the 2011 awards are set out on page 36.
Executive Directors’ interests in shares under the Diploma Pl C 2011 Share Matching Plan
Market 
price at  
date of  
award
Pledged 
investment 
shares
Shares 
over which 
awards 
granted 
during  
the year
End of 
performance 
period vesting date
Shares  
over which 
awards  
held as at  
30 Sep 2011
Bruce Thompson 
27 January 2011 292.50p 30,154 123,077 30 Sep 2013 Nov 2013 123,077
iain Henderson 
27 January 2011 292.50p 18,427 75,214 30 Sep 2013 Nov 2013 75,214
n igel l ingwood 
27 January 2011 292.50p 19,265 78,632 30 Sep 2013 Nov 2013 78,632
(a) Executive Directors received grants of Share Matching Plan awards in January 2011 in the form of nil-cost options. Under normal circumstances, the awards will not 
vest and the options will not become exercisable until after the end of the three-year vesting period which began on the first day of the financial year in which the 
award is made, following assessment of the performance conditions and provided the Director remains in employment. Options are exercisable until the tenth 
anniversary of the award date. The level of vesting is dependent on the achievement of specified performance criteria at the end of the three-year performance period. 
The performance conditions for the 2011 awards are set out on page 36.
(b) Under the Share Matching Plan, Executive Directors are required to pledge shares for a minimum period of three years. These shares are pledged on an after tax basis; 
awards are made on a pre-tax basis.
Corporate Governance continued
Remuneration Report continued 39
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Executive Directors’ interests in shares under the Diploma Pl C 2004 l ong Term incentive Plan
Market price 
at date of 
award
Shares 
over which 
awards  
held as at  
1 Oct 2010
Shares in 
respect 
of which 
awards 
vested at 
 30 Sep 2011
End of 
performance 
period vesting date
Shares 
over which 
awards  
held as at  
30 Sep 2011
Bruce Thompson 
17 December 2008 123.0p 276,423 276,423 30 Sep 2011 Nov 2011 –
18 November 2009 168.5p 204,748 – 30 Sep 2012 Nov 2012 204,748
iain Henderson 
17 December 2008 123.0p 168,293 168,293 30 Sep 2011 Nov 2011 –
18 November 2009 168.5p 124,629 – 30 Sep 2012 Nov 2012 124,629
n igel l ingwood 
17 December 2008 123.0p 168,293 168,293 30 Sep 2011 Nov 2011 –
18 November 2009 168.5p 130,564 – 30 Sep 2012 Nov 2012 130,564
(a) Executive Directors were granted 2004 LTIP awards in December 2008 and November 2009 in the form of nil-cost options. Under normal circumstances, the awards 
will not vest and the options will not become exercisable until after the end of the three-year vesting period which began on the first day of the financial year in which 
the award is made, following assessment of the performance conditions and provided the Director remains in employment. Options are exercisable until the tenth 
anniversary of the Award provided the Director remains in employment. The level of vesting is dependent on the achievement of specified performance criteria at the 
end of the three-year performance period. The performance conditions for the 2008 and 2009 awards are set out on page 36.
(b) The award which vested as at 30 September 2011 represented 100% of the LTIP award which was granted on 17 December 2008.
	 • 	 	 Under 	 the 	 first 	 perf ormanc e 	 c ondi t ion, 	 t he 	 a v erage 	 annual 	 c ompound 	 gr o wt h 	 ra t e 	 in 	 t he 	 C ompan y’ s 	 adjust ed 	 E PS 	 ( as 	 defined 	 on 	 page 	 50 ) 	 o v er 	 t he 	 t hr ee 	 y ear 	 period 	
ended 30 September 2011 was 20.4% pa; this compares with an annual compound growth rate in RPI +5.0% over the same period of 7.9% pa. Accordingly 100% of 
the shares relating to this award (representing 50% of the total award) vested unconditionally.
	 • 	 	 Under 	 the 	 sec ond 	 perf ormanc e 	 c ondi t ion, 	 t he 	 C ompan y’ s 	 TSR 	 gr e w 	 13 9.1% 	 o v er 	 t he 	 t hr ee 	 y ear 	 period 	 ended 	 30 	 Sep t ember 	 2 0 11; 	 t his 	 gr o wt h 	 ga v e 	 t he 	 C ompan y 	 a	
ranking of 12 in the comparator group and put the Company in the 94 percentile. The median TSR was 61.7% and the lower threshold of the upper quartile was 
96.6%. Accordingly 100% of the shares relating to this part of the award (representing 50% of the total award) vested unconditionally.
(c) Awards vest in the form of nil paid options to acquire shares in the Company for aggregate consideration of £1. Set out in the table below are the number of options 
held by each Director which have not yet been exercised. The closing price of an ordinary share at 30 September 2011, which is the date the awards vested, was 319.0p.
Executive Directors’ interests in options over shares which have vested under the Diploma Pl C 2004 l ong Term 
incentive Plan
Options as at 
1 Oct 2010
Exercised  
in year
vested  
in year
Options as at 
30 Sep 2011
Exercise 
price
Earliest 
normal 
exercise date Expiry date
Bruce Thompson 178,225 (61,539)
(a)
– 116,686 £1 Nov 2010 Nov 2017
– – 276,423 276,423 £1 Nov 2011 Dec 2018
Iain Henderson 106,715 (37,606)
(b)
– 69,109 £1 Nov 2010 Nov 2017
– – 168,293 168,293 £1 Nov 2011 Dec 2018
Nigel Lingwood 106,715 (39,316)
(c)
– 67,399 £1 Nov 2010 Nov 2017
– – 168,293 168,293 £1 Nov 2011 Dec 2018
(a) The market price on 27 January 2011, the date of exercise, was 276.0p, the total gain before tax was £169,848.
(b) The market price on 27 January 2011, the date of exercise, was 276.0p, the total gain before tax was £103,792.
(c) The market price on 27 January 2011, the date of exercise, was 276.0p, the total gain before tax was £108,512.
(d) The closing price of an ordinary share on 30 September 2011 was 319.0p (2010: 284.5p)
(e) On 27 January 2011, a total of 70,615 shares which were subject to these exercises were sold to cover the tax liability (together with associated dealing costs)  
due on exercise. The market price at that time was 276.0p.
The closing price of an ordinary share on 30 September 2011 was 319.0p (2010: 284.5p). The range during the year 
was from 414.2p (high) to 259.2p (low). All market price figures are derived from the Daily Official List of the London 
Stock Exchange.
Executive Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
The Executive Directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the Company at the start and end of the financial year were 
as follows:
interest in ordinary shares
As at  
30 Sep 2011
As at  
30 Sep 2010
Bruce Thompson 1,155,154 1,125,000
Iain Henderson 470,031 416,640
Nigel Lingwood 194,265 150,000
(a) Interests include investment shares pledged under the Company’s 2011 Share Matching Plan and shares held through personal saving vehicles.
As of 12 November 2011 there have been no changes to these interests in ordinary shares of the Company. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
40
Pensions
The Executive Directors receive pension contributions from the Company which they may pay directly into personal 
savings vehicles or take as additional salary, subject to income tax.
Pension contributions, which are equivalent to 20% (2010: 20%) of base salary were as follows:
2011  
£000
2010  
£000
Bruce Thompson 72 69
Iain Henderson 44 42
Nigel Lingwood 46 44
No pension contributions were paid as additional salary during the year (2010: Nil).
In September 2010, the Company established an unregistered retirement benefits scheme, known as the Diploma 
Holdings PLC Employer-Financed Retirement Benefits Scheme (“the Scheme”). The Scheme was established for 
Executive Directors and higher paid UK employees in the Group as an alternative to the employees’ current pension 
arrangements and contains all the key features of a conventional registered pension plan. During the year, £111,000 
of pension contributions received from the Company were paid into the Scheme relating to 2011 and earlier years. 
No contributions have been paid into the Scheme since 5 April 2011.
 
Executive Directors’ service contracts
Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors who served during the year are set out below:
Executive Directors Contract date u nexpired term n otice period
Compensation 
payable 
upon early 
termination
Bruce Thompson 13 July 2000 Rolling 1yr 1yr 1yr
Iain Henderson 1 August 2000 Rolling 1yr 1yr 1yr
Nigel Lingwood 3 July 2001 Rolling 1yr 1yr 1yr
non-Executive Directors
The Board aims to recruit non-Executive Directors of a high calibre, with broad commercial, international or other 
relevant experience. Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the 
Nomination Committee. Their appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to election by shareholders at 
the first general meeting following their appointment and commencing from 2011, subject to annual re-election 
thereafter. The terms of engagement of the non-Executive Directors are set out in a letter of appointment.
The basic annual fee paid in 2011 to non-Executive Directors is £35,000 (2010: £35,000). There are no additional fees 
payable for membership of, or chairing, a Committee of the Board or for acting as Senior Independent Director. 
The current remuneration policy for non-Executive Directors requires that fees are reviewed every two years by 
the Board, taking into account time commitment, competition for high-quality non-executive directors and 
market movements. 
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Company’s share schemes, incentive schemes or 
pension schemes. 
Chairman
John Rennocks was appointed as a non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 12 July 2002 and as 
Chairman with effect from 7 January 2004. He was re-appointed for a three-year term with effect from 14 January 
2009, at which point his fee was increased to £70,000 per annum. In line with all Directors, John Rennocks’ 
appointment will now be subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the annual general meeting. There is no 
notice period and no provision for payment in the event of early termination. 
Corporate Governance continued
Remuneration Report continued 41
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Chairman and non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment
Date of 
appointment or 
re-election Expiry of term
John Rennocks 14 Jan 09 July 14
John Matthews 13 Jan 10 July 12
Ian Grice 12 Jan 11 Jan 13
The non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment do not contain any notice period or provision for compensation 
in the event of early termination of their appointment. 
non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
Individual remuneration for the year to 30 September was as follows:
Salary/fees
2011  
£000
2010   
£000
John Rennocks 70 70
John Matthews 35 35
Ian Grice 35 35
n on-Executive Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
The non-Executive Directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the Company at the start and at the end of the financial 
year were as follows:
interests in ordinary shares
As at 
30 Sep 2011
As at 
1 Oct 2010
John Rennocks 103,766 73,776
John Matthews 12,420 –
Ian Grice 20,000 20,000
Audit notes
In accordance with Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Regulations, the following sections of the  
report have been audited: Executive Directors’ remuneration; Executive Directors’ interests in the Diploma PLC 2011 
Performance Share Plan; Executive Directors’ interests in the Diploma PLC 2011 Share Matching Plan; Executive 
Directors’ interests in the Diploma PLC 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan; Executive Directors’ interests in options over 
shares which have vested under the Diploma PLC 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan; Executive Directors’ interests in 
ordinary shares; non-Executive Directors’ remuneration; non-Executive Directors’ interests in ordinary shares; and 
the tables and notes in the Pensions section of the report. The remaining sections are not subject to audit. 
By order of the Board
ian Grice
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
21 November 2011 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
42
Shareholders
incorporation and principal activity
Diploma PLC is domiciled in England and incorporated in 
England & Wales under Company Number 3899848. At 
the date of this Report there were 113,239,555 ordinary 
shares of 5p each in issue, all of which are fully paid up 
and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activity of the Group is the supply of 
specialised technical products and services. A description 
and review of the activities of the Group during the 
financial year and an indication of future developments is 
set out on pages 4 to 23; the Review of Group 
Performance incorporates the requirements of the 
Companies Act.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at midday on 
18 January 2012 in the Brewers Hall, Aldermanbury 
Square, London EC2V 7HR. A Circular setting out the 
proposed resolutions, including a resolution to re-
appoint Deloitte LLP as the auditor, will be set out in the 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting which is a separate 
document which will be sent to all Shareholders and 
published on the Group’s website. 
Substantial shareholdings
At 18 November 2011 the Company had been notified, 
pursuant to the Financial Service Authority’s Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting 
rights in its ordinary share capital:
Percentage 
of ordinary 
share capital
F&C Asset Management plc 8.27
Ameriprise Financial Inc 6.39
Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 6.02
IG International Management Limited 5.00
Newton Investment Management Limited 4.39
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.93
As far as the Directors are aware there were no other 
notifiable interests.
Share capital
The rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, 
as well as the powers of the Company’s Directors,  
are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association, 
copies of which can be obtained from the Company 
Secretary and are available on the Company’s website at 
www.diplomaplc.com. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the 
transfers of securities and/or voting rights, other than 
those relating to the Company’s Share Matching Plan, 
described further below. No person holds securities in 
the Company carrying special rights with regard to 
control of the Company. The Company’s Articles of 
Association may be amended by special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Services Authority, all employees are required to seek 
approval of the Company before dealing in its shares.
Restrictions on transfer of shares
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a 
certificated share that is not fully paid, provided that  
the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the 
Company from taking place on an open and proper  
basis, or where the Company has a lien over that share. 
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of  
a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is:  
(i) lodged, duly stamped (if necessary), at the registered 
office of the Company or any other place as the Board 
may decide accompanied by the certificate for the 
share(s) to be transferred and/or such other evidence as 
the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of 
the transferor to make the transfer; (ii) in respect of only 
one class of shares; (iii) in favour of a person who is not a 
minor, infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound mind; or 
(iv) in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out 
using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a 
transfer of an uncertified share in accordance with the 
regulations governing the operation of CREST.
Participants in the Company’s Share Matching Plan 
pledge Investment shares to a nominee for a period of 
three years, during which period these shares cannot be 
transferred. There are no other restrictions on the transfer 
of ordinary shares in the Company except certain 
restrictions which may from time to time be imposed  
by laws and regulations (for example insider trading laws); 
or where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest  
in the Company’s certified shares has been served with  
a disclosure notice and has failed to provide with the 
Company with information concerning interests in those 
shares. Other than these shares held by participants of  
the Company’s Share Matching Plan, the Directors are  
not aware of any agreements between holders of the 
Company’s shares that may results in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Shares held by the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust
Whilst ordinary shares are held within the Diploma 
Employee Benefit Trust, the voting rights in respect of 
those shares are exercisable by the trustees  
in accordance with their fiduciary duties. The Trustee of 
the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust also waives 
dividends on all shares held for the purposes of the 
Company’s long-term incentive arrangements.
Other Statutory information
This section contains additional information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the 
Annual Report & Accounts. 43
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Share allotment
A general allotment power and a limited power to allot 
shares in specific circumstances for cash, otherwise than 
pro-rata to existing shareholders, were given to the 
Directors by resolutions approved at the Annual General 
Meeting of the Company held on 12 January 2011. These 
powers will expire at the conclusion of the 2012 Annual 
General Meeting and resolutions to renew the Directors’ 
powers are therefore included within the Notice of the 
2012 Annual General Meeting.
Authority to make market purchases of own shares
An authority to make market purchases of shares was 
given to the Directors by a special resolution at the 
Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 
12 January 2011. In the year to 30 September 2011 the 
Company has not acquired any of its own shares. This 
authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2012 Annual 
General Meeting and a resolution to renew the authority 
is therefore included within the Notice of the 2012 
Annual General Meeting.
Employees
Employees
Building and developing the skills, competencies, 
motivation and teamwork of employees is recognised by 
the Board as being key to achieving the Group’s business 
objectives. The stability and commitment of the 
employees is demonstrated by the average length of 
service being 6.3 years (2010: 6.4 years) as shown in the 
chart below. In addition the number of working days 
lost to sickness is less than 1% a year (2010: 1%). These 
measures remain consistent across each of the 
Group’s sectors. 
Key employee statistics
2011 2010 2009
Number of employees 910 814 823
Females as % of total 32% 34% 34%
Length of service (years) 6.3 6.4 6.4
Average staff turnover 16.3% 15.0% 18.3%
Sick days lost per person 1.9 2.8 3.6
The Group values the commitment of its employees and 
recognises the importance of communication to good 
working relationships. The Group keeps employees 
informed on matters relating to their employment, on 
business developments and on financial and economic 
factors affecting the Group. This is achieved through 
management briefings, internal announcements, the 
Group’s website and by the distribution of Preliminary 
and Interim Announcements and press releases. Copies 
of the Annual Review and Annual Report & Accounts are 
also made available in the operating businesses. This 
communication programme enables employees to gain 
a better understanding of the Group’s business objectives 
and their roles in achieving them.
Both employment policy and practice in the Group are 
based on non-discrimination and equal opportunities. 
Ability and aptitude are the determining factors in the 
selection, training, career development and promotion 
of all employees. The Group remains supportive of the 
employment and advancement of disabled persons. 
Applications for employment by disabled persons are 
always fully considered, bearing in mind the respective 
aptitudes and abilities of the applicants concerned. If an 
employee is, or becomes disabled during their period of 
employment, the Group will, if necessary and to the 
extent possible, adapt the work environment to enable 
the employee to continue in their current position or 
retrain the employee for duties suited to their abilities 
following disablement. At 30 September 2011 the 
Group’s employees included six who were disabled and 
two who were on long term sick leave. 
Employment policies throughout the Group have been 
established to comply with relevant legislation and codes 
of practice relating to employment, health and safety and 
equal opportunities. The Group provides good quality 
working environments and facilities for employees, 
and training and development appropriate to each of 
their roles. 
Health and safety
The Group places a great deal of importance on the 
provision of clean, healthy and safe working conditions. 
In addition to compliance with all local regulations, the 
Group promotes working practices which protect the 
health and safety of its employees. Health and Safety 
matters are kept under regular review by local 
management who report on such matters to the Chief 
Operating Officer. During 2011, 16 employees (2010: 5) 
were reported as having suffered minor injuries at work; 
none of these injuries resulted in absence from work for 
more than three days. One employee (2010: 1) suffered a 
serious injury during the year and was absent from work 
for four days.
Health and safety training is part of the induction process 
for new employees. Specific training is given where 
relevant, for example regarding forklift truck operation 
and chemical handling, as well as general fire safety and 
first aid matters.
Environmental
The Group regards compliance with relevant 
environmental laws as an important part of its 
responsible approach to the environment and is 
committed to good environmental management 
practices throughout its operations. The Managing 
Directors, appointed by the Board, have responsibility 
for the environmental performance of their operating 
businesses and each subsidiary is required to implement 
initiatives to meet their responsibilities. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
44
Community
Relationships with suppliers, customers and  
other stakeholders
The Group recognises the obligation it has towards the 
parties with whom it has business dealings including 
customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers and 
advisors. Dealings with these groups depend upon the 
honesty and integrity of the Group’s employees and 
every effort is made to ensure that a high standard of 
expertise and business principles is maintained in such 
dealings. Where appropriate, training is given to maintain 
and to raise standards.
The Group’s policy towards suppliers is that each 
operating company is responsible for negotiating the 
terms and conditions under which they trade with 
their suppliers.
The Group does not have a formal code that it follows 
with regard to payments to suppliers. Group companies 
agree payment terms with their suppliers when they 
enter into binding purchasing contracts for the supply of 
goods and services.
Suppliers are, in that way, made aware of these terms. 
Group companies seek to abide by these payment terms 
when they are satisfied that the supplier has provided the 
goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms 
and conditions. At 30 September 2011 the amount of 
trade creditors shown in the Group balance sheet 
represents 51 days (2010: 51 days) of average purchases.
Community impact and involvement
The Group contributes to local worthwhile causes and 
charities and ensures that the Group’s operations cause 
minimal negative impact within the community. 
In common with all companies, the Group has limited 
resources and the amount of money available for 
charitable purposes varies over time.
The Group made donations for charitable purposes 
during the year which amounted to £26,050 (2010: 
£25,950). No political donations were made.
Directors
Conflicts of interest
From 1 October 2008, the Directors became subject to a 
statutory duty under the Act to avoid a situation where 
they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that 
conflicts, or possibly could conflict, with the Company’s 
interests. The Act allows directors of public companies to 
authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where 
appropriate, if the Articles of Association contain a 
provision to this effect. The Act also allows the Articles to 
contain other provisions for dealing with directors’ 
conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty. At the 2009 
AGM, revised Articles that contained such provisions 
were adopted. 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and indemnity
The Company has purchased insurance to cover its 
Directors and Officers against the costs of defending 
themselves in legal proceedings taken against them in 
that capacity and in respect of any damages resulting 
from those proceedings.
The Company also indemnifies its Directors and Officers 
to the extent permitted by law. Neither the insurance nor 
the indemnity provides cover where the Director or 
Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Statement of disclosure of information to the auditor 
Each of the Directors has reviewed this report and 
confirmed that so far as he is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware and that he has taken all the steps that he ought 
to have taken as a Director in order to make himself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
Financial
Results and dividends
The profit for the financial year attributable to 
shareholders was £27.0m (2010: £21.5m). The Directors 
recommend a final dividend of 8.5p per ordinary share 
(2010: 6.2p), to be paid, if approved, on 25 January 2012. 
This, together with the interim dividend of 3.5p per 
ordinary share paid on 16 June 2011, amounts to 12.0p 
for the year (2010: 9.0p).
The results are shown more fully in the consolidated 
financial statement on pages 46 and 73 and summarised 
in the Financial Review on pages 17 to 19. 
Directors’ assessment of going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors 
likely to affect its future development, performance and 
position are set out in the section of the Report that deals 
with Group Performance on pages 4 to 23. The financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position 
and borrowing facilities are described in the Finance 
Review on page 18. In addition pages 58 to 60 of the 
Annual Report & Accounts includes the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its 
capital; its financial risk management objectives; details 
of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together 
with a broad spread of customers and suppliers across 
different geographic areas and sectors, often secured 
with longer term agreements. As a consequence, the 
Directors believe that the Group is well placed to 
manage its business risks successfully, despite the current 
uncertain economic outlook.
Other Statutory information continued 45
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual 
Report & Accounts.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities for preparing 
the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report & Accounts, including the Group and Parent 
Company financial statements, in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group 
and Parent Company financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the Directors are required 
to prepare Group financial statements in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) and 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulations and have elected to 
prepare the Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Standards (UK Accounting Standards).
The Group financial statements are required by law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial 
position and the performance of the Group; the 
Companies Act 2006 provides in relation to such 
financial statements, that references in the relevant part 
of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair 
view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation. 
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently. 
•	 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent. 
•	 For the Group financial statements, state whether 
they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as 
adopted by the EU.
•	 For the Parent Company financial statements, state 
whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have 
been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the Parent Company 
financial statements.
•	 Prepare the financial statements on the going 
concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the Group and the Parent Company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper 
accounting records that disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent 
Company and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They 
have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of  
the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and  
other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information 
included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the 
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in  
other jurisdictions. 
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
The Directors confirm that to the best of their 
knowledge:
•	 the Group’s consolidated financial statements, 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU, and the Parent Company financial 
statements, prepared in accordance with UK 
Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of 
the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
of the Group and Parent Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and
•	 the Annual Report & Accounts includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of 
the business and the position of the Group and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties faced by 
the Group.
This responsibility statement was approved by the 
Board of Directors on 21 November 2011 and is 
signed on its behalf by:
BM Thompson 
Chief Executive Officer
n P l ingwood
Group Finance Director
Registered office:
12 Charterhouse Square
London
EC1M 6AX Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
46
Continuing businesses Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Revenue 3,4 230.6 183.5
Cost of sales (142.7) (115.5)
Gross profit 87.9 68.0
Distribution costs (5.5) (4.4)
Administration costs (42.0) (35.0)
Operating profit 3 40.4 28.6
Financial expense, net 6 (1.2) (1.9)
Profit before tax 39.2 26.7
Tax expense 7 (11.6) (8.8)
Profit for the year from continuing businesses 27.6 17.9
Profit from discontinued businesses – 5.1
Profit for the year 27.6 23.0
Attributable to: 
 Shareholders of the Company 27.0 21.5
 Minority interests 20 0.6 1.5
27.6 23.0
Earnings per share 9
 Basic and diluted earnings – continuing 24.0p 14.6p
 Basic and diluted earnings – discontinued – 4.5p
 Basic and diluted earnings – continuing and discontinued 24.0p 19.1p
Alternative Performance Measures (note 2)
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Operating profit 40.4 28.6
Add: Acquisition related charges 11 4.8 3.5
Adjusted operating profit 3,4 45.2 32.1
(Deduct)/add: Net interest (expense)/income 6 (0.3) 0.1
Adjusted profit before tax 44.9 32.2
Adjusted earnings per share 9 27.9p 18.9p
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 30 September 2011
The notes on pages 50 to 73 form part of these financial statements. 47
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Note
Share
capital
£m
Translation
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 1 October 2009 5.7 18.7 0.3 96.7 121.4
Total comprehensive income – 1.9 (0.4) 20.3 21.8
Share-based payments 5 – – – 0.5 0.5
Purchase of minority interests 19 – – – 2.5 2.5
Future purchase minority interests 19 – – – (0.6) (0.6)
Purchase of own shares – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Dividends 8 – – – (9.1) (9.1)
At 30 September 2010 5.7 20.6 (0.1) 109.9 136.1
Total comprehensive income – (0.2) 1.2 26.7 27.7
Share-based payments 5 – – – 0.7 0.7
Purchase of minority interests 19 – – – 12.1 12.1
Purchase of own shares – – – (1.6) (1.6)
Dividends 8 – – – (10.9) (10.9)
At 30 September 2011 5.7 20.4 1.1 136.9 164.1
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity
For the year ended 30 September 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit for the year 27.6 23.0
Exchange rate adjustments on foreign currency net investments (0.2) 1.9
Gains/(losses) on fair value of cash flow hedges 1.2 (0.4)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 25 (0.6) (1.8)
Deferred tax on items recognised in equity 13 0.3 0.6
Other comprehensive income for the year 0.7 0.3
Total comprehensive income for the year 28.3 23.3
Attributable to: 
 Shareholders of the Company 27.7 21.8
 Minority interests 0.6 1.5
28.3 23.3
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 30 September 2011
The notes on pages 50 to 73 form part of these financial statements. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
48
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 87.1 67.3
Acquisition intangible assets 11 27.3 22.7
Other intangible assets 11 0.7 0.6
Property, plant and equipment 12 10.7 11.1
Deferred tax assets 13 2.8 2.4
128.6 104.1
Current assets
Inventories 14 38.4 32.0
Trade and other receivables 15 36.3 30.5
Cash and cash equivalents 17 17.8 30.1
92.5 92.6
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 (35.2) (32.3)
Current tax liabilities (2.4) (2.0)
Other liabilities 19 (0.8) (13.0)
Borrowings 24 (5.6) –
(44.0) (47.3)
Net current assets 48.5 45.3
Total assets less current liabilities 177.1 149.4
Non-current liabilities
Retirement benefit obligations 25 (5.4) (5.3)
Other liabilities 19 (2.3) (1.2)
Deferred tax liabilities 13 (4.8) (3.7)
Net assets 164.6 139.2
Equity
Share capital 5.7 5.7
Translation reserve 20.4 20.6
Hedging reserve 1.1 (0.1)
Retained earnings 136.9 109.9
Total shareholders’ equity 164.1 136.1
Minority interests 20 0.5 3.1
Total equity 164.6 139.2
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 21 November 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
BM Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
NP Lingwood
Group Finance Director
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
As at 30 September 2011
The notes on pages 50 to 73 form part of these financial statements. 49
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Continuing businesses Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Cash flow from operating activities
Cash flow from operations 23 40.3 34.3
Interest (paid)/received, net (0.5) 0.1
Tax paid (12.4) (9.3)
Net cash from operating activities 27.4 25.1
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) 21 (14.8) (8.1)
Disposal of subsidiaries (net of cash disposed) 22 0.9 6.4
Deferred consideration paid 19 (0.9) (0.4)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12 (1.3) (1.2)
Purchase of other intangible assets 11 (0.4) (0.1)
Net cash used in investing activities (16.5) (3.4)
Cash flow from financing activities
Acquisition of minority interests 20 (12.5) (2.5)
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (10.9) (9.1)
Dividends paid to minority interests 20 (3.9) (1.1)
Purchase of own shares (1.6) (0.4)
Proceeds from borrowings 24 5.4 –
Net cash used in financing activities (23.5) (13.1)
Net cash used in discontinued businesses – (0.5)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (12.6) 8.1
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 30.1 21.3
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 0.3 0.7
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 17 17.8 30.1
Alternative Performance Measures (note 2)
2011
£m
2010
£m
Free cash flow
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (12.6) 8.1
Add/(deduct): Dividends paid to shareholders 10.9 9.1
  Dividends paid to minority interests 3.9 1.1
  Acquisition of subsidiaries/minority interests 27.3 10.6
  Deferred consideration paid 0.9 0.4
  Proceeds from borrowings (5.4) –
Free cash flow – continuing and discontinued businesses 25.0 29.3
Add: Free cash flow – discontinued businesses – 0.5
Free cash flow – continuing businesses 25.0 29.8
Net funds
Cash and cash equivalents 17.8 30.1
Borrowings (5.6) –
Net funds 12.2 30.1
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 30 September 2011
The notes on pages 50 to 73 form part of these financial statements. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
50
1. General Information
Diploma PLC is a public limited company registered and domiciled in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the 
registered office is 12 Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6AX. The consolidated financial statements comprise the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together referred to as the “Group”) and were authorised by the Directors for publication on 21 November 2011. These statements are presented in UK 
sterling, with all values rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand, except where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as adopted by the 
European Union, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The financial statements of the 
Parent Company, Diploma PLC, have been prepared in accordance with “UK GAAP”, and are set out in a separate section of the Annual Report & 
Accounts on pages 74 to 75.
2. Alternative Performance Measures
The Group uses a number of alternative (non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“non-GAAP”)) financial measures which are not defined within 
IFRS. The Directors use these measures in order to assess the underlying operational performance of the Group and as such, these measures are 
important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures. The following non-GAAP measures are referred to in this Annual Report & Accounts.
2.1 Adjusted operating profit
At the foot of the consolidated income statement, “adjusted operating profit” is defined as operating profit before amortisation and impairment of 
acquisition intangible assets, acquisition expenses and adjustments to deferred consideration (collectively, “acquisition related charges”). The Directors 
believe that adjusted operating profit is an important measure of the underlying operational performance of the Group.
2.2 Adjusted profit before tax
At the foot of the consolidated income statement, “adjusted profit before tax” is separately disclosed, being defined as profit before tax and before the 
costs of restructuring or rationalisation of operations, the profit or loss relating to the sale of property, fair value remeasurements under IAS 32 and IAS 39 
in respect of future purchases of minority interests, and acquisition related charges. The Directors believe that adjusted profit before tax is an important 
measure of the underlying performance of the Group.
2.3 Adjusted earnings per share
“Adjusted earnings per share” is calculated as the total of adjusted profit, less income tax costs, but excluding the tax impact on the items included in the 
calculation of adjusted profit and the tax effects of goodwill in overseas jurisdictions, less profit attributable to minority interests, divided by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. The Directors believe that adjusted earnings per share provides an important measure of the 
underlying earning capacity of the Group.
2.4 Free cash flow
At the foot of the consolidated cash flow statement, “free cash flow” is reported, being defined as net cash flow from operating activities, after net capital 
expenditure on fixed assets and including proceeds received from business disposals, but before expenditure on business combinations and dividends 
paid to both minority shareholders and the Company’s shareholders. The Directors believe that free cash flow gives an important measure of the cash 
flow of the Group, available for future investment.
2.5 Trading capital employed
In the segment analysis in note 3, “trading capital employed” is reported, being defined as net assets less cash and cash equivalents and after adding back 
retirement benefit obligations, deferred tax, amounts in respect of future purchases of minority interests and adjusting for goodwill in respect of the 
recognition of deferred tax on acquisition intangible assets. Return on trading capital employed is defined as the adjusted operating profit, divided by 
trading capital employed plus all historic goodwill and adjusted for the timing effect of major acquisitions and disposals. Return on trading capital 
employed at the sector level does not include historic goodwill. The Directors believe that return on trading capital employed is an important measure of 
the underlying performance of the Group.
3. Business Segment Analysis
For management reporting purposes, the Group is organised into three main business segments: Life Sciences, Seals and Controls. These segments 
form the basis of the primary reporting format disclosures below. The principal activities of each of these segments is described in the review of Group 
Performance on pages 4 to 19. Segment revenue represents revenue from external customers; there is no inter-segment revenue. Segment results, 
assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment, as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Revenue – existing businesses 65.4 55.4 80.0 60.1 76.2 68.0 221.6 183.5
 – acquisitions 9.0 – – – – – 9.0 –
Revenue 74.4 55.4 80.0 60.1 76.2 68.0 230.6 183.5
Adjusted operating profit – existing businesses 15.1 11.9 14.9 8.9 13.2 11.3 43.2 32.1
– acquisitions 2.0 – – – – – 2.0 –
Adjusted operating profit 17.1 11.9 14.9 8.9 13.2 11.3 45.2 32.1
Acquisition related charges (note 11) (2.7) (1.6) (1.7) (1.5) (0.4) (0.4) (4.8) (3.5)
Operating profit 14.4 10.3 13.2 7.4 12.8 10.9 40.4 28.6
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2011 51
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
3. Business Segment Analysis continued
Segment assets exclude cash and cash equivalents, deferred tax assets and corporate assets that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business 
segment. Segment liabilities exclude retirement benefit obligations, deferred tax liabilities and corporate liabilities that cannot be allocated on a 
reasonable basis to a business segment. These items are shown collectively in the following analysis as “unallocated assets” and “unallocated liabilities”, 
respectively.
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Operating assets 21.8 17.6 33.0 27.1 27.8 25.9 82.6 70.6
Goodwill 58.0 38.2 14.2 14.2 14.9 14.9 87.1 67.3
Acquisition intangible assets 16.6 9.9 9.8 11.5 0.9 1.3 27.3 22.7
96.4 65.7 57.0 52.8 43.6 42.1 197.0 160.6
Unallocated assets:
– Deferred tax assets 2.8 2.4
– Cash and cash equivalents 17.8 30.1
– Corporate assets 3.5 3.6
Total assets 221.1 196.7
Operating liabilities (11.9) (11.3) (8.9) (8.0) (13.0) (12.2) (33.8) (31.5)
Unallocated liabilities:
– Deferred tax liabilities (4.8) (3.7)
– Retirement benefit obligations (5.4) (5.3)
– Future purchases of minority interests (2.0) (13.2)
– Borrowings (5.6) –
– Corporate liabilities (4.9) (3.8)
Total liabilities (56.5) (57.5)
Net assets 164.6 139.2
Other segment information
Capital expenditure 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.3 0.1 1.7 1.3
Depreciation (including software) 1.0 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.3 0.4 2.1 2.1
Alternative Performance Measures (note 2)
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Net assets 164.6 139.2
Add/(less):
– Deferred tax, net 2.0 1.3
– Retirement benefit obligations 5.4 5.3
– Future purchases of minority interests 2.0 13.2
– Cash and cash equivalents (17.8) (30.1)
– Borrowings 5.6 –
– Adjustment to goodwill (7.0) (4.7) (1.3) (1.3) (0.6) (0.6) (8.9) (6.6)
Group trading capital employed 152.9 122.3
Corporate liabilities, net 1.4 0.2
Segment trading capital employed 77.5 49.7 46.8 43.5 30.0 29.3 154.3 122.5
4. Geographic Segment Analysis by Origin
Revenue Adjusted operating profit Gross assets Trading capital employed Capital expenditure
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
United Kingdom 61.8 55.9 10.9 8.4 48.2 50.0 22.0 19.2 0.2 0.3
Rest of Europe 40.8 35.1 5.8 4.5 34.9 33.2 19.8 19.6 0.3 0.1
North America 128.0 92.5 28.5 19.2 138.0 113.5 111.1 83.5 1.2 0.9
230.6 183.5 45.2 32.1 221.1 196.7 152.9 122.3 1.7 1.3 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
52
5. Group Employee Costs
The key management of the Group are the Executive Directors who have authority and responsibility for planning and controlling all significant activities 
of the Group. The Directors’ emoluments and interests in shares of the Company are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 41. The charge 
for share-based payments of £0.7m relate to the Group’s share schemes, described in the Remuneration Report. The fair value of services provided as 
consideration for part of the grant of the LTIP awards has been based on a predicted future value model and was £0.2m (2010: £0.2m).
Group staff costs, including Directors’ emoluments, are as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Wages and salaries 38.3 32.1
Social security costs 3.4 2.9
Pension costs – defined contribution 0.8 0.7
Share-based payments 0.7 0.5
43.2 36.2
The average number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year were:
2011
Number
2010
Number
Life Sciences 223 199
Seals 432 371
Controls 245 234
Corporate 10 10
Number of employees – average 910 814
Number of employees – year end 954 847
6. Financial Expense, net
2011
£m
2010
£m
Interest and similar income
– interest receivable on short-term deposits 0.1 0.2
– net finance income from defined benefit pension scheme (note 25) 0.2 0.1
0.3 0.3
Interest expense and similar charges
– bank facility and commitment fees (0.3) (0.1)
– unwinding of discount on provisions – (0.1)
– interest payable on bank borrowings (0.3) –
(0.6) (0.2)
Net interest (expense)/income (0.3) 0.1
– fair value remeasurement of put options (note 19) (0.9) (2.0)
Financial expense, net (1.2) (1.9)
The fair value remeasurement of £0.9m (2010: £2.0m) includes £0.1m (2010: £1.1m) which relates to the unwinding of the discount on the liability for 
future purchases of minority interests.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2011 53
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
7. Tax Expense
2011
£m
2010
£m
Current tax
The tax charge is based on the profit for the year of the continuing businesses and comprises:
 UK corporation tax 3.1 2.2
 Overseas tax 9.7 7.0
12.8 9.2
Adjustments in respect of prior year:
 Overseas tax – (0.1)
– (0.1)
Total current tax 12.8 9.1
Deferred tax
The deferred tax credit based on the origination and reversal of timing differences comprises:
 United Kingdom (0.2) (0.1)
 Overseas (1.0) (0.2)
Total deferred tax (1.2) (0.3)
Total tax on profit for the year 11.6 8.8
In addition to the above charge for deferred tax included in the consolidated Income Statement, deferred tax relating to retirement benefit schemes and 
share-based payments of £0.3m (2010: £0.6m) was also charged directly to equity.
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year:
The difference between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax to the profit 
before tax is as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit before tax 39.2 26.7
Tax on profit at UK effective corporation tax rate of 27% (2010: 28%) 10.6 7.5
Effects of:
 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 0.6 1.0
 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years – (0.1)
 Fair value remeasurements 0.2 0.6
 Other permanent differences 0.2 (0.2)
Total tax on profit for the year 11.6 8.8
The Group earns its profits in the UK and overseas. The UK corporation tax rate reduced from 28% to 26% on 31 March 2011; however as the Group 
prepares its financial statements for the year to 30 September, the effective tax rate for UK corporation tax in respect of the year ended 30 September 
2011 was 27% (2010: 28%) and this rate has been used for tax on profit in the above reconciliation. The Group’s overseas tax rate is higher than that in the 
UK, primarily because the profits earned in North America are taxed at rates varying from 26% to 40%. The tax relating to the discontinued businesses is 
£Nil (2010: £0.2m credit), as set out in note 22.
8. Dividends
2011
pence
per share
2010
pence
per share
2011
£m
2010
£m
Interim dividend, paid in June 3.5 2.8 3.9 3.1
Final dividend of the prior year, paid in January 6.2 5.3 7.0 6.0
9.7 8.1 10.9 9.1
The Directors have proposed a final dividend in respect of the current year of 8.5p (2010: 6.2p) which will be paid on 25 January 2012, subject to 
approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 18 January 2012. The total dividend for the current year, subject to approval of the final 
dividend, will be 12.0p (2010: 9.0p). 
The Diploma Employee Benefit Trust holds 1,094,512 (2010: 732,973) shares, which are not eligible for dividends. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
54
9. Earnings Per Share
Basic and diluted earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary 5p share are calculated on the basis of the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the 
year of 112,423,842 (2010: 112,577,283) and the profit for the year attributable to shareholders of £27.0m (2010: £21.5m). There were no potentially 
dilutive shares.
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share, which is defined in note 2, is calculated as follows:
2011
pence
per share
2010
pence
per share
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit before tax – continuing businesses 39.2 26.7
Tax expense (11.6) (8.8)
Minority interests (0.6) (1.5)
24.0 14.6 27.0 16.4
Profit from discontinued businesses – 4.5 – 5.1
Earnings for the year attributable to shareholders of the Company 24.0 19.1 27.0 21.5
Acquisition related charges 4.3 3.1 4.8 3.5
Fair value remeasurements 0.8 1.8 0.9 2.0
Tax effects on goodwill, acquisition intangible assets and fair value remeasurements (1.2) (0.6) (1.3) (0.6)
Profit from discontinued businesses – (4.5) – (5.1)
Adjusted earnings – continuing businesses 27.9 18.9 31.4 21.3
10. Goodwill
Life Sciences
£m
Seals
£m
Controls
£m
Total
£m
At 1 October 2009 32.5 12.0 15.1 59.6
Acquisitions 3.7 2.5 – 6.2
Adjustment to prior year goodwill – (0.2) – (0.2)
Exchange adjustments 2.0 (0.1) (0.2) 1.7
At 30 September 2010 38.2 14.2 14.9 67.3
Acquisitions (note 20 and 21) 20.4 – – 20.4
Exchange adjustments (0.6) – – (0.6)
At 30 September 2011 58.0 14.2 14.9 87.1
The Directors carry out an impairment test on all goodwill generally twice a year. Goodwill is ascribed to a business which, for the purpose of these 
impairment tests, is referred to as a cash generating unit. The impairment test requires each cash generating unit to prepare “value in use” valuations  
from discounted cash flow forecasts. The cash flow forecasts are based on the annual budgets, prepared by each business and by five year strategic 
plans prepared at a Group level.
The key assumptions used to prepare the cash flow forecasts relate to gross margin, growth rates and discount rates. The gross margins are assumed to 
remain sustainable, which is supported by historical experience; growth rates generally approximate to the long-term average rates for the markets in 
which the business operate, unless there are particular factors relevant to a business, such as start-ups. The annual growth rates used in the cash flow 
forecasts in respect of the next five years vary between 2% and 5% in each of the sectors; these annual growth rates then trend down towards 2.0% over 
the longer term. 
The cash flow forecasts are discounted to determine a current valuation, using a pre-tax discount rate of ca. 13% (2010: 13%). This rate is based on the 
characteristics of lower risk non-technically driven, distribution businesses with robust capital structures, which is broadly consistent with each of the 
Group’s businesses.
Based on the criteria set out above, no impairment in the value of goodwill was identified.
The Directors have also carried out sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions to determine whether a “reasonably possible change” in any of these 
assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill. This analysis indicates that a “reasonably possible change” in these key assumptions would be 
unlikely to give rise to an impairment charge to goodwill in any of the businesses in the Life Sciences or Seals segments. However, in the Controls sector 
a reduction of 2% in revenue growth in the medium term in some of the businesses in this sector would result in an impairment charge of up to £0.2m. 
The headroom in the cash flow valuation, before any sensitivities and based on the original assumptions in respect of these businesses in the Controls 
sector is £0.7m. In the prior year, the sensitivity analysis indicated that a reduction of 2% in revenue growth in the medium term in the Seals sector would 
have resulted in an impairment of £1.0m. The headroom, before sensitivities, in respect of these businesses in the Seals sector was £2.0m.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2011 55
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
11. Acquisition and Other Intangible Assets
Customer
relationships
£m
Supplier
relationships
£m
Trade
names and
databases
£m
Total
acquisition
intangible
assets
£m
Other
intangible
assets
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2009 16.3 10.0 2.6 28.9 2.1
Additions – – – – 0.1
Acquisitions 4.5 – – 4.5 –
Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.3 – 0.4 –
At 30 September 2010 20.9 10.3 2.6 33.8 2.2
Additions – – – – 0.4
Acquisitions (note 21) 2.9 6.4 – 9.3 –
Exchange adjustments – (0.2) – (0.2) –
At 30 September 2011 23.8 16.5 2.6 42.9 2.6
Amortisation
At 1 October 2009 4.4 2.7 0.6 7.7 1.3
Charge for the year 1.9 1.1 0.3 3.3 0.3
Exchange adjustments – 0.1 – 0.1 –
At 30 September 2010 6.3 3.9 0.9 11.1 1.6
Charge for the year 2.5 1.7 0.3 4.5 0.3
At 30 September 2011 8.8 5.6 1.2 15.6 1.9
Net book value
At 30 September 2011 15.0 10.9 1.4 27.3 0.7
At 30 September 2010 14.6 6.4 1.7 22.7 0.6
Acquisition related charges are £4.8m (2010: £3.5m) and comprise £4.5m (2010: £3.3m) of amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and £0.3m 
(2010: £0.2m) of acquisition expenses.
Acquisition intangible assets relate to items acquired through business combinations which are amortised over their useful economic life.
Economic
life
Customer relationships 5–15 years
Supplier relationships 7–10 years
Databases and trade names 5–10 years
The amount in respect of customer relationships was valued using a discounted cash flow model; the databases were valued using a replacement cost 
model; the amount in respect of supplier relationships and trade names were valued on a relief from royalty method.
Other intangible assets comprise computer software that is separately identifiable from plant and equipment and includes software licences. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
56
12. Property, Plant and Equipment
Freehold
properties
£m
Leasehold
properties
£m
Plant &
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2009 8.8 1.1 14.5 24.4
Additions – – 1.2 1.2
Disposals – – (0.5) (0.5)
Exchange adjustments – – 1.4 1.4
At 30 September 2010 8.8 1.1 16.6 26.5
Additions – 0.1 1.2 1.3
Acquisitions – – 0.3 0.3
Disposals – (0.1) (0.5) (0.6)
At 30 September 2011 8.8 1.1 17.6 27.5
Depreciation
At 1 October 2009 2.0 0.6 10.2 12.8
Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.8
Disposals – – (0.5) (0.5)
Exchange adjustments – – 1.3 1.3
At 30 September 2010 2.1 0.7 12.6 15.4
Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.8
Disposals – (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
At 30 September 2011 2.2 0.7 13.9 16.8
Net book value
At 30 September 2011 6.6 0.4 3.7 10.7
At 30 September 2010 6.7 0.4 4.0 11.1
Land included above, but not depreciated, is £2.0m (2010: £2.0m). Capital commitments contracted, but not provided, were £Nil (2010: £Nil).
Freehold properties includes ca.150 acres of land at Stamford (“the Stamford land”) which comprises mostly farm land and former quarry land. In the 
Directors’ opinion the current value of this land is £0.5m (net book value: £Nil) (2010: £0.5m and £Nil, respectively).
13. Deferred Tax
The movement on deferred tax is as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 October (1.3) (2.0)
Credit for the year (note 7) 1.2 0.3
Acquisitions (2.3) –
Accounted for in equity 0.3 0.6
Exchange adjustments 0.1 (0.2)
At 30 September (2.0) (1.3)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Assets Liabilities Net
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.3 (0.6) (0.5) (0.2) (0.2)
Goodwill and intangible assets – – (5.5) (4.6) (5.5) (4.6)
Retirement benefit obligations 1.4 1.4 – – 1.4 1.4
Inventories 0.8 0.7 – – 0.8 0.7
Share-based payments 0.8 0.1 – – 0.8 0.1
Other temporary differences 0.9 1.3 (0.2) – 0.7 1.3
4.3 3.8 (6.3) (5.1) (2.0) (1.3)
Set off of deferred tax (1.5) (1.4) 1.5 1.4 – –
2.8 2.4 (4.8) (3.7) (2.0) (1.3)
No deferred tax has been provided for unremitted earnings of overseas Group companies as the Group controls the dividend policies of its subsidiaries. 
Unremitted earnings may be liable to overseas taxation (after allowing for double taxation relief) if they were to be distributed as dividends. The aggregate 
amount for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised in respect of unremitted earnings was £1.2m (2010: £1.2m).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2011 57
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
14. Inventories
2011
£m
2010
£m
Finished goods and goods held for resale 38.4 32.0
Inventories are stated net of impairment provisions of £3.6m (2010: £3.6m). During the year £0.5m (2010: £1.0m) was recognised as an expense relating 
to the write-down of inventory to net realisable value.
15. Trade and Other Receivables
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade receivables 33.0 28.5
Less: impairment provision (0.5) (0.6)
32.5 27.9
Other receivables 2.2 1.4
Prepayments and accrued income 1.6 1.2
36.3 30.5
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date, by currency was:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Sterling 10.4 10.0
US dollars 8.6 6.8
Canadian dollars 9.5 7.0
Euro 2.7 2.8
Other 1.8 1.9
 33.0 28.5
Trade receivables, before impairment provisions, are analysed as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Not past due 26.2 23.1
Past due, but not impaired 6.2 4.6
Past due, but partially impaired 0.6 0.8
 33.0 28.5
The ageing of trade receivables classed as past due, but not impaired is as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Up to one month past due 4.7 3.5
Between one and two months past due 1.1 0.8
Between two and four months past due 0.3 0.2
Over four months past due 0.1 0.1
 6.2 4.6
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 October 0.6 0.5
Charged against profit, net 0.2 0.2
Utilised by write off (0.3) (0.1)
At 30 September 0.5 0.6 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
58
16. Trade and Other Payables
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade payables 19.6 16.5
Other payables 2.3 2.8
Other taxes and social security 1.5 1.2
Accruals and deferred income 11.8 11.8
35.2 32.3
The maximum exposure to foreign currency risk for trade payables at the reporting date, by currency was:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Sterling 5.4 5.6
US dollars 8.4 6.7
Canadian dollars 1.2 0.4
Euro 3.7 3.1
Other 0.9 0.7
 19.6 16.5
17. Cash and Cash Equivalents
Sterling
£m
US$
£m
C$
£m
Euro
£m
2011
Total
£m
Sterling
£m
US$
£m
Can$
£m
Euro
£m
2010
Total
£m
Cash at bank 2.7 3.3 3.8 3.2 13.0 2.7 3.5 1.5 1.4 9.1
Short-term deposits 3.7 – – 1.1 4.8 7.7 – 12.2 1.1 21.0
6.4 3.3 3.8 4.3 17.8 10.4 3.5 13.7 2.5 30.1
The short-term deposits and cash at bank are both interest bearing at rates linked to the UK Base Rate, or equivalent rate.
18. Financial Instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than a limited number of forward foreign contracts, comprise cash and short-term deposits, trade and 
other receivables and trade and other payables and other liabilities. Trade and other receivables and trade and other payables arise directly from the 
Group’s day to day operations. 
The financial risks to which the Group is exposed are those of credit, liquidity, foreign currency, interest rate and capital management. An explanation 
of each of these risks, how the Group manages these risks and an analysis of sensitivities is set out below, or on page 23 within Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties, which has been audited. 
a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations; 
this arises principally from the Group’s trade and other receivables from customers and from cash balances (including deposits) held with 
financial institutions.
The Group is exposed to customers ranging from government backed agencies and large public and private wholesalers, to small privately owned 
businesses and the underlying local economic risks vary throughout the world. Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating units 
where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer. 
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of specific trade and other receivables 
where it is deemed that a receivable may not be recoverable. When the receivable is deemed irrecoverable, the allowance account is written off against 
the underlying receivable. The Group has not had any material irrecoverable trade receivables in the past five years, but the economic environment in 
some of the Group’s principal markets has deteriorated during the current year. 
Exposure to financial counterparty credit risk is controlled by the Group treasury team in establishing and monitoring counterparty limits. Centrally 
managed funds are invested entirely with counterparties whose credit rating is “AA” or better.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2011 59
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
18. Financial Instruments continued
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk was as follows:
Carrying amount
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade receivables 32.5 27.9
Other receivables 2.2 1.4
Cash and cash equivalents 17.8 30.1
52.5 59.4
There is no material difference between the carrying amount of the financial assets and their fair value at each reporting date. An analysis of the ageing 
and currency of trade receivables and the associated provision for impairment is set out in note 15. An analysis of cash and cash equivalents is set out in 
note 17. 
b) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group continually monitors net funds and 
forecast cash flows to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Group’s requirements in the short, medium and long term and, in order 
to do so, arranges borrowings. Additionally, compliance with debt covenants are monitored and during 2011 all covenants have been fully complied with. 
The Group is highly cash generative and uses monthly cash flow forecasts to monitor cash requirements and to optimise its return on investments. 
Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on hand to meet foreseeable operational expenses, but the Group also has a committed £20m 
revolving bank facility which expires in November 2013, with an option to increase it’s facility to £40m, subject to market pricing. Interest on this facility 
is payable at between 150 and 195 bps over LIBOR, depending on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA. At 30 September 2011, £5.6m of the facility had been 
drawn down. 
The undrawn committed facilities available at 30 September are as follows: 
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Expiring within one year – 20.0
Expiring after one year but within two years 14.4 –
The Group’s financial liabilities are as follows: 
Carrying amount
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade payables 19.6 16.5
Other payables 2.3 2.8
Other liabilities 3.1 14.2
Borrowings 5.6 –
30.6 33.5
The maturities of the undiscounted financial liabilities are as follows:
Less than one year 22.7 32.3
One-two years 7.7 –
Two-five years 0.6 1.4
31.0 33.7
Less: Discount (0.4) (0.2)
30.6 33.5
There is no material difference between the carrying amount of these financial liabilities and their fair value at each reporting date. 
c) Currency risk
The Group’s currency risk comprises translational and transactional risk from its exposure to movements in US dollars, Canadian dollars and Euros. The 
transactional exposure arises on trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents and these balances are analysed by currency in notes 
15, 16 and 17, respectively. Net foreign exchange gains of £0.1m (2010: £Nil) were recognised in profit for the year.
The Group holds forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge forecast transactional exposure in certain of the Group’s businesses to movements in the 
US dollar and Euro. These forward foreign exchange contracts are classified as cash flow hedges and are stated at fair value. The net fair value of forward 
foreign exchange contracts used as hedges at 30 September 2011 was a £0.6m asset (2010: £0.7m liability). The amount removed from equity and taken 
to the consolidated Income Statement in cost of sales during the year was £1.0m credit (2010: £0.1m charge). The fair value of cash flow hedges taken to 
equity during the year was £1.2m credit (2010: £0.3m charge).
The currency risk arising from both translational and transactional risks are described further on page 23 within Principal Risks and Uncertainties. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
60
18. Financial Instruments continued
d) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will affect the Group’s results. The Group’s interest rate risk arises primarily from its cash funds 
and borrowings.
The Group does not undertake any hedging of interest rates. All cash deposits, held in the UK and overseas, are held on a short-term basis at floating 
rates or overnight rates, based on the relevant UK Base Rate, or equivalent rate. 
Surplus funds are deposited with commercial banks that meet the credit criteria approved by the Board, for periods of between one to six months at 
rates that are generally fixed by reference to the relevant UK Base Rate, or equivalent rates. It is estimated that an increase of 1% in interest rates would 
increase the Group’s profit before tax by a maximum of £0.1m.
An analysis of cash and cash equivalents at the reporting dates is set out in note 17.
e) Fair values
There are no material differences between the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities and their fair value. The basis for determining fair values are 
as follows:
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are valued at year end spot rates adjusted for the forward points to the contract’s value date, and gains and losses taken to 
equity. No contract’s value date is greater than 24 months from the year end. (Level 1 as defined by IFRS 7 Financial Instrument: Disclosure).
Trade and other receivables/payables
As the majority of receivables/payables have a remaining life of less than one year, the nominal amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. 
Other liabilities
The carrying amount represents a discounted value of the expected liability which is deemed to reflect the fair value. 
f) Capital management risk
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, supplier and market confidence, provide strong returns to shareholders 
and to support the future development of the business. The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, debt, which includes 
borrowings and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings.
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements. There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during 
the year. 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, 
issue new shares or increase bank borrowings.
19. Other Liabilities
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
Future purchases of minority interests 2.0 13.2
Deferred consideration 1.1 1.0
3.1 14.2
Analysed as:
Due within one year 0.8 13.0
Due after one year 2.3 1.2
The movement in the liability for future purchases of minority interests is as follows:
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
At 1 October 13.2 13.1
Released to retained earnings on acquisition (12.1) (2.5)
Put options entered into during the year – 0.6
Unwinding of discount 0.1 1.1
Fair value remeasurements 0.8 0.9
At 30 September 2.0 13.2
The Group retains put/call options to acquire the outstanding minority shareholdings. During the year, the Group acquired the outstanding 25% minority 
shares in AMT, as explained in note 20. On acquisition of the minority interest shares, the liability of £12.1m recognised in the consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position at 30 September 2010, has been released to retained earnings. At 30 September 2011, the Group retains minority interests in BGS, HPS 
and M Seals and the put options to acquire these minority interests are exercisable between 1 October 2012 and 31 December 2017. 
At 30 September 2011, the estimate of the financial liability to acquire the outstanding minority shareholdings was reassessed by the Directors, based on 
their current estimate of the future performance of these businesses and to reflect foreign exchange rates at 30 September 2011. This led to a 
remeasurement of the fair value of these put options and the liability was increased by £0.8m (2010: £0.9m). The charge for the liability, together with the 
charge from unwinding the discount on the liability, was in aggregate £0.9m (2010: £2.0m) and has been charged to the consolidated Income Statement.
At 30 September 2011, deferred consideration of £1.1m is payable to the vendors of CMI. Deferred consideration of £0.7m was paid on 7 March 2011 to 
the vendors of All Seals in final settlement of their performance payment and on agreement of net assets acquired, £0.1m was paid on 19 October 2010 
to the vendors of BGS on agreement of net assets acquired and £0.1m was paid to the vendors of Fischer.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2011 61
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
20. Minority Interests
£m
At 1 October 2009 2.7
Purchase of minority interest (0.1)
Share of profit for the year 1.5
Dividends paid (1.1)
Exchange adjustments 0.1
At 30 September 2010 3.1
Purchase of minority interests 0.7
Share of profit for the year 0.6
Dividends paid (3.9)
At 30 September 2011 0.5
During the year the Group acquired the outstanding 25% share capital in AMT Vantage Group Inc (“AMT”), held by the minority shareholders, for 
consideration of £12.5m (C$19.7m), including expenses, pursuant to put/call option agreements entered into at the time of the original acquisition in 
August 2007. The consideration for this acquisition was paid in cash and met from the Group’s existing cash and borrowing resources.
These shares were acquired in two tranches: 4% of the ordinary share capital of AMT was acquired on 7 January 2011 for £2.0m (C$3.1m) and the 
remaining 21% was acquired on 28 February 2011 for £10.4m (C$16.4m). Acquisition expenses of £0.1m (C$0.2m) were incurred on this acquisition and 
were charged to the consolidated Income Statement. Goodwill of £13.1m arose on the acquisition of these minority interests which will not be allowable 
for a tax deduction in future years.
21. Acquisition of Subsidiaries
On 21 December 2010, the Group acquired 100% of Carsen Medical Inc (“CMI”) for a maximum consideration of £16.5m (C$25.9m), including  
expenses. The initial cash paid on acquisition was £14.3m (C$22.5m) and a further £0.9m (C$1.4m) of deferred consideration was paid during the year. 
The final tranche of deferred consideration of £1.1m (C$1.8m) is payable in December 2011, depending principally on the operating profit of CMI in  
the year ending 30 September 2011. Acquisition expenses of £0.2m (C$0.3m) were incurred on this acquisition and expensed to the consolidated 
Income Statement.
The consideration for this acquisition was paid in cash and met from the Group’s existing cash and borrowing resources.
Set out below is an analysis of the net book value and fair value of the net assets acquired and the consideration payable in respect of this acquisition.
Book value
£m
Fair value
£m
Acquisition intangible assets 0.3 9.3
Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4
Inventories 0.8 0.7
Trade and other receivables 2.4 2.3
Trade and other payables (2.0) (2.0)
Deferred tax (0.1) (2.3)
Net assets acquired 1.8 8.4
Goodwill 7.3
15.7
Satisfied by:
Cash paid 15.2
Cash acquired (0.6)
Net cash paid, before acquisition expenses 14.6
Provision for deferred consideration payable 1.1
Total consideration 15.7
Goodwill of £7.3m which arose on the acquisition of CMI represents the product know-how held by employees, prospects for sales growth from new 
customers and operating cost synergies. Goodwill and acquisition intangible assets relating to this acquisition of £16.6m will not be allowable for a tax 
deduction in future years.
From the date of acquisition to 30 September 2011, the newly acquired businesses of CMI contributed £9.0m to revenue and £2.0m to adjusted 
operating profit. If the acquisition of this business had been made at the beginning of this financial year, this business would have contributed £11.5m to 
revenue and £1.7m to profit after tax. Profit after tax should not be viewed as indicative of the results of this business that would have occurred, if this 
acquisition had been completed at the beginning of the year. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
62
22. Discontinued Businesses
In January 2010, the Group completed the disposal of the Manual Liquid Handling business of Anachem Limited for a maximum consideration of £8.5m, 
before disposal costs. Initial cash proceeds of £7.7m were received, of which £0.7m were held in escrow, and up to a further £0.8m was receivable 
depending on the revenues for the year ended 31 December 2010. The revenues during the year ended 31 December 2010 were not sufficient to 
meet the criteria for the performance payment and as such no payment was received. During the year, the Group received £0.7m on release of the 
escrow money.
The remainder of the business in Anachem Limited, which comprised the Anachem Instruments division, was transferred to a separate legal entity, which 
was then sold in April 2010 for a maximum consideration of £0.4m, before disposal costs. Initial proceeds of £0.2m were received, with a further £0.2m 
received in January 2011 in final settlement.
Anachem Limited and Anachem Instruments Limited were both classified as discontinued businesses in the prior year and their results for that period, 
until their disposal, are set out below:
2010 
£m
Revenue 5.3
Cost of sales (4.3)
Gross profit 1.0
Distribution costs (0.2)
Administration costs (1.4)
Loss before tax (0.6)
Tax credit 0.2
Loss after tax (0.4)
Profit on disposal 5.5
Profit attributable to discontinued businesses 5.1
23. Reconciliation of Cash Flow from Operating Activities
2011
£m
2010
£m
Profit for the year from continuing businesses 27.6 17.9
Depreciation/amortisation of tangible and other intangible assets 2.1 2.1
Acquisition related charges 4.8 3.5
Share-based payments expense 0.7 0.5
Financial expense, net 1.2 1.9
Tax expense 11.6 8.8
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 48.0 34.7
Increase in inventories (5.5) (3.2)
Increase in trade and other receivables (3.3) (4.0)
Increase in trade and other payables 1.4 7.3
Cash paid into defined benefit schemes (note 25) (0.3) (0.5)
Cash flow from operating activities 40.3 34.3
24. Net Funds
The movement in net funds during the year is as follows:
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (12.6) 8.1
Increase in borrowings (5.4) –
(18.0) 8.1
Effect of exchange rates 0.1 0.7
Movement in net funds (17.9) 8.8
Net funds at beginning of year 30.1 21.3
Net funds at end of year 12.2 30.1
Comprising:
Cash and cash equivalents 17.8 30.1
Borrowings (5.6) –
Net funds at end of year 12.2 30.1
The Group has a committed £20m revolving bank facility which expires on 18 November 2013. At 30 September 2011, the Group had utilised £5.6m of 
this facility. Interest on this facility is payable at between 150 and 175 bps over LIBOR, depending on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2011 63
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
25. Retirement Benefit Obligations
The Group maintains several legacy defined benefit pension schemes in the UK which at 30 September 2010 were merged into a single scheme which 
was renamed Diploma Holdings PLC UK Pension Scheme (“the Scheme”). The Scheme is closed to future accrual and the assets of the Scheme are held 
in separate trustee administered funds. The Scheme is funded in accordance with rates recommended by an independent qualified actuary on the basis 
of triennial or shorter period reviews using the projected unit method.
Prior to the merger on 30 September 2010, the two principal defined benefit pension schemes were the Diploma Holdings PLC Permanent Staff Pension 
and Assurance Scheme and the Anachem Limited Retirement Benefits Scheme; the merger comprised these two schemes and two smaller legacy 
schemes. The two smaller schemes, which at 30 September 2010 had aggregate assets of £2.5m and aggregate liabilities of £2.9m, have in 2011 been 
included in the analysis set out below. 
Pension deficit included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Market value of Scheme assets
Equities 13.8 12.9
Bonds 4.2 3.4
Cash 0.2 –
18.2 16.3
Present value of Scheme liabilities (23.6) (21.6)
(5.4) (5.3)
Amounts credited to the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of defined benefit schemes:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Charged to operating profit – –
Interest cost (1.2) (1.0)
Expected return on Scheme assets 1.4 1.1
Credited to financial income (note 6) 0.2 0.1
0.2 0.1
Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Addition of two smaller schemes (0.4) –
Experience adjustments on Scheme assets (1.8) 0.3
Changes in assumptions on Scheme liabilities 2.1 (2.2)
Experience adjustments on Scheme liabilities (0.5) 0.1
Actuarial loss on Scheme liabilities (0.6) (1.8)
The changes in assumptions on the Schemes liabilities includes a reduction of £1.4m arising from the change in the inflation measure, applied for the 
pension increases and revaluations, from RPI to CPI, in accordance with legislation enacted in January 2011.
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, since the transition to IFRS, is £4.5m 
(2010: £3.9m).
Analysis of movement in the pension deficit:
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 October 5.3 4.7
Addition of two smaller schemes 0.4 –
Amounts credited to Income Statement (0.2) (0.1)
Contributions paid by employer (0.3) (1.1)
Actuarial loss 0.2 1.8
At 30 September 5.4 5.3
Analysis of the movements in the present value of the Scheme liabilities:
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 October 21.6 18.8
Addition of two smaller schemes 2.9 –
Interest cost 1.2 1.0
Actuarial loss/(gain) 0.5 (0.1)
(Gain)/loss on changes in assumptions (2.1) 2.2
Benefits paid (0.5) (0.3)
At 30 September 23.6 21.6 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
64
25. Retirement Benefit Obligations continued
Analysis of the movements in the present value of the Scheme assets:
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 October 16.3 14.1
Addition of two smaller schemes 2.5 –
Expected return on assets 1.4 1.1
Actuarial (loss)/gain (1.8) 0.3
Contributions paid by employer 0.3 1.1
Benefits paid (0.5) (0.3)
At 30 September 18.2 16.3
The actual return on Scheme assets during the year was a £0.4m loss (2010: gain £1.4m).
Principal actuarial assumptions for the Schemes at balance sheet dates:
2011 2010 2009
Inflation rate – RPI 3.2% 3.2% 3.4%
  – CPI 2.5% – –
Expected rate of pension increases – RPI 3.2% 3.2% 3.4%
  – CPI 2.5% – –
Discount rate 5.1% 5.0% 5.5%
Number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond age 65
 Men 22.3 22.1 22.1
 Women 24.6 25.0 25.0
Expected return on Scheme assets
1
Analysed as:
Equities 8.0% 8.0% 8.0%
Bonds 3.8% 5.0% 5.5%
Cash 1.0% 1.0% 2.0%
Demographic assumptions:
Basic mortality table used: S1NA
Year the mortality table was published: CMI 2010
Allowance for future improvements in longevity: Year of birth projections, with a long-term improvement rate of 1.25%
Allowance made for members to take a cash lump sum on retirement: Members are assumed to take 100% of their maximum cash sum (based 
on current commutation factors)
Sensitivities:
Sensitivity of 2011 pension liabilities to changes in assumptions are as follows:
Impact on pension liabilities
Assumption Assumption
Estimated 
increase 
%
Estimated 
increase 
£m
Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% 9.3 2.2
Expected rate of pension increase Increase by 0.5% 3.8 0.9
Life expectancy Increase by 1 year 1.3 0.3
1 The expected return for each class of scheme assets is based on a combination of historical performance, current market yields and advice from investment managers.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2011 65
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
25. Retirement Benefit Obligations continued
Cash funding:
Accounting costs do not impact on the incidence or amount of cash contributions for defined benefit plans. Future cash contributions are determined 
based upon triennial actuarial valuations.
Date of last formal funding valuation 30 September 2010
Deficit £2,682,000
Funding level 87%
Funding approach Assumes that Scheme assets will outperform Government 20 year fixed 
interest gilt yield by 2.90% pa pre-retirement and 0.80% pa post-retirement
Post retirement mortality table S1NA
Post retirement mortality projections CMI 2010 with long term improvement rate of 1.25% pa
Contributions per annum to remove the deficit £320,000
Period over which the deficit is expected to be removed 1 October 2010 – 30 September 2021
Expected contributions during FY2012 £326,400
Current investment strategy 80% Equities/20% Bonds
Number of deferred members at date of actuarial valuation 344
History of experience gains and losses:
All experience adjustments are recognised directly in equity, net of related tax.
2011 2010
1
2009
1
2008
1
2007
1
Experience adjustments arising on Scheme assets:
Amount (£m) (0.4) 0.3 0.7 (3.4) 0.3
% of Scheme assets 2% 2% 5% 27% 2%
Changes in assumptions arising on present value of Scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) 2.1 (2.2) (3.8) 3.0 2.3
% of present value of Scheme liabilities 9% 10% 20% 21% 14%
Experience adjustments arising on present value of Scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) (0.5) 0.1 – (0.1) 0.1
% of present value of Scheme liabilities 2% – – 1% 1%
Present value of Scheme liabilities (23.6) (21.6) (18.8) (14.2) (16.4)
Market value of Scheme assets 18.2 16.3 14.1 12.5 14.8
Deficit (5.4) (5.3) (4.7) (1.7) (1.6)
1 Amounts relate only to the two principal schemes.
26. Commitments
At 30 September 2011 the Group has total lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
Land and Buildings
2011
£m
2010
£m
Lease payments due:
Within one year 1.4 1.3
Within two to five years 2.3 2.3
After five years 0.6 –
Total payable at 30 September 4.3 3.6
Operating lease payments made in respect of land and buildings during the year were £1.4m (2010: £1.3m). Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
66
27. Audit Fees
During the year the Group received the following services from the auditor:
2011
£’m
2010
£’m
Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of:
– the Company’s annual report 0.1 0.1
– the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.1
Total audit fees 0.3 0.2
Non audit fees of £11,000 (2010: £7,000) for taxation advisory services provided in Canada and Denmark and £10,500 (2010: £10,000) in connection 
with the Half Year Announcement, were paid to the Group’s auditor.
28. Exchange Rates
The following exchange rates have been used to translate the results of the overseas businesses:
Average Closing
2011 2010 2011 2010
US dollar 1.61 1.56 1.56 1.58
Canadian dollar 1.59 1.63 1.62 1.62
Euro 1.15 1.15 1.16 1.15
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2011 67
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as endorsed by the 
European Union, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The accounting policies set out 
below have been consistently applied in 2011 and the comparative period. The following new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing 
standards have been published and have been endorsed by the EU; these are mandatory for the first time for the year ended 30 September 2011:
•	 Amendment to IFRS 2 “Share-based Payments”: cash settled share-based payment transactions;
•	 Amendment to IAS 32 “Financial Instruments: Presentation”: classification of rights issues; and
•	 Annual Improvements to IFRSs issued April 2009 and May 2010.
The introduction of these amendments has had no impact on the results, financial position or presentation of the financial statements.
1 Group Accounting Policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments which are 
held at fair value. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as discussed on page 44.
1.2 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries). 
Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The 
results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or 
up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those detailed herein 
to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Non-controlling interests, defined as minority interests, in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity 
therein. Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minority’s share of changes in 
equity since the date of the combination.
1.3 Divestments
The results and cash flows of major lines of businesses that have been divested have been classified as discontinued businesses.
1.4 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to customers, after deducting 
sales allowances and value added taxes. Revenue is recognised when the risk and rewards of ownership transfers to the customer, which depending on 
individual customer terms, is at the time of despatch, delivery or upon formal customer acceptance. Provision is made for returns where appropriate. 
Service revenue received in advance is deferred and recognised over the period of the contract.
1.5 Employee benefits
The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type. The defined benefit schemes are closed to 
the accrual of future benefits.
(a) Defined contribution pension plans: Contributions to the Group’s defined contribution schemes are recognised as an employee benefit expense 
when they fall due.
(b) Defined benefit pension plans: The deficit recognised in the balance sheet for the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes is the present value of 
the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated by 
independent actuaries using the projected unit cost method and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on high quality 
corporate bonds. The pension expense for the Group’s defined benefit plans is recognised as follows:
(i) Within profit before tax:
•	 Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments – where the item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment is recognised in 
operating profit;
•	 Interest cost on the liabilities of the schemes – calculated by reference to the scheme liabilities and major assumptions, including the discount 
rate, at the beginning of the year; and
•	 Expected return on the assets of the schemes – calculated by reference to the scheme assets and long-term expected rate of return at the 
beginning of the year.
(ii) Within the Statement of Comprehensive Income:
•	 Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the schemes arising from actual experience and any changes in assumptions at 
the end of the year.
 The Group has adopted a policy of recognising all actuarial gains and losses for all of its defined benefit schemes in the period in which they 
occur, outside the Income Statement, in the consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Group Accounting Policies
For the year ended 30 September 2011 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
68
1 Group Accounting Policies continued
(c) Share-based payments
 The Executive Directors of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby the Directors 
render services in exchange for shares in the Company, or rights over shares (“equity-settled” transactions).
 Equity-settled transactions are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the effect of 
market based measures, such as the Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) targets upon which vesting of part of the award is conditional, and is expensed 
to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to equity. The cumulative expense recognised is 
adjusted to take account of shares forfeited by Executives who leave during the performance or vesting period and, in the case of non-market related 
performance conditions, where it becomes unlikely that shares will vest. For the market based measure, the Directors have used a predicted future 
value model to determine fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
 The Group operates an Employee Benefit Trust for the granting of shares to Executives. The cost of shares in the Company purchased by the 
Employee Benefit Trust are shown as a deduction from equity.
1.6 Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which that entity operates. For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are 
translated into UK sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
(a) Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency:
 Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are initially recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on 
the dates of the transactions. At each subsequent balance sheet date:
(i) Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising on the settlement 
or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement;
(ii) Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated; and
(iii) Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are retranslated using the exchange rates at the date the fair value was 
determined. Where a gain or loss on non-monetary items is recognised directly in equity, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also 
recognised directly in equity and conversely, where a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in the Income Statement, any exchange 
component of that gain or loss is also recognised in the Income Statement.
(b) Translation from functional currency to presentational currency:
 When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Group’s presentational currency, its results and financial position are translated 
into the presentational currency as follows:
(i) Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date;
(ii) Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such an average rate does not 
approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used; and
(iii) All resulting exchange differences are recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity; these cumulative exchange 
differences are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of.
(c) Net investment in foreign operations:
 Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the 
Income Statement in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the foreign operation as appropriate. In the consolidated Group 
accounts such exchange differences are initially recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity and subsequently recognised in 
the Income Statement on disposal of the net investment.
1.7 Taxation
The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from profit before taxation as reported in the Income Statement. Taxable profit excludes 
items of income and expense that are taxable (or deductible) in other years and also excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s 
liability for current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas tax, is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be 
available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Temporary differences arise primarily from the recognition of the deficit on the 
Group’s defined benefit pension schemes, the difference between accelerated capital allowances and depreciation and for short-term timing 
differences where a provision held against receivables or stock is not deductible for taxation purposes. However, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not 
recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other that in a business combination) of other assets and 
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit, nor the accounting profit.
Group Accounting Policies continued
For the year ended 30 September 2011 69
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
1 Group Accounting Policies continued
Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to 
control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is possible that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. No deferred tax 
is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, as the Group controls the dividend policies of its subsidiaries.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. Deferred tax is 
charged or credited to the Income Statement, except when the item on which the tax or charged is credited or charged directly to equity, in which case 
the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent 
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered. Tax assets and liabilities are 
offset when there is a legally enforceable right to enforce current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the 
same fiscal authority.
1.8 Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in bringing the asset into use, but 
excluding interest. All other repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the Income Statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life. Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the asset is available 
for use and is charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost, less residual value of the asset, over its estimated useful 
life as follows:
Freehold property – between 20 and 50 years 
Leasehold property – term of the lease
Plant and equipment – plant and machinery between 3 and 7 years
 – IT hardware between 3 and 5 years
 – fixtures and fittings between 5 and 15 years
The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at each financial year end. 
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of 
the relevant lease. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its 
estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses arising on disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are 
recognised in the Income Statement.
1.9 Intangible assets
All intangible assets, excluding goodwill arising on a business combination, are stated at their amortised cost or fair value less any provision for 
impairment.
(a) Research and development costs
 Research expenditure is written off as incurred. Development costs are written off as incurred until it can be demonstrated that the conditions for 
capitalisation as described in IAS 38 (Intangible Assets) are met. At which point further costs are capitalised as intangible assets up until the intangible 
asset is readily available for production and amortised on a straight-line basis over the asset’s estimated useful life.
 Costs are capitalised as intangible assets unless physical assets, such as tooling, exist when they are classified as property, plant and equipment.
(b) Computer software costs
 Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment its costs are capitalised as other intangible assets. Amortisation is 
provided on a straight line basis over its useful economic life of between three and seven years.
(c) Acquired intangible assets – business combinations
 Intangible assets that are acquired as a result of a business combination, including, but not limited to, customer lists, supplier lists, databases, 
technology and software and patents and that can be separately measured at fair value, on a reliable basis, are separately recognised on acquisition at 
the fair value, together with the associated deferred tax liability. Amortisation is charged on a straight line basis to the Income Statement over the 
expected useful economic lives.
(d) Goodwill – business combinations
 Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration over the aggregate fair 
value of the identifiable intangible and tangible assets and net of the aggregate fair value of the liabilities (including contingent liabilities of businesses 
acquired at the date of acquisition). Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. Impairment testing is carried out annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
value may be impaired. Goodwill on acquisitions is not amortised. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
70
1 Group Accounting Policies continued
1.10 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of (i) its fair value less costs to sell and (ii) its value in use; its value in use is the 
present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit. Impairment losses are 
recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
(a) Impairment of goodwill
 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit; cash-generating units for this purpose are the business entities 
which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored by the Group’s Board of Directors for internal and management 
purposes. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an 
indication that the unit may be impaired.
 If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
goodwill attributable to the cash-generating unit.
 An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
(b) Impairment of other tangible and intangible assets
 At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication 
that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to 
determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there 
are separately identifiable cash inflows. Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the 
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
 Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no 
impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss for tangible and intangible 
assets other than goodwill is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
1.11 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, (generally calculated on a weighted average cost basis) and net realisable value, after making due allowance 
for any obsolete or slow moving inventory. Cost comprises direct materials, duty and freight-in costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
1.12 Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
(a) Trade receivables
 Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value, do not carry any interest and are reduced by a charge for impairment for estimated irrecoverable 
amounts. Such impairment charges are recognised in the Income Statement.
(b)  Trade payables
 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are initially measured at their fair value.
(c)  Cash and cash equivalents
 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, interest bearing deposits, bank overdrafts and short-term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and can form an integral part of the Group’s cash management system.
(d) Put options held by minority interests
 On exercise of put options held by minority shareholders in the Group’s subsidiaries, the purchase price of the shares is calculated by reference to the 
profitability of the relevant subsidiary at the time of exercise, using a multiple based formula. The net present value of the estimated future payments 
under these put options is shown as a financial liability. The corresponding entry is recognised in equity as a deduction against retained earnings. At 
the end of each year, the estimate of the financial liability is reassessed and any change in value is recognised in the Income Statement, as part of 
finance income or expense. Where the liability is in a foreign currency, any change in the value of the liability resulting from changes in exchange rates 
is recognised in the Income Statement.
Group Accounting Policies continued
For the year ended 30 September 2011 71
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
1 Group Accounting Policies continued
(e)  Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
 The Group uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the effects of its exposures to 
fluctuations in foreign exchange arising from operational and financial activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or 
issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the 
balance sheet date.
 Under IAS 39, hedging relationships are categorised by type and must meet strict criteria to qualify for hedge accounting. At the inception of the 
transaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item. The Group also documents its 
assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the financial instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly 
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. The Group uses cash flow hedges (eg forward foreign exchange currency 
contracts) to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction.
 In relation to cash flow hedges, to hedge firm commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly to equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in net profit 
or loss. For cash flow hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are 
transferred to the Income Statement in the same year in which the hedged firm commitment affects the net profit and loss, for example when the 
future sale actually occurs.
 Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the hedged 
transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net 
profit or loss for the year.
 The Group does not use financial instruments to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities that are attributable 
to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss (fair value hedges). No financial instruments are used to hedge net investments in a foreign operation 
(net investment hedges).
1.13 Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risk and rewards of ownership to the lessee. Leases 
include hire purchase contracts which have characteristics similar to finance or operating leases. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
(a)  Finance leases
 Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value 
of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease 
payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged to the Income Statement.
(b)  Operating leases
 Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Benefits 
received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the expected lease term.
1.14 Other liabilities
Other liabilities are recognised when the Group has legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is possible that the Group will be 
required to settle that obligation. Other liabilities are measured at the Director’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the 
balance sheet date.
1.15 Dividends
The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the Annual General Meeting; interim dividends are charged in the period they are paid.
1.16 Share capital and reserves
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, 
from the proceeds. The Group also maintains the following reserves:
(a) Translation reserve – The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of 
foreign businesses.
(b) Hedging reserve – The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging 
instruments that are determined to be an effective hedge. 
(c) Retained earnings reserve – The retained earnings reserve comprises total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to shareholders. 
Bonus issues of share capital and dividends to shareholders are also charged directly to this reserve. On acquisition of minority interests, the liability 
held in the consolidated financial statements for the future purchases of those minority interests is released to the retained earnings reserve. In 
addition the cost of acquiring shares in the Company and the liability to provide those shares to employees, is accounted for in this reserve.  Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
72
1 Group Accounting Policies continued
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury shares or indirectly within an 
ESOP trust, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is deducted from equity attributable to the 
Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration 
received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the 
Company’s equity holders. These shares are used to satisfy share awards granted to Directors under the Group’s share schemes. The trustee purchases 
the Company’s shares on the open market using loans made by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
1.17 Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards not yet effective
The following new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and have been endorsed by the EU, that are 
mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2011:
•	 IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments – Classification and Measurement”;
•	 IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements”;
•	 IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements”;
•	 IFRS 12 “Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities”;
•	 IFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurement”;
•	 IAS 19 “Employee Benefits”;
•	 IAS 27 “Separate Financial Statements”;
•	 IAS 28 “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures”;
•	 Amendment to IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures”: enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets;
•	 Amendment to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements”; revision of presentation of comprehensive income;
•	 Amendment to IAS 12 “Income Taxes”: recovery of underlying assets;
•	 Amendment to IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”: revised definition of related parties; and
•	 Annual Improvements to IFRSs issued May 2010.
The Group has considered the impact of these new standards and interpretations in future periods and no significant impact is expected on reported 
profit or net assets.
The Group has chosen not to early adopt any of these new standards and interpretations.
2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements
In order to prepare these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 1 above, management has used 
estimates and judgements to establish the amounts at which certain items are recorded. Critical accounting estimates and judgements are those which 
have the greatest impact on the financial statements and require the most difficult and subjective judgements about matters that are inherently 
uncertain. Estimates are based on factors including historical experience and expectations of future events that management believe to be reasonable. 
However given the judgemental nature of such estimates, actual results could be different from the assumptions used. The critical accounting estimates 
and judgements are set out below:
2.1 Goodwill impairment
The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill has a value that will benefit the performance of the Group over future 
periods. To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least annually, of the carrying value of the Group’s capitalised 
goodwill, using discounted cash flow forecasts to derive the “value in use” to the Group of the capitalised goodwill. This calculation is usually based on 
projecting future cash flows over at least a five year period and using a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter. A discount factor 
is applied to obtain a current value (“value in use”). The “fair value less costs to sell” of an asset is used if this results in an amount in excess of “value in use”.
Estimated future cash flows for impairment calculations are based on management’s expectations of future volumes and margins based on plans and 
best estimates of the productivity of the assets in their current condition. Future cash flows therefore exclude benefits from major expansion projects 
requiring future capital expenditure where that expenditure has not been approved at the balance sheet date.
Future cash flows are discounted using discount rates based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, adjusted if appropriate for circumstances 
specific to the asset being tested. The weighted average cost of capital is impacted by estimates of interest rates, equity returns and market and country 
related risks. The Group’s weighted average cost of capital is reviewed on an annual basis.
The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Group’s businesses for this 
purpose. Changes to the assumptions and discount rates used in making these forecasts could significantly alter the Directors’ assessment of the 
carrying value of goodwill.
2.2 Retirement benefits
The Group’s financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension retirement benefits to current and former 
employees. It is the Directors’ responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations. 
These assumptions are set after consultation with the Scheme’s actuary and are consistent with those assumptions used to determine the financing 
elements related to the Scheme’s assets and liabilities. Whilst the Directors believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the 
assumptions used would affect the Group profit and financial position. Details of these assumptions, which are based on advice from the Scheme’s 
actuary, are set out in note 25.
Group Accounting Policies continued
For the year ended 30 September 2011 73
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements continued
2.3 Taxation
The Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions around the world. Tax regulations generally are complex and in some jurisdictions agreeing tax 
liabilities with local tax authorities can take several years. Consequently, at the balance sheet date tax liabilities and assets are based on management’s 
best estimate of the future amounts that will be settled. While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates recorded are accurate, the actual amounts 
could be different from those expected.
Deferred tax assets mainly represent timing differences that the Group expects to recover at some time in the future and by their nature, the amounts 
recorded are therefore dependent on management’s judgement about future events. Account has also been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit 
in arriving at the values at which these deferred tax assets are recognised. If these forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes 
in tax rates or to the period over which the timing difference might be recognised, then the value of the deferred tax asset will need to be revised in a 
future period.
2.4 Current assets
In the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to establish the net realisable value of various elements of working capital, principally 
inventory and trade receivables. Impairment charges are made against obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or doubtful debts.
The decision to make an impairment charge is based on the facts available at the time the financial statements are approved and are also determined 
by using profiles, based on past practice, applied to certain aged inventory and trade receivables categories. In estimating the collectability of trade 
receivables, judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current creditworthiness of each customer and related ageing of the 
past due balances. Specific accounts are assessed in situations where a customer may not be able to meet its financial obligations due to deterioration 
of its financial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
2.5 Property, plant and equipment
It is Group policy to depreciate its property, plant and equipment assets, except freehold land, on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. 
This applies an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the delivery of goods and services. A key element of this policy is the estimate of the 
useful life applied to each category of property, plant and equipment which, in turn, determines the annual depreciation charge. Variations in asset lives 
could impact Group profit through an increase or decrease in the depreciation charge.
2.6 Future purchases of minority interests
The Group’s financial statements include a financial liability for the net present value of the expected amount that it will pay in future years to acquire the 
outstanding shares held by minority shareholders in the Group’s subsidiaries. This amount is based on the Directors’ estimate of the future profitability of 
the relevant subsidiary and on an assumption of the exchange rates prevailing at the time the payment is made. Any changes to the estimated profitability 
of the relevant business and/or changes to the assumption of the relevant exchange rate, will change the estimate of this financial liability. Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
74
Note
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Fixed assets
Investments c 72.0 72.0
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings (42.2) (42.3)
Total assets less current liabilities 29.8 29.7
Capital and reserves
Called up equity share capital d 5.7 5.7
Profit and loss account 24.1 24.0
29.8 29.7
The financial statements of Diploma PLC, company number 3899848, were approved by the Board of Directors on 21 November 2011 and signed on its 
behalf by:
BM Thompson 
Chief Executive Officer 
NP Lingwood
Group Finance Director
The notes on page 75 form part of these financial statements.
Parent Company Balance Sheet
As at 30 September 2011
Share capital 
£m
Profit and 
loss account 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 October 2010 5.7 24.0 29.7
Retained profit for the year – 1.3 1.3
Transfer of own shares, net – (1.2) (1.2)
At 30 September 2011 5.7 24.1 29.8
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
For the year ended 30 September 2011 75
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
a) Accounting Policies
a.1 Basis of accounting
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as discussed on page 44, under the historical cost convention in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards. A summary of the accounting policies of the Parent company (“the Company”) 
is set out below. As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account is presented for the Company. 
a.2 Investments and dividends
Investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment. Dividend income is recognised when received. Dividend distributions are recognised in 
the Company’s financial statements in the year in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised 
when paid.
a.3 Employment Benefit Trust and Employee Share Schemes
Shares held by the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust (“the Trust”) are stated at cost and accounted for as a deduction from shareholders’ funds in 
accordance with UITF 38. Shares that are held by the Trust are not eligible for dividends until such time as the awards have vested to the employees.
b) Directors’ Remuneration
No emoluments are paid directly by the Company; information on the Directors’ remuneration and interests in the share capital of the Company are set 
out in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 41.
c) Investments
£m
Shares in Group undertakings
At 30 September 2011 and 1 October 2010 72.0
Details of the principal subsidiaries are set out on page 78.
d) Share Capital
2011 
Number
2010 
Number
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
Allotted, issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p each
At 30 September 113,239,555 113,239,555 5.7 5.7
During the year 138,461 shares were transferred from the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust to participants in connection with vesting of awards under the 
Long Term Incentive Plan. During the year, the Trust purchased a further 500,000 shares for an aggregate amount of £1.6m. In accordance with UITF 38, 
the purchase cost of own shares, net of shares which have vested, are shown as a movement in shareholders’ funds.
At 30 September 2011 the Trust held 1,094,512 (2010: 732,973) ordinary shares in the Company representing 1.0% of the called up share capital. The 
market value of the shares at 30 September 2011 was £3.5m (2010: £2.1m).
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2011 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
76
Independent Auditor’s Report on the Group financial statements to the Members of Diploma PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2011 which comprise the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income, the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity, the Group accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 28. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for preparing the Financial Statements, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-
financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•	 the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ Report in relation to going concern; 
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code specified for our review; and
•	 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent company financial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2011 and on the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
Ian Waller (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London 
21 November 2011
Independent Auditor’s Reports
For the year ended 30 September 2011 77
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Independent Auditor’s Report on the Parent Company financial statements to the Members of Diploma PLC
We have audited the Parent company financial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2011 which comprise the Parent company 
balance sheet, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds and the related notes a) to d). The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for preparing the Financial Statements, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the Parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any 
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Parent company financial statements:
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent company’s affairs as at 30 September 2011;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent 
company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 
not visited by us; or
•	 the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2011.
Ian Waller (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London 
21 November 2011 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
78
Group 
percentage 
of equity 
capital
Country of 
incorporation or 
registration
Life Sciences
a1-envirosciences Limited 100% England
a1-envirosciences GmbH 100% Germany
a1-envirosciences AG (formerly a1-safetech AG) 100% Switzerland
Somagen Diagnostics Inc 100% Canada
AMT Electrosurgery Inc 100% Canada
Vantage Endoscopy Inc (formerly Carsen Medical Inc) 100% Canada
Big Green Surgical Company Pty Limited 80% Australia
Seals
Hercules Sealing Products Inc 100% USA
RTD Seals Corp 100% USA
All Seals Inc 100% USA
HKX Inc 100% USA
Hercules Europe BV 100% Netherlands
M Seals A/S 90% Denmark
FPE Limited 100% England
Controls
IS Rayfast Limited 100% England
IS Motorport Inc 100% USA
Clarendon Engineering Supplies Limited 100% England
Cabletec Interconnect Components Systems Limited 100% England
Sommer GmbH 100% Germany
Filcon GmbH 100% Germany
HA Wainwright (Group) Limited 100% England
Hitek Limited 100% England
Other Companies
Diploma Holdings PLC 100% England
Diploma Holdings Inc 100% USA
A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the next Annual Return of Diploma PLC filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Principal Subsidiaries 79
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
Announcements (provisional dates):
Interim Management Statement released 18 January 2012
Interim Management Statement released 3 August 2012
Half Year Results announced 14 May 2012
Preliminary Results announced 19 November 2012
Annual Report posted to shareholders 3 December 2012
Annual General Meeting (2011) 18 January 2012
Annual General Meeting (2012) 16 January 2013
Dividends (provisional dates)
Interim announced 14 May 2012
Paid  20 June 2012
Final announced 19 November 2012
Paid (if approved) 23 January 2013
Annual Report: 
Copies can be obtained from the Company Secretary at the address shown below.
Share Registrar – Computershare Investor Services PLC: 
The Company’s Registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH. Telephone: 
0870 7020010. Their website for shareholder enquiries is www.computershare.co.uk
Shareholders’ enquiries: 
If you have any enquiry about the Company’s business or about something affecting you as a shareholder (other than questions dealt with by 
Computershare Investor Services PLC) you are invited to contact the Company Secretary at the address shown below.
Secretary and Registered Office:
N P Lingwood FCA, 12 Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6AX. Telephone: 020 7549 5700. Fax: 020 7549 5715. 
Registered in England and Wales, number 3899848.
Web site: 
Diploma’s web site is www.diplomaplc.com
Financial Calendar and Shareholder Information Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011
80
Year ended 30 September
Continuing businesses
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
2007 
£m
Revenue 230.6 183.5 160.0 156.2 124.5
Adjusted operating profit 45.2 32.1 25.6 26.6 20.7
Finance (expense)/income (0.3) 0.1 (0.1) 0.2 1.2
Adjusted profit before tax 44.9 32.2 25.5 26.8 21.9
Acquisition related charges (4.8) (3.5) (3.1) (2.7) (1.0)
Fair value remeasurements (0.9) (2.0) (1.9) (3.0) –
Profit before tax 39.2 26.7 20.5 21.1 20.9
Tax expense (11.6) (8.8) (7.1) (7.2) (7.1)
Profit for the year from continuing businesses 27.6 17.9 13.4 13.9 13.8
Profit from discontinued businesses – 5.1 0.9 0.5 1.0
Profit for the year 27.6 23.0 14.3 14.4 14.8
Capital structure
Equity shareholders’ funds 164.1 136.1 121.4 108.1 90.7
Minority interest 0.5 3.1 2.7 1.9 1.8
Add/(less): cash and cash equivalents (17.8) (30.1) (21.3) (15.7) (12.4)
 borrowings 5.6 – – – –
 retirement benefit obligations 5.4 5.3 4.7 1.7 1.6
 future purchases of minority interests 2.0 13.2 13.1 11.2 11.8
 deferred tax, net 2.0 1.3 2.0 3.3 3.6
 adjustment to goodwill in respect of deferred tax (8.9) (6.6) (6.5) (6.0) (5.6)
Trading capital employed 152.9 122.3 116.1 104.5 91.5
Net (decrease)/increase in net funds (18.0) 8.6 2.2 2.0 (25.3)
Add: dividends paid 14.8 10.2 9.1 7.8 5.7
acquisition of businesses 28.2 11.0 12.2 7.9 31.6
Free cash flow 25.0 29.8 23.5 17.7 12.0
Per ordinary share (pence)
Basic earnings 24.0 14.6 10.8 11.4 11.8
Adjusted earnings 27.9 18.9 14.8 16.0 13.1
Dividends 12.0 9.0 7.8 7.5 5.4
Total shareholders’ equity 145 120 107 95 80
Dividend cover 2.3 2.1 1.9 2.1 2.4
Ratios % % % % %
Return on trading capital employed 25.4 22.1 19.0 22.4 25.5
Working capital: revenue 16.1 15.4 17.6 17.2 17.3
Operating margin 19.6 17.5 16.0 17.0 16.6
Continuing and discontinued businesses £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 230.6 188.8 175.7 172.3 140.7
Adjusted profit before tax 44.9 31.6 26.7 27.5 23.3
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share (pence) 27.9 18.5 15.6 16.4 14.0
Notes
1 Return on trading capital employed represents operating profit, before acquisition related charges, as a percentage of trading capital employed (adjusted for the effect of the timing of major 
acquisitions and disposals). Trading capital employed is calculated as defined in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
2 Adjusted earnings per share is calculated in accordance with note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 Total shareholders’ equity per share have been calculated by dividing equity shareholders’ funds by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the year end.
4 Dividend cover is calculated on adjusted earnings as defined in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
5 On 21 January 2008 the Company undertook a bonus issue of four new ordinary shares of 5 pence each for each ordinary share held by shareholders of the Company. The comparative amounts 
have been restated to reflect this bonus issue.
6 Acquisition expenses have been charged against profit from 1 October 2009; prior to 1 October 2009 acquisition costs were included as part of the cost of investment.
Five Year Record  Diploma PLC Annual Report  & Accounts 2011
Diploma PLC
12 Charterhouse Square
London EC1M 6AX
T +44 (0)20 7549 5700
F +44 (0)20 7549 5715
www.diplomaplc.com Diploma PLC
Annual Review 2011
Essential to our customers
Diploma PLC
12 Charterhouse Square
London EC1M 6AX
T +44 (0)20 7549 5700
F +44 (0)20 7549 5715
www.diplomaplc.com
Diploma PLC
Group at a Glance
Diploma PLC is an international group of 
businesses supplying specialised technical 
products and services. We operate globally  
in three distinct sectors: 
Life Sciences Suppliers of consumables, 
instrumentation and related services to the 
healthcare and environmental industries. 
Seals Suppliers of hydraulic seals, gaskets, 
cylinders, components and kits for heavy 
mobile machinery and industrial equipment.
Controls Suppliers of specialised wiring, 
connectors, fasteners and control devices for 
technically demanding applications.
Our 
sectors
IFC Group at a Glance
01 Financial Highlights
02 Chairman's Statement
04  Chief Executive’s Review
06 Business Model
18 Business Review
22 Directors and Advisors
24 Five Year Record
Audited financial statements are set out in 
the Annual Report & Accounts 2011. Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
Diploma PLC
Group at a Glance
Sector analysis
Life Sciences
32%
of revenues
1
Geographical split of revenues
75%  Canada
20% Europe
5% ROW
223 employees worldwide 
Seals
35%
of revenues
1
Geographical split of revenues
70%  North America
15% Europe
15% ROW
432 employees worldwide 
Geography
Europe
43%
of revenues
1
23%  UK 
20%  Continental Europe 
North America
50%
of revenues
1
22%  US
28%  Canada
Rest of World
7%
of revenues
1
Controls
33%
of revenues
1
Geographical split of revenues
56%  UK
39% Continental Europe
5% ROW
245 employees worldwide 
1 By destination.
Key
Life Sciences
● Healthcare
n Environmental
Seals
● Aftermarket
n Industrial OEM
Controls
● Controls
The Group is well diversified by 
geographic and business area.
Our 
markets 01
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
Diploma PLC
Financial Highlights
Continued strong 
performance
Year ended 30 September 2011
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Revenue 230.6 183.5 +26%
Adjusted operating profit
1
45.2 32.1 +41%
Adjusted operating margin
1
19.6% 17.5% 
Adjusted profit before tax
1,2
44.9 32.2 +39%
Profit before tax 39.2 26.7 +47%
Profit for the year
3
27.6 23.0 +20%
Free cash flow 25.0 29.8 –16%
Pence Pence
Adjusted earnings per share
1,2
27.9 18.9 +48%
Basic earnings per share 24.0 14.6 +64%
T otal dividends per share 12.0 9.0 +33%
Free cash flow per share 22.1 26.3 –16%
1 Before acquisition related charges.
2 Before fair value remeasurements.
3 Profit for the year is stated after tax and includes the profit on sale of the discontinued businesses in the prior year. All 
other reported results relate to continuing businesses.
Note:
Diploma PLC uses alternative performance measures as key financial indicators to assess the underlying performance of 
the Group. These include adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share and free cash 
flow. The narrative in the Annual Review is based on these alternative measures and an explanation is set out in note 2 to 
the consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report & Accounts. Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
02
Diploma PLC
Chairman’s Statement
John Rennocks
Chairman
Over the ten years since then, the Group has generated 
strong double digit compound growth in revenues 
through a combination of steady organic growth and 
value enhancing acquisitions. Profits and dividends over 
this period have increased by a factor of more than four 
times. The total shareholder return (“TSR”) has also 
grown strongly relative to the FTSE mid-250 index 
(excluding investment trusts) (“FTSE 250”) which we have 
always seen as a benchmark for our performance. This 
strong relative performance was recognised in October 
of this year when the Company achieved the important 
milestone of promotion to the FTSE 250. 
Towards the end of this year, the Board approved 
proposals to further expand the activities in a number 
of key businesses by moving their existing activities to 
new enlarged facilities. These facilities will enable the 
momentum of growth to be sustained, within the 
constraints of an uncertain economic outlook. I remain 
confident that with its broader base of businesses,  
the resilience of its business model and its depth of 
resources, the Group is well placed to continue to  
make further progress in the next ten year period.
2011 Results
Group revenue increased by 26% to £230.6m (2010: 
£183.5m) with the businesses continuing to benefit  
from strong customer demand and with acquisitions 
completed over the past eighteen months, contributing 
£17.2m to this year’s Group result. The on-going focus 
on adding value to our delivery of product and services, 
together with the benefit of cost reductions carried 
out in 2009 has led to a further increase in adjusted 
operating margins to 19.6% (2010: 17.5%). As a result there 
was a substantial increase in adjusted operating profit, 
up by 41% to £45.2m (2010: £32.1m). Underlying Group 
revenues and adjusted operating profit increased by 17% 
and 31% respectively, after adjusting for the contribution 
from acquisitions and from the impact of currency 
movements on the translation of overseas results.
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 39% to £44.9m 
(2010: £32.2m) and adjusted earnings per share, which 
were boosted by the purchase of minority interests, 
increased by 48% to 27.9p (2010: 18.9p).
Free cash flow of £25.0m was generated as the 
businesses took advantage of better supply of product to 
rebuild working capital from the exceptionally low level 
last year. Last year’s free cash flow of £29.8m included 
£6.4m from the disposal of the Anachem businesses. 
Consistent 
profitable growth
As I enter my tenth year as a Director of the Company, 
it is particularly encouraging to report another year of 
excellent progress at Diploma with key performance 
indicators all hitting record levels.
These results continue to demonstrate the strength and 
resilience of the Group’s business model which has 
enabled it to report consistent profitable growth over 
the past ten years. In July 2002 when I joined the 
Company, the Group had recently emerged from a 
major restructuring programme, having divested a 
number of traditional core businesses and returned a 
large proportion of the cash proceeds (ca. £70m) to 
shareholders. The Group had just reported pre-tax 
profits of £10.0m on revenues of £66.3m in respect of 
its continuing businesses. At the same time the Group’s 
market capitalisation was below £100m and total 
dividends were 2.6p per share.  03
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
27.9
18.9
14.8
16.0
13.1
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
258
222
129
107
150
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
12.0
9.0
7.8
7.5
5.4
Five year performance
Strong Balance Sheet
Given the current uncertainty in the global financial 
markets, the Board continues to focus on ensuring that  
it has sufficient financial resources to take advantage  
of acquisition opportunities. An important part of this 
process was the securing of new bank facilities, earlier in 
the year, which can provide up to £40m of borrowings. 
These facilities, together with net cash of £12.2m held at 
30 September 2011, ensure that the Group continues to 
maintain a strong balance sheet. 
Acquisitions 
During the year the Group spent £28.2m on acquisitions, 
principally in the Canadian Healthcare sector, with the 
acquisition of Carsen Medical Inc. (“CMI”) in December 
2010 and the purchase of the outstanding 25% minority 
shares in AMT. This latter acquisition of minorities 
facilitated the merger of AMT’s endoscopy business with 
CMI with effect from 30 September 2011. 
It remains an important part of the Board’s strategy to 
accelerate growth through carefully selected, value 
enhancing acquisitions. A cornerstone of our acquisition 
programme has always been to target businesses where 
we see the opportunity for above average growth soon 
after the activities have been integrated into the Group.
 
We believe that the current stage of the business cycle 
provides a reasonably good environment for making 
such acquisitions. Good recent performance by target 
companies allows for sensible valuation discussions to be 
held with sellers, while the general economic uncertainty 
may encourage them to feel that the time may be right 
to sell their companies. 
Dividends
As a result of the excellent progress made by the 
Company during the year, the Board is recommending 
an increase in the final dividend of 37% to 8.5p per share 
(2010: 6.2p) which, subject to shareholder approval at the 
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 25 January 2012, 
to shareholders on the register at 9 December 2011. 
The total dividend per share for the year will be 12.0p 
which represents a 33% increase on 2010 and represents 
the twelfth successive year that the Company has 
reported an increase in dividends paid to shareholders. 
Governance
The importance of maintaining high standards of 
governance within the Company has been re-
emphasised this year with the implementation of 
recommendations set out in the updated UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The development of strong 
governance is a continuous process and I will be working 
closely with my Board colleagues this year to ensure that 
the Company’s governance standards and procedures 
are appropriate to meet the requirements of a FTSE 350 
constituent member. These requirements are set out 
further in the Chairman’s foreword to the statement on 
Corporate Governance set out on page 26 of the 
Annual Report & Accounts. 
Employees
Our employees are our most important asset and we 
continue to invest time and resources into developing 
strong management groups and committed staff teams. 
We encourage an entrepreneurial culture within our 
businesses so that our employees feel responsible for 
their own businesses while being able to draw on the 
resources of a larger group. I wish to thank all of our 
employees for their exceptional efforts in helping to 
deliver this year’s very strong financial performance. 
 
Outlook
The financial performance of the Group this year has 
benefited from strong trading in its principal markets. 
While trading remains robust, underlying organic 
growth is expected to trend towards our target “GDP 
plus” levels when measured against increasingly 
demanding comparatives.
With a resilient business model, a good geographic 
spread of activities and supported by a strong balance 
sheet, the Group is well placed to withstand further 
shocks to the global economy. With this background, a 
combination of consistent organic growth, together with 
a favourable environment for acquisitions, provide the 
Board with confidence that further progress will be made 
in the new financial year.
John Rennocks
Chairman
21 November 2011
+19% p.a.
EPS growth 
+21% p.a.
TSR growth
+21% p.a.
Dividend growth
Adjusted EPS in pence TSR index, 2006 = 100 Dividends in pence per share Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
04
Diploma PLC
Chief Executive’s Review
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
Strategy and 
performance
Principal corporate objectives
Achieve double digit growth in adjusted EPS over the 
business cycle
Adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”), measured over  
the business cycle, provides an absolute benchmark of 
the Company’s performance. Over the last five years, 
adjusted EPS has grown at a compound growth rate  
of 19% p.a. through a combination of steady organic 
growth and carefully targeted acquisitions.
Generate TSR growth in the upper quartile of the  
FTSE 250 
Total shareholder return (“TSR”) is the growth in value  
of a share plus the value of dividends re-invested in the 
Company’s shares on the day on which they are paid. 
This is measured against the TSR growth of the FTSE 
mid-250 index (excluding investment trusts) (“FTSE 250”). 
The last five years have seen a compound TSR growth 
for Diploma of 21% p.a., which represents upper quartile 
performance as compared with the FTSE 250, where 
median TSR growth has been 3% p.a. 
Deliver progressive dividend growth with two times 
dividend cover
Diploma follows a progressive dividend policy with a 
target cover of two times on an adjusted EPS basis. Over 
the last five years, dividends have steadily grown at the 
rate of 21% p.a. and this continues the trend of increasing 
dividends in each of the last 12 years. 
Our business model
Essential SOlu TiOnS
We provide solutions to 
meet customer needs, 
combining:
•	 Highly responsive 
customer service
•	 Deep technical 
knowledge and support
•	 Value adding activities
Essential vAluES
We encourage an 
entrepreneurial culture in 
our businesses:
•	 Decentralised 
management model
•	 Ensures businesses are 
agile and responsive  
to change
Essential PRODuCTS
We focus on businesses 
which supply essential 
products and services:
•	 Funded by customers’ 
operating rather than 
capital budgets
•	 Providing recurring 
income and stable 
revenue growth 05
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Total revenue £m
230.6
183.5
160.0
156.2
124.5
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Organic revenue growth % p.a.
+17%
+11%
-12%
+8%
+6%
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Operating margin as % of revenue
19.6%
17.5%
16.0%
17.0%
16.6%
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Acquisition spend £m
£28.2m
£11.0m
£12.2m
£7.9m
£31.6m
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Free cash ﬂow £m
£25.0m
£29.8m
£23.5m
£17.7m
£12.0m
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
Working capital as % of revenue
16.1%
15.4%
17.6%
17.2%
17.3%
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
ROTCE %
25.4%
22.1%
19.0%
22.4%
25.5%
next level objectives Key performance indicators 
Total revenue growth: % p.a.
Operating margins: % of revenue
Acquisition spend and ROI
Free cashflow: £m 
Working capital as % of revenue
Underlying organic revenue growth: % p.a.
ROTCE: %
Maintain stable attractive margins
Operating margin is an important measure of the 
success of the businesses in achieving superior 
margins by offering strongly differentiated products 
and customer focused solutions, as well as by  
running efficient operations. 
Accelerate growth through carefully selected 
value enhancing acquisitions
To complement the Group’s organic growth 
strategy, the Group has an on-going acquisition 
programme, designed to accelerate growth and 
to facilitate entry into related strategic markets. 
Generate consistently strong cash flow to fund 
growth strategy and dividends
Free cash flow is defined as the cash flow 
generated after tax, but before acquisitions and 
dividends. This measures the success of the  
Group and its businesses in turning profit into  
cash through the careful management of  
working capital and investments in fixed assets. 
Create value by consistently exceeding 20% ROTCE
Return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) is 
defined as adjusted operating profit as a percentage 
of trading capital employed (“TCE”). TCE excludes  
net cash and non-operating assets and liabilities, but 
includes all goodwill and acquired intangible assets. 
Generate stable “GDP plus” organic revenue 
growth over the business cycle
The businesses target organic revenue growth, 
over the economic cycle, at a rate of 5–6% p.a. 
(“GDP plus” growth), with higher growth rates 
achieved at the Group level through carefully 
selected value enhancing acquisitions. 
16%
p.a. 
compound
+
6%
p.a. 
average
17-18% average
>
20% ROI 
£22m 
p.a. 
average
17% average
23% average
“Our business model has 
delivered a record performance 
in the year.” Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
06
Diploma PLC
Business Model
We focus on essential products and services 
funded by customers’ operating rather than 
capital budgets, giving recurring income and 
stable revenue growth. 
A high proportion of the Group’s revenues 
are generated from consumable products 
and service contracts and in many cases 
the products will be used in repair and 
maintenance applications and upgrade 
programmes, rather than supplied to 
original equipment manufacturers.
Essential 
products 07
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011 Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
08
Diploma PLC
Business Model
We focus on essential products 
and services funded by 
customers’ operating rather 
than capital budgets, giving 
recurring income and stable 
revenue growth.
Essential 
products
life Sciences
Case study on smoke evacuation in electrosurgery
Operating room (“OR”) nurses and other members of the 
surgical teams are becoming increasingly aware of the 
hazards of inhaling surgical smoke. In 90% of laparoscopic 
and open surgical procedures, an electrosurgery device is 
used to cut and coagulate tissue. This creates a plume of 
surgical smoke which can contain toxic gases, bacteria 
and viruses. In tests, inhaling the plume created by using 
such an electrosurgery device on one gram of tissue, is 
equivalent to smoking six unfiltered cigarettes.
Through regular exposure, the inhalation of surgical 
smoke is harmful to hospital staff including surgeons, 
anesthesiologists and in particular, OR nurses. The  
plume can also be hazardous to patients undergoing 
laparoscopic procedures, when the contaminants of 
surgical smoke can be absorbed into the patient’s  
vascular system.
Our DHG Healthcare businesses in Canada and Australia 
supply a range of smoke evacuation products which 
remove and filter the surgical smoke. Our businesses 
supply the smoke evacuation pumps at little or no charge 
to hospitals and sign up multi-year contracts to supply the 
consumable products, including tubing, filters, shrouds 
and patented surgical devices which combine the 
functions of both electrosurgery and smoke evacuation. 
(see below).
Once smoke evacuation has been introduced to a hospital 
and promoted through our education programmes, its 
use quickly becomes an essential requirement in 
operating rooms and is written into policies and 
procedures. Our experience has been that the usage of 
smoke evacuation only increases over time – once 
hospital staff have experienced the benefits, they are 
reluctant to carry out procedures without this protection. 
Our products over time become an accepted and 
essential part of the hospitals’ operating budgets.
Single-use, patented 
electrosurgical electrode  
with integrated smoke 
evacuation device
Example products 09
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
Seals
Case study on aftermarket seals
Our Hercules business in North America is a one-stop 
source for replacement seals used in hydraulic cylinders 
in heavy mobile machinery. The products are used 
wherever hydraulic power is employed to move heavy 
loads in applications such as construction, agriculture, 
logging, refuse disposal, material handling etc.
A typical piece of heavy mobile machinery, such as  
a large bulldozer or excavator, will have on average  
4–6 hydraulic cylinders with an average of 8 seals  
per cylinder. If any one of these 30–50 seals fails in 
operation, a very expensive piece of machinery is  
out of action and losing the operator money. 
We do not normally supply the seals and seal kits used 
in the first three years of the equipment life, when the 
original manufacturer’s warranty is still in place or the 
equipment is leased. During this period, the terms of the 
warranty or lease will normally require that spare parts 
from the original manufacturer are used.
However, once the equipment is sold into the second-
hand or pre-used market, or the lease term for the 
equipment expires, Hercules becomes the supplier 
of choice with its range of sealing products for all 
main brands of machinery, its next day delivery service 
and its competitive pricing.
Hercules clearly benefits during periods of strong growth 
in end-use markets, when equipment useage rates are 
high and repairs are quickly carried out whenever a 
failure occurs. However, Hercules is also insulated from 
the worst effects of a downturn in end-use markets, 
when capital spend on new equipment is typically cut 
back. Initially operational spend will also be reduced as 
equipment is not repaired immediately, but after a period 
of adjustment, expenditure on repair and maintenance is 
required to keep older equipment operational.
Controls
Case study on wiring harnesses for Aerospace  
and Defence
Complex wiring harnesses are used to control a range 
of functions in technically demanding applications 
such as Aerospace and Defence. 
We do not typically supply to the new build programmes 
of aircraft, tanks, submarines and other major defence 
platforms. This initial supply is managed direct by the 
manufacturers whose business model is tailored to the 
design-in and supply of large quantities of their products. 
Our IS-Group business will supply products to these 
major new build projects when order quantities have 
been under-estimated and smaller quantities are 
required quickly from stock, or for certain prototype or 
initial build stages where smaller volumes are required.
The main market for IS-Group’s products is in the 
refurbishment and upgrade programmes for equipment 
in service. For example, in civil aerospace applications, 
we will be the preferred supplier in replacement/upgrade 
programmes for aircraft seating or in-flight 
entertainment systems. In defence applications,  
we would be involved in the up-grade of weapons 
systems on military platforms, as well as operational 
maintenance programmes.
With this focus on in-service applications, the market 
driver for IS-Group revenues is the level of operational 
spending in sectors such as Aerospace and Defence. 
Revenues are much less impacted by cutbacks and 
postponements to major capital programmes. Again, we 
are supplying essential products funded by customers’ 
operating budgets rather than capital budgets.
Seals products used in the 
repair of hydraulic cylinders  
in a broad range of heavy 
mobile machinery
Example products
Wiring and harness 
components used  
in Aerospace and  
Defence applications 
Example products Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
10
Our businesses design their individual 
business models to closely meet the 
requirements of their customers. By supplying 
solutions, not just products, we build strong, 
long-term relationships with our customers 
and suppliers, supporting sustainable and 
attractive margins.
The solutions we offer can be based on 
highly responsive customer service, or in the 
form of deep technical support, where we 
work closely with our customers in designing 
our products into their specific applications. 
Or it can be in the form of added value 
services which, if we did not provide these 
services, customers would have to pay others 
to provide them or would require additional 
investment in their own resources.
Essential 
solutions
Diploma PLC
Business Model 11
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011 Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
12
Diploma PLC
Business Model
Our businesses design their 
individual business models to 
closely meet the requirements  
of their customers. By supplying 
solutions, not just products, we 
build long-term relationships with 
our customers and suppliers, 
supporting sustainable and 
attractive margins.
Essential 
solutions
Customer service
Case study on next day delivery of time critical products
When an expensive piece of construction machinery is 
out of action due to the failure of a seal in one of its 
hydraulic cylinders, the priority is to get the replacement 
seal to the repair shop as quickly as possible. Our 
Hercules business has built its business model to respond 
to this customer requirement by offering a responsive, 
next day delivery service for these time critical items.
Hercules holds inventory in its main Clearwater 
warehouse of ca. 30,000 different seals and seal kits, 
used in more than 2,000 equipment models produced 
by over a hundred mobile machinery OEMs. Over the 
last three years, Hercules has invested over US$2m in 
warehouse automation and carousel systems and 
warehouse management software which ensure that we 
can maintain the highest levels of product availability, 
service quality and cost-efficiency. We can receive orders 
up until 8pm in the evening and with a 95% certainty 
level, will have the product in stock. We then pick, pack 
and dispatch the order for overnight delivery using Fedex 
and UPS. We can have the product to the customer’s 
repair shop by 10.30am the next day, anywhere in the US. 
In cases when we do not have the specific seal in stock, 
we are also able to offer our Seals-on-Demand service 
where we custom machine non-standard and out-of-
production seals as a service to our customers. 
Product selection is made very straightforward for 
customers by presenting the seals and seal kits in a range 
of catalogues and CDs tailored to the customers’ 
needs. A simple decision logic leads from the original 
equipment manufacturer, to the model number to the 
individual cylinder and finally to the Hercules product 
part number. This logic lends itself to e-commerce and 
we offer a sophisticated web based ordering service 
where preferred by the customer.
Hercules’ catalogues and 
web-site give access to a range 
of ca. 40,000 seals and seal kits 
for most leading brands of 
heavy mobile machinery
Customer service 13
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
Technical support
Case study on providing a full service capability
A hospital pathology laboratory needs to be set up to 
carry out a broad range of tests on blood, tissue and 
other samples to meet the needs of all the different 
medical disciplines and clinical departments. A major 
laboratory may carry out tens of thousands of tests per 
day, of which the majority will be carried out on major 
automated chemistry, haematology or immunoassay-
chemistry systems supplied by one of the major clinical 
diagnostic instrument manufacturers.
In addition to these more routine tests, the laboratory will 
need to be equipped to carry out a range of more 
specialised tests, each requiring their own custom 
designed instruments and associated reagents and test 
kits. These will cover specialised applications from a 
variety of laboratory disciplines including infectious 
disease, auto-immunity, allergy, protein testing, 
molecular biology and cellular pathology.
Somagen, our clinical diagnostics business in Canada, 
does not just supply the products to the laboratories, 
but rather offers a full solutions capability. Under  
the terms of multi-year contracts, we provide the 
instruments to our customers and commit to service and 
maintain them. We then generate revenues by supplying 
the reagents and test kit consumables while providing 
technical service and support as required over the 
contract period. 
Our sales and product application staff are highly 
qualified specialists who have the detailed technical 
knowledge to help laboratory technologists in 
establishing test procedures and to support laboratory 
staff in the interpretation and utilisation of results.
We offer full service solutions as the exclusive 
representative in Canada for a number of carefully 
selected, high quality, medium sized manufacturers 
based in the US, Europe and Japan.
Added value services
Case study on providing added value services
When a Formula 1 team is seeking to design and build a 
car that will out-perform its rivals, it requires supply chain 
partners that can match its exacting standards.
In a typical chassis harness set for a Formula 1 car, there 
will be in excess of 1,000 metres of high performance 
wiring, over 200 individual interconnect components, 
including connectors, sensors, shrink fit tubing, moulded 
shapes and splices, as well as lacing, braiding and 
identification products.
Our IS-Group businesses have designed their business 
models to be able to supply to their customers from 
stock, the full range of wiring and harness components 
that they require. They have gone further in investing in 
technical staff who work closely with the customers’ 
engineers to design-in products to provide the required 
solution. Investment has also been made in equipment 
and processes to be able to offer a range of value-added 
services including:
•	 Connector assembly
•	 Sleeve marking
•	 Prototyping of customised cables
•	 Cut-to-length tubing
•	 Kitting and Kan-Ban supply
The IS-Group works closely with customers to 
understand their requirements and to offer the products 
in the most user-friendly way. For the Formula 1 
Motorsport teams, in addition to supplying products to 
the harness assemblers, kits of high performance 
fasteners are supplied to engine builders so that the 
engines (block, pump, sump etc.) can be built and rebuilt 
with the most efficient use of the engineer’s time.
Somagen’s specialists help 
laboratory technologists to 
establish test procedures 
and interpret results.
Technical support
Kits of components provided to 
a leading F1 Motorsport team 
for use on race-day
Added value services Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
14
We encourage an entrepreneurial 
culture across our businesses, through a 
decentralised management structure. 
We want our managers to feel that they 
have the freedom to run their own 
businesses, while being able to draw on 
the support and resources of a larger 
group where this is beneficial.
Within our businesses we have strong,  
self-standing management teams who are 
committed to and rewarded according to  
the success of their businesses. This ensures 
that decisions are made close to the 
customer and that the businesses are agile 
and responsive to changes in the market and 
the competitive environment. 
Essential 
values
Diploma PLC
Business Model 15
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011 Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
16
Diploma PLC
Business Model
We encourage an entrepreneurial 
culture within our businesses 
through our decentralised 
management model. This 
ensures that the businesses are 
agile and responsive to change.
Essential 
values
Decentralised management
The Diploma management model has been built around 
strong, self-standing management teams in the various 
operating businesses, committed to and rewarded 
according to the short and long-term success of  
those businesses.
The small corporate team in Diploma comprises three 
Executive Directors and eight staff at the centre who 
focus on strategic and financial control across the Group 
businesses. In the major business clusters, there are  
small senior management groups providing more  
direct leadership and control and ensuring quick  
decision making.
Across the operating businesses, we have a cadre of ca. 
60 senior managers, who demonstrate a good blend of 
energy, ambition and experience. The average age of 
these managers is 43 and they have an average length of 
service within their companies/industries of ten years.
Within an agreed strategic framework, the tactical 
decision making takes place in the businesses, close to 
the customers. The management teams can therefore 
respond quickly to changes in market demand, customer 
requirements or competitive dynamics. This proved  
very important during the recent worldwide recession, 
when our management teams were able to closely  
align resources (both people and working capital) to the 
changing demand to maintain customer service levels 
while managing operating costs and cash flow. 
Senior management cadre: ca. 60 managers
Average age of managers: 43 years old
Average length of service within  
company/industry: ten years
Profile of senior management  17
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
Entrepreneurial culture
Essential to the successful development of Diploma 
over many years, has been the ability to make carefully 
selected acquisitions to accelerate growth and take us 
into new, but strategically related markets. In introducing 
these acquisitions into the Group, it has been essential to 
create an environment where entrepreneurial owner 
managers feel comfortable staying with the businesses 
under new ownership and ensuring continued growth 
and planned succession.
The acquisitions we have made have typically been 
privately owned companies, already successful and  
with a good track record. The reasons for sale are varied. 
It may be that the owner is approaching retirement and 
wants to engineer a planned exit over a period of time.  
In other cases, multiple owners may be using the sale 
to allow the majority owner to exit, while the minority 
owners continue in the business under restructured 
ownership. Finally there are cases where the business has 
reached the point where additional resources are needed 
to take it to the next level of growth and owners are 
unable or unwilling to provide the additional funding.
Our willingness to be flexible when acquiring businesses 
has proved to be a significant competitive advantage for 
us in making acquisitions. In many of our medium sized 
acquisitions, where the objective has been to extend 
into new markets or geographies, it has been essential 
to retain the committed involvement of the owner 
managers. In these cases, we leave owner managers 
with a minority shareholding (typically 10–20% in 
aggregate) with put and call options, exercisable typically 
over three to five years. This allows Sellers to crystallise 
the larger part of the value created in their business, 
while giving them the opportunity to share in the future 
growth of the business post acquisition. This aligns our 
interests closely and reduces risk.
Management development
The development of strong managers and management 
teams is essential for the Group’s continued growth; a 
committed group of managers is required who respond 
to a challenging work environment and have the 
potential to manage aggressive growth strategies. 
Importantly they must be able to motivate their staff  
and engender in them the same commitment.
The first priority is to ensure a challenging work 
environment for talented managers who want to 
broaden their skills and experience. They are encouraged 
to set demanding but achievable growth targets for their 
businesses and to formulate convincing strategies to 
achieve these objectives. Once agreed, the management 
teams are responsible for the execution of these 
strategies, and can take full satisfaction from the success 
they achieve. Tailored management development and 
training programmes are encouraged to further develop 
the skills of managers.
Appropriate reward systems are also important in 
keeping managers motivated and to give recognition for 
their success. Management compensation is structured 
to reward performance against the Group’s Key 
Performance Indicators on a short and longer term basis. 
We also ensure that the management teams have the 
appropriate resources in place to support them in their 
strategies. Regular investment is made in IT systems and 
automation to ensure that management have access to 
the information they need and the ability to run their 
operations efficiently. The management teams can also 
draw on the resources of the larger Group – whether by 
accessing best practices from around the Group, or by 
sourcing cost-effective services.
Owner managers can retain minority  
shareholdings
Put and call options exercisable over three to 
five years
Aligns interests and reduces risk
Flexible acquisition model
Challenging work environment
Appropriate reward systems
Resources and support 
Management development Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
18
Diploma PLC
Business Review 
2011 Year  
in Review
an underlying basis) and operating margins held at 
a creditable 16% of revenue. As markets have slowly 
recovered following the recession, the Group has moved 
forward strongly, posting seven quarters of growth 
in revenues and profits since the recovery started in 
early 2010 and outperforming economic and market 
benchmarks. This level of relative performance confirms 
that the operating businesses have succeeded in further 
penetrating their markets by maintaining high customer 
service levels and adding product lines through  
the downturn. 
Operating performance
In 2011, revenues increased by 26% to £230.6m (2010: 
£183.5m) with underlying growth of 17% after adjusting 
for currency effects and acquisitions. As revenues have 
increased, the businesses have continued to manage 
costs carefully in view of continuing uncertainty over the 
sustainability of the recovery. With the resulting benefits 
of operational leverage, adjusted operating margins have 
increased to 19.6% of revenue (2010: 17.5%). 
The operating margins achieved this year are well above 
the three year average of ca. 18% of revenue. It is likely 
that over time operating margins will gradually trend 
back towards this average, as resources will need to be 
increased to support higher levels of revenue. In addition, 
there will be increased investment in fixed assets to 
ensure that the IT environment and the facilities in the 
businesses provide a robust foundation for further 
growth; this investment will result in higher operating 
costs and depreciation. In 2012, for example, three of 
the businesses will be moving into new facilities at a total 
cost of ca. £1m – the IS-Group in Swindon, RT Dygert in 
Minneapolis and Vantage Endoscopy in Toronto.
Free cash flow in 2011 has again been strong at £25.0m 
against a very strong prior year comparative (2010: 
£29.8m), which had been boosted by the proceeds from 
the sale of the Anachem businesses, as well as by a 
reduction in working capital across the Group. During 
2010, working capital had fallen to the level of 15.4% of 
revenue as suppliers struggled to keep pace with 
increasing demand for their products. By the end of the 
2011 financial year, working capital had moved back to a 
more normal level of 16.1% of revenue, with an additional 
investment of £7.4m. 
During the year, £28.2m was invested in acquisitions, 
principally in the Canadian Healthcare business. Return 
on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) has increased to 
Business model
The Group comprises a number of high quality, 
specialised businesses supplying technical products 
and services to customers in the Life Sciences, Seals 
and Controls industries. The Group’s business model 
is designed to achieve the twin objectives of stable 
organic revenue growth and sustainable attractive 
margins. Growth is then accelerated through carefully 
selected, value-enhancing acquisitions which fit the 
Group’s business model and offer entry into new 
strategic markets.
We aim to achieve these objectives by focusing on 
businesses which supply essential products and services 
which are funded by the customers’ operating rather 
than their capital budgets, providing recurring income 
and stable revenue growth. Our businesses then design 
their individual business models to closely meet the 
requirements of their customers, offering a blend of high 
quality customer service, deep technical support and 
value adding activities. By supplying essential solutions, 
not just products, we build strong long-term relationships 
with our customers and suppliers, which support 
attractive and sustainable margins. Finally we encourage 
an entrepreneurial culture in our businesses through 
our decentralised management structure. We want our 
managers to feel that they have the freedom to run their 
own businesses, while being able to draw on the support 
and resources of a larger group. These essential values 
ensure that decisions are made close to the customer 
and that the businesses are agile and responsive to 
changes in the market and the competitive environment. 
The Group’s business model has been closely tested 
over the last three years. The businesses proved their 
resilience through the 2009 global downturn with 
Group revenues growing by 2% (albeit a decline on  19
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
25.4% (2010: 22.1%) principally driven by the improved 
operating margins. 
Sector developments
The Group’s strategic objective is to build more 
substantial, broader based businesses in each of its 
chosen sectors through a combination of organic growth 
and acquisition. Good progress was made in the year in 
executing this strategy in each of the three sectors and 
the key developments this year are summarised below. 
l ife Sciences
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Revenue 74.4 55.4 +34%
Operating profit 17.1 11.9 +44%
Operating margin 23.0% 21.5%
The Life Sciences businesses increased revenues in 
2011 by 34%, boosted by the contribution from the 
acquisition in December 2010 of CMI and also modest 
currency translation benefits. Underlying sector revenues 
increased by 12% after adjusting for the acquisition and 
currency effects. Operating margins increased by 150 
basis points to 23.0% (2010: 21.5%), mainly driven by 
improved profitability in the Environmental business. 
The Group’s Healthcare businesses in Canada and 
now Australia (“Diploma Healthcare Group” or “DHG”), 
account for almost 80% of the Life Sciences sector 
revenues. They operate in healthcare markets which are 
largely public sector funded and where the demand from 
growing, aging and well-educated patient populations 
drives a steady growth in funding (on average 6–7% p.a. 
growth over 15 years in Canada). Within these markets, 
the DHG businesses supply specialised products which 
are used in the pathology laboratories, operating rooms 
(“OR”) and endoscopy suites of the hospitals as well as 
private clinics. During the recession there were initiatives 
to control costs including limits imposed on the number 
and cost of specific medical procedures and diagnostic 
tests and extended tender processes for capital 
equipment. However, overall Healthcare expenditure has 
continued to grow steadily in real terms and there has 
been some evidence of an easing of capital approvals.
The DHG business model is built on the supply, on an 
exclusive basis, of high quality, manufacturer branded 
products secured by long-term distribution agreements. 
Strong customer relationships are forged through high 
levels of customer service, with highly qualified and 
experienced technical sales and product application 
staff working closely with the surgeons, OR nurses 
and laboratory technologists. A large proportion (over 
60%) of DHG’s revenues are secured under multi-year 
customer contracts.
During the year, DHG expanded its business in Canada 
through the acquisition of CMI, a supplier of medical 
devices, consumables and service to GI Endoscopy 
suites in hospitals and clinics across Canada. CMI shares 
a common customer base with the endoscopy business 
within our existing AMT company and the products are 
very complementary with few overlaps. With effect from 
the start of the new financial year, the businesses were 
combined under a single management team, with the 
new name of Vantage Endoscopy (“Vantage”) and with 
plans to relocate to a new facility in the first half of the 
year. Vantage is now able to offer to its GI Endoscopy 
customers, the most complete range of products, 
including endoscopic imaging and reprocessing systems, 
therapeutic technologies and devices and other essential 
accessories and service support.
There are now three similar sized, growing DHG 
businesses in Canada, the Somagen clinical diagnostics 
business, AMT’s core electrosurgery business and 
Vantage. Each of these businesses has good potential for 
further growth by continuing to penetrate core markets, 
as well as by adding new product lines and suppliers. 
In Australia, BGS is a smaller version of AMT which was 
acquired towards the end of 2010. During the year 
investment was made to generate stronger growth by 
employing direct sales staff to replace sub-distributors in 
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and New Zealand. 
The remaining 20% of the sector revenues are generated 
by the a1-group of Environmental businesses in Europe, 
which supply a range of products used in Environmental 
Testing and Health & Safety applications. The market 
demand is largely driven by regulation which ensures 
steady demand for the essential consumable products, 
though customers do defer capital expenditure during 
economic downturns. 
The a1-envirosciences group, following its restructuring 
in 2010, now has its principal operations in Germany 
and Switzerland with other Northern European markets 
served through sales and service staff. The benefits 
“In 2011, revenues increased by 
26% to £230.6m… operating 
margins hit record level of 19.6%.” Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
20
Diploma PLC
Business Review 
of the restructuring have been seen this year in the 
improvement in operating margins. The CBISS business 
in the UK has seen good growth in its sales of emissions 
monitoring systems, both in replacement systems for 
traditional power stations and new systems for alternative 
power plants (e.g. waste, biofuels, syngas). Demand for 
gas detection products has also been strong. 
Seals
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Revenue 80.0 60.1 +33%
Operating profit 14.9 8.9 +67%
Operating margin 18.6% 14.8%
The Seals sector businesses increased revenues in 2011 
by 33%, boosted by a full year contribution from All Seals, 
acquired in September 2010, and despite modest currency 
translation losses. Underlying sector revenues increased 
by 26% after adjusting for the acquisition and currency 
effects. Operating margins increased by 380 basis points 
to 18.6% (2010: 14.8%), demonstrating the effects of 
operational leverage in this business, as increases in 
operating costs lagged the strong increase in revenue. 
Currently just over 60% of Seals sector revenues are 
generated from the Aftermarket businesses of HFPG 
(Hercules, Bulldog and HKX) and FPE. Own brand sealing 
products, sourced from the same seal manufacturers 
who supply to the original equipment OEMs, are supplied 
to a broad range of mobile machinery applications in 
heavy construction, logging, mining, agriculture, material 
handling and refuse collection. The principal market 
drivers are therefore the growth in the general industrial 
economy and in particular heavy construction. 
In the core Aftermarket business in North America, the 
key to success is the ability to provide a next day delivery 
service from inventory, for seals and seal kits used in 
a broad range of different manufacturers’ machinery 
and different applications. Typically the first three years 
of equipment life is controlled by the OEMs through 
product warranty and lease terms. However, after the 
equipment is sold into the pre-used market or moves out 
of warranty, Hercules has a very compelling offering to 
customers by providing a responsive, next day delivery 
service for these time critical items.
The Aftermarket business was insulated from the worst 
of the 2009 recession, by its focus on customers’ 
operational rather than capital budgets. As a result, 
it rebounded less strongly in 2010. In 2011, however, 
revenues increased by over 25% which suggests a 
significant increase in market share driven by the high 
level of customer service levels maintained during  
the downturn.
Outside North America, the main focus for development 
has been in Europe where good progress has been made 
in both direct sales in the UK and Benelux countries, 
as well as the appointment of sub-distributors to 
distribute Hercules seal kits in other mainland European 
countries. Initiatives are also being developed to increase 
penetration in other developing markets in Asia Pacific 
and South America.
The Industrial OEM businesses now represent close 
to 40% of sector revenues following the addition of All 
Seals to the RT Dygert and M Seals businesses. These 
companies supply seals, O-rings and custom moulded 
and machined parts to a range of specialised Industrial 
OEM customers. Applications include spray painting 
guns, water filtration, wind power mills, hearing aids and 
medical devices. On a like-for-like basis, these businesses 
have increased revenues by 25% in 2011 and are 
experiencing demand well ahead of pre-recession levels.
The acquisition of All Seals has extended the Group’s 
coverage in the US, with its strong position in California 
and the South Western States complementing RT 
Dygert’s strength in the Mid-western States. M Seals has 
further penetrated its core Scandinavian markets from its 
operations in Denmark and Sweden and has established 
a wholly owned foreign enterprise (“WOFE”) in Tianjin to 
trade directly with wind power customers in China. 
Controls
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Revenue 76.2 68.0 +12%
Operating profit 13.2 11.3 +17%
Operating margin 17.3% 16.6%
The Controls sector businesses increased revenues in 
2011 by 12% in both UK sterling and constant currency 
terms. Operating margins increased by 70 basis points 
to 17.3% (2010: 16.6%).  21
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
The IS-Group (UK), Sommer and Filcon businesses 
supply high performance wiring, connectors, fasteners 
and control devices used in a range of technically 
demanding applications. The businesses offer high 
quality, manufacturer branded products sourced under 
the terms of long-term exclusive distribution agreements. 
Strong customer relationships are based on ex-stock 
availability of product, responsiveness, technical  
advice on product applications and a range of value 
added services. 
The largest end user sector is Defence & Aerospace. 
Here, the businesses do not typically supply to 
major platform OEMs and Tier 1 suppliers, who are 
mostly served direct by the manufacturers. Rather, 
the businesses supply into repair, refurbishment and 
upgrade programmes, as well as supplying to Tier 2 
electronics customers, where ex-stock availability and 
responsiveness are important. The businesses therefore 
are less exposed to cutbacks and postponements in 
major defence programmes as a result of the Strategic 
Defence Reviews in the UK and Germany; though 
inevitably there will be some impact longer term at 
the sub-contractor and component supply level. In 
Commercial Aerospace, the businesses supply products 
principally for the initial installation and subsequent 
upgrades of aircraft interiors. After falling back in 2009, 
demand picked up in 2010 and as passenger numbers 
continue to recover, the sector appears to be returning to 
its long-term projected growth rate of ca. 5% p.a.
The businesses also supply to a range of specialised 
technical applications in the General Industrial market. 
The underlying market drivers are the growth of the 
industrial economies in Europe (in particular the UK 
and Germany), but demand tends to be more stable 
in the specialised sub-sectors in which we operate. In 
Motorsport, activity increased sharply with a successful 
F1 racing season and growth in the Indycar and Nascar 
series in the US, the DTM series in Germany and the 
World Rally Championship. Medical Equipment is 
another specialised market where demand has been 
stable and in Energy, there has been strong demand 
from the manufacturers of electrical generators and 
commercial batteries. The closure of the older nuclear 
plants in Germany will also require infrastructure 
investment in the power distribution network. 
Hawco serves the Commercial Refrigeration market 
in the UK which continues to be buoyant, driven 
by investment by the major food retailers in new 
convenience stores and in energy saving technologies 
when refurbishing existing outlets.
Acquisition activity
Over the last five years, the Group has invested ca. £91m 
in acquisitions across the sectors and geographies – an 
average of ca. £18m p.a. The success in financial terms 
can be measured broadly by the profit return on the total 
investment which currently stands at over 20%. In 2011, 
a total of £28.2m was invested, mainly in the Canadian 
Healthcare business in the acquisition of CMI and the 
purchase of the 25% minority shareholdings in AMT. 
While the time and effort invested in the acquisition 
programme is a sustained activity, the results can be 
more irregular. We find that most success tends to 
come at times when the business cycle is changing 
and creating uncertainty. For example, when markets 
are slowing down after an extended period of growth, 
this may encourage owners to sell ahead of a market 
downturn. Alternatively, in the early stages of recovery, 
when confidence is building in future projections, 
owners who have delayed selling during a downturn may 
come back to the table. With the performance of many 
businesses having recovered since the 2009 recession, 
but uncertainty remaining as to the sustainability of the 
recovery, we believe that there will continue to be good 
opportunities for value adding acquisitions.
Summary and outlook
The continued strong performance of the Group and 
the resilience shown over the last five years gives us 
confidence that we can maintain the “GDP plus” levels 
of underlying revenue growth over the business cycle. 
The Group is well diversified by geography and business 
area and the business model supports stable revenue 
growth and sustainable, attractive margins. Although 
general economic uncertainty over the strength 
of global markets continues to grow, we see good 
opportunities for future development, both organically 
and through acquisition. 
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
21 November 2011
Financial year Acquisition spend £m life Sciences Seals Controls
2009 12.2 Meditech – Canada RT Dygert – uS
2010 11.0 BGS (80%) – Australia
Somagen (8%) – Canada
All Seals – uS ET Fisher – Germany
2011 28.2 AMT (25%) – Canada 
CMi – Canada
Three year total 51.4
Three year acquisition track record Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
22
Diploma PLC
Directors and Advisors
Member of: 
1 the Remuneration Committee 
2 the Audit Committee 
3 the Nomination Committee
John Rennocks (66) 
1,2,3
n on-Executive Chairman
Appointed: Joined the Board in July 
2002 and appointed Chairman in 
January 2004.
Skills and experience: John is a 
Chartered Accountant with over  
40 years of experience in commerce 
and industry, including nearly 20  
years as the Finance Director of  
FTSE 100 companies. He has been  
a non-Executive Director of many 
companies in the past 17 years, 
including as Chairman of six other 
public or private companies across 
several industrial or support  
service sectors.
External appointments: John is 
currently Chairman of Intelligent 
Energy plc and the Senior Independent 
Director of Inmarsat PLC and 
Babcock International Group PLC.
Bruce Thompson (56)
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed: Joined the Board in 1994 
as a Group Director and appointed 
Chief Executive Officer in 1996.
Skills and experience: Bruce started 
his career in the automotive industry, 
first as a design engineer and then  
in product marketing. He then spent 
three years in international marketing 
with a construction materials company, 
developing new markets in Europe, 
the Middle East and North Africa. 
Prior to joining Diploma, he was a 
Director with Arthur D Little Inc.,  
the technology and management 
consulting firm, initially in the UK  
and then as Director of the firm’s 
Technology Management Practice 
based in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
External appointments: None.
n igel l ingwood (52)
Group Finance Director and 
Company Secretary
Appointed: Joined the Company in 
June 2001 and appointed Group 
Finance Director in July 2001.
Skills and experience: Prior to 
joining the Company, Nigel was the 
Group Financial controller at Unigate 
PLC where he gained experience of 
working in a large multi-national 
environment and on a number of 
large corporate transactions. Nigel 
qualified as a Chartered Accountant 
with Price Waterhouse London.
External appointments: None. 23
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
John Matthews (67) 
1,2,3
non-Executive Director
Appointed: Joined the Board in 2003.
Skills and experience: John is a 
Chartered Accountant and a former 
Managing Director and Head of 
Corporate Finance at County 
NatWest. Subsequent to this he was 
Deputy Chairman and Deputy Chief 
Executive at Beazer plc, an 
international civil engineering, 
construction, house building and 
aggregates group. He has also been 
Chairman of Crest Nicholson plc and 
Regus plc and a non-Executive 
Director of a number of listed and 
private companies.
External appointments: John is 
currently a member of the Board of 
SDL plc and Aurelian Oil & Gas plc 
and a member of the Advisory Board 
of Alexander Proudfoot.
ian Grice (58) 
1,2,3
non-Executive Director
Appointed: Joined the Board in 
January 2007.
Skills and experience: A chartered 
engineer with over 35 years 
experience in the Support Services 
and Construction sectors, in the UK 
and International markets. Ian held 
senior roles in several industrial 
groups before joining the board of 
Alfred McAlpine plc in 1995 where he 
was Chief Executive Officer from 
2003 to 2008.
External appointments: Ian is 
currently a member of the 
Supervisory Board of Arcadis NV, and 
a non-Executive Director of three 
private companies.
iain Henderson (55)
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed: Joined the Board as a 
Director in 1998 and appointed 
Chief Operating Officer in 2005.
Skills and experience: Iain qualified as 
a chartered management accountant 
and began his career in the food 
industry, progressing to be an 
operations general manager with H J 
Heinz. Since 1988, Iain has specialised 
in the acquisition and development of 
small to medium sized enterprises 
(“SME”) within group structures. This 
was firstly within the privately owned 
Bricom MBO, where he ran ANC 
Holdings and from 1994 in a public 
company environment as a Director 
of Glenchewton plc and then 
Diploma PLC.
External appointments: None.
Advisors
investment Bankers
Lazard
50 Stratton Street
London W1J 8LL
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP 
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
HSBC Bank plc
City Corporate Banking Centre
60 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4 4TRA
Corporate Stockbrokers
Numis Securities
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LT
Solicitors
Ashurst
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London EC2A 2HA Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
24
Diploma PLC
Five Year Record
Year ended 30 September
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
2007  
£m
Revenue 230.6 183.5 160.0 156.2 124.5
Adjusted operating profit 45.2 32.1 25.6 26.6 20.7
Adjusted profit before tax 44.9 32.2 25.5 26.8 21.9
Fixed assets 11.4 11.7 12.4 12.8 12.7
Working capital 36.0 27.2 29.4 27.5 21.6
Trading capital employed 47.4 38.9 41.8 40.3 34.3
Goodwill and intangible assets 105.5 83.4 74.3 64.2 57.2
Trading capital employed (inc. goodwill) 152.9 122.3 116.1 104.5 91.5
n et cash funds 12.2 30.1 21.3 15.7 12.4
Other liabilities, net (0.5) (13.2) (13.3) (10.2) (11.4)
n et assets 164.6 139.2 124.1 110.0 92.5
Cash flow from operating activities 40.3 34.3 34.2 27.8 23.0
Free cash flow 25.0 29.8 23.5 17.7 12.0
Acquisition expenditure (28.2) (11.0) (12.2) (7.9) (31.6)
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Adjusted earnings per share 27.9 18.9 14.8 16.0 13.1
Dividends per share 12.0 9.0 7.8 7.5 5.4
Net assets per share 145.4 122.9 109.6 97.1 81.7
% % % % %
Operating margin 19.6 17.5 16.0 17.0 16.6
Working capital as % of revenue 16.1 15.4 17.6 17.2 17.3
Return on trading capital employed 25.4 22.1 19.0 22.4 25.5
The information above has been extracted from the audited Annual Report & Accounts of Diploma PLC and does not constitute statutory information.
Diploma PLC uses alternative performance measures as key performance indicators to assess the underlying performance of the Group. These include adjusted operating 
profit, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share and free cash flow, as explained in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report 
& Accounts. Diploma PLC Annual Review 2011
Diploma PLC
Group at a Glance
Sector analysis
Life Sciences
32%
of revenues
1
Geographical split of revenues
75%  Canada
20% Europe
5% ROW
223 employees worldwide 
Seals
35%
of revenues
1
Geographical split of revenues
70%  North America
15% Europe
15% ROW
432 employees worldwide 
Geography
Europe
43%
of revenues
1
23%  UK 
20%  Continental Europe 
North America
50%
of revenues
1
22%  US
28%  Canada
Rest of World
7%
of revenues
1
Controls
33%
of revenues
1
Geographical split of revenues
56%  UK
39% Continental Europe
5% ROW
245 employees worldwide 
1 By destination.
Key
Life Sciences
● Healthcare
n Environmental
Seals
● Aftermarket
n Industrial OEM
Controls
● Controls
The Group is well diversified by 
geographic and business area.
Our 
markets Diploma PLC
Annual Review 2011
Essential to our customers
Diploma PLC
12 Charterhouse Square
London EC1M 6AX
T +44 (0)20 7549 5700
F +44 (0)20 7549 5715
www.diplomaplc.com
Diploma PLC
Group at a Glance
Diploma PLC is an international group of 
businesses supplying specialised technical 
products and services. We operate globally  
in three distinct sectors: 
Life Sciences Suppliers of consumables, 
instrumentation and related services to the 
healthcare and environmental industries. 
Seals Suppliers of hydraulic seals, gaskets, 
cylinders, components and kits for heavy 
mobile machinery and industrial equipment.
Controls Suppliers of specialised wiring, 
connectors, fasteners and control devices for 
technically demanding applications.
Our 
sectors
IFC Group at a Glance
01 Financial Highlights
02 Chairman's Statement
04  Chief Executive’s Review
06 Business Model
18 Business Review
22 Directors and Advisors
24 Five Year Record
Audited financial statements are set out in 
the Annual Report & Accounts 2011.
