 Annual Report
& Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC Our Sectors
Diploma PLC is an international group of businesses supplying 
specialised technical products and services. We operate globally  
in three distinct sectors: 
Life Sciences Suppliers of consumables, instrumentation and  
related services to the healthcare and environmental industries. 
Seals Suppliers of hydraulic seals, gaskets, cylinders, components  
and kits for heavy mobile machinery and industrial equipment.
Controls Suppliers of specialised wiring, connectors, fasteners  
and control devices for technically demanding applications.
1. Overview 
 01 Financial Highlights
 02 Chairman’s Statement
2. Group Performance 
 04 Our Business Model
 05 Our Growth Strategy
 06 Chief Executive’s Review
 12 Finance Review
 15 Sector Review
  – Life Sciences
  – Seals
  – Controls
 22 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
3. Governance 
 26 Board of Directors and Advisors
 28 Corporate Governance
 32 Audit Committee
 34 Remuneration Report
 44 Other Statutory Information
Sections 1–3 make up the Directors’ Report in accordance  
with the Companies Act 2006.
4. Financial Statements 
 48 Consolidated Financial Statements
 52 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
 68 Group Accounting Policies
 75 Parent Company Balance Sheet
 76 Independent Auditor’s Reports
 78 Principal Subsidiaries
 79 Financial Calendar and Shareholder Information
 80 Five Year Record
DIPLOMA PLC
Our Business Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
01
DIPLOMA PLC
Another year of strong growth
Year ended 30 September
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
Revenue 260.2 230.6 13%
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
52.8 45.2 17%
Adjusted operating margin
1
20.3% 19.6% 
Adjusted proﬁt before tax
1,2
52.6 44.9 17%
Proﬁt before tax 46.0 39.2 17%
Free cash ﬂow 32.7 25.0 31%
Pence Pence
Adjusted earnings per share
1,2
33.1 27.9 19%
Basic earnings per share 27.9 24.0 16%
T otal dividends per share 14.4 12.0 20%
Free cash ﬂow per share 28.9 22.1 31%
1 Before acquisition related charges.
2 Before fair value remeasurements.
Note:
Diploma PLC uses alternative performance measures as key ﬁnancial indicators to assess the underlying performance of the Group. These include adjusted 
operating proﬁt, adjusted proﬁt before tax, adjusted earnings per share and free cash ﬂow. The narrative in the Annual Report & Accounts is based on these 
alternative measures and an explanation is set out in note 2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Financial Highlights 02 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chairman’s Statement
Investing for Growth
Over the last ﬁve years, against a backdrop of uncertain global 
markets, the Group has achieved 20% pa compound growth in 
earnings by a combination of good organic growth and selective, 
value-enhancing acquisitions. Market capitalisation has more 
than doubled over the ﬁve year period and early in the ﬁnancial 
year, the Group entered the FTSE 250 index.
I am pleased to report that the Group has made further progress 
during this ﬁnancial year and has delivered substantial value to 
shareholders with another year of strong double-digit growth 
in earnings and dividends.
The ability of the Group to continue to deliver these strong 
returns to shareholders over the next ﬁve year period, requires a 
commitment to invest strongly in establishing a ﬁrm foundation 
for growth. As I indicated last year, the Board has approved 
signiﬁcant investment across the Group’s businesses, designed 
to ensure that the Group will continue to deliver strong growth.
By the end of the 2013 ﬁnancial year, the Group will have 
invested ca. £3m in new and enlarged facilities for several 
businesses in the Group. Substantial investment has also now 
commenced on large ERP IT projects in three businesses and 
another project is planned to commence later in 2013 with 
an aggregate investment of ca. £2m. We have also invested 
in broadening the skill base across the Group, through a 
combination of recruiting additional senior management 
and new training programmes, at an additional annual 
cost of ca. £1m.
The Board is conﬁdent that with these investments and with 
further value-enhancing acquisitions, the momentum of 
growth in the Group will be sustained over the next ﬁve years.
Performance
Group revenue increased in 2012 by 13% to £260.2m (2011: 
£230.6m) with the continued strong performance in the Seals 
businesses being the main driver to growth and with good 
contributions from the Life Sciences and the Controls businesses. 
Adjusted operating margins increased further during the year  
to 20.3% (2011: 19.6%) reﬂecting the operational leverage in  
the North American Seals businesses and as a result, adjusted 
operating proﬁt increased by 17% to £52.8m (2011: £45.2m).
Underlying Group revenues and adjusted operating proﬁt 
increased by 6% and 11% respectively, after adjusting for the impact 
from acquisitions, the divestment of a small business in Switzerland 
and currency movements on the translation of overseas results.
Adjusted proﬁt before tax increased by 17% to £52.6m 
(2011: £44.9m) and adjusted earnings per share, helped 
by the purchase of minority interests last year, increased 
by 19% to 33.1p (2011: 27.9p).
The Group’s continuing ability to generate excellent cash 
ﬂow was demonstrated by an increase in free cash ﬂow of over 
30% to £32.7m (2011: £25.0m). This was after increasing capital 
investment to £3.5m (2011: £1.7m) which included £1.3m to 
upgrade facilities and other infrastructure assets.
After investing £22.3m on acquiring businesses and making 
dividend distributions to shareholders of £14.2m, the Group  
had net cash funds of £7.9m at 30 September 2012. This 
demonstrates the continuing strength of the Group’s balance 
sheet and provides conﬁdence in the Group’s ability to continue 
to invest strongly for future growth.
Acquisitions
The Board’s strategy to accelerate growth through carefully 
selected, value enhancing acquisitions remains a key factor in 
providing outstanding returns to shareholders. Once acquisitions 
are completed, the Group looks to make appropriate investment 
in the newly acquired businesses to build a solid platform for 
future growth. 
John Rennocks
Chairman 03
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
EPS growth
Adjusted EPS in pence
2012 33.1
27.9
18.9
14.8
16.0
2011
2010
2009
2008
+20% p.a.
TSR growth
TSR index, end September 2007 = 100
2012 262
170
147
86
71
2011
2010
2009
2008
+21% p.a.
Dividend growth
Dividends in pence per share
2012 14.4
12.0
9.0
7.8
7.5
2011
2010
2009
2008
+22% p.a.
The Board has continued to pursue this growth strategy during 
the year by investing over £22m in acquiring new businesses, 
with all three sectors of the Group beneﬁting from this 
investment. Each of these acquisitions has provided our existing 
businesses with opportunities to expand into new and related 
product and geographic markets.
We will continue to invest sensibly in broadening our businesses 
through a combination of organic investment and by 
acquisition. We have made good progress during the year  
in adding experienced resources which are designed to 
accelerate and broaden the acquisition programme over  
the coming years.
Dividends
With another year of good progress and in light of the strong 
balance sheet and free cash ﬂow, the Board is recommending 
an increase in the ﬁnal dividend of 20% to 10.2p per share  
(2011: 8.5p) which, subject to shareholder approval at the 
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 23 January 2013 
to shareholders on the register at 30 November 2012.
The total dividend per share for the year will be 14.4p which  
also represents a 20% increase on 2011. This is well covered by 
Adjusted EPS at 2.3 times and remains in line with our objective 
of targeting towards a 2 times cover.
Governance
I am delighted to welcome Marie-Louise Clayton to the Board 
following her appointment as a non-Executive Director on 
13 November 2012. As I indicated last year, this appointment 
represents the initial stage of developing the Board to meet the 
higher governance standards required of larger companies and 
we look forward to advancing this process over the next year with 
a further new addition. We have also made good progress during 
the year with updating our Board processes and policies to meet 
the UK Corporate Governance Code requirements. In September 
2012, the Board separated the role of Company Secretary from 
the Group Finance Director with the appointment of Anthony 
Gallagher as Group Company Secretary.
Employees
We have continued to invest this year in developing our 
management group through the appointment of external 
resource and through new internal promotions across the 
Group. We continue to foster an entrepreneurial culture  
within our businesses which encourages all our staff to take 
responsibility for their own businesses. I wish to send my sincere 
thanks to everyone in the Group, whose exceptional efforts  
and dedication to deliver outstanding value to our customers, 
has allowed the Group to continue to make further progress.
Current Trading
The Life Sciences businesses have begun the year well, beneﬁting 
from the investments made last year in consolidating the 
Healthcare businesses in Canada and from expanding further  
in Australia. The Seals businesses are continuing to enjoy robust 
underlying growth in their key markets in North America.  
The Controls businesses are beneﬁting from the acquisitions 
completed in the UK last year, but Continental European markets 
continue to show little sign of underlying growth. 
The Group has a resilient business model with a good 
geographic spread of businesses which are supported by  
a strong Group balance sheet and robust cash ﬂow. The 
investments made this year will provide a platform to drive 
underlying growth and intensify the search for good quality 
acquisitions. These factors provide the Board with conﬁdence 
that, despite the background of weak global economic market 
conditions, the Group is well placed to make further progress  
in the new ﬁnancial year.
John Rennocks
Chairman
19 November 2012
Five Year Performance 04 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Our Business Model
The Group comprises a number of high 
quality, specialised businesses which design 
their individual business models to make them 
essential to their customers.
Our businesses focus on supplying 
essential products and services funded by 
customers’ operating rather than capital 
budgets and supplied across a range of 
specialised industry segments.
The majority of the Group’s revenues are 
generated from consumable products. In 
many cases, the products will be used in 
repair and maintenance applications and 
refurbishment and upgrade programmes, 
rather than supplied to original equipment 
manufacturers.
These characteristics all contribute to the 
Group’s record of stable revenue growth 
over the business cycle.
Our businesses design their individual 
business models to provide solutions 
which closely meet the requirements 
of their customers. 
The solutions can be in the form of:
 Highly responsive customer service, 
such as the next day delivery from 
stock of essential, but low value items;
 Deep technical support, where we 
work closely with our customers in 
designing our products into their 
speciﬁc applications;
 Added value services which, if we did 
not provide these services, customers 
would have to pay others to provide 
them or would require them to invest 
in additional resources of their own.
By supplying solutions, not just products, 
we build strong long term relationships 
with our customers and suppliers, 
supporting sustainable and attractive 
margins.
We encourage an entrepreneurial 
culture across our businesses, through 
a decentralised management structure. 
We want the managers to feel that they 
have the freedom to run their own 
businesses, while being able to draw 
upon the support and resources of a 
larger group where this is beneﬁcial.
Within our businesses we have strong, 
self-standing management teams 
who are committed to and rewarded 
according to the success of their 
businesses. This ensures that decisions 
are made close to the customer and that 
the businesses are agile and responsive 
to changes in the market and the 
competitive environment.
Essential 
Products
=  recurring income and 
stable revenue growth
Essential 
Solutions
=  sustainable and  
attractive margins
Essential 
Values
=  agility and  
responsiveness 05
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Our Growth Strategy
The Group’s “Acquire, Build, Grow” strategy 
is designed to deliver strong, double-digit 
growth by building larger, broader-based 
businesses in the three Group sectors.
Acquire
Build
Grow
Clear business criteria have been established 
to guide the Group’s acquisition programme:
 Fit with the Group’s business model of 
essential products, solutions and values;
 Marketing led with strong customer 
relationships;
 Secure supply of high quality, 
differentiated products;
 Capable management.
The principal ﬁnancial criteria are:
 Track record of stable, proﬁtable growth 
and cash generation;
 Exceed IRR threshold of 13% to ensure 
20%+ pre-tax ROI.
Acquisitions are intended to give entry into 
new but related markets and thereby extend 
the reach of the existing businesses and bring 
new growth opportunities. 
The acquisitions we make are of companies 
which are already successful and with a good 
track record. However, these businesses have 
typically reached the point where additional 
resources are needed to take them to the 
next level of growth.
Working with the management, we provide 
the investment required to build a solid 
foundation to allow the company to move 
to a new level of growth. The investment will 
normally be in new facilities and IT systems, 
increased but better managed working capital 
and additional management resource.
Once the acquisition is integrated into the 
Group, with a solid platform established, the 
focus is on delivering stable, proﬁtable growth. 
Except in the case of smaller, bolt-on 
acquisitions, the acquisitions will maintain 
their distinct sales and marketing identity 
and will be managed as independent business 
units. However, where there are opportunities 
for synergies with other Group businesses, 
these will be managed within larger 
business clusters.
Typically synergies come in the following areas:
 Cross-selling between the businesses;
 Joint purchasing between the businesses;
 Common back-office functions for ﬁnance 
and administration. 06 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Review
“ In 2012 the Group has continued 
the growth trend with Adjusted 
EPS increasing by 19% and TSR 
by over 50%.”
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
Principal corporate 
objectives
Achieve double digit growth in adjusted 
EPS over the business cycle
Adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”), 
measured over the business cycle, 
provides an absolute benchmark of the 
Company’s performance. Over the last 
ﬁve years, adjusted EPS has grown at 
a compound growth rate of 20% p.a. 
through a combination of steady 
organic growth and carefully 
targeted acquisitions.
Generate TSR growth in the upper 
quartile of the FTSE 250 
Total shareholder return (“TSR”) is the 
growth in value of a share plus the value 
of dividends re-invested in the Company’s 
shares on the day on which they are paid. 
This is measured against the TSR growth 
of the FTSE mid-250 index (excluding 
investment trusts) (“FTSE 250”). The last 
ﬁve years have seen a compound TSR 
growth for Diploma of 21% p.a., which 
represents upper quartile performance 
as compared with the FTSE 250, where 
median TSR growth has been 5% p.a. 
Deliver progressive dividend growth 
with two times dividend cover
Diploma follows a progressive dividend 
policy with a target cover of two times 
on an adjusted EPS basis. Over the last 
ﬁve years, dividends have steadily grown 
at the rate of 22% p.a. and this continues 
the trend of increasing dividends in each 
of the last 13 years. 
Diploma (rebased) FTSE 250 (rebased, ex Investment Trusts)
Sep 07
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Sep 08 Sep 09 Sep 10 Sep 11 Sep 12
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over ﬁve years 07
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
“ Continuing strong performance delivers 
long term value to shareholders.”
2012 £260.2m
£230.6m
£183.5m
£160.0m
£156.2m
2011
2010
2009
2008
Total revenue £m
2012 +6%
+17%
+11%
-12%
+8%
2011
2010
2009
2008
Underlying organic revenue growth % p.a.
2012 20.3%
19.6%
17.5%
16.0%
17.0%
2011
2010
2009
2008
Operating margin as % of revenue
2012 £22.3m
£28.2m
£11.0m
£12.2m
£7.9m
2011
2010
2009
2008
Acquisition spend £m
2012 £32.7m
£25.0m
£29.8m
£23.5m
£17.7m
2011
2010
2009
2008
Free cash ﬂow £m
2012 16.5%
16.1%
15.4%
17.6%
17.2%
2011
2010
2009
2008
Working capital as % of revenue
2012 26.6%
25.4%
22.1%
19.0%
22.4%
2011
2010
2009
2008
ROTCE %
Generate stable “GDP plus” organic revenue 
growth over the business cycle
The businesses target organic revenue growth, 
over the economic cycle, at a rate of 5–6% p.a. 
(“GDP plus” growth), with higher growth rates 
achieved at the Group level through carefully 
selected value enhancing acquisitions. 
Maintain stable attractive margins
Operating margin is an important measure of 
the success of the businesses in achieving superior 
margins by offering strongly differentiated products 
and customer focused solutions, as well as by running 
efficient operations. 
Accelerate growth through carefully selected 
value enhancing acquisitions
To complement the Group’s organic growth 
strategy, the Group has an ongoing acquisition 
programme, designed to accelerate growth and 
to facilitate entry into related strategic markets.
Generate consistently strong cash ﬂow to fund 
growth strategy and dividends
Free cash ﬂow is deﬁned as the cash ﬂow 
generated after tax, but before acquisitions 
and dividends. This measures the success of 
the Group and its businesses in turning proﬁt 
into cash through the careful management of 
working capital and investments in ﬁxed assets.
Create value by consistently exceeding 
20% ROTCE
Return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) 
is deﬁned as adjusted operating proﬁt as a 
percentage of trading capital employed (“TCE”). 
TCE excludes net cash and non-operating 
assets and liabilities, but includes all goodwill 
and acquired intangible assets.
Next level objectives Key performance indicators
 Total revenue growth: % p.a.
16%
     p.a.
compound
  Underlying organic revenue 
growth: % p.a.
+6%
     p.a.
average
  Operating margins: 
% of revenue
18% average
 Acquisition spend: £m
>20%ROI
 Free cash ﬂow: £m
£26m
     p.a.
average
 Working capital as % of revenue
16 - 1 7% average
 ROTCE: %
23%
     
average 08 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Review
2012 Year in Review
Proven Strategy for Growth
The Group’s strategy is designed to generate strong, 
double-digit growth in earnings and value over the business 
cycle, by building larger, broader-based businesses in the three 
Diploma sectors of Life Sciences, Seals and Controls. Over the 
last ﬁve years, adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”) and total 
shareholder return (“TSR”) have grown at compound growth 
rates of 20% pa and 21% pa, respectively. 
In 2012, the Group has continued this growth trend, with adjusted 
EPS growing by 19% and TSR by over 50%. In addition, the Group 
has made signiﬁcant progress in making the investments needed 
to lay the robust foundation for continued growth in the next ﬁve 
year period. 
 
Good Operating Performance
In 2012, revenues increased by 13% to £260.2m (2011: £230.6m) 
with underlying growth of 6% after adjusting for currency 
effects, acquisitions and a small divestment. Adjusted operating 
margins for the year have increased to 20.3% of revenue 
(2011: 19.6%), though margins have reduced from the record 
high of 20.8% at the Half Year mainly due to the investment 
programmes which have been initiated during the year.
Signiﬁcant progress has been made since the Half Year with the 
planned investments designed to support the future growth of 
the business. Two of the Industrial OEM Seals businesses in the 
US, RT Dygert and All Seals, both completed moves to larger 
new facilities. IS-Rayfast, the UK Controls business and Vantage, 
the Canadian Healthcare business, have also completed major 
facility moves in the ﬁrst quarter of the new ﬁnancial year. Three 
new IT projects have been started in the businesses, with further 
projects planned for later in the year. Finally, investment has 
been made in additional management resource within the 
major businesses and in the Diploma corporate group. In total, 
£2.1m of the planned £6.0m cash investment was made in the 
second half of the year, leading to additional operating costs of 
ca. £1.0m being added this year to support future growth. 
Even after these additional investments, free cash ﬂow in 2012 
has again been strong at £32.7m (2011: £25.0m), with working 
capital as a percentage of revenue at 16.5%, in line with the 
longer term average of 16–17%. 
During the year, £20.8m was invested in the acquisition of DSL 
in Life Sciences, J Royal in Seals and Abbeychart and Amfast in 
Controls and a 10% minority interest in JRPP purchased for £0.7m. 
Return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) has increased to 
26.6% (2011: 25.4%) driven by the growth in proﬁts and strong 
management of working capital across the businesses.
Resilient Business Model
The Group comprises a number of high quality, specialised 
businesses which design their individual business models to make 
them essential to their customers. Our businesses are focused  
on supplying essential products and services which are funded 
by the customers’ operating rather than their capital budgets, 
providing recurring income and stable revenue growth. By 
supplying essential solutions, not just products, we build strong 
long term relationships with our customers and suppliers, which 
support sustainable and attractive margins. Finally we encourage 
an entrepreneurial culture in our businesses through our 
decentralised management structure and these essential values 
ensure that decisions are made close to the customer and that 
the businesses are agile and responsive to changes in the market 
and the competitive environment. 
Acquire, Build, Grow Strategy to Drive Double Digit Growth
Our businesses target organic revenue growth over the business 
cycle at the rate of 5–6% pa (“GDP plus” growth). Growth is then 
accelerated through carefully selected, value-enhancing 
acquisitions which ﬁt the business model and offer entry into 
new strategic markets. These acquisitions form an integral part 
of our sector growth strategies, designed to deliver strong 
double digit growth.
In general, when we acquire businesses, the acquisitions we 
make are of companies which ﬁt our business model and which 
are already successful, with a good track record. They will be 
marketing led with strong customer relationships and will have  
a secure supply of high quality, differentiated products. They  
will have capable management and a track record of stable, 
proﬁtable growth and cash generation. The objective is to 
generate a pre-tax return on investment (“ROI”) of at least 20% 
on each acquisition and hence support our Group objective 
of consistently exceeding 20% ROTCE.
The acquired businesses have often reached the point where 
additional resources are needed to take them to the next level of 
growth. Working with management, we provide the investment 
required to build a ﬁrm foundation to allow the business to move 
to a new level of growth. The investment will normally be in new 
facilities and IT systems, increased but carefully managed working 
capital and additional management resource.
Once the acquisition is integrated into the Group and a solid 
platform has been established, the priority is to grow the 
business. The acquired companies (other than small bolt-on 
acquisitions) maintain their distinct sales and marketing identity 
and are managed as independent business units. Where there 
are opportunities for real synergies, typically in cross-selling, 
purchasing and back office operations, the businesses are 
managed within larger business clusters.  09
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Sector Developments
Good progress was made during the year in executing the 
Acquire, Build, Grow strategy in each of the three sectors and the 
key developments and results this year are summarised below. 
Life Sciences
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
Revenue 78.4 74.4 +5%
Adjusted operating proﬁt 18.0 17.1 +5%
Adjusted operating margin 23.0% 23.0%
 Underlying revenue growth of 5%.
 Investment in newly formed Vantage business – integrated 
sales team, strengthened service and operations 
management, new facility.
 Investment in new Minimally Invasive Surgery business 
within AMT.
 Acquisition of DSL business in Australia – major new supplier 
added shortly after acquisition.
The Life Sciences businesses increased revenues in 2012 
by 5% on a UK sterling basis, with a similar level of growth on 
a constant currency basis. Sector revenues beneﬁted from the 
contribution from the DSL business in Australia, acquired in June 
2012 and a full year contribution from the CMI business, acquired 
in December 2010. In May 2012, the small Environmental 
operation in Switzerland was sold to its management thus 
reducing revenues. After adjusting for these acquisitions and the 
divestment, for minor currency effects and for the exceptional 
sale of face shields in the prior year, underlying sector revenues 
increased by 5%.
The Group’s Healthcare businesses in Canada and Australia 
(“Diploma Healthcare Group” or “DHG”) account for over 80%  
of the Life Sciences sector revenues. The DHG business model  
is built on the supply, on an exclusive basis, of high quality, 
manufacturer branded products secured by long term 
distribution agreements. Strong customer relationships are forged 
through high levels of customer service with highly qualiﬁed and 
experienced technical sales and product application staff working 
closely with the surgeons, Operating Room (“OR”) nurses and 
laboratory technologists. A large proportion (over 60%) of DHG’s 
revenues are secured under multi-year customer contracts.
In Canada, DHG comprises three similar sized businesses 
focused on Electrosurgery (AMT), GI Endoscopy (Vantage) 
and Clinical Diagnostics (Somagen), each with good growth 
potential. During the year, the main investment has been in the 
new Vantage business, which from the start of the year brought 
together CMI, acquired in 2010, with AMT’s Endoscopy division. 
Vantage now operates under a single management team and 
offers a complete product range, taken to market by an 
integrated, fully trained sales team. Investment has been 
made in strengthening the management of the operational 
and service teams and shortly after the year end, the business 
relocated to a new larger facility close to the existing location in 
Markham, Ontario. After a year of consolidation, Vantage is  
now well positioned, with a strong management team, a solid 
operational foundation and a complete product range, to 
exploit opportunities for growth in the GI Endoscopy market.
Investment has also been made during the year in building a 
new Surgical business to supply specialised surgical instruments 
and devices used in laparoscopic and other minimally invasive 
surgical procedures. Exclusive distribution agreements have 
been signed with a number of leading suppliers in this area and 
several new suppliers are in the process of being added. This 
business will be developed as a distinct division within AMT, 
but using the existing infrastructure. As with AMT’s former 
GI Endoscopy division, this division has the potential of growing 
into a separate business when it has achieved critical mass 
through organic growth and/or acquisition.
The DHG business extended geographically in 2010 into 
Australia with the acquisition of BGS, a smaller version of the 
AMT business in Canada. In June 2012, DHG expanded its 
presence in Australia through the acquisition of 80% of DSL, 
which supplies in-vitro diagnostic products to hospitals and 
private laboratories and shares a number of common suppliers 
with Somagen. DSL and BGS serve different customer segments 
and will be managed as separate business units with their own 
distinct sales and marketing identities. There will however be 
good opportunities for efficiencies between the businesses 
in the areas of operations and back office functions. 
The remaining ca. 15% of sector revenues are generated by 
the Group’s Environmental businesses in Europe, which supply 
a range of products used in Environmental Testing and Health & 
Safety applications. CBISS has experienced another strong year 
of trading, supplying continuous emissions monitoring systems 
and gas detection instruments. a1-envirosciences has fully 
consolidated its operations in Dusseldorf, Germany following 
the sale to management of the small operation in Switzerland. 
Northern European markets outside Germany are serviced by 
local sales and service resources. 
Seals
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
Revenue 99.9 80.0 +25%
Adjusted operating proﬁt 20.4 14.9 +37%
Adjusted operating margin 20.4% 18.6%
 Underlying revenue growth of 13%; particularly strong in 
North American Aftermarket.
 Acquisition of J Royal in the US and minority interest in JRPP , 
a related supplier in China.
 Investment in new modern facilities for RT Dygert and 
All Seals.
 New IT system in development at M Seals – to go live in 2013. 10 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chief Executive’s Review
2012 Year in Review continued
The Seals sector revenues increased, in UK sterling terms, by 
25% to £99.9m which included a contribution from J Royal, 
acquired in December 2011. After adjusting for this acquisition 
and for modest currency translation effects, underlying sector 
revenues increased by 13%, reﬂecting particularly strong growth 
in the North American Aftermarket businesses. Adjusted 
operating proﬁts increased by 37% with adjusted operating 
margins increasing by 180bps to 20.4%, driven by operational 
leverage from the strong increase in revenues. 
Currently, just under 60% of Seals sector revenues are generated 
from the Aftermarket seals businesses of HFPG (Hercules, 
Bulldog and HKX) and FPE. The core Aftermarket business 
in North America supplies own-brand sealing products (often 
sourced from the same seal manufacturers who supply to the 
OEMs) across a broad range of mobile machinery applications. 
The key to success in this business is the ability to provide a  
next day delivery service from inventory, for seals and seal kits 
used in a broad range of different manufacturers’ machinery 
and different applications. Typically the ﬁrst three years of 
equipment life is controlled by the OEMs through product 
warranty and lease terms. However, after the equipment is  
sold into the pre-used market or moves out of warranty, we 
have a very compelling offering to customers by providing a 
responsive, next day delivery service for these time critical items. 
Over a number of business cycles, the Aftermarket seals 
businesses have demonstrated their resilience, but have also 
delivered strong underlying growth by taking market share.  
This has been achieved by maintaining high levels of customer 
service and product availability and continuing investment in  
IT systems and warehouse automation. The steady revenue 
growth over many years has delivered increased operational 
gearing with operating margins increasing substantially to the 
current levels, which are well in excess of 20% of revenues.
During the year, the Aftermarket businesses continued to 
beneﬁt from investments made in earlier years and succeeded 
in growing revenues by 14% on an underlying basis. This  
growth was achieved through a combination of new product 
introductions (new kits and metric seals in HFPG, broader range 
of cylinder parts in FPE) and various segment speciﬁc marketing 
initiatives. Selective price increases were also introduced to 
cover supplier cost increases and maintain margins. HKX in 
particular had an exceptional year, beneﬁting from the strong 
rebound in the excavator market in North America and making 
good progress in penetrating international markets. 
The Industrial OEM businesses now account for just over  
40% of Seal sector revenues. These businesses supply seals, 
O-rings and custom moulded and machined parts to a range  
of specialised Industrial OEM customers. Our businesses work 
closely with customers to select the best seal manufacturer  
for the application, remain close at hand during the product 
development process and provide the logistics capabilities to 
support from inventory, small to medium sized production runs.
During the year, signiﬁcant investment was made in the US 
businesses to establish a solid foundation for future growth. 
RT Dygert consolidated its Minneapolis and Chicago operations 
into a single, modern facility in Minneapolis, while retaining a sales 
office in Chicago. All Seals invested in new sales resource and 
improved quality and purchasing processes. All Seals also moved 
into a more appropriate modern facility just before the end of 
the ﬁnancial year. 
The acquisition of J Royal was completed in December 2011 
and this has proved a very complementary business to RT 
Dygert and All Seals. J Royal’s strength in the Eastern United 
States ﬁts well with RT Dygert (strong in the North and North 
West) and All Seals (strong in the West and South West).  
J Royal also brings its specialist experience in selling metal  
and glass components and assemblies that complement the 
more traditional sealing products. The investment in a 10% 
shareholding in JRPP , a key supplier to J Royal and based 
in China, reinforced this position.
With the investment this year in new facilities and strengthened 
management resources and with clear regional sales territories 
now agreed, these three Industrial OEM businesses in the US 
will now focus on delivering growth in the new ﬁnancial year. 
M Seals in Denmark is also focused on growth with a fast 
developing business in Sweden and the operation in China having 
delivered a solid ﬁrst year. The Industrial OEM seal businesses will 
be managed independently by their management teams, but 
they will continue to look for synergies by cross-selling (taking 
advantage of different product and end-user specialisations) 
and through coordinated purchasing. 
Controls
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
Revenue 81.9 76.2 +7%
Adjusted operating proﬁt 14.4 13.2 +9%
Adjusted operating margin 17.6% 17.3%
 Underlying revenue growth of 2% driven by Aerospace & 
Defence, Motorsport, Energy and Industrial sectors; reduced 
activity in Continental Europe and Food & Beverage.
 Acquisition of Amfast extends Motorsport fastener business 
into Aerospace.
 Acquisition of Abbeychart extends involvement in Food & 
Beverage sector.
 New Swindon facility will be central management and 
operational hub for IS-Group businesses in the UK.
The Controls businesses increased revenues in 2012 by 7% on a 
UK sterling basis. After adjusting for currency effects and for the 
acquisitions of Amfast and Abbeychart, underlying growth was 
2%. Adjusted operating proﬁts increased by 9% to £14.4m with 
operating margins remaining stable at 17.6%.  11
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
The major end-use segments served by the IS-Group and 
Filcon businesses (together ca. 70% of sector revenues) are 
Aerospace & Defence, Motorsport, Energy, Medical and 
Industrial. The businesses supply a range of high performance 
products used in technically demanding applications often in 
harsh environments. Here the business model is focused on 
providing product for refurbishment, upgrade and maintenance 
programmes for equipment in service. Support to major new 
build programmes is mostly limited to prototype and initial build 
stages and niche OEM markets. The businesses offer high 
quality, manufacturer branded products sourced under the 
terms of long term exclusive distribution agreements. Strong 
customer relationships are based on ex-stock availability of 
product, responsiveness, technical advice on product 
applications and a range of value added services. 
Plans were ﬁnalised during the year, for the relocation of 
the IS-Rayfast business into a new modern facility close to 
the existing location in Swindon; the move was successfully 
completed in early November of the new ﬁnancial year. This 
facility will accommodate the core IS-Rayfast business and will 
also act as the central management and operational hub for  
the IS-Group businesses in the UK. 
Investment was also made in the acquisition in May 2012 
of Amfast, a specialist distributor of fasteners supplied to the 
manufacturers of passenger seats, galleys and other interior 
cabin equipment for civil aircraft. Amfast shares a number 
of suppliers with Clarendon, which supplies similar fastener 
products into Motorsport applications. Clarendon and Amfast 
will be managed together by a single management team and 
plans will be developed this year to integrate operational and 
back office functions. In early November 2012, after the year 
end, Sommer completed the acquisition of the assets and 
goodwill of Rayquick, a small distributor of specialist wiring 
components supplied to the electricity distribution sector in 
Germany. Sommer will integrate this business within its main 
operations in Stuttgart. 
The Hawco Group accounts for ca. 30% of sector revenues and 
supplies products principally to the Food & Beverage industry. 
Hawco supplies a range of control devices used in the sensing, 
measurement and control of temperature and pressure in 
applications such as chilled cabinets in food retail chains, bars 
and restaurants. In March 2012, the Hawco Group extended  
its involvement in the sector by investing in the acquisition of 
Abbeychart. This business is a specialised component distributor 
supplying to applications including hot drinks and vending 
machines, pure water and water cooling systems, soft drinks 
dispensing equipment and catering equipment. Abbeychart’s 
broad range of specialised components are used by both the 
original equipment manufacturers and by contractors and 
operators for the subsequent repair and maintenance of  
the equipment. 
Summary and Outlook
The Group’s resilient business model, supplying essential 
products and solutions to specialised market segments, 
supports steady organic growth in revenues and sustainable 
attractive margins. With a good geographic and end-use spread 
of activities, agile and responsive management and a strong 
balance sheet, the Group is well placed to withstand the 
effects of the general economic uncertainty. This has been 
demonstrated over the last ﬁve year business cycle with 
a resilient performance during the downturn, followed 
by strong growth in the recent period of slow recovery.
The investments made during the past ﬁnancial year, along 
with the new investment programme in the years ahead, are 
key to the Acquire, Build, Grow strategy in our major businesses. 
These investments are designed to provide the solid foundation 
for the growth of the Group over the next ﬁve year period.
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
19 November 2012 12
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Finance Review
Nigel Lingwood
Group Finance Director
Good Progress in 2012
Diploma made further good progress in this ﬁnancial year 
achieving record levels of operating margin, free cash ﬂow 
and return on trading capital employed. The Group also 
spent £22.3m on acquiring good quality businesses to further 
broaden its product and geographic reach. Revenue increased 
by 13% to £260.2m (2011: £230.6m) and adjusted operating 
proﬁt, which is before acquisition related charges, increased by 
17% to £52.8m (2011: £45.2m). The adjusted operating margin 
increased to 20.3% (2011: 19.6%) beneﬁting from the high 
degree of operational leverage from the strong increase 
in revenues in the Group’s North American Seals businesses. 
On an underlying basis, revenues and adjusted operating proﬁts 
increased by 6% and 11%, respectively; this is after adjusting for 
the contribution from acquired businesses, the disposal of a 
controlling interest in the small Swiss Environmental business 
and for changes in overseas exchange rates. 
The underlying growth rate in Group revenues was 4% in the 
second half of the year, trending back to “GDP plus” growth rates 
after the stronger 8% growth in the ﬁrst half. As anticipated, the 
second half of the year also saw a reduction in adjusted operating 
margins to 19.8%, compared to the record level of 20.8% reported 
in the ﬁrst half, following the commencement of the investment 
programme described below.
The contribution to revenues and adjusted operating proﬁts 
from acquired business (which includes the incremental 
impact of the CMI business acquired in December 2010), 
before allocation of Head Office costs, was £18.4m and £2.7m, 
respectively. In May 2012, the Group disposed of the small 
Environmental business, located in Switzerland, to management 
for negligible consideration. The incremental reduction 
in underlying revenue and adjusted operating proﬁt from 
this disposal was £1.9m and £0.4m, respectively. 
There was a small net impact on the Group’s results this year 
from the translation of the results of the overseas businesses to 
UK sterling. Group revenues were reduced by £0.7m, but there 
was no impact on adjusted operating proﬁt in 2012. The weaker 
Euro more than offset the impact of a slightly stronger US dollar, 
while the Canadian dollar exchange rate remained unchanged 
from last year. On a transaction basis, there was a gain to gross 
margin of £0.5m which arose in the DHG businesses from the 
impact of their US dollar and Euro hedging programmes. There 
was a negligible impact on the rest of the Group on a transaction 
basis from the movement in exchange rates. 
Investing for the Future
As indicated last year, the Board has approved a programme 
of investment of ca. £6m across the Group to secure a platform 
to sustain the strong growth in earnings for the next ﬁve years. 
This investment programme comprises the following initiatives:
Cash Investment
Financial year
2012
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
Total
£m
Office & warehouse 
facilities 1.5 1.6 – 3.1
IT infrastructure 
upgrades 0.2 0.9 0.8 1.9
1.7 2.5 0.8 5.0
Additional 
management 
resources 0.4 0.9 1.0
Estimate of impact 
on adjusted 
operating proﬁt 1.0 1.5 1.7
Good progress has been made in 2012 with four facility moves 
being completed by early November 2012 and three major IT 
ERP upgrades having commenced before the end of this 
ﬁnancial year. Investment in recruiting additional management 
resources has also been substantially completed. 
With this new investment the Group will be well placed to 
take advantage of opportunities which will arise as the global 
economy begins to recover. However, as indicated at the Half 
Year, the scale of this investment is likely to lead to average 
operating margins reducing by 50–100 bps over the next 
2–3 years, at the current level of activity. 
Increase in Adjusted Operating Proﬁt, Earnings per Share 
and Dividends
Adjusted proﬁt before tax increased by 17% to £52.6m (2011: 
£44.9m), after net interest expense of £0.2m (2011: £0.3m). IFRS 
proﬁt before tax, which is after acquisition related charges of 
£6.4m (2011: £4.8m) and fair value remeasurements of £0.2m 
(2011: £0.9m), was £46.0m (2011: £39.2m).
The Group’s adjusted effective accounting tax charge remained 
unchanged at 28.7% (2011: 28.7%) of adjusted proﬁt before tax 
which was slightly higher than the cash tax rate of 26.0%. This 
year’s effective rate beneﬁted from a reduction in statutory 
corporation tax rates in the UK to 25% (2011: 27%), although this 
was largely offset by the higher proportion of proﬁts contributed 
by HFPG in the US, where the effective tax rate is ca. 38%.  13
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 19% to 33.1p, 
compared with 27.9p last year, with the beneﬁt of buying out 
certain minorities in 2011 continuing to have a small impact  
on adjusted earnings per share. IFRS basic earnings per share 
increased to 27.9p (2011: 24.0p).
The Board’s policy on dividends is to pursue a progressive 
dividend, while targeting dividend cover (the ratio of Adjusted 
EPS to total dividends paid and proposed for the year) towards 
2.0 times. 
Following this policy and recognising the continuing strength  
of the Group balance sheet and strong free cash ﬂow, the 
Directors have recommended an increase in the ﬁnal dividend 
to 10.2p per share; this gives a total dividend per share for the 
year of 14.4p per share which represents a 20% increase on the 
prior year. The dividend cover remains unchanged at 2.3 times. 
Strong Free Cash Flow 
The Group again generated excellent free cash ﬂow of £32.7m 
in 2012 (2011: £25.0m) representing 87% of Adjusted proﬁt  
after tax (2011: 78%); free cash ﬂow is before expenditure on 
acquisitions or returns to shareholders.
Operating cash ﬂow increased to £50.2m (2011: £40.3m) after 
investing £5.2m (2011: £7 .4m) in working capital which, at 30 
September 2012, was broadly stable at 16.5% (2011: 16.1%) of 
annual revenues, adjusted for the timing of acquisitions. The 
increase in working capital principally comprised an increase in 
inventories in the Seals businesses. Group tax payments increased 
to £13.7m (2011: £12.4m) and beneﬁted favourably from quarterly 
tax payments in certain businesses being deferred into next year. 
Capital expenditure increased to £3.5m (2011: £1.7m) because of 
capital investment of £1.1m in the new office/warehouse facilities, 
described above, as well as higher funding of ﬁeld equipment in 
the Healthcare businesses. The Healthcare businesses in Canada 
and Australia spent £1.6m (2011: £0.8m) on acquiring ﬁeld 
equipment in support of their customer contracts with hospitals; 
this included £1.0m on funding endoscopes for cost per 
procedure (“CPP”) contracts in Vantage. The remaining capital 
expenditure of £0.8m was spent on warehouse and testing 
equipment in the Seals businesses and on general upgrades to 
the IT infrastructure across the Group.
The rate of capital expenditure is currently running well ahead  
of depreciation of £2.1m (2011: £2.1m) and this trend is likely  
to continue over the next two years as the Group completes its 
current investment programme, described above.
The Group spent £22.3m (2011: £28.2m) of the free cash ﬂow 
on acquiring new businesses, including deferred consideration 
of £0.8m (2011: £0.9m), and £14.3m (2011: £14.8m) on paying 
dividends to both Company and minority shareholders.
Accelerating Growth through Acquisitions 
The Group spent £21.5m of cash (2011: £27.3m) on the 
acquisition of new businesses during the year, the largest of 
which was the acquisition in December 2011 of J Royal, a 
supplier of seals to Industrial OEMs, for £12.0m; related to this 
acquisition the Group also purchased a 10% interest in JRPP , a 
Chinese manufacturer and key supplier to J Royal, for £0.7m. 
The 10% shareholding in JRPP is being held as a long term 
investment as the Group plays no part in the day-to-day 
operations of this business. 
In the middle of the year, the Group also acquired two smaller 
businesses, Abbeychart and Amfast, for an aggregate cost of 
£5.9m. Each of these acquisitions provide valuable product 
extension opportunities to existing businesses in the Controls 
sector. In June 2012, £2.9m was spent on acquiring an 80% 
shareholding in DSL; this business, which is in the Life Sciences 
sector, carries out similar activities to Somagen, but is based in 
Australia and as such represents a small, but important 
extension to the DHG activities. 
These acquisitions, which were completed at EBIT multiples 
ranging from 5–7 times, have contributed in aggregate £2.3m  
of adjusted operating proﬁt (before allocation of Head Office 
costs) and £16.2m of revenues to the current year’s results. 
Acquisition intangible assets of £11.0m were recognised on 
completion of these acquisitions, as well as goodwill of £5.6m. 
Total acquisition intangible assets of £32.2m (2011: £27.3m) are 
being amortised over periods ranging from 5–15 years and the 
charge against proﬁt in FY2012 of £6.4m (2011: £4.8m) includes 
acquisition expenses of £0.6m (2011: £0.3m).
The goodwill of £5.6m recognised this year on these 
acquisitions, represented the value paid for the prospects for 
sales growth in the future (from both new customers and new 
products) and operating cost synergies. At 30 September 2012, 
the value of goodwill in the Group balance sheet, which is not 
amortised, was £79.8m (2011: £74.4m). During the year £13.1m 
of goodwill previously recognised in respect of the acquisition 
of minority interests in AMT, was transferred to shareholders’ 
equity. 
Shortly after the year end, the Group also acquired the goodwill 
and assets of Rayquick, a small business in Germany, for a 
maximum consideration of £1.3m. This acquisition will broaden 
the products provided by the Controls businesses to their 
customers in the Energy sector.  14
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Liabilities to Minority Shareholders
At 30 September 2012, the Group had a liability of £3.2m (2011: 
£2.0m) to purchase the outstanding minority shareholdings in 
M Seals, BGS, DSL and HPS, (which is a small subsidiary of the 
RT Dygert seals business). These liabilities arise under put and 
call option contracts entered into at the time of acquisition and 
are based on the Directors’ estimate of the Earnings Before 
Interest and Tax (“EBIT”) of these businesses when these options 
crystallise. This liability was reassessed at 30 September 2012 
and this led to a ﬁnancial charge of £0.2m (2011: £0.9m) being 
made in the consolidated Income Statement. 
The options to acquire the outstanding minorities in these 
companies, with the exception of the 20% minority  
interest acquired in DSL this year, are exercisable over the  
next 12 months and account for £2.2m of the liability at  
30 September 2012.
In addition to this liability to minority shareholders, the Group 
also has a liability at 30 September 2012 to pay deferred 
consideration of up to £0.6m (2011: £1.1m) to the vendors of 
recently acquired businesses, which will be paid during the next 
12 months. During the year, deferred consideration of £0.8m 
was paid to the vendors of CMI, a Canadian Healthcare business 
acquired last year.
Record Return on Trading Capital and Strong Balance Sheet
The Group achieved a record return on trading capital 
employed (“ROTCE”) of 26.6% in 2012 (2011: 25.4%). ROTCE,  
is a pre-tax measure and includes all gross historical goodwill 
and gross intangible assets and represents an indication of  
the proﬁtability of the Group. This improved return arose from  
a combination of the growth in proﬁts and from strong 
management of working capital across the businesses. In 
absolute terms, trading capital employed (“TCE”), which 
represents the amount of operational assets held by the 
businesses, increased by £19.2m to £159.4m (2011: £140.2m). 
The majority of this increase arose from the acquisition of 
goodwill and intangible assets, with the balance being 
contributed by investment in working capital to meet current 
trading activity. 
The Group also continues to maintain a strong balance sheet, 
which at 30 September 2012 had net cash funds of £7.9m, 
comprising £11.4m of cash balances, offset by £3.5m of 
borrowings. 
The Group has a £20m revolving credit facility which is 
generally utilised to provide short term funding of acquisitions. 
During the year, up to £15.0m was drawn down for this purpose 
of which £11.5m had been repaid from trading cash ﬂow by  
30 September 2012. Surplus cash funds are generally repatriated 
to the UK, unless they are required locally to meet certain 
commitments, including acquisitions. 
The Group’s bank facility of £20m can, subject to market 
pricing, be extended to £40m at the option of the Company. 
The Group will be renegotiating the bank facility again, early  
in 2013, prior to expiration of the facility in November 2013. 
Employee Pension Obligations 
Pension beneﬁts to existing employees, both in the UK and 
Overseas, are provided through deﬁned contribution schemes 
at an aggregate cost in 2012 of £1.1m (2011: £0.8m). 
The Group also maintains a legacy deﬁned beneﬁt pension 
scheme in the UK which has been closed to new entrants and 
further accruals for many years. The Group continues to make 
regular annual cash contributions to the scheme at a rate of 
£0.3m, as agreed with the scheme actuary, with the objective  
of eliminating the funding deﬁcit of £2.7m (as at the last formal 
actuarial valuation) over ten years. The next formal actuarial 
valuation of the scheme is due as at 30 September 2013 at 
which time it is likely, given current market factors, that the 
funding deﬁcit will have increased substantially. This increase in 
deﬁcit is likely to lead to a requirement to increase the Group’s 
cash contribution to the scheme. 
On an accounting basis, the deﬁcit in this deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension scheme remained unchanged at £5.4m, before the 
related deferred tax asset. Scheme assets increased sufficiently 
to offset the increase in pension liabilities which also increased, 
principally because of a further reduction in the market discount 
rate. There have been no other material changes in underlying 
valuation assumptions.
Measuring Financial Performance 
The Group continues to use a number of speciﬁc measures  
to assess the performance of the Group and these are referred 
to throughout this Annual Report & Accounts in the discussion 
of the performance of the businesses. These measures are  
not deﬁned in International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”), but are used by the Board to assess the underlying 
operational performance of the Group and its businesses. 
As such, the Board believes these performance measures 
are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS 
measures. The alternative performance measures, which have 
been used in this Annual Report & Accounts, are described in 
note 2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors 
(including those which the Group cannot inﬂuence, principally 
currency exchange rates) that have affected the results of the 
Group’s business and which are reﬂected in the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS, 
as adopted by the European Union.
There have been no new accounting or disclosure requirements 
this year that have impacted the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements.
Finance Review continued 15
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Sector Review
Life Sciences
30%
of revenues 
Geography
1
75%  Canada
17% Europe
8% ROW
Customers
82%  Clinical
10% Utilities
5% Chemical & Petrochemical
2% Life Sciences Research
1% Other Life Sciences
Products
68%  Consumables
23% Instrumentation
9% Service
270 employees worldwide 
1 By destination. 
Seals
38%
of revenues 
Geography
1
76%  North America
12% Europe
12% ROW
Customers
43% Industrial OEMs
38%  Heavy Construction
10% Other Industrial
4% Industrial Aftermarket
4% Dump & Refuse trucks
1% Logging & Agriculture
Products
62%  Seals & Seal Kits
12% O-rings
11% Attachment Kits
9% Gaskets
6% Cylinders & Other
489 employees worldwide 
Controls
32%
of revenues 
Geography
1
58%  UK 
35% Continental Europe
7% ROW
Customers
29% Industrial
28%  Aerospace & Defence 
19% Food & Beverage
15% Motorsport
6% Energy & Utilities
3% Medical & Scientiﬁc
Products
44%  Wire & Cable
14% Connectors
14% Control Devices
12% Equipment & Components
10% Fasteners
6% Other Controls
292 employees worldwide 
Geography
1
Europe
39%
22%  UK 
17%  Continental Europe
1 By destination. 
Rest of World
7%
North America
54%
27%  US 
27%  Canada  16
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Sector Review continued
Life Sciences
Sector Deﬁnition and Scope
The Life Sciences sector businesses supply a range of 
consumables, instrumentation and related services to the 
healthcare and environmental industries.
The Diploma Healthcare Group (“DHG”) in Canada comprises 
three principal operating businesses which supply to the 
500–600 public hospitals across the country as well as to 
private clinics. Somagen Diagnostics (“Somagen”), based in 
Edmonton, Alberta supplies a range of consumables and 
instruments used in the diagnostic testing of blood, tissue  
and other samples in hospital pathology laboratories. It is  
also a leading supplier to the growing, assisted reproductive 
technology (“ART”) market. AMT Electrosurgery (“AMT”), based 
in Kitchener, Ontario, supplies specialised electrosurgery 
equipment and consumables for use in hospital operating 
rooms. AMT is also building a portfolio of specialised surgical 
instruments and devices used in minimally invasive surgery. 
Vantage Endoscopy (“Vantage”) combines the former AMT 
Endoscopy and CMI businesses and supplies medical devices 
and related consumables and services to GI Endoscopy suites  
in hospitals and private clinics. 
 
DHG also operates in Australia and New Zealand through Big 
Green Surgical (“BGS”), located near Sydney and Diagnostic 
Solutions Pty Ltd, acquired in June 2012 and located in 
Melbourne. BGS and DSL are respectively smaller versions of 
the AMT and Somagen businesses in Canada and share a 
number of common suppliers.
The a1-group is a supplier to Environmental testing laboratories 
and to Health & Safety engineers. The a1-envirosciences 
business is located in Dusseldorf, Germany and also has sales 
and service resources in the UK, France and Benelux. It supplies 
a range of specialised environmental analysers and a range of 
containment enclosures for potent powder handling. The CBISS 
business, located in Tranmere in the UK, supplies equipment 
and services for the monitoring and control of environmental 
emissions, as well as a range of gas detection devices.
Market Drivers
The DHG businesses in Canada supply into the Healthcare 
sector which is mostly public sector funded. The principal 
demand driver is therefore the level of healthcare spending by 
the Canadian Government.
C$bn 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Public sector healthcare 
expenditure in Canada 112.5 121.4 129.1 136.9 141.0
Total healthcare 
expenditure in Canada 161.6 171.8 182.1 192.9 200.5
Total health expenditure 
as a % of GDP n.a. 10.7% 11.9% 11.9% 11.6%
Source: Canadian Institute for Health Information.
The Canadian Healthcare industry is a proven, long term growth 
environment for medical device distribution. A growing, aging 
and well-educated population demands high standards of service 
delivery, helping to ensure ongoing growing demand; per capita 
healthcare spending in Canada is in the top 20% of OECD 
countries. The Canadian Health Act (“the Act”) ensures universal 
coverage for all insured persons for all medically necessary 
services provided by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare 
providers. The Provinces are responsible for the delivery of the 
healthcare services, but the Federal Government controls delivery 
through Federal-Provincial transfer payments, which represent 
the largest source of revenues for the Provinces.
The relative stability and consistency in funding by each of the 
Provinces, guaranteed through the Act, ensures that the market 
remains well funded through the economic cycle. Over many 
years, healthcare expenditure has grown steadily with annual 
variations mostly dependant on the periodic additional tranches  
of funding provided by individual Provinces. 
The Healthcare market in Australia shares with Canada, many of 
the same attractive characteristics for specialised distribution. 
While privately funded healthcare is more prevalent, public 
sector healthcare funding is still large and supported by a stable, 
resource based economy. As with Canada, there is a large 
geography to be covered, low population density and 
purchasing processes that vary by State. These characteristics 
necessarily demand a signiﬁcant investment by manufacturers 
in technical sales and service resource which makes the 
specialised distribution model more attractive as an efficient 
way to serve the market.
The a1-group supplies to customers in the Environmental 
industry across Europe. The market demand is largely driven by 
Environmental and Health & Safety regulations. Growth in recent 
years has been driven by the need to be compliant with a range 
of EU regulations. Since market demand is driven by regulation, 
this ensures reasonably steady demand for essential consumable 
products and service, though customers may defer capital 
expenditure during signiﬁcant downturns in the economy.
Sector Performance
Life Sciences statistics
2012 2011
Revenue £78.4m £74.4m
Adjusted operating proﬁt £18.0m £17.1m
Operating margin 23.0% 23.0%
Free cash ﬂow £13.3m £11.6m
Trading capital employed £68.2m £64.8m
ROTCE 27.4% 27.8%
The Life Sciences businesses increased revenues in 2012 by 5% 
on a UK sterling basis to £78.4m (2011: £74.4m), with a similar 
level of growth on a constant currency basis. Sector revenues 
beneﬁted with the contribution from the DSL business in 
Australia, acquired in June 2012 and a full year contribution from  17
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
the CMI business, acquired in December 2010. After adjusting for 
these acquisitions, for the divestment of a small Swiss business, 
for minor currency effects and for the exceptional sale of face 
shields in the prior year, underlying sector revenues increased  
by 5%. 
Adjusted operating proﬁts increased by 5% to £18.0m (2011: 
£17 .1m), with operating margins stable at 23.0% of revenue (2011: 
23.0%). Capital expenditure in the sector was £2.3m, which 
included £1.6m invested in ﬁeld equipment for placement by the 
Canadian and Australian Healthcare businesses, a further £0.3m 
invested in the new Vantage facility in Toronto and the balance in 
upgrades to the IT environment. Free cash ﬂow of £13.3m (2011: 
£11.6m) increased by £1.7m with lower tax payments largely 
funding the increase in capital investment.
Healthcare
Revenues from the DHG businesses increased by 10% in UK 
sterling terms and by 9% in Canadian dollar terms. After adjusting 
for the DSL and CMI acquisitions and for the face shield revenues 
in the prior year, underlying revenues increased by 5%.
AMT increased revenues in its electrosurgery and surgical 
products business by 8%, after adjusting for the one-off face 
shield revenues in the prior year. In the core electrosurgery 
market, the focus remains on increasing the number of 
hospitals using smoke evacuation and increasing utilisation rates 
in existing installations; the launch in October 2012 of the new 
Penevac 1 product (combined electrode and smoke evacuation 
device) will provide a boost to this initiative. AMT is also 
successfully building a business supplying specialised surgical 
instruments and devices used in laparoscopic procedures and 
other minimally invasive surgical procedures. Products range 
from traditional surgical instruments, to leading edge 
interventional radiology and oncology products for use in the 
treatment of cancer and cancer related disorders. AMT has 
signed exclusive distribution agreements with a number of 
leading suppliers in this area and is in the process of adding 
several new suppliers to the portfolio.
The newly formed Vantage business, combining AMT Endoscopy 
with CMI, has operated as an independent business within DHG 
from the beginning of the ﬁnancial year. Combined revenues for 
Vantage increased by 8% over the prior year, but this represented 
a relatively ﬂat performance on a like-for-like basis, after taking 
account of CMI’s pre-acquisition revenues. The prior year had 
seen an exceptional level of capital equipment sales which gave  
a very strong comparative. In addition, Vantage is seeing a  
trend towards useage based contracts for its endoscopes, with 
revenues generated on a cost per procedure (“CPP”) basis, rather 
than as a single large capital sale combined with a smaller 
follow-on stream of consumable revenues. One such major 
contract awarded to Vantage during the year will generate  
nearly C$3m of CPP based revenues over a ﬁve year period, but 
required an up-front investment by Vantage of C$1.6m in capital 
equipment and contributed only C$0.5m to this year’s revenues. 
At the end of October 2012, Vantage relocated its operations  
to a new 16,300 square foot facility close to the existing facility in 
Markham, Ontario. Following a year of consolidation, Vantage is 
now well positioned to supply and technically support a complete 
range of products for the growing GI Endoscopy market. 
Somagen increased revenues by 6%, with strong sales of capital 
equipment adding to the steady growth in the contracted  
supply of consumable products and service. New technologies 
recently introduced by each of Somagen’s core suppliers has 
driven growth across a range of market segments, including 
electrophoresis, diabetes and allergy testing, cellular pathology 
and microbiology. Further progress has also been made in 
penetrating the target growth markets of assisted reproductive 
technology, fecal immunochemical testing (to test for colorectal 
cancer) and immunohistochemistry (used in cancer diagnostics).
In Australia and New Zealand, BGS increased revenues by more  
than 20% following its investment in direct sales staff to replace 
sub-distributors. There has also been a signiﬁcant investment  
in smoke evacuation trials at hospital groups and private health 
companies and the emphasis now is on developing these trials  
into full implementation programmes. In June 2012, the acquisition 
was completed of 80% of DSL, which supplies in-vitro diagnostic 
products to hospitals and private laboratories. DSL is a close 
equivalent to Somagen in Canada and operates with 20 staff from a 
facility in Melbourne, Australia. DSL shares several common suppliers 
with Somagen, including a major new supplier added shortly after 
acquisition which will add signiﬁcantly to DSL ’s growth potential. 
Environmental
a1-envirosciences revenues increased marginally on an 
underlying basis, which is on a constant currency basis and after 
excluding the results of the small operation in Switzerland which 
was sold to its management in May 2012. Continuing Eurozone 
uncertainty, combined with the impact from a strong Japanese 
Yen on imported analytical instruments, impacted sales of 
mid-priced analytical instruments to commercial laboratories. 
However, the sales of higher end analytical instruments supplied 
into the petrochemical industry remained robust and sales of 
the a1-safetech laboratory enclosures held up well. A targeted 
campaign to encourage customers to sign-up to annual 
maintenance contracts was successful and delivered strong 
service income growth. 
CBISS experienced another strong year of trading, with revenues 
growing by 9%. Orders for continuous emissions monitoring 
systems (“CEMS“) were comparable with the prior year, although 
sales were marginally lower, with delays partly caused by a lack  
of certainty in the UK Government’s alternative energy policies. 
CBISS’s success in recent years has increased the installed base  
of instruments which has given the opportunity to increase 
service revenues from both its own supplied CEMS equipment,  
as well as from that supplied by competitors. CBISS also has seen 
good growth in selling its focused range of competitively priced 
instruments and consumables used to detect or measure gases 
in factories, offices, oil and gas plants, storage facilities and ships.  18
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Sector Review continued
Seals
Sector Deﬁnition and Scope
The Seals sector businesses supply a range of hydraulic seals, 
gaskets, cylinders, components and kits used in heavy mobile 
machinery and specialised industrial equipment.
The Hercules Fluid Power Group (“HFPG”) supplies to the 
Aftermarket through the Hercules, Bulldog and HKX businesses 
and to Industrial OEM’s (“Original Equipment Manufacturers”) 
through the RT Dygert, All Seals and J Royal businesses.
Hercules is the core Aftermarket business based in Clearwater, 
Florida and provides a next day delivery service throughout the 
US, for seals, seal kits and cylinders used in a range of heavy 
mobile machinery applications. The US business also services 
Central and South American and other selected markets 
through in-country sub-distributors. Hercules in Canada offers 
the same range of products from its two branch operations 
located in the provinces of Ontario and Quebec. In Europe, 
Hercules has centred its operations in the Netherlands. Bulldog, 
based in Reno, supplies a range of gasket and seal kits for heavy 
duty diesel engines, transmissions and hydraulic cylinders used 
in off road and marine applications. HKX is based near Seattle 
and supplies hydraulic kits used in the installation of 
attachments on excavators. 
HFPG also has three Industrial OEM businesses in North America 
which supply seals, O-rings and custom moulded and machined 
parts to a range of Industrial OEM customers, cylinder 
manufacturers and sub-distributors. RT Dygert has facilities in 
Minneapolis, Chicago and Seattle and All Seals is located in Lake 
Forest, California. J Royal, acquired in December 2011, has facilities 
in North Carolina, Rhode Island and Alabama. In April 2012, HFPG 
also acquired 10% of J Royal Precision Products Inc. (“JRPP”), a 
related supplier to J Royal located near Shanghai in China.
FPE is based in the UK, with operations in Darlington and 
Doncaster, and supplies a range of Aftermarket seals, seal kits, 
cylinder parts and sealants to ram repairers, mobile and heavy 
plant operators, mechanical handling and process control 
companies. M Seals is a specialised distributor of O-rings, 
moulded parts, PTFE products and shaft seals, supplied to a 
range of specialised Industrial OEM customers. Products range 
from the ﬁnest precision seals for hearing aids to large heavy 
duty seals for turbines. M Seals has operations in Espergaerde in 
Denmark, Halmstad in Sweden and Tianjin in China.
Market Drivers
The Aftermarket businesses supply sealing products to support a 
broad range of mobile machinery in applications including heavy 
construction, logging, mining, agriculture, material handling (lift 
trucks, fork lifts and dump trucks) and refuse collection. Products 
are generally used in the repair and maintenance of equipment 
after it has completed its initial warranty period or lease term, or 
has been sold on in the pre-used market. The main customers 
are machinery and cylinder repair shops, engine and transmission 
rebuilders and other heavy equipment parts distributors. The 
principal market driver is the growth in the general industrial 
economy and in particular, heavy construction. 
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
US real GDP growth
1
+1.9% +0.0% -3.1% +2.4% +1.8%
Annual US construction 
spending $bn
2
763 532 316 308 317
Purchasing Managers’ 
Index
3
51.2 45.5 46.4 57.3 55.2
Source: 
1 Bureau of Economic Analysis – US Department of Commerce.
2 Cyclecast Intercast
3 Institute for Supply Management.
In the United States, total construction spending increased in 
2011 following four years of decline. The infrastructure sector, 
which includes road building and other Federal and State 
initiatives, was positive as stimulus dollars began to feed through 
into actual projects. The residential housing sector appeared to 
bottom-out in 2010 as new housing starts, although still 
signiﬁcantly below their historic peak, returned to an upward 
trend in 2011 which has accelerated in 2012. 
In Canada, there was sustained economic growth in 2011 resulting 
in a 2.6% increase in GDP which is likely to be broadly maintained 
throughout 2012. In Europe in 2011, many governments have 
implemented austerity programs, but are also looking at ways to 
stimulate the economies and the call for more substantial 
infrastructure projects is growing louder. It is not yet clear how 
these programs will impact on future construction spending. 
The customers of the Industrial OEM businesses are 
manufacturers of a wide range of specialised industrial (and 
some consumer) products. The principal market driver in this 
sector is therefore general growth in the industrial economy. 
The markets served by the Industrial OEM businesses in the US 
turned positive in 2010 and continued to grow in 2011 and the 
ﬁrst quarter of 2012. At that point, concerns over a potential fall 
in global demand and growing uncertainty caused conﬁdence 
to waver. The US industrial sector, however, should continue  
to beneﬁt from the relative weakness of the US dollar and the 
impetus to “Re-shore” or “On-shore” the US manufacturing 
base. The European industrial sector is likely to remain stagnant 
until the Eurozone crisis is resolved or diminishes. 
Sector Performance
Seals statistics
2012 2011
Revenue £99.9m £80.0m
Adjusted operating proﬁt £20.4m £14.9m
Operating margin 20.4% 18.6%
Free cash ﬂow £13.7m £6.9m
Trading capital employed £56.8m £46.8m
ROTCE 37.4% 31.8%
The Seals sector revenues increased on a UK sterling basis by 25%  
to £99.9m (2011: £80.0m) which included a contribution of £9.1m 
from J Royal, acquired in December 2011. After adjusting for this 
acquisition and for modest currency translation effects, underlying 
sector revenues increased by 13%, reﬂecting particularly strong  19
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
growth in the North American Aftermarket businesses. Adjusted 
operating proﬁts increased by 37% to £20.4m (2011: £14.9m) with 
adjusted operating margins increasing to 20.4% (2011: 18.6%), driven 
by operational leverage from the strong increase in revenues. 
Capital expenditure in the sector was £0.6m with the major 
elements comprising a £0.2m investment in two facility 
relocations, a further £0.2m in new warehouse equipment and 
£0.2m in upgrading the IT infrastructure. Free cash ﬂow of 
£13.7m was generated compared with £6.9m in 2011 and 
reﬂected the strong growth in after tax proﬁts and tight control 
over working capital.
Aftermarket
The HFPG Aftermarket businesses continued to beneﬁt from 
investments made in earlier years and grew revenues by 14% in 
US dollar terms. In the US, against a background of robust growth 
in heavy Construction and Infrastructure projects, Hercules 
delivered strong revenue growth of 18% and increased its market 
share. The increase in revenues has been driven by continuing 
strength in the core cylinder repair sector, growing demand for 
the Hercules products from larger sub-distributors and the 
introduction of new seal kit products. Revenues have also 
beneﬁted from further product line extension (in particular metric 
seals) and the continued success of the Seals-on-Demand 
service, offering same day service for custom machined seals. 
Hercules also implemented price increases in response to 
supplier cost increases, following a period of raw material 
shortages in 2011; this has now stabilised in 2012. Exports to 
South America and to other countries grew by 13% as Hercules 
continued to increase its penetration through in-country product 
representatives and expansion of the sub-distributor base.
Hercules Canada and Hercules Europe together increased 
revenues by 16%, while Bulldog revenues fell by 19% against  
a strong comparative in 2011. Hercules Canada had another 
excellent year and delivered sales growth in both the resource 
rich western Provinces and in the more industrial central 
Provinces. Hercules Europe, based in the Netherlands, 
continued to build its domestic business servicing local repair 
shops and added to its network of sub-distributors, which 
extended its reach into mainland European countries. Bulldog 
has faced tougher market conditions with its traditional strong 
markets in the Middle East and North Africa suffering from 
sharply lower demand following the Arab Spring, with only 
Saudi Arabia continuing to purchase larger quantities of product. 
HKX had another exceptional year, growing revenues by 34%. 
HKX’s traditional customers are the North American franchised 
dealers of the leading excavator manufacturers. Sales of new 
excavators have steadily recovered since 2010 and grew again  
in 2012. HKX also beneﬁted from excavator manufacturers  
having to focus their engineering resource on the urgent need  
to comply with the new Tier 4i emissions legislation. As a result, 
the manufacturers delivered fewer excavators with factory-ﬁtted 
attachment kits to the dealers. Further progress was also made  
in penetrating international markets with good sales to South 
America and Saudi Arabia.
In the UK, FPE, revenues increased by 15% with particularly 
strong demand for standard seals in the ﬁrst half of the year. 
Sales of the expanded range of cylinder parts were very  
positive throughout 2012 and export sales were also strong  
as sub-distributors in mainland Europe and Saudi Arabia 
continued to purchase in larger quantities.
Industrial OEMs
The HFPG Industrial OEM businesses, after adjusting for the 
acquisition of J Royal, increased revenues by 9% in US dollar 
terms. RT Dygert and All Seals both delivered robust 
performances, although margins came under pressure as it 
proved harder to pass on product cost increases to customers. 
In the ﬁrst half of 2012, the revenue momentum of the prior 
year was maintained but by the spring, manufacturing output in 
the US appeared to soften, before stabilising again by the year 
end. RT Dygert also beneﬁted from the diversity of its customer 
base, with demand from OEM cylinder manufacturers 
increasing, as growth in its general industrial customer base 
slowed. Investment of £0.3m was made by RT Dygert in 
consolidating its Minneapolis and Chicago warehousing 
operations into a single, modern facility in Minneapolis, while 
retaining a sales office in Chicago. All Seals also continued  
to grow as it developed further its sales reach, upgraded its 
supplier base and invested in signiﬁcantly improved quality 
control processes. In September 2012, All Seals moved into  
a more appropriate modern facility and is now well positioned 
to further build its business. 
J Royal was acquired in December 2011 and delivered good sales 
growth in 2012 as new projects from existing customers began to 
come on-line. J Royal has built its business on supplying a broad 
range of related products to a number of key customers. This is 
based on the general concept that if a seal is part of an assembly, 
J Royal will seek to supply the metal parts as well as the rubber  
or plastic parts, and in some cases, deliver the whole assembly  
to the customer. J Royal also invested in additional resources 
to expand its customer base and ensure wider geographical 
penetration of the Eastern United States; further development 
plans will be rolled out in 2013. Related to this acquisition a 10% 
shareholding in JRPP was acquired in April 2012. JRPP based in 
Kunshan, near Shanghai in China is a key supplier to J Royal and 
manufactures a range of metal and glass components and 
assemblies that complement J Royal’s traditional rubber and 
plastic sealing range.
In Europe, M Seals increased revenues by 14% as sales in 
Sweden moved strongly ahead throughout the period due to 
a combination of new business and the general strength of the 
Swedish economy. In China, the wholly owned foreign entity 
established in 2011 to serve the developing Chinese wind power 
market, delivered a robust ﬁrst year. Revenues in Denmark saw 
some strength in the ﬁrst half of the year, before its traditional 
industrial customer base became more cautious in the second 
half of the year. 20
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Sector Review continued
Controls
Sector Deﬁnition and Scope 
The Controls sector businesses supply specialised wiring, 
connectors, fasteners and control devices used in a range of 
technically demanding applications.
The IS-Group and Filcon businesses supply high performance 
wiring, interconnect, electro-mechanical and fastener products 
for use in industries including Defence & Aerospace, 
Motorsport, Energy, Medical and Industrial. A range of value 
adding activities enhances the customer offering, including 
marking of protective sleeves, cut-to-length tubing, kitting, 
connector assembly and prototype quantities of customised 
multi-core cables. The IS-Group also supplies a range of its own 
manufactured products, including ﬂexible braided products for 
earthing and lightning protection, power shunt connectors, and 
multi-core cables.
The IS-Rayfast, Cabletec, Clarendon and Amfast businesses are 
located in the UK in Swindon, Weston-Super-Mare, Leicester and 
Harpenden, respectively. These businesses serve customers 
direct in the UK market, as well as supplying to sub-distributors 
across Continental Europe. In Germany, the Sommer business is 
located in Stuttgart and Filcon is located in Munich. IS-Connect  
is located in Indianapolis to serve the Motorsport market in  
the US, as well as other specialised technical applications.  
A representative office has also been established in Beijing,  
China with an initial focus on Aftermarket requirements in the 
Commercial Aerospace and Industrial sectors.
 
The Hawco Group businesses, with operations in Guildford, 
Bolton and Faringdon in the UK, supply equipment and 
components into the Food & Beverage and Industrial markets in 
the UK, Continental Europe and the US. Hawco supplies a range 
of control devices used in the sensing, measurement and control 
of temperature and pressure; applications range from chilled 
cabinets for supermarkets, bars and restaurants to ﬁre detection 
systems. Abbeychart supplies a broad range of specialised 
components into a number of related applications such as hot 
drinks brewing, vending machines, pure water and water cooling 
systems, soft drinks dispensing and general catering equipment. 
Market Drivers
The Controls sector businesses focus on specialised, technical 
applications in a range of industries, with over 90% of sector 
revenues generated in the UK and Continental Europe 
(principally Germany). The background market drivers are 
therefore the growth of the industrial economies in the major 
markets served by the Controls sector businesses.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
UK real GDP growth
1
+2.7% -0.1% -4.9% +1.8% +0.9%
UK production index
2
113 110 100 103 106
Germany real GDP growth
1
+2.8% +0.8% -5.1% +3.6% +3.1%
Sources:
1  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
2  The Office of National Statistics – Index of Production for Manufacturing, n.b. the ONS 
has re-calibrated the base year index to 2009. 
In the UK, manufacturing demand remained relatively stable 
through 2011 and into the ﬁrst half of 2012 but has since weakened. 
In Germany, there was a sharp recovery in 2010 which was broadly 
sustained in 2011, but the continuing Eurozone crisis continues to 
hold back business conﬁdence during 2012. 
Although inﬂuenced by the general industrial economic cycles, 
there are also more speciﬁc drivers within individual market 
segments. In the Aerospace & Defence segment, the main 
drivers are defence budgets and civil aviation growth: 
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Defence equipment budgets:
 UK – £bn
1
7.2 7 .9 8.7 9.0 9.3
 Germany – €bn
2
8.6 9.5 10.3 10.4 10.4
Civil aviation growth
3
+8.2% +2.0% -1.1% +8.0% +6.5%
Sources:
1 MOD UK Defence Statistics.
2 Federal Ministry of Finance – Germany.
3 International Civil Aviation Organization – revenue passenger kilometres
In Defence markets, the IS-Group businesses focus primarily  
on refurbishment, upgrade and maintenance programmes, as 
well as supplying to Tier 2 electronics suppliers. The businesses 
typically only supply to OEMs and the Tier 1 suppliers when 
ex-stock availability and responsiveness are important;  
they have therefore been less exposed to cutbacks and 
postponements in major defence programmes. Filcon has  
a greater involvement in the major capital projects, but its 
products are designed-in to a broad range of air, sea and land 
applications and it is therefore not overexposed to individual 
projects. Although defence spending remained high in 2011, 
defence budget reviews in the UK and Germany are expected to 
gradually reduce real levels of spend by 2015. In Civil Aerospace, 
the businesses supply products principally for the initial ﬁt-out 
of aircraft interiors and their subsequent upgrade and 
refurbishment. The market has recovered quickly from the 
2009 downturn and long term growth of ca. 5% p.a. continues 
to be forecast.
In Motorsport, activity in the US increased sharply due to 
technology changes in the Nascar series and a chassis change 
in the IndyCar racing series. The F1 grid remained competitive 
whilst the German DTM series beneﬁted from the return of 
BMW and regulation changes. The Medical Equipment market 
remained relatively stable and, in Germany, the Energy market 
beneﬁted from increased spending on the repair and upgrade 
of electricity distribution equipment.
The Hawco Group revenues are dependent on activity in the 
Food and Beverage sector and in particular the pace at which 
the major food retailers invest in opening new stores and 
refurbishing existing outlets. In 2010 and 2011, the investment 
in new, conventional stores was high but in 2012, the focus 
moved to smaller convenience store openings with a 
subsequent fall in the volume of equipment required.  21
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Sector Performance
Controls statistics
2012 2011
Revenue £81.9m £76.2m
Adjusted operating proﬁt £14.4m £13.2m
Operating margin 17.6% 17.3%
Free cash ﬂow £10.0m £9.8m
Trading capital employed £35.7m £30.0m
ROTCE 44.2% 44.0%
The Controls businesses increased revenues in 2012 by 7% to 
£81.9m (2011: £76.2m) on a UK sterling basis. After adjusting  
for currency effects and for the acquisitions of Amfast and 
Abbeychart, underlying growth was 2%. Adjusted operating 
proﬁts increased by 9% to £14.4m (2011: £13.2m), with adjusted 
operating margins remaining stable at 17.6% (2011: 17.3%). 
Capital expenditure in the sector was £0.6m, the largest part 
being £0.4m of initial investment in the new IS-Rayfast facility  
in Swindon. Free cash ﬂow of £10.0m (2011: £9.8m) remained 
broadly unchanged, with the increase in after tax cash ﬂow 
being invested in the new facility.
The principal markets for the IS-Group and Filcon businesses 
are Aerospace & Defence, Motorsport, Energy, Medical and 
Industrial. Revenues increased by 7% in UK sterling terms; 
underlying revenues increased by 6% after adjusting for 
currency effects and the acquisition of Amfast. 
Aerospace, Defence and Motorsport
In the UK, the IS-Group’s revenues from the Aerospace & 
Defence sector were up 10% on the prior year, boosted by the 
introduction of new products, with specialist relays leading the 
way. Defence sales recovered to 2010 levels through continued 
supply to a wide range of customers that build or repair ground 
vehicles, large ﬁeld guns and military systems; the military 
marine sector also beneﬁted from the sale of cables for 
submarine communications antennae. Civil Aerospace sales in 
the UK were positive and were boosted by the acquisition in 
May 2012 of Amfast, a specialist distributor of fasteners primarily 
used in aircraft seating, galleys and other interior systems. 
Amfast is now managed by our Clarendon fastener business 
and has performed well since acquisition. 
In Germany, Sommer’s sales to the Defence sector were also 
ahead of the prior year and Aerospace sales held up reasonably 
well, with good demand from the satellite sector. Filcon’s sales 
were comparable to the prior year, even though spending on 
some Defence equipment supply programmes has been delayed 
and demand from the Euroﬁghter programme continued to 
weaken, as expected. Filcon’s resilient performance was achieved 
by supplying across a range of individual helicopter, tank, missile, 
radio and engine projects.
In the Motorsport sector in the UK and the US, the IS-Group had 
another exceptionally strong year with revenues up over 20%, 
partly reﬂecting increased sales to the two key US racing series, 
IndyCar and Nascar, where changes were made to the chassis 
and engine technology. Revenues also beneﬁted from 
continued growth of fastener sales to F1 teams based in 
mainland Europe. In Germany, Filcon had another good year 
supplying its specialised connectors to the Motorsport sector, 
where the buoyant F1, DTM and Le Mans racing series ensured 
strong revenues throughout the year. Sommer’s revenues also 
moved ahead in Motorsport as the key players invested in new 
engines and cars. 
Energy and Industrial
The Energy sector delivered revenue growth of 10% over the  
prior year. In the UK, a slowdown in sales to portable generator 
manufacturers was more than offset by strong demand for 
sub-sea cables from oil and gas service providers. The demand for 
Cabletec’s cables, power shunts and components for batteries 
used in Uninterruptible Power Supply (“UPS”) applications was  
also positive. In Germany, Sommer consolidated its position in  
the buoyant Energy market by leveraging a strong relationship  
with key suppliers combined with excellent customer service. 
The Industrial sector delivered revenue growth of 1% over the 
prior year. In the UK, revenue growth was strong as additional 
value added services were taken up by key customers; there 
was also positive demand across multiple sub-sectors including 
rail, specialist automotive, leisure marine, mining equipment  
and lighting. However, in Germany, revenues to the Industrial 
segment were negatively affected by a slowing in the pace of 
project enquires, reﬂecting a general softening in business 
conﬁdence across the broad commercial electronics and 
industrial customer base.
Food and Beverage
The Hawco Group supplies products principally to the Food & 
Beverage industry (including equipment and components 
supplied to major food retailers) and this sector accounts for ca. 
70% of Hawco Group revenues. The balance of revenues comes 
from a range of specialised temperature and pressure control 
applications in the Industrial sector. 
Hawco’s revenues fell by 9% against a strong prior year 
comparative, as the major food retailers reduced the number of 
larger store openings in favour of the local convenience store 
model. However, the energy efficiency product package 
supplied by Hawco remains the solution of choice to many  
of the main food retailers and during the year the company 
introduced a low proﬁle, high efficiency condenser pack for 
convenience stores. The maintenance and repair of existing 
products was a major focus in 2012 and Hawco enjoyed good 
growth from the supply of components through its ‘quick-pick 
service’ offering.
The acquisition of Abbeychart in March 2012 extended the Hawco 
Group into other segments of the Food and Beverage market, 
including hot drinks and vending machines, pure water and cooling 
systems, soft drinks dispensing and catering equipment. Since 
acquisition, Abbeychart has performed well against expectations 
and there are already signiﬁcant cross selling opportunities within 
the extended Hawco Group to supply a fuller range of products to 
both equipment manufacturers and service organisations in the 
UK, Europe and the US.  22 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the 
Group’s annual planning cycle and market speciﬁc risks  
are evaluated as part of the annual budgeting process.
Each operating business is required each year to identify and 
document the signiﬁcant strategic, operational and ﬁnancial 
and accounting risks facing the business. For each signiﬁcant 
risk, a number of scenarios are mapped out and an assessment 
is made of the likelihood and impact of each risk scenario. 
Finally, plans and processes are established which are designed 
to control each risk and minimise its potential impact. The  
risk assessments from each of the operating businesses are 
reviewed with the Executive Directors and a consolidated risk 
assessment is reviewed by the Board.
The principal risks and uncertainties which are currently judged 
to have the largest potential impact on the Group’s long term 
performance are set out below.
Risk: Strategic
Downturn in major markets
Adverse changes in the major markets in which the businesses 
operate can have a signiﬁcant impact on performance. The 
effects will either be seen in terms of slowing revenue growth, 
due to reduced or delayed demand for products and services, 
or pressure on margins due to increased competitive pressures.
A number of characteristics of the Group’s businesses moderate 
the impact of economic and business cycles on the Group as a 
whole:
 The Group’s businesses operate in three different sectors 
with different cyclical characteristics and across a number 
of geographic markets, as set out on page 15.
 The businesses offer specialised products and services; this 
offers a degree of protection against customers quickly 
switching business to achieve a better price.
 A high proportion of the Group’s revenues comprise 
consumable products which are purchased as part of 
customers’ operating expenditure, rather than through 
capital budgets.
 In many cases the products are used in repair, maintenance 
and refurbishment applications, rather than original 
equipment manufacture.
Mitigation
The businesses identify key market drivers and monitor the 
trends and forecasts, as well as maintaining close relationships 
with key customers who may give an early warning of slowing
demand. Changes to cost levels and inventories can then be 
made in a measured way to mitigate the effects.
Loss of key supplier(s)
For manufacturer-branded products, there are risks to the 
business if a major supplier decides to cancel a distribution 
agreement or if the supplier is acquired by a company which 
has its own distribution channels in the relevant market. There  
is also the risk of a supplier taking away exclusivity and either 
setting up direct operations or appointing another distributor.
In times of rapid economic expansion in activity, such as after a 
global recession, there is also a risk that the lead times to supply 
key product can become very long.
Currently no single supplier represents more than 15% of Group 
revenue and only ﬁve single suppliers represent more than 2% 
each of Group revenue.
Relationships with suppliers have normally been built up over 
many years and a strong degree of interdependence has been 
established. The average length of the principal supplier 
relationships in each of the sectors is over ten years.
The strength of the relationship with each supplier and the 
volume of activity generally ensures continuity of supply, 
when there is shortage of product.
Mitigation
Actions to mitigate the risks include:
 Long term, multi-year exclusive contracts signed 
with suppliers with change of control clauses, where 
possible, included in contracts for protection or 
compensation in the event of acquisition.
 Collaborative projects and relationships maintained with 
individuals at many levels of the supplier organisation, 
together with regular review meetings and adherence to 
contractual terms.
 Regular review of inventory levels.
 Bundling and kitting of products and provision of added 
value services.
 Periodic research of alternative suppliers as part of 
contingency planning. 23
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Risk: Strategic
Loss of major customer(s)
The loss of one or more major customers can be a material risk. The nature of the Group’s businesses is such that there is not 
a high level of dependence on any individual customers and no 
single customer represents more than 5% of sector revenue or 
more than 2% of Group revenue.
Mitigation
Speciﬁc large customers are important to individual operating 
businesses and a high level of effort is invested in ensuring that 
these customers are retained and encouraged not to switch to 
another supplier. 
In addition to providing high levels of customer service, close 
integration is established where possible with customers’ 
systems and processes.
Product liability
There is a risk that products supplied by a Group business may 
fail in service, which could lead to a claim under product liability. 
The businesses, in their Terms and Conditions of sale with 
customers, will typically mirror the Terms and Conditions of 
purchase from the suppliers. In this way the liability can be 
limited and subrogated to the supplier.
However, if a legal claim is made it will typically draw in our 
business as a party to the claim and the business may be exposed 
to legal costs and potential damages if the claim succeeds and 
the supplier fails to meet its liabilities for whatever reason. Product 
liability insurance can be limited in terms of its scope of 
insurable events, such as product recall. 
Mitigation
Technically qualiﬁed personnel and control systems are in place 
to ensure products meet quality requirements. The Group has 
also established Group-wide product liability insurance which 
provides worldwide umbrella insurance cover of £10m in 
all sectors. 
The Group’s businesses may also elect not to supply products if 
they are not fully conﬁdent that the products will meet the 
demands of the operating environment.
Loss of key personnel
The success of the Group is built upon strong, self-standing 
management teams in the operating businesses, committed 
to the success of their respective businesses. As a result, the loss 
of key personnel can have a signiﬁcant impact on performance, 
at least for a time. 
The average age of our senior managers making up the 
self-standing management teams in the operating businesses  
is 44 with an average length of service of eleven years. 
As set out on page 45, the average length of service for all 
personnel in the Group is over ﬁve years.
Mitigation
Contractual terms such as notice periods and non-compete 
clauses can mitigate the risk in the short term. However, more 
successful initiatives focus on ensuring a challenging work 
environment with appropriate reward systems. The Group 
places very high importance on planning the development, 
motivation and reward for key managers in the operating 
businesses including:
 Ensuring a challenging working environment where 
managers feel they have control over, and responsibility for 
their businesses. 
 Establishing management development programmes to 
ensure a broad base of talented managers.
 Offering a balanced and competitive compensation package 
with a combination of salary, annual bonus and long term 
cash incentive plans targeted at the individual business level.
 Giving the freedom, encouragement, ﬁnancial resources  
and strategic support for managers to pursue ambitious 
growth plans. 24 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Risk: Operational
Major damage to premises
The Group’s businesses mostly operate from combined office/
warehouse facilities which are dedicated to each business and 
not shared with other Group businesses. 
Major damage to the facilities from ﬁre, malicious damage  
or natural disaster would impact the businesses for a period 
until the damage is repaired or alternative facilities have  
been established.
However, the Group has not suffered any major damage 
to premises in recent years and in Clearwater, Florida there 
has been no signiﬁcant hurricane activity for at least the last 
four years.
Mitigation
The business where the risk is greatest is Hercules in Clearwater, 
Florida which is most at risk from an environmental disaster 
caused by a hurricane or tornado. The building structure  
has been designed to withstand 150mph winds, electricity 
generators have been installed on site and a speciﬁc disaster 
plan has been drawn up and is regularly reviewed. 
Contingency plans include:
 Backup power generators.
 Materials on hand to secure the facility.
 Communications rerouted to other branches or interim locations.
 IT recovery plan using backup server in separate location.
 Regular building inspection and weather monitoring.
 Plans to drop-ship product from suppliers direct 
to customers.
The other businesses have also developed plans to prevent 
incidents, including ﬁre and security alarms and regular ﬁre 
drills. Insurance policies are also in place including property, 
contents and business interruption cover which would mitigate 
the ﬁnancial impact.
However, the priority in such an event is to become fully 
operational as quickly as possible so as to minimise disruption  
to customers. Plans to ensure a quick and orderly recovery  
have been developed by the businesses and are periodically 
reviewed. 
Loss of Information Technology (“IT”) systems
Computer systems are critical to the businesses since their 
success is built on high levels of customer service and quick 
response. A complete failure of IT systems, with the loss of
trading and other records, would be more damaging to the 
businesses than major physical damage to facilities.
Mitigation
Business interruption insurance cover is held across the Group 
and contingency plans have been drawn up in all businesses. 
The recovery plans differ by individual business, but will include 
some or all of the following elements:
 Full data backups as a matter of routine are automatically 
taken on a regular basis each week and stored online.
 Backup servers identiﬁed and communication reroute 
options identiﬁed.
 Service contracts with IT providers with access to 
replacement servers.
 Uninterruptible power sources and backup generators  
where required.
 Virus checkers and ﬁrewalls. 
Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued 25
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Risk: Financial and Accounting
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial and 
accounting risks, including foreign currency, liquidity, interest 
rate and credit. The policies for managing these ﬁnancial risks, 
as well as the management of capital risks, are set out in note 19 
to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. The principal ﬁnancial 
and accounting risks are summarised below. The Group’s overall 
management of the ﬁnancial risks is carried out by a central 
treasury team under policies and procedures which are reviewed
and approved by the Board. The treasury team identiﬁes, 
evaluates and where appropriate, hedges ﬁnancial risks in close 
co-operation with the Group’s operating businesses. The 
treasury team does not undertake speculative foreign exchange 
dealings for which there is no underlying exposure.
The principal accounting risk is that of inventory obsolescence 
which is managed by the operating business.
Foreign currency risk – Translational exposure
Foreign currency risk is the risk that changes in currency rates 
will affect the Group’s results. The Group operates 
internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising 
from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the 
US dollar, the Euro, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar. 
The net assets of the Group’s operations outside the UK are also 
exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
During the year ended 30 September 2012, ca. 75% of the 
Group’s revenue and adjusted operating proﬁts were earned in 
currencies other than UK sterling. In comparison to the prior year, 
the net effect of currency translation was to reduce revenue by 
£0.7m, but with only a negligible impact or adjusted operating 
proﬁt. It is estimated that a strengthening of UK sterling by 10% 
against all the currencies in which the Group does business, 
would reduce adjusted operating proﬁt, before tax by 
approximately £4.0m (8%), due to currency translation.
Currency exposures also arise from the net assets of the Group’s 
foreign operations. At 30 September 2012, the Group’s non-UK 
sterling trading capital employed in overseas businesses was 
£131.9m (2011: £118.2m), which represented 83% of the Group’s 
trading capital employed. It is estimated that a strengthening  
of UK sterling of 10% against all the non-UK sterling capital 
employed would reduce shareholders’ funds by £12.2m.
Details of average exchange rates used in the translation of 
overseas earnings and of year end exchange rates, used in 
the translation of overseas balance sheets, for the principal 
currencies used by the Group, are shown in note 28 to the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Mitigation
The Group does not hedge translational exposure.
Foreign currency – Transactional exposure
The Group’s UK businesses are also exposed to foreign currency 
risk on purchases that are denominated in a currency other than 
their local currency, principally US dollars, Euro and Japanese 
yen. The Group’s Canadian and Australian businesses are also
exposed to a similar risk as the majority of their purchases are 
denominated in US dollars and Euros.
Mitigation
The Group’s businesses may hedge up to 80% of forecast (being 
a maximum of eighteen months) foreign currency exposures 
using forward foreign exchange contracts. The Group classiﬁes 
its forward foreign exchange contracts, which hedge forecasted 
transactions, as cash ﬂow hedges and states them at fair value. 
Inventory obsolescence
Working capital management is critical to success in specialised 
industrial business as this has a major impact on cash ﬂow. The 
principal risk to working capital, is in inventory obsolescence 
and write-off.
The charge against operating proﬁt in respect of old or surplus 
inventory is generally ca. £0.5m pa, but inventories are generally 
not subject to technological obsolescence. 
Mitigation
Inventory write-offs are controlled and minimised by active 
management of inventory levels based on sales forecasts and 
regular cycle counts. Where necessary, a provision is made to 
cover both excess inventory and potential obsolescence. 26 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Board of Directors 
and Advisors
John Rennocks (67) 
1, 3
Non-Executive Chairman
Appointed: Joined the Board 
in July 2002 and appointed 
Chairman in January 2004.
Skills and experience: John is 
a Chartered Accountant with 
over 40 years of experience in 
commerce and industry, 
including nearly 20 years as 
the Finance Director of FTSE 
100 companies. He has been 
a Non-Executive Director of 
many companies in the past 
17 years, including as 
Chairman of six other public 
or private companies across 
several industrial or support 
service sectors.
External appointments: John 
is currently a Non-Executive 
Director of Intelligent Energy 
PLC and Deputy Chairman 
of Inmarsat PLC.
Bruce Thompson (57)
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed: Joined the Board 
in 1994 as a Group Director 
and appointed Chief Executive 
Officer in 1996.
Skills and experience: Bruce 
started his career in the 
automotive industry, ﬁrst as a 
design engineer and then in 
product marketing. He then 
spent three years in 
international marketing with a 
construction materials 
company, developing new 
markets in Europe, the Middle 
East and North Africa. Prior to 
joining Diploma, he was a 
Director with Arthur D Little 
Inc., the technology and 
management consulting ﬁrm, 
initially in the UK and then as 
Director of the ﬁrm’s 
Technology Management 
Practice based in Cambridge, 
Massachusetts.
External appointments: 
None.
Marie-Louise Clayton (52) 
2
Non-Executive Director 
Appointed: Joined the 
Board in November 2012. 
Skills and experience: 
Marie-Louise is a Chartered 
Certiﬁed Accountant who has 
held senior positions in Alstom 
(formerly, Alsthom GEC) and 
was previously Group Finance 
Director of Venture 
Production PLC. She has also 
been a Non-Executive 
Director of Forth Ports PLC 
and Ocean Rig ASA. 
External appointments: 
Marie-Louise is a 
Non-Executive Director of 
Zotefoams plc and of two 
private companies.
Nigel Lingwood (53)
Group Finance Director
Appointed: Joined the 
Company in June 2001 and 
appointed Group Finance 
Director in July 2001.
Skills and experience: Prior to 
joining the Company, Nigel 
was the Group Financial 
Controller at Unigate PLC 
where he gained experience 
of working in a large 
multi-national environment 
and on a number of large 
corporate transactions. Nigel 
qualiﬁed as a Chartered 
Accountant with Price 
Waterhouse, London.
External appointments: 
None.
Member of: 
1 the Remuneration Committee 
2 the Audit Committee 
3 the Nomination Committee 27
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Ian Grice (59) 
1,2,3
Non-Executive Director
Appointed: Joined the Board 
in January 2007.
Skills and experience: A 
Chartered Engineer with over 
35 years’ experience in the 
Support Services and 
Construction sectors, in the 
UK and International markets. 
Ian held senior roles in several 
industrial groups before 
joining the board of Alfred 
McAlpine plc in 1995 where 
he was Chief Executive Officer 
from 2003 to 2008.
External appointments: Ian is 
currently a member of the 
Supervisory Board of Arcadis 
NV, and a Non-Executive 
Director of three private 
companies.
Iain Henderson (56)
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed: Joined the Board 
as a Director in 1998 and 
appointed Chief Operating 
Officer in 2005.
Skills and experience: Iain 
qualiﬁed as a Chartered 
Management Accountant and 
began his career in the food 
industry, progressing to be an 
operations general manager 
with H J Heinz. Since 1988, 
Iain has specialised in the 
acquisition and development 
of small to medium sized 
enterprises within group 
structures. This was ﬁrstly 
within the privately owned 
Bricom MBO, where he ran 
ANC Holdings and from 1994 
in a public company 
environment as a Director of 
Glenchewton plc.
External appointments: 
None.
John Matthews (68) 
1,2,3
Non-Executive Director
Appointed: Joined the Board 
in 2003.
Skills and experience: John is 
a Chartered Accountant and a 
former Managing Director and 
Head of Corporate Finance at 
County NatWest. Subsequent 
to this he was Deputy 
Chairman and Deputy Chief 
Executive at Beazer plc, an 
international civil engineering, 
construction, house building 
and aggregates group. He has 
also been Chairman of Crest 
Nicholson plc and Regus plc 
and a non-Executive Director 
of a number of listed and 
private companies.
External appointments: John 
is currently a member of the 
Board of Aurelian Oil & Gas plc 
and an advisor to the Board of 
SDL plc and Chairman of two 
private companies.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
Solicitors
Ashurst
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London EC2A 2HA
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP
HSBC Bank plc
City Corporate 
Banking Centre
60 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4N 4TR
Investment Bankers
Lazard
50 Stratton Street
London W1J 8LL
Corporate Stockbrokers
Numis Securities
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LT 28 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Corporate Governance
John Rennocks
Chairman
This section of the Annual Report & Accounts sets out how 
the Board and its Committees discharge their duties and how 
we apply the principles of good governance set out in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”).
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate 
governance appropriate to the size and complexity of Diploma 
PLC. The Company complied with the Code during its 
transitional year of entry into the FTSE 250 and has made good 
progress in developing its policies and processes, including our 
decision last year to adopt annual re-elections of all Directors 
and our commitment to undertake periodic external facilitation 
of Board evaluation, once we have completed the additions to 
the Board, described below. I remain conﬁdent that we will be in 
full compliance with the Code, as it applies to larger companies, 
by September next year. 
I referred last year to the long service of John Matthews and 
myself and my commitment to focus on developing the Board 
with a blend of skills so that we continue to have a Board where 
the overall strength is greater than the “sum of the parts”. We 
have made a good start this year and have recently appointed 
as a non-Executive Director, Marie-Louise Clayton whose 
strong ﬁnancial background and experience will make an 
excellent addition to the Audit Committee. We hope to make 
a further appointment of another non-Executive Director in 
2013 as part of an orderly succession plan. I believe that through 
these changes the Board will continue to have the appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of 
the Company to enable the Directors to discharge their duties 
and responsibilities effectively.
The Code was updated again in September 2012 with the 
addition of a limited, but important number of new Provisions, 
including a requirement to report on policies on Boardroom 
diversity. We remain fully committed to Boardroom diversity 
but do not believe that for a Company of our size that it is 
appropriate to set measurable targets for diversity. A further 
addition to the Code is a requirement to put the external audit 
contract out to tender at least every ten years, which we support 
and is in line with our current policy. Other amendments to 
the Code will be addressed in next year’s Annual Report & 
Accounts, once reporting practice has developed further.
In October 2012 the Board reviewed the Group’s strategy for the 
next ﬁve years and used the opportunity to visit the UK Controls 
business in Swindon. Management provided presentations on 
their businesses and their proposed development strategies and 
the Board visited the new facility in Swindon. The review of the 
Group’s strategy provides an opportunity for the Board to reﬂect 
on progress achieved in recent years and set plans and targets 
for the direction of future development of the Group. 
Finally, I would like to encourage all shareholders to join us 
at our AGM on 16 January 2013, as it provides an excellent 
opportunity to meet all members of the Board. 
John Rennocks
Chairman
Compliance Statement
The Corporate Governance report on pages 29 to 43 is 
designed to provide shareholders with a clear summary of 
the Group’s governance arrangements by reference to the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) as it applied 
to the Company in 2012. Throughout the accounting 
period to which this report relates, the Directors believe that 
the Company has complied with all of the relevant 
Provisions set out in Sections A to E of the Code.
Number of Board Meetings:
Directors and attendance 2012
John Rennocks (Chairman) 6/6
John Matthews 6/6
Ian Grice 5/6
Marie-Louise Clayton (appointed 13 November 2012) 1/1
Bruce Thompson 6/6
Iain Henderson 6/6
Nigel Lingwood 6/6 29
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Report on Corporate Governance
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
As a UK-listed company, Diploma PLC is required to state 
whether it has complied with the Main Principles of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) published by the 
Financial Reporting Council (“FRC”) in June 2010, throughout the 
year in review and, where the provisions have not been complied 
with, to provide an explanation. Diploma PLC is also required to 
explain how it has applied the Main Principles of the Code and 
this is set out below.
The FRC published a new edition of the Code on 28 September 
2012 which contains further amendments to the 2010 Code. 
Compliance with the new edition of the Code will not be 
mandatory for the Company until 2013.
Leadership
The Company’s governance structure is based on the leadership 
principles set out in the Code. The core activities of the Board 
and its Committees are planned on an annual basis and this 
forms the basic structure within which the Board operates. The 
Board has adopted formal terms of reference which reﬂect the 
principles contained in the Code, and cover the following:
 Strategy – reviewing and agreeing strategy;
 Performance – monitoring the performance of the Group 
and also evaluating its own performance;
 Standards and values – setting standards and values to guide 
the affairs of the Group;
 Oversight – ensuring an effective system of internal controls 
is in place, ensuring that the Board receives timely and 
accurate information on the performance of the Group and 
the proper delegation of authority; and
 People – ensuring the Group is managed by individuals with 
the necessary skills and experience and that appointments to 
the Board are managed effectively. 
The terms of reference also sets out the separate and distinct 
roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive. 
The Board appoints the Chief Executive and monitors his 
performance in leading the Company and providing operational 
and performance management in delivering the agreed 
strategy. Speciﬁcally, he is responsible for developing, for the 
Board’s approval, appropriate values and standards to guide all 
activities undertaken by the Company.
The approval of acquisitions, for the most part, is a matter 
reserved for the Board, save that it delegates to the Chief 
Executive the responsibility for such activities to a speciﬁed level 
of authority. Similarly, there are authority levels covering capital 
expenditure which can be exercised by the Chief Executive. 
Beyond these levels of authority, projects are referred to the 
Board for approval.
Other matters reserved to the Board include treasury policies, 
internal control, risk management and the appointment or 
removal of the Group Company Secretary. The Company 
maintains appropriate insurance cover with respect to legal 
action against its Directors.
T o ensure that non-Executive Directors can constructively challenge 
and help proposals on strategy, the Board has adopted a process of 
reviewing and approving the agreed strategy for the Company on a 
two/three yearly basis. In October 2012, the Board undertook a 
strategy development review at the Group’s business in Swindon, 
UK. The next strategy meeting is likely to be held in 2014. 
Effectiveness
The Board
The Company was promoted to the FTSE 250 in October 2011 
with a Board comprising the Chairman, two independent 
non-Executive Directors, and three Executive Directors, 
providing an appropriate range of skill and experience. 
On 13 November 2012 the Board appointed Marie-Louise 
Clayton as a non-Executive Director and member of the Audit 
Committee. The non-Executive Directors are appointed for 
speciﬁed terms and the details of their respective appointments 
are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 43. The 
biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 
26 and 27.
The Board has six scheduled meetings each year and meets 
more frequently as required. It met on six occasions during the 
year under review and attendance at these meetings is set out  
in the chart opposite. During the year Ian Grice missed one 
meeting due to unforeseen circumstances and the Group 
Company Secretary ensured that he was fully briefed on the 
business of the meeting.
The non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board to  
be independent in character and judgement and there are no 
relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear to 
affect, a Director’s judgement. The Chairman, John Rennocks 
was considered independent by the Board both at the time of 
his appointment as Director on 12 July 2002 and as Chairman 
on 7 January 2004 and in accordance with the Code, the 
ongoing test of independence for the Chairman is not 
appropriate. The Board also recognises the long service of John 
Matthews, who is the Senior Independent Director and who will 
at the time of the next Annual General Meeting on 16 January 
2013, have served nine years as a non-Executive Director, 
having been ﬁrst elected by shareholders in January 2004. The 
Board remains satisﬁed that John continues to be a strong and 
independent contributor, who both demonstrates commitment 
to the role and possesses in-depth knowledge of the Group. 
The Board believe that it is in the best interests of the Company 
that John Matthews remains as a non-Executive Director to 
assist the ongoing refreshment of the Board over the next 
twelve months. 30 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
All non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time 
commitments at appointment. The ability of individual  
Directors to allocate sufficient time to the discharge of their 
responsibilities is considered as part of the Directors’ annual 
evaluation process overseen by the Chairman. Any issues 
concerning the Chairman’s time commitment are dealt with  
by the Nomination Committee, chaired for this purpose by  
the Senior Independent Director.
Non-Executive Directors are required to inform the Board of 
any changes to their other appointments.
There are three standing Committees of the Board to which 
various matters are delegated. Membership of the Committees 
is set out on pages 26 and 27 and terms of reference of each  
the Committees are set out on the Company’s website  
(www.diplomaplc.com). In compliance with the Code, the 
Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees are 
comprised exclusively of independent non-Executive Directors.
During the year the Chairman has also held meetings with the 
non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present.
Diversity
The Board is committed to a culture that attracts and retains 
talented people to deliver outstanding performance and further 
enhance the success of the Company. In that culture, diversity 
across a range of criteria is valued, primarily in relation to skills, 
knowledge and experience and also in other criteria such as 
gender and ethnicity. The Board has considered setting 
objectives in relation to diversity, but does not believe that such 
objectives are appropriate at this juncture, given the relatively 
small Board. The Board will however keep this matter 
under review, particularly in light of Board succession 
and development.
Appointments to the Board
The Board has established a Nomination Committee which leads 
the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations 
to the Board. The members of the Nomination Committee are 
John Rennocks, who is the Chairman, together with John 
Matthews and Ian Grice. The Committee would be chaired by  
the Senior Independent Director on any matter concerning the 
chairmanship of the Company. The Group Company Secretary is 
the Secretary to the Committee. 
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference 
which are available on the Company’s website, covering the 
authority delegated to it by the Board. In carrying out its duties, 
the Committee will:
 Take responsibility for identifying and nominating, for the 
approval of the Board, candidates to ﬁll Board vacancies as 
and when they arise.
 Before making an appointment, evaluate the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience on the Board and in the light of 
this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and 
capabilities required for a particular appointment.
 In identifying suitable candidates, consider candidates on merit 
and against objective criteria and will take care that appointees 
have enough time available to devote to the position.
 Consider candidates from a range of backgrounds, both 
internally and externally and may use the services of external 
advisors to facilitate the search.
During the year the Nomination Committee met ﬁve times at 
which proposals for development of the Board were discussed. 
As part of this process, the Committee determined the selection 
criteria for new independent non-Executive Directors, which set 
out particular skills, knowledge, independence, experience and 
diversity, including gender.
The Committee, having agreed the selection criteria, decided to 
appoint Norman Broadbent LLP , an external search agency, to 
assist with the identiﬁcation of suitable candidates. Norman 
Broadbent LLP has no other connection with the Company. 
Norman Broadbent LLP drew up a list of candidates from a 
range of industries and backgrounds for initial appraisal by the 
Committee. From this, a shortlist of suitable candidates, that 
met the search and selection criteria, was prepared and these 
candidates were interviewed by the Nomination Committee. 
Following these interviews, the Nomination Committee 
recommended to the Board the appointment of Marie-Louise 
Clayton as a non-Executive Director.
Marie-Louise Clayton will be appointed for an initial period of 
three years, subject to election by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting on 16 January 2013 and annually thereafter. 
Thereafter, and subject to her election, her appointment will be 
for a term of three years unless terminated earlier by, and at the 
discretion of, either party, upon three months’ notice. 
Information and professional development
An induction programme is agreed for all new Directors aimed 
at ensuring that they are able to develop an understanding and 
awareness of the Company’s core processes, its people and 
businesses. The non-Executive Directors’ awareness of the 
businesses is further developed through periodic visits to the 
principal business locations and presentations to the Board by 
senior management of the businesses.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive and  
the Group Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that 
Directors are supplied with information in a timely manner that is 
in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge 
their duties. In the normal course of business, the Chief Executive 
makes an oral report to the Board at each meeting and 
information is provided and reported through formal Board 
reports that include information on operational matters and 
strategic developments. There are also reports on the 
performance of Group operations, ﬁnancial performance relative 
to the Budget, business development and investor relations. 
Corporate Governance continued
Report on Corporate Governance continued 31
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at 
Board meetings and where appropriate, brieﬁngs as necessary 
are provided on various elements of corporate governance and 
other regulatory issues.
The Group Company Secretary acts as an advisor to the Board 
on matters concerning governance and regulatory issues and 
ensures compliance with Board procedures. All Directors have 
access to his advice and a procedure also exists for Directors  
to take independent professional advice at the Company’s 
expense. No such advice was sought during the year. The 
appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary 
and his remuneration are matters for the Board as a whole.
As indicated last year, the Board reviewed the combined role of 
Company Secretary and Group Finance Director, and concluded 
that following promotion to the FTSE 250, it was now appropriate 
to separate the two roles. Anthony Gallagher was appointed as 
Group Company Secretary with effect from 21 September 2012.
Board evaluation
The Board’s annual evaluation of effectiveness are completed 
internally using speciﬁcally designed evaluation forms and 
under the direction of the Chairman. This exercise encompasses 
an evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole, as 
well as of the Committees and individuals. Feedback on Board 
performance is presented to a meeting of the Board which 
agrees actions and objectives for the following year.
The Board intends to introduce periodic external evaluations of 
the Board in the future.
Re-election
All Directors to the Board are subject to election by the 
shareholders at the ﬁrst Annual General Meeting following their 
appointment by the Board. The Board has adopted the provision of 
the Code, whereby all Directors are subject to re-election annually.
Remuneration
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee 
responsibility for agreeing remuneration policy and the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors. The Committee is 
formed exclusively of non-Executive Directors and the Report 
of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 34 to 43.
Accountability 
The Board is committed to providing shareholders with a clear 
assessment of the Company’s ﬁnancial position and prospects. 
This is achieved through this Annual Report & Accounts, the 
Annual Review and through other periodic ﬁnancial statements 
and announcements. 
The arrangements established by the Board for the application 
of risk management and internal control principles are set out 
on page 33. The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee 
oversight of the Group’s corporate reporting, management of the 
relationship with the auditor and review of the Company’s risk 
management and internal control procedures, further details of 
which can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 32. 
Relations with Shareholders
The Company has a well developed investor relations 
programme managed by the Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director. Through this programme the Company 
maintains regular contact with major shareholders to 
communicate clearly the Group’s objectives and monitors 
movements in signiﬁcant shareholdings. 
Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive Officer 
and Group Finance Director through presentations made twice 
a year on the operating and ﬁnancial performance of the Group 
and its longer term strategy. The Chief Executive Officer and 
Group Finance Director generally deal with questions from 
individual shareholders. 
All ﬁnancial and trading announcements are published 
immediately on the Company’s website, www.diplomaplc.com, 
including copies of the presentations made to analysts and key 
shareholders. 
The non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the 
views of institutional shareholders and an independent insight is 
sought through research carried out twice a year by the 
Company’s advisors.
Through these processes, the Board is kept abreast of key issues 
and the opportunity for shareholders to meet the Chairman or 
Senior Independent Director, separately from the Executive 
Directors, is available on request.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders 
at least 20 working days prior to the meeting and includes a 
separate resolution on each substantially separate issue. All 
shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting when the Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer give a statement on the Group’s 
performance during the year, together with a statement on 
current trading conditions. The Chairman of the Board and of 
the Remuneration and Audit Committees will normally be 
available to answer questions at the meeting.
The Board has resolved, in line with emerging best practice, 
to conduct a poll on each resolution proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting. The results of the Annual General Meeting 
resolutions, including details of votes cast, are published on the 
Company’s website. 32 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
John Matthews
Chairman of the  
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises John Matthews (Chairman), 
Ian Grice and Marie-Louise Clayton, who was appointed to the 
Committee on joining the Board on 13 November 2012. John 
Rennocks was a member of the Audit Committee until his 
resignation from the Committee on 13 November 2012; 
however John Rennocks will continue to attend meetings of the 
Committee at the invitation of the Chairman. John Matthews 
and Marie-Louise Clayton are both qualiﬁed accountants who 
have recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience. 
The meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the 
Executive Directors and the external auditor. In addition, the 
Chairman of the Committee meets privately with the external 
auditor at least twice each year. The Group Company Secretary 
is Secretary to the Committee. 
Role of the Committee 
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are set  
out in written terms of reference which are available on the 
Company’s website (www.diplomaplc.com). They are 
as follows:
 to monitor the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements of the 
Group and any formal announcements relating to the 
Group’s ﬁnancial performance, reviewing signiﬁcant ﬁnancial 
judgements contained therein;
 to review the Group’s internal control systems and risk 
management procedures;
 to make recommendations to the Board for it to put to 
shareholders for approval in general meeting in relation to 
the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the 
external auditor and to approve the terms of engagement of 
the external auditor;
 to review and monitor the external auditor’s independence 
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process 
taking into consideration relevant UK professional and 
regulatory requirements;
 to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the 
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into 
account relevant guidance regarding the provision of 
non-audit services by the external auditor;
 to report to the Board, on any matters in respect of which it 
considers that action or improvement is needed and to make 
recommendations as to the steps to be taken; and
 to consider annually whether there is a need for a formal 
internal audit function and make recommendation to the 
Board.
Number of Committee Meetings:
Directors and attendance 2012
John Matthews (Chairman) 6/6
John Rennocks 5/5
Ian Grice 5/6
Marie-Louise Clayton (appointed 13 November 2012) 1/1
In addition, the Audit Committee has an important role to play 
through its responsibility for, and oversight of, the auditor 
relationship and auditor independence. The Committee 
reviewed the audit engagement in 2008 and following an audit 
tender process, recommended to the Board the appointment  
of Deloitte LLP as auditor to the Company and Group. The 
Committee supports recent guidance in the Code that the 
external audit engagement should be put out to tender at least 
every ten years.
The Committee has also established a set of guidelines covering 
the type of non-audit work that can be assigned to the external 
auditor. These relate to further assurance services where the 
auditor’s detailed knowledge of the Group’s affairs means that 
they may be best placed to carry out such work. This extends to, 
but is not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, 
regulatory reports, and on occasions, work in connection with 
disposals. Work in connection with acquisitions, including due 
diligence reviews, is generally not provided by the auditor, but is 
placed with other ﬁrms.
Taxation services are generally not provided by the auditor; a 
separate ﬁrm is retained to provide tax advice, including any 
assistance with tax compliance matters generally.
In other circumstances, proposed assignments are put out to 
tender and decisions to award work taken on the basis of 
demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
The Committee receives an annual report which provides details 
of any assignments and related fees carried out by the auditor in 
addition to their normal audit work, and these are reviewed 
against the above guidelines.
The Committee has also formally reviewed and approved the 
arrangements by which Group employees may, in conﬁdence, 
raise concerns about possible irregularities in ﬁnancial reporting 
or other matters (so called “whistleblowing” procedures).
Activities During the Year
The Audit Committee assists the Board in assuring the integrity 
of the ﬁnancial statements and related disclosures. 
Corporate Governance continued
Audit Committee 33
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
During the current year, the Committee carried out the 
following work:
 at its meetings in May and November, the Committee 
reviewed the Interim Report and the Annual Report & 
Accounts, respectively. On both occasions, the Committee 
received reports from the Group Finance Director and from 
the external auditor identifying any accounting or 
judgemental issues requiring its attention. At its November 
meeting, the Committee also received reports from the 
Group Internal Audit Manager; 
 in September the Committee met with the external auditor to 
discuss their audit plan process;
 in January and July the Committee met to approve formal 
Interim Management Statements which were released to the 
market, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules; and
 the Committee met on one further occasion during the year 
to review a Trading Update which the Company issued to the 
market. 
In the November meeting, the Committee reviews the 
information included in the Annual Report & Accounts to ensure 
that the information provides a fair review of the Group’s 
business. It also reviews the external audit management letter 
and the procedures designed to ensure that the external auditor 
was aware of all “relevant audit information”, as required by the 
Companies Act 2006.
In May, the Committee also assesses the effectiveness of the 
external audit process and receives a report on the external 
auditor’s own quality control procedures. This assessment 
covers all aspects of the audit service provided by the 
Company’s external auditor. 
Risk Management and Internal Control
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of 
the Group’s system of internal control. The system of internal 
control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
The Board has established a clear organisational structure with 
deﬁned authority levels. The day-to-day running of the Group’s 
business is delegated to the Executive Directors of the 
Company. The Executive Directors visit each operating unit on  
a regular basis and meet with both operational and ﬁnance 
management and staff.
Key ﬁnancial and operational measures are reported on a 
weekly and/or monthly basis and are measured against both 
budget and half year reforecasts which have been approved and 
reviewed by the Board. On an annual basis, each business unit  
is required to prepare a risk assessment process on the key 
strategic, operational, ﬁnancial and accounting risks to identify, 
evaluate and manage the signiﬁcant risks to the Group’s 
business. They include common deﬁnitions of risk and ensure, 
as far as practicable, that the policies and procedures 
established by the Board are appropriate to manage the 
perceived risks to the Group. These assessments are 
supplemented by a detailed evaluation of the key ﬁnancial 
controls of the business units which are critically reviewed by 
the Group’s Internal Audit Manager. The Committee will 
annually review the results of these assessments and identify the 
key strategic and operating risks of the Group. During the year, 
the risk assessment process revealed no signiﬁcant risks of 
which the Board was not previously aware.
The risks and uncertainties which are currently judged to have 
the largest potential impact on the Group’s long term 
performance are set out on pages 22 to 25.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems. T aking into account the 
processes that have been designed and implemented for 2012, the 
Board, with the advice of the Committee, has reviewed the 
effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems 
for the period from 1 October 2011 to the date of this report and is 
satisﬁed that the Group has in place effective risk management and 
internal control systems.
Internal Audit
The Group’s ﬁnance department includes a separate internal 
audit function. This was expanded in September by the 
appointment of a second qualiﬁed internal auditor who will be 
based in Toronto, Canada and reports to the Group Internal 
Audit Manager in London. A full programme of internal audit 
visits has been completed during the year. The scope of work 
carried out by internal audit generally focuses on the internal 
ﬁnancial controls and risk management procedures operating 
within each business. Written reports are prepared on the results 
of each visit which sets out weaknesses identiﬁed during the 
work, together with recommendations to improve the control 
environment. These reports are reviewed and discussed with 
the Executive Directors. 
At the conclusion of the ﬁnancial year, the Group Internal Audit 
Manager reports to the Committee on the results of the audit 
work carried out in the year and agrees an Audit Plan for the 
following ﬁnancial year. There were no signiﬁcant weaknesses 
identiﬁed in the audits undertaken during the current year, but a 
number of recommendations were made to improve internal 
review processes and risk management procedures, particularly 
in the newly acquired businesses and where the opportunity to 
segregate duties was limited. 
The Committee continues to keep under review the need for a 
more independent internal audit function in the Group. The 
Committee remains satisﬁed that the Group’s system of internal 
control is appropriate for a group of the size and nature of 
Diploma PLC and the Committee’s current view is that a separate 
formal independent internal audit function is not necessary. 34 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
I am pleased to present the Remuneration Report for 2012 on 
which the Board will be seeking approval from shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting. The Report, while similar to last 
year, includes some new and additional information which I 
hope shareholders will ﬁnd informative. 
Our remuneration policy continues to be focused on attracting, 
retaining and motivating a strong and talented management 
team which, as shown in the chart below, has delivered a 
substantial increase in value to shareholders over the past ﬁve 
years. The Committee remains conﬁdent that this policy 
will ensure that the management team continues to focus 
on delivering the Group’s growth strategy in an increasingly 
competitive international market. As importantly, this policy 
aligns the rewards of management with the returns to 
shareholders by ensuring that the largest element of 
remuneration remains ﬁrmly linked to the long term 
share performance of the Company.
The Committee has made no substantive changes to the 
remuneration arrangements this year as it remains satisﬁed 
that they remain appropriate and that rewards made under the 
Company’s incentive plans appropriately reﬂect performance 
delivered. The salary awards to the Executive Directors 
approved by the Committee recognise the increasing size and 
complexity of the Group, following a period in which the Group 
grew substantially and entered the FTSE 250. The Committee 
also agreed that all employees, including Executive Directors, 
could take pension contributions in the form of additional salary, 
where changes to the taxation of personal pensions made 
pension contributions unattractive. 
During the year the Committee updated the rules for the Annual 
Performance Bonus Plan and introduced clawback provisions for 
malus that now apply to all awards granted under the Company’s 
share incentive and annual bonus plans. These are designed to 
allow the Committee to cancel or reduce unvested share awards, 
or (in the case of the Annual Performance Bonus Plan) cash 
payments, in the event of material misstatement of the Company’s 
ﬁnancial results. 
Remuneration issues have continued to attract signiﬁcant 
media and Government attention during the year. This led to the 
announcement by the Department for Business, Innovation and 
Skills (“BIS”) to announce measures to increase transparency in 
reporting of executive remuneration and to give shareholders 
more power through binding votes. The Committee, with the 
help of advisers, has started a review of the implications on 
both the Company’s remuneration policy and the additional 
reporting requirements. 
The Committee expects to spend a large proportion of its 
time in 2013 developing an appropriate approach to these new 
proposals on remuneration, once legislation has been ﬁnalised.
I hope you will ﬁnd this report of the Committee’s work 
comprehensive and understandable and that you will join me 
in supporting the resolution to vote for this year’s Remuneration 
Report at the Company’s AGM on 16 January 2013.
Ian Grice
Chairman
Ian Grice
Chairman of the 
Remuneration 
Committee
Number of Committee Meetings:
Directors and attendance 2012
Ian Grice (Chairman) 6/6
John Rennocks 6/6
John Matthews 6/6
Corporate Governance continued
Remuneration Report
Historical TSR performance
The graph opposite shows the TSR performance of Diploma 
PLC for the ﬁve year period ended 30 September 2012 
(calculated in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Regulations 2002 (the “Regulations”)) against the FTSE 
250 index.
TSR is deﬁned as the return on investment obtained from holding a company’s shares over 
a period. It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value of the shares and other 
payments to or by shareholders within the period. Diploma (rebased) FTSE 250 (rebased, ex Investment Trusts)
Sep 07
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Sep 08 Sep 09 Sep 10 Sep 11 Sep 12
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over ﬁve years 35
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Remuneration Committee
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are:
 setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for 
approval the Group’s overall remuneration policy and 
strategy;
 setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration 
arrangements for the Chief Executive and Executive 
Directors, including terms and conditions of employment 
and any policy changes;
 reviewing and monitoring remuneration arrangements for 
the senior managers of the operating businesses, including 
terms and conditions of employment and any policy 
changes; and
 approving the rules and launch of any Group share-based 
incentive plans, and the granting of awards under any 
such plans.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the 
Diploma PLC website (www.diplomaplc.com) and copies are 
available on request.
Bruce Thompson, Chief Executive, attends meetings by the 
invitation of the Committee to provide advice to the Committee 
to help it to make informed decisions. The Group Company 
Secretary attends meetings as Secretary to the Committee. 
The Committee also holds meetings without management and 
receives information and independent advice as appropriate. 
The Committee retains Kepler Associates as advisers on 
remuneration matters and in 2010 Kepler Associates provided 
advice to the Committee on remuneration issues including in 
particular, the design and implementation in 2010 of the new 
incentive schemes. Kepler Associates has not provided any 
further advice to the Committee since 2010.
Stephenson Harwood LLP (and previously Ashurst) provide legal 
advice to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration 
matters; during the current year this advice largely related to 
the implications of the Government’s proposals to improve 
corporate communication on executive pay. Stephenson 
Harwood LLP does not advise the Group on other issues.
Executive Directors
Remuneration policy
In deﬁning the Group’s remuneration policy, the Committee 
takes into account advice received from external consultants 
and also the principles and best practice guidelines set by 
regulators and institutional shareholder bodies, including the 
Association of British Insurers (“ABI”). The Committee has also 
followed the principles of Section D of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code that relate to remuneration. 
The current intention is that the framework of this remuneration 
policy will apply for future years.
Performance based rewards
The Company has a well-developed, Group-wide performance 
management system which ensures that senior managers are 
rewarded based on performance. For Executive Directors, the 
Company operated the following performance-related 
incentive arrangements in 2012:
 an Annual Performance Bonus Plan – designed to focus 
Executives on the business priorities for the ﬁnancial year and 
to reinforce individual and Group performance objectives; 
and
 Long Term Incentives – designed to reward and retain 
Executives over the longer term while also aligning their 
interests with those of the Company’s shareholders. 
Executive Directors receive grants of the Diploma PLC 2011 
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) and the Diploma PLC 2011 
Share Matching Plan (“SMP”) share awards which aim to 
motivate participants to maximise Adjusted EPS and TSR,  
as measured against the FTSE mid-250 Index, excluding 
Investment Trusts (the “FTSE 250 index”).
The two incentive arrangements complement each other 
and enable the measurement and reward of both short and 
long term performance. In particular, the Committee considers 
that these complementary incentive arrangements take 
appropriate account of business risk and align the reward 
arrangements of the Executive Directors with the delivery of 
sustained returns to shareholders. The Committee continues to 
consider that the three-year vesting period for its long term 
incentives is appropriate. 
The FTSE 250 index was chosen because this is a recognised 
broad equity market index of which the Company is a member. 
Shareholding guidelines
The Committee has adopted guidelines for Executive Directors, 
to encourage substantial long term share ownership. These 
specify that, over a period of ﬁve years from the date of 
appointment, the Chief Executive should build up, and then 
retain, a holding of shares with a value equivalent to 200% of 
base salary. The guideline holding for other Executive Directors  36 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
should be 100% of base salary. The guidelines also require that, 
in relation to the long term incentive awards, vested shares (net 
of tax) should be retained by the individual until the required 
shareholding level is reached. 
0
300
600
900
1,200
1,500
Nigel Lingwood Iain Henderson Bruce Thompson
%
Shareholdings at 30 September 2012 against guidelines
1,426%
200%
100%
896%
100%
404%
 Guideline holdings
 Actual holdings 
The chart above sets out the percentage of base salary held in 
shares by each of the Executive Directors, as compared with  
the guidelines.
Components of remuneration
The table on page 37 summarises the components of reward 
for Executive Directors of Diploma PLC.
The current remuneration package for Executive Directors 
comprises ﬁxed and variable components. The variable 
components are the incentive arrangements referred to above 
and the ﬁxed components are base salary and beneﬁts 
(including pensions entitlements). 
The average proportion of total remuneration that was 
performance-related in 2012 is illustrated by the chart shown 
below. This shows that a signiﬁcant proportion of each 
Executive Director’s total remuneration is performance-related 
at the target performance level. For stretch performance, the 
proportion of total remuneration that is performance-related 
is higher still. In estimating the relative contribution of those 
elements of remuneration that are performance related and 
those that are not (as required by Regulations), it has been 
assumed that 50% of performance related awards vest under 
target performance and 100% under stretch performance. 
A number of assumptions have had to be made about the 
Company’s share price growth over the next three years 
and TSR performance relative to the FTSE 250 index. 
Composition of remuneration package for Executive Directors
As an average % of total remuneration at target and stretch performance 
60%
40%
Target
80%
20%
Stretch
 Variable cash and share-based incentives
 Fixed base salary, beneﬁts and pension
Senior executives below the Executive Directors
The policies and practices with regard to the remuneration of 
senior executives below the Executive Directors are generally 
treated consistently with the Executive Directors. These senior 
executives all have a signiﬁcant portion of their reward package 
linked to performance. Annual bonuses are linked to short term 
ﬁnancial targets which are similar to the targets for the Executive 
Directors. They also participate in cash based long term incentive 
plans which are focused on the operating proﬁt growth of their 
businesses over rolling three year periods. The Committee reviews 
and monitors the senior executive remuneration arrangements.
Executive Directors’ base salaries
Executive Directors’ salaries are reviewed each year, with any 
changes normally taking effect from 1 October. This review 
takes into account market competitiveness, individual 
performance and experience. 
The base salary increases for the Executive Directors which took 
effect from 1 October 2011 are summarised in the table below. 
Executive Director
Base salary at 
30 Sep 2012 
£000
Base salary at 
30 Sep 2011 
£000 % increase
Bruce Thompson 385 360 6.9
Iain Henderson 240 220 9.1
Nigel Lingwood 250 230 8.7
The Committee has regard to a range of relevant factors, 
including reward levels and practices in the Company’s businesses 
when determining remuneration levels for Executive Directors. 
In determining the annual base salary increases which applied 
from 1 October 2011, the Committee considered the range of 
remuneration increases applying across the Group, which reﬂected 
the increasing size and complexity of the underlying businesses. 
On 13 November 2012, the Committee approved an increase of 
4% in base salaries for the Executive Directors in respect of the year 
beginning 1 October 2012.
Annual performance bonus
The Diploma PLC Annual Performance Bonus Plan is a cash 
based scheme designed to reward Executive Directors for meeting 
stretching shorter term performance targets. At the start of the 
ﬁnancial year (1 October), the Board sets a ﬁnancial performance 
target principally focused on achievement of an increase in 
Adjusted EPS, which is signiﬁcantly ahead of both internal annual 
budgets and market consensus. This target is also underpinned  
by a requirement that the results for the year achieve a minimum 
target for operating margins, free cash ﬂow and return on trading 
capital employed (“ROTCE”). In the year ended 30 September 2012, 
the ﬁnancial performance required to meet the maximum annual 
bonus payable was based on a 20% increase in Adjusted earnings 
per share. The amount of bonus payable in respect of performance 
below this level was calculated on a pro-rata basis.
Corporate Governance continued
Remuneration Report continued 37
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Components of Remuneration
Set out below is a summary of reward components of Executive Directors for 2012 and which remains unchanged from 2011:
Component Aim Description Further detail
Fixed Base Salary Attract and retain talent 
by ensuring that salaries 
are competitive.
Reﬂect the individual’s 
experience and role within 
the Group.
Benchmarked against levels of pay awarded 
elsewhere in sector and FTSE index.
Paid monthly in cash.
Reviewed annually, with 
increases taking effect from 
1 October.
Beneﬁts Core Designed to be competitive 
within the market.
Core beneﬁts include pension contributions (or 
cash alternative), life assurance, annual leave 
and medical insurance.
Pension contributions paid 
at 20% (2011: 20%) of base 
salary which are either paid 
into personal savings schemes 
or paid as additional salary.
Additional – These include cash in lieu of a company car 
and cash bonuses in lieu of dividends forgone 
on unexercised, but vested LTIP awards.
–
Annual Performance 
Bonus Plan
Designed to focus Executive 
Directors on achievement of 
the annual budget and other 
business priorities for the 
ﬁnancial year.
Maximum 100% of salary for the Chief 
Executive Officer and 80% for other Executive 
Directors.
On target bonus is 60% for the Chief Executive 
Officer and 50% for the other Executive 
Directors.
Dependent on targeted 
improvement in Adjusted EPS 
and other ﬁnancial metrics 
of the Group for the Chief 
Executive Officer.
For other Executive Directors 
75% is based on the same 
criteria as the Chief Executive 
Officer, with the remaining 
25% subject to achievement of 
speciﬁc personal objectives.
Long Term Incentives – 
Share Awards
Incentivise Executive Directors 
to achieve superior returns and 
long term value growth.
Align the interests of the 
Executive Directors with 
those of Diploma PLC 
shareholders through building 
a shareholding in the Company.
Performance assessed over 
rolling three-year performance 
periods.
An award under the Diploma PLC 2011 
Performance Share Plan and the Diploma PLC 
2011 Share Matching Plan was made to the 
Executive Directors on 16 and 19 December 
2011, respectively.
On 30 September 2012, the ﬁnal awards made 
under the 2004 LTIP made on 18 November 
2009, vested, as set out on page 41.
Awards are discretionary.
Awards do not vest until the 
third anniversary of the date 
of grant.
If employment ceases during 
three-year vesting period, 
awards will normally lapse. 38 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Individual objectives are also set for the Chief Operating Officer and 
the Group Finance Director relating to factors including operating 
performance and business development activities. At the end of the 
ﬁnancial year , the Committee meets to assess the performance  
of each Executive Director against the ﬁnancial and individual 
objectives. Bonuses are normally paid in cash in December .
Long term incentive plans
The Company operates long term incentive arrangements for 
Executive Directors. These are designed to reward and retain 
Executive Directors over the longer term, while also aligning 
their interests with those of Diploma PLC shareholders. These 
arrangements comprise two incentive schemes; the Diploma 
PLC 2011 Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) and the Diploma PLC 
2011 Share Matching Plan (“SMP”). 
The PSP , in which the Executive Directors of the Company 
participate, provides for a grant of conditional awards of a speciﬁed 
number of ordinary shares in the Company, or an option to acquire 
a speciﬁed number of shares at an exercise price determined by 
the Committee (which may be nil or a nominal amount). No 
payment is required for the grant of an award.
The SMP also operates for Executive Directors of the Company, 
as a form of deferred reward and again provides for a grant of 
conditional awards of a speciﬁed number of ordinary shares in 
the Company. In the case of the SMP however, an Executive 
Director must accept an invitation from the Committee to 
personally acquire or pledge shares for a period of three years. 
These acquired or pledged shares are held by a nominee for the 
Executive Director and are released at the end of the three year 
performance period applying to the awards.
Awards, which are normally granted annually, must generally be 
made within 42 days after the announcement of the Company’s 
annual results. When making the decision on the level of award, 
the Committee takes into consideration a number of factors, 
including the face value of the award and plan dilution limits.
The face value of an award is equal to the number of shares, or 
shares under option, multiplied by the relevant share price. The 
relevant share price will be the mid-market closing share price 
on the day before the award. A face value limit of 100% of base 
salary applies to each PSP award to Executive Directors in 
normal circumstances. A face value limit of up to 100% of base 
salary applies to each SMP award in respect of which the 
Executive Director must pledge shares equal to 50% of base 
salary after tax.
All awards will normally vest three years after the date of grant. 
The vesting of awards is conditional on:
 continued employment;
 the Company’s growth in Adjusted EPS over a three year 
performance period; and
 the Company’s TSR performance over a three year 
performance period.
The latter two performance conditions apply to each award so 
that the vesting of 50% of the award is based on growth in 
Adjusted EPS and 50% of the award is based on the relative TSR 
performance. Each performance condition is measured over a 
three year period commencing on the ﬁrst day of the ﬁnancial 
year in which the award is made. There is no retesting of either 
performance metric.
The ﬁrst performance condition is that the average annual 
compound growth in the Company’s Adjusted EPS over the 
three consecutive ﬁnancial years, following the year prior to the 
grant, must exceed the annual compound growth rate in the UK 
Retail Price Index (“RPI”) over the same period as set out below.
% of awards vesting
Adjusted EPS growth (over 3 years) PSP SMP
RPI + 15% p.a. or above 100
RPI + 12% p.a. 100 50
RPI + 3% p.a. 30 15
Below RPI + 3% p.a. NIL NIL
Under the 2004 LTIP, at below RPI +3%, no awards vest, at RPI +3%, 30% of awards vest and at 
RPI +5% or more, 100% of awards vest (representing 50% of the total award).
Where the Company’s Adjusted EPS performance is between 
these percentage bands, vesting of the award is on a straight 
line basis.
For the purposes of this condition, EPS will comprise adjusted 
EPS as deﬁned in note 2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements. The deﬁnition of adjusted EPS remains consistent 
with the deﬁnition of EPS approved by the Remuneration 
Committee in previous years.
The second performance condition compares the growth of 
the Company’s TSR over a three year period to that of the 
companies in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding Investment Trusts) 
as set out below:
% of awards vesting
PSP SMP
Median + 15% p.a. or greater 100
Median + 12% p.a. 100 50
Median 30 15
Below Median NIL NIL
Under the 2004 LTIP, the TSR condition is based on the ranking of the Company’s performance 
in the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts) (“the comparator group”), rather than on absolute 
performance. Where the Company’s TSR performance ranks below median of the comparator 
group, no awards vest, at median, 30% of the awards vest and in the top quartile of the 
comparator group, 100% of awards will vest (representing 50% of the total award).
Corporate Governance continued
Remuneration Report continued 39
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Where the Company’s relative TSR performance is between the 
median and the maximum performance condition, vesting of 
the award is on a straight line basis.
Awards under the PSP and SMP were made on 16 and 19 
December 2011 respectively, to Bruce Thompson, Iain 
Henderson and Nigel Lingwood. The amount of shares that vest 
under these Awards will be determined at the completion of the 
three year performance period at 30 September 2014. Full 
details of all of these awards are set out on page 40.
At 30 September 2012, the ﬁnal award made on 18 November 
2009 under the previous long term incentive scheme (“the 
2004 LTIP”) crystallised at the end of the performance period 
and 100% of the award vested as nil paid options. These options 
are exercisable by each individual at a price of £1 up until 18 
November 2019. Further details of these awards and their 
performance conditions are set out on page 41. There are no 
further awards outstanding under the 2004 LTIP and this 
incentive scheme is now closed. 
Dilution
In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be 
issued or placed under option under any executive share plan 
established by the Company may not exceed 5% of the issued 
ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time. In any 
ten-year period, the aggregate number of shares which may be 
issued or placed under option, under all share plans established 
by the Company, may not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary 
share capital of the Company, from time to time.
Change of control
In the event of a change in control, vesting of award shares 
under the Company’s long term incentive plans is not automatic 
and would depend on the extent to which performance 
conditions had been met at that time. Time pro-rating will apply 
if the Committee considers it appropriate, given the 
circumstances of the change of control.
Dividend accrual
The Committee may decide, on or before the grant of an award, 
that on exercise of the award, the participant may receive, in 
addition to the shares to which he then becomes entitled, a 
payment equal in value to the aggregate amount of the 
dividends (excluding any tax credit) which would have been paid 
to the participant in respect of those shares between the date 
on which the award vests and the option period commences 
and the date on which the option is exercised, as if they had 
been beneﬁcially owned by him over that period. The payment 
may be made in cash or in an equivalent number of shares.
Pensions
The pension arrangements for Executive Directors are set out 
on page 42.
Service contracts
The Executive Directors’ service contracts, including 
arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by 
the Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate 
directors of the quality required to manage the Company. The 
Committee considers that a rolling contract with a notice period 
of one year is appropriate. 
The Executive Directors’ service contracts, which were drafted 
in accordance with best practice at the relevant time, contain 
provisions for compensation in the event of early termination or 
change of control, equal to the value of salary and contractual 
beneﬁts for the notice period. However when calculating 
termination payments, the Committee takes into account a 
variety of factors, including individual and Company 
performance, the obligation for the Director to mitigate his or 
her own loss (for example, by gaining new employment) and 
the Director’s length of service. Further details of the Executive 
Directors’ service contracts are set out on page 42.
The Committee considers that these provisions assist with 
recruitment and retention and that their inclusion is therefore in 
the best interests of shareholders.
Clawback
Clawback provisions are to apply to awards made under the 
Company’s share incentive and annual bonus plans which give 
the Committee the right to cancel or reduce unvested share 
awards, or (in the case of the Annual Performance Bonus Plan) 
cash payments, in the event of material misstatement of the 
Company’s ﬁnancial results, miscalculation of a participant’s 
entitlement or individual gross misconduct. 40 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
The following section of this Report provides details of the remuneration, service contracts or letters of appointment and share 
interests of all the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2012.
Executive Directors’ remuneration
Individual remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2012.
Fixed emoluments
Annual 
performance
bonus
(c)
£000
2012
Total
£000
2011
Total
£000
Base
salary
£000
Additional
salary 
(a)
£000
Taxable
beneﬁts
(b)
£000
Bruce Thompson 385 77 20 367 849 739
Iain Henderson 240 – 15 186 441 410
Nigel Lingwood 250 21 16 193 480 430
(a) Additional salary may be taken in lieu of pension contributions as explained on page 42.
(b) Taxable beneﬁts include medical insurance, life assurance, cash allowance in lieu of a car and a dividend equivalent on 2004 LTIP shares which have vested, but remain unexercised.
(c) The performance based bonus represent amounts payable only in respect of the 2012 incentive year and will be paid in December 2012.
Executive Directors’ interests in shares under the Diploma PLC 2011 Performance Share Plan
Market 
price at  
date of  
award
Shares 
over which 
awards 
held at  
1 Oct 2011
Shares 
over which 
awards 
granted 
during  
the year
End of 
performance 
period Vesting date
Shares 
over which 
awards  
held as at  
30 Sep 2012
Bruce Thompson 
24 January 2011 292.5p 123,077 30 Sep 2013 24 Jan 2014 123,077
16 December 2011
(a)
332.0p 116,314 30 Sep 2014 16 Dec 2014 116,314
Iain Henderson 
24 January 2011 292.5p 75,214 30 Sep 2013 24 Jan 2014 75,214
16 December 2011
(a)
332.0p 72,508 30 Sep 2014 16 Dec 2014 72,508
Nigel Lingwood 
24 January 2011 292.5p 78,632 30 Sep 2013 24 Jan 2014 78,632
16 December 2011
(a)
332.0p 75,529 30 Sep 2014 16 Dec 2014 75,529
(a) Executive Directors received grants of Performance Share Plan awards on 16 December 2011 in the form of nil-cost options. Under normal circumstances, the options will not become 
exercisable until the third anniversary of their date of grant and following assessment of the performance conditions after the end of the three-year vesting period which began on the ﬁrst 
day of the ﬁnancial year in which the award is made, and provided the Director remains in employment. Options are exercisable until the tenth anniversary of the award date. The level of 
vesting is dependent on the achievement of speciﬁed performance criteria at the end of the three-year performance period. The performance conditions for these awards are set out on 
page 38.
Executive Directors’ interests in shares under the Diploma PLC 2011 Share Matching Plan
Market 
price at  
date of  
award
Pledged 
investment 
shares
(b)
Shares 
over which 
awards 
held at  
1 Oct 2011
Shares 
over which 
awards 
granted 
during  
the year
End of 
performance 
period Vesting date
Shares  
over which 
awards  
held as at  
30 Sep 2012
Bruce Thompson 
27 January 2011 292.5p 30,154 123,077 30 Sep 2013 27 Jan 2014 123,077
19 December 2011
(a)
332.0p 27,915 116,314 30 Sep 2014 19 Dec 2014 116,314
Iain Henderson 
27 January 2011 292.5p 18,427 75,214 30 Sep 2013 27 Jan 2014 75,214
19 December 2011
(a)
332.0p 17,402 72,508 30 Sep 2014 19 Dec 2014 72,508
Nigel Lingwood 
27 January 2011 292.5p 19,265 78,632 30 Sep 2013 27 Jan 2014 78,623
19 December 2011
(a)
332.0p 18,127 75,529 30 Sep 2014 19 Dec 2014 75,529
(a) Executive Directors received grants of Share Matching Plan awards on 19 December 2011 in the form of nil-cost options. Under normal circumstances, the options will not become exercisable 
until the third anniversary of their date of grant and following assessment of the performance conditions after the end of the three-year vesting period which began on the ﬁrst day of the ﬁnancial 
year in which the award is made, and provided the Director remains in employment. Options are exercisable until the tenth anniversary of the award date. The level of vesting is dependent on the 
achievement of speciﬁed performance criteria at the end of the three-year performance period. The performance conditions for these awards are set out on page 38.
(b) Under the Share Matching Plan, Executive Directors are required to pledge shares for a minimum period of three years. These shares are pledged on an after tax basis; awards are made on a 
pre-tax basis.
Corporate Governance continued
Remuneration Report continued 41
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Executive Directors’ interests in shares under the Diploma PLC 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan
Market price 
at date of 
award
Shares 
over which 
awards  
held as at  
1 Oct 2011
Shares in 
respect 
of which 
awards 
vested at 30 
Sep 2012
(b),(c)
End of 
performance 
period Vesting date
Shares 
over which 
awards  
held as at  
30 Sep 2012
Bruce Thompson 
18 November 2009
(a)
168.5p 204,748 204,748 30 Sep 2012 Nov 2012 –
Iain Henderson 
18 November 2009
(a)
168.5p 124,629 124,629 30 Sep 2012 Nov 2012 –
Nigel Lingwood 
18 November 2009
(a)
168.5p 130,564 130,564 30 Sep 2012 Nov 2012 –
(a) Executive Directors were granted 2004 LTIP awards on 18 November 2009 in the form of nil-cost options. Under normal circumstances, the awards will not vest and the options will not 
become exercisable until after the end of the three-year vesting period which began on the ﬁrst day of the ﬁnancial year in which the award is made, following assessment of the 
performance conditions and provided the Director remains in employment. Options are exercisable until the tenth anniversary of the Award provided the Director remains in employment. 
The level of vesting is dependent on the achievement of speciﬁed performance criteria at the end of the three-year performance period. The performance conditions for the 2009 awards are 
set out on page 38.
(b) The award which vested as at 30 September 2012 represented 100% of the LTIP award which was granted on 18 November 2009.

2012 was 30.8% pa; this compares with an annual compound growth rate in RPI +5.0% over the same period of 9.3% pa. Accordingly 100% of the shares relating to this award (representing 
50% of the total award) vested unconditionally.

comparator group and put the Company in the 95 percentile. The median TSR was 40.9% and the lower threshold of the upper quartile was 93.4%. Accordingly 100% of the shares relating 
to this part of the award (representing 50% of the total award) vested unconditionally.
(c) Awards vest in the form of nil paid options to acquire shares in the Company for aggregate consideration of £1. Options are exercisable until the tenth anniversary of the Award provided the 
Director remains in employment. Set out in the table below are the number of options held by each Director which have not yet been exercised. The closing price of an ordinary share at 30 
September 2012, which is the date the performance conditions were satisﬁed, was 475.3p.
Executive Directors’ interests in options over shares which have vested under the Diploma PLC 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan
Options as at 
1 Oct 2011
Exercised  
in year
Vested  
in year
Options as at 
30 Sep 2012
Exercise 
price
Earliest 
normal 
exercise date Expiry date
Bruce Thompson 116,686 116,686 £1 Nov 2010 Nov 2017
276,423 (58,157)
(a)
218,266 £1 Nov 2011 Dec 2018
204,748 204,748 £1 Nov 2012 Dec 2019
Iain Henderson 69,109 69,109 £1 Nov 2010 Nov 2017
168,293 (36,254)
(b)
132,039 £1 Nov 2011 Dec 2018
124,629 124,629 £1 Nov 2012 Dec 2019
Nigel Lingwood 67,399 67,399 £1 Nov 2010 Nov 2017
168,293 (37,764)
(c)
130,529 £1 Nov 2011 Dec 2018
130,564 130,564 £1 Nov 2012 Dec 2019
(a) The market price on 19 December 2011, the date of exercise, was 332.0p, the total proceeds before tax was £193,080.
(b) The market price on 19 December 2011, the date of exercise, was 332.0p, the total proceeds before tax was £120,362.
(c) The market price on 19 December 2011, the date of exercise, was 332.0p, the total proceeds before tax was £125,375.
(d) The closing price of an ordinary share on 30 September 2012 was 475.3p (2011: 319.0p)
(e) On 19 December 2011, a total of 68,731 shares which were subject to these exercises were sold to cover the tax liability (together with associated dealing costs) due on exercise. The market 
price at that time was 332.0p.
The closing price of an ordinary share on 30 September 2012 was 475.3p (2011: 319.0p) and the share price ranged during the year 
from 475.3p (high) to 258.0p (low). All market price ﬁgures are derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
Executive Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
The Executive Directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the Company at the start and end of the ﬁnancial year were as follows:
Interest in ordinary shares
As at  
30 Sep 2012
As at  
30 Sep 2011
Bruce Thompson 1,120,569 1,155,154
Iain Henderson 452,433 470,031
Nigel Lingwood 212,392 194,265
(a) Interests include investment shares pledged under the Company’s 2011 Share Matching Plan and shares held through personal saving vehicles.
As of 19 November 2012 there have been no changes to these interests in ordinary shares of the Company. 42 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Pensions
The Executive Directors receive pension contributions from the Company which they may pay into personal savings vehicles or may 
take as additional salary, subject to income tax.
Pension contributions, which are equivalent to 20% (2011: 20%) of base salary were applied as follows:
2012 2011
Paid as 
additional 
salary
£000
Paid as 
pension 
contribution
£000
Total
payable
£000
Paid as 
additional 
salary
£000
Paid as 
pension 
contribution
£000
Total
payable
£000
Bruce Thompson 77 – 77 –7272
Iain Henderson –4848 –4444
Nigel Lingwood 21 29 50 –4646
In September 2010, the Company established an unregistered retirement beneﬁts scheme, known as the Diploma Holdings PLC 
Employer-Financed Retirement Beneﬁts Scheme (the “Scheme”). The Scheme was established for Executive Directors and higher 
paid UK employees in the Group as an alternative to the employees’ current pension arrangements and contained all the key 
features of a conventional registered pension plan. During 2011, £111,000 of pension contributions received from the Company in 
respect of 2011 and earlier years were paid into the Scheme. No contributions have been paid into the Scheme since 5 April 2011.
 
Executive Directors’ service contracts
Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors who served during the year are set out below:
Executive Directors Contract date Unexpired term Notice period
Compensation 
payable 
upon early 
termination
Bruce Thompson 13 July 2000 Rolling 1yr 1yr 1yr
Iain Henderson 1 August 2000 Rolling 1yr 1yr 1yr
Nigel Lingwood 3 July 2001 Rolling 1yr 1yr 1yr
Non-Executive Directors
The Board aims to recruit non-Executive Directors of a high calibre, with broad commercial, international or other relevant 
experience. Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee. 
Their appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to election by shareholders at the ﬁrst general meeting following 
their appointment and commencing from 2012, subject to annual re-election thereafter. The terms of engagement of the 
non-Executive Directors are set out in a letter of appointment.
The non-Executive Directors receive a basic annual fee and there are no additional fees payable for membership of, or chairing, 
a Committee of the Board or for acting as Senior Independent Director. The fees for non-Executive Directors are reviewed every 
two years by the Board, taking into account their responsibilities and required time commitment. Following a review undertaken in 
November 2011, the Board approved an increase in the Chairman’s fees to £125,000 per annum (2011: £70,000) and in the annual 
fees paid to non-Executive Directors to £43,000 (2011: £35,000); both to take effect from 1 October 2011.
In carrying out this review the Board recognised that additional responsibilities and time commitment that would be required 
of the non-Executive Directors, following the Company’s promotion to the FTSE 250 in October 2011. The Board is satisﬁed 
that the annual fees paid to non-Executive Directors and to the Chairman are now competitive.
The Chairman and the non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Company’s share schemes, incentive 
schemes or pension schemes.
Chairman
John Rennocks was appointed as a non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 12 July 2002 and as Chairman 
with effect from 7 January 2004. John Rennocks was re-appointed at the Annual General Meeting held on 18 January 2012 and 
John Rennock’s appointment will continue to be subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 
There is no notice period and no provision for payment in the event of early termination.
Corporate Governance continued
Remuneration Report continued 43
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Chairman and non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment
Date of original 
appointment
Date of 
re-election Expiry of term
John Rennocks 12 Jul 02 18 Jan 12 July 14
John Matthews 24 Jul 03 18 Jan 12 July 13
Ian Grice 24 Jan 07 18 Jan 12 Jan 13
Marie-Louise Clayton 13 Nov 12 – Nov 15
The non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment do not contain any provision for compensation in the event of early termination 
of their appointment. 
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
Individual remuneration for the year ended 30 September was as follows:
Salary/fees
2012  
£000
2011  
£000
John Rennocks 125 70
John Matthews 43 35
Ian Grice 43 35
Marie-Louise Clayton
(a)
– –
(a) appointed on 13 November 2012
Non-Executive Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
The non-Executive Directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the Company at the start and at the end of the ﬁnancial year were as 
follows:
Interests in ordinary shares
As at 
30 Sep 2012
As at 
1 Oct 2011
John Rennocks 103,766 103,766
John Matthews 12,420 12,420
Ian Grice 20,000 20,000
Marie-Louise Clayton – –
Audit notes
In accordance with Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Regulations, the following sections of the Report have been 
audited: Executive Directors’ remuneration; Executive Directors’ interests in the Diploma PLC 2011 Performance Share Plan; 
Executive Directors’ interests in the Diploma PLC 2011 Share Matching Plan; Executive Directors’ interests in the Diploma PLC 2004 
Long Term Incentive Plan; Executive Directors’ interests in options over shares which have vested under the Diploma PLC 2004 Long 
Term Incentive Plan; Executive Directors’ interests in ordinary shares; non-Executive Directors’ remuneration; non-Executive 
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares; and the tables and notes in the Pensions section of the report. The remaining sections are not 
subject to audit. 
By order of the Board
Ian Grice
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
19 November 2012 44 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Shareholders
Incorporation and principal activity
Diploma PLC is domiciled in England and registered in England 
& Wales under Company Number 3899848. At the date of this 
Report there were 113,239,555 ordinary shares of 5p each in 
issue, all of which are fully paid up and quoted on the London 
Stock Exchange.
The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialised 
technical products and services. A description and review of the 
activities of the Group during the ﬁnancial year and an indication 
of future developments is set out on pages 4 to 25; the Review 
of Group Performance incorporates the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”).
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at midday on 
16 January 2013 in the Brewers Hall, Aldermanbury Square, 
London EC2V 7HR. A Circular setting out the proposed 
resolutions, including a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as 
the auditor, will be set out in the Notice of the Annual General 
Meeting which is a separate document which will be sent to all 
shareholders and published on the Group’s website. 
Substantial shareholdings
At 16 November 2012 the Company had been notiﬁed of the 
following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights 
in its ordinary share capital:
Percentage 
of ordinary 
share capital
Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 7.51
F&C Asset Management plc 7.48
Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.54
Power Financial Corporation 5.09
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.33
Schroders PLC 3.28
Invesco PLC 3.25
As far as the Directors are aware there were no other notiﬁable 
interests.
Share capital
The rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, as well 
as the powers of the Company’s Directors, are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association, copies of which can be 
obtained from the Group Company Secretary and are available 
on the Company’s website at www.diplomaplc.com. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of 
securities and/or voting rights, other than those relating to the 
Company’s Share Matching Plan, described further below. No 
person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights 
with regard to control of the Company. The Company’s Articles 
of Association may be amended by special resolution of the 
Company’s shareholders.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority, all employees are required to seek approval of the 
Company before dealing in its shares.
Restrictions on transfer of shares
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certiﬁcated 
share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not 
prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on 
an open and proper basis, or where the Company has a lien 
over that share. The Directors may also refuse to register a 
transfer of a certiﬁcated share, unless the instrument of transfer 
is: (i) lodged, duly stamped (if necessary), at the registered office 
of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide 
accompanied by the certiﬁcate for the share(s) to be transferred 
and/or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably 
require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer; 
(ii) in respect of only one class of shares; (iii) in favour of a person 
who is not a minor, infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound 
mind; or (iv) in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
Transfers of uncertiﬁcated shares must be carried out using 
CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an 
uncertiﬁed share in accordance with the regulations governing 
the operation of CREST.
Participants in the Company’s Share Matching Plan pledge 
investment shares to a nominee for a period of three years, 
during which period these shares cannot be transferred. There 
are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 
Company except certain restrictions which may from time to 
time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example insider 
trading laws); or where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% 
interest in the Company’s certiﬁed shares has been served with a 
disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with 
information concerning interests in those shares. Other than 
shares held by participants of the Company’s Share Matching 
Plan, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between 
holders of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions 
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Shares held by the Diploma Employee Beneﬁt Trust
Whilst ordinary shares are held within the Diploma Employee 
Beneﬁt Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are 
exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their ﬁduciary 
duties. The Trustees of the Diploma Employee Beneﬁt Trust also 
waives dividends on all shares held for the purposes of the 
Company’s long term incentive arrangements.
Other Statutory Information
This section contains additional information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the  
Annual Report & Accounts. 45
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Share allotment
A general allotment power and a limited power to allot shares in 
speciﬁc circumstances for cash, otherwise than pro rata to 
existing shareholders, were given to the Directors by resolutions 
approved at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held 
on 18 January 2012. In the year ended 30 September 2012, the 
Company has not allotted any shares. These powers will expire at 
the conclusion of the 2013 Annual General Meeting and 
resolutions to renew the Directors’ powers are therefore included 
within the Notice of the Annual General Meeting in 2013.
Authority to make market purchases of own shares
An authority to make market purchases of shares was given to 
the Directors by a special resolution at the Annual General 
Meeting of the Company held on 18 January 2012. In the year 
to 30 September 2012 the Company has not acquired any of its 
own shares. This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 
2013 Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew the 
authority is therefore included within the Notice of the Annual 
General Meeting in 2013.
Employees
Employees
Building and developing the skills, competencies, motivation 
and teamwork of employees is recognised by the Board as 
being key to achieving the Group’s business objectives. The 
stability and commitment of the employees is demonstrated by 
the average length of service which has remained stable at 
six years as shown in the chart below. In addition the number of 
working days lost to sickness is less than 1% a year. These 
measures remain consistent across each of the Group’s sectors. 
Key employee statistics
2012 2011 2010
Average number of employees 
in year 1,062 910 814
Females as % of total 33% 32% 34%
Length of service (years) 6.0 6.3 6.4
Average staff turnover 16.7% 16.3% 15.0%
Sick days lost per person 0.9 1.9 2.8
The Group values the commitment of its employees and 
recognises the importance of communication to good working 
relationships. The Group keeps employees informed on matters 
relating to their employment, on business developments and on 
ﬁnancial and economic factors affecting the Group. This is 
achieved through management brieﬁngs, internal 
announcements, the Group’s website and by the distribution of 
Preliminary and Interim Announcements and press releases. 
Copies of the Annual Review and Annual Report & Accounts are 
also made available in the operating businesses. This 
communication programme enables employees to gain a better 
understanding of the Group’s business objectives and their roles 
in achieving them.
Both employment policy and practice in the Group are based on 
non-discrimination and equal opportunities. Ability and aptitude 
are the determining factors in the selection, training, career 
development and promotion of all employees. The Group 
remains supportive of the employment and advancement of 
disabled persons. Applications for employment by disabled 
persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the 
respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicants concerned. If 
an employee is, or becomes disabled during their period of 
employment, the Group will, if necessary and to the extent 
possible, adapt the work environment to enable the employee to 
continue in their current position or retrain the employee for 
duties suited to their abilities following disablement. At 30 
September 2012 the Group’s employees included two who were 
disabled and one who was on long term sick leave. 
Employment policies throughout the Group have been 
established to comply with relevant legislation and codes of 
practice relating to employment, health and safety and equal 
opportunities. The Group provides good quality working 
environments and facilities for employees, and training and 
development appropriate to each of their roles. 
Health and Safety
The Group places a great deal of importance on the provision of 
clean, healthy and safe working conditions. In addition to 
compliance with all local regulations, the Group promotes 
working practices which protect the health and safety of its 
employees. Health and Safety matters are kept under regular 
review by local management who report on such matters to the 
Chief Operating Officer. During 2012, 21 employees (2011: 16) 
were reported as having suffered minor injuries at work; none of 
these injuries resulted in absence from work for more than three 
days. There were two employees (2011: one) who suffered a 
serious injury during the year and were absent from work for 
more than three days, but both have since returned to work with 
their respective businesses.
Health and Safety training is part of the induction process for 
new employees. Speciﬁc training is given where relevant, for 
example regarding forklift truck operation and chemical 
handling, as well as general ﬁre safety and ﬁrst aid matters.
Environmental
The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental 
laws as an important part of its responsible approach to the 
environment and is committed to good environmental 
management practices throughout its operations. The 
Managing Directors, appointed by the Board, have responsibility 
for the environmental performance of their operating 
businesses and each subsidiary is required to implement 
initiatives to meet their responsibilities. 46 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Community
Relationships with suppliers, customers and other 
stakeholders
The Group recognises the obligation it has towards the parties with 
whom it has business dealings including customers, shareholders, 
employees, suppliers and advisors. Dealings with these groups 
depend upon the honesty and integrity of the Group’s employees 
and every effort is made to ensure that a high standard of expertise 
and business principles is maintained in such dealings. Where 
appropriate, training is given to maintain and to raise standards.
The Group’s policy towards suppliers is that each operating 
company is responsible for negotiating the terms and 
conditions under which they trade with their suppliers.
The Group does not have a formal code that it follows with 
regard to payments to suppliers. Group companies agree 
payment terms with their suppliers when they enter into binding 
purchasing contracts for the supply of goods and services.
Suppliers are, in that way, made aware of these terms. Group 
companies seek to abide by these payment terms when they 
are satisﬁed that the supplier has provided the goods or services 
in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions. At 
30 September 2012 the amount of trade creditors shown in the 
Group balance sheet represents 46 days (2011: 51 days) of 
average purchases.
Community impact and involvement
The Group contributes to local worthwhile causes and charities 
and ensures that the Group’s operations cause minimal negative 
impact within the community. 
The Group made donations for charitable purposes during the 
year which amounted to £28,285 (2011: £26,050). No political 
donations were made.
Directors
Conﬂicts of interest
From 1 October 2008, the Directors became subject to a 
statutory duty under the Act to avoid a situation where they 
have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conﬂicts, or 
possibly could conﬂict, with the Company’s interests. The Act 
allows directors of public companies to authorise conﬂicts and 
potential conﬂicts where appropriate, where the Articles of 
Association contain a provision to this effect. The Act also 
allows the Articles to contain other provisions for dealing with 
directors’ conﬂicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty. At the 
2009 AGM, revised Articles that contained such provisions were 
adopted. 
Procedures adopted to deal with conﬂicts of interest continue 
to operate effectively and the Board’s authorisation powers are 
being exercised properly in accordance with the Company’s 
Articles of Association.
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and indemnity
The Company has purchased insurance to cover its Directors 
and Officers against the costs of defending themselves in legal 
proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect 
of any damages resulting from those proceedings.
The Company also indemniﬁes its Directors and Officers to the 
extent permitted by law. Neither the insurance nor the 
indemnity provides cover where the Director or Officer has 
acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Statement of disclosure of information to the auditor 
Each of the Directors has reviewed this Annual Report & 
Accounts and conﬁrmed that so far as he is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is 
unaware and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to 
have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of that information. 
Financial
Results and dividends
The proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year attributable to shareholders was 
£31.3m (2011: £27.0m). The Directors recommend a ﬁnal 
dividend of 10.2p per ordinary share (2011: 8.5p), to be paid, if 
approved, on 23 January 2013. This, together with the interim 
dividend of 4.2p per ordinary share paid on 20 June 2012, 
amounts to 14.4p for the year (2011: 12.0p).
The results are shown more fully in the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements on pages 48 to 74 and summarised in the Finance 
Review on pages 12 to 14. 
Directors’ assessment of going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out in the section of the Report that deals with Group 
Performance on pages 4 to 25. The ﬁnancial position of the 
Group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 
are described in the Finance Review on pages 12 to 14. In 
addition pages 60 to 62 of the Annual Report & Accounts 
include the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital; its ﬁnancial risk management objectives; 
details of its ﬁnancial instruments and hedging activities; and 
its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable ﬁnancial resources, together with a 
broad spread of customers and suppliers across different 
geographic areas and sectors, often secured with longer term 
agreements. As a consequence, the Directors believe that the 
Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, 
despite the continuing uncertain economic outlook.
Other Statutory Information continued 47
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
The Group also has a committed revolving bank facility of £20m 
which expires on 18 November 2013. The Directors are 
conﬁdent that this facility will be successfully renegotiated prior 
to expiry on 18 November 2013. At 30 September 2012, the 
Group had net cash funds of £7.9m.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report & Accounts.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the 
ﬁnancial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & 
Accounts, including the Group and Parent Company ﬁnancial 
statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Parent Company ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. 
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Group 
ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union (“EU”) and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations and 
have elected to prepare the Parent Company ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Standards (UK Accounting Standards).
The Group ﬁnancial statements are required by law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU, to present fairly the ﬁnancial position and 
the performance of the Group; the Companies Act 2006 
provides in relation to such ﬁnancial statements, that references 
in the relevant part of that Act to ﬁnancial statements giving a 
true and fair view, are references to their achieving a fair 
presentation. 
In preparing each of the Group and Company ﬁnancial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently. 
 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent. 
 For the Group ﬁnancial statements, state whether they have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the 
EU.
 For the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements.
 Prepare the ﬁnancial statements on the going concern basis, 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
ﬁnancial position of the Parent Company and enable them to 
ensure that its ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
The Directors conﬁrm that to the best of their knowledge:
 the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements, prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the 
Parent Company ﬁnancial statements, prepared in 
accordance with UK Accounting Standards, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position 
and proﬁt of the Group and Parent Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a 
whole; and
 the Annual Report & Accounts includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Group and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced 
by the Group.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board 
of Directors on 19 November 2012 and is signed on its 
behalf by:
BM Thompson 
Chief Executive Officer
NP Lingwood
Group Finance Director
Registered office:
12 Charterhouse Square
London
EC1M 6AX 48 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue 3,4 260.2 230.6
Cost of sales (161.0) (142.7)
Gross proﬁt 99.2 87.9
Distribution costs (5.4) (5.5)
Administration costs (47.4) (42.0)
Operating proﬁt 3 46.4 40.4
Financial expense, net 6 (0.4) (1.2)
Proﬁt before tax 46.0 39.2
Tax expense 7 (14.4) (11.6)
Proﬁt for the year 31.6 27.6
Attributable to: 
 Shareholders of the Company 31.3 27.0
 Minority interests 21 0.3 0.6
31.6 27.6
Earnings per share
 Basic and diluted earnings 9 27.9p 24.0p
Alternative Performance Measures (note 2)
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Operating proﬁt 46.4 40.4
Add: Acquisition related charges 11 6.4 4.8
Adjusted operating proﬁt 3,4 52.8 45.2
Deduct: Net interest expense 6 (0.2) (0.3)
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 52.6 44.9
Adjusted earnings per share 9 33.1p 27.9p
The notes on pages 52 to 74 form part of these ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 30 September 2012 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
49
DIPLOMA PLC
Note
Share
capital
£m
Translation
reserve
(Restated)
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
(Restated)
£m
Shareholders’ 
equity
(Restated)
£m
Minority 
interests
£m
Total
equity
(Restated)
£m
At 1 October 2010 5.7 20.6 (0.1) 109.9 136.1 3.1 139.2
Total comprehensive income – 0.3 1.2 26.7 28.2 0.6 28.8
Share-based payments 5 – – – 0.7 0.7 – 0.7
Minority interests acquired 21 – – – – – 0.7 0.7
Release of minority interest put options 20 – – – 12.1 12.1 – 12.1
Purchase of own shares – – – (1.6) (1.6) – (1.6)
Dividends 8, 21 – – – (10.9) (10.9) (3.9) (14.8)
At 30 September 2011 5.7 20.9 1.1 136.9 164.6 0.5 165.1
Goodwill on purchase of minority interests 10 – (0.1) – (13.1) (13.2) – (13.2)
At 30 September 2011 – Restated 5.7 20.8 1.1 123.8 151.4 0.5 151.9
Total comprehensive income – (2.1) (0.9) 31.2 28.2 0.3 28.5
Share-based payments 5––– 0.8 0.8 – 0.8
Acquisition of subsidiary 21 ––––– 0.7 0.7
Deferred tax on items recognised directly in equity 7––– 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
Recognition of minority interest put options 20––– (1.0) (1.0) – (1.0)
Dividends 8, 21 – – – (14.2) (14.2) (0.1) (14.3)
At 30 September 2012 5.7 18.7 0.2 141.2 165.8 1.4 167.2
The notes on pages 52 to 74 form part of these ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 30 September 2012
Note
2012
£m
2011
(Restated)
£m
Proﬁt for the year 31.6 27.6
Exchange rate adjustments on foreign currency net investments (2.1) 0.3
(Losses)/gains on fair value of cash ﬂow hedges 19 (0.4) 0.6
Net changes to fair value of cash ﬂow hedges transferred to consolidated Income Statement 19 (0.5) 0.6
Actuarial losses on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 25 (0.4) (0.6)
Deferred tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income 7 0.3 0.3
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (3.1) 1.2
Total comprehensive income for the year 28.5 28.8
Attributable to: 
 Shareholders of the Company 28.2 28.2
 Minority interests 0.3 0.6
28.5 28.8
Consolidated Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 30 September 2012 50 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Note
2012
£m
2011
(Restated)
£m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 10 79.8 74.4
Acquisition intangible assets 11 32.2 27.3
Other intangible assets 11 0.7 0.7
Investment 12 0.7 –
Property, plant and equipment 13 12.3 10.7
Deferred tax assets 14 2.9 2.8
128.6 115.9
Current assets
Inventories 15 45.8 38.4
Trade and other receivables 16 40.6 36.3
Cash and cash equivalents 18 11.4 17.8
97.8 92.5
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 (38.5) (35.2)
Current tax liabilities (3.5) (2.4)
Other liabilities 20 (2.8) (0.8)
Borrowings 24 (3.5) (5.6)
(48.3) (44.0)
Net current assets 49.5 48.5
Total assets less current liabilities 178.1 164.4
Non-current liabilities
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 25 (5.4) (5.4)
Other liabilities 20 (1.0) (2.3)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (4.5) (4.8)
Net assets 167.2 151.9
Equity
Share capital 5.7 5.7
Translation reserve 18.7 20.8
Hedging reserve 0.2 1.1
Retained earnings 141.2 123.8
Total shareholders’ equity 165.8 151.4
Minority interests 21 1.4 0.5
Total equity 167.2 151.9
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 November 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
BM Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
NP Lingwood
Group Finance Director
The notes on pages 52 to 74 form part of these ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
As at 30 September 2012 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
51
DIPLOMA PLC
Note
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash ﬂow from operating activities
Cash ﬂow from operations 23 50.2 40.3
Interest paid, net (0.3) (0.5)
Tax paid (13.7) (12.4)
Net cash from operating activities 36.2 27.4
Cash ﬂow from investing activities
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) 22 (20.8) (14.8)
Acquisition of investment 12 (0.7) –
Disposal of subsidiaries (net of cash disposed) – 0.9
Deferred consideration paid 20 (0.8) (0.9)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13 (3.3) (1.3)
Purchase of other intangible assets 11 (0.2) (0.4)
Net cash used in investing activities (25.8) (16.5)
Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities
Acquisition of minority interests – (12.5)
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (14.2) (10.9)
Dividends paid to minority interests 21 (0.1) (3.9)
Purchase of own shares – (1.6)
(Repayments)/proceeds from borrowings 24 (2.2) 5.4
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (16.5) (23.5)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (6.1) (12.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 17.8 30.1
Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (0.3) 0.3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18 11.4 17.8
Alternative Performance Measures (note 2)
2012
£m
2011
£m
Free cash ﬂow
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (6.1) (12.6)
Add/(deduct): Dividends paid to shareholders 14.2 10.9
  Dividends paid to minority interests 0.1 3.9
  Acquisition of subsidiaries/minority interests/investment 21.5 27.3
  Deferred consideration paid 0.8 0.9
  Repayments/(proceeds) from borrowings 2.2 (5.4)
Free cash ﬂow 32.7 25.0
Net funds
Cash and cash equivalents 11.4 17.8
Borrowings (3.5) (5.6)
Net funds 7.9 12.2
The notes on pages 52 to 74 form part of these ﬁnancial statements.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 30 September 2012 52 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
1. General Information
Diploma PLC is a public limited company registered and domiciled in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address 
of the registered office is 12 Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6AX. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise the Company and its 
subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) and were authorised by the Directors for publication on 19 November 2012. These statements 
are presented in UK sterling, with all values rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand, except where otherwise indicated.
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as 
adopted by the European Union, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The 
ﬁnancial statements of the Parent Company, Diploma PLC, have been prepared in accordance with “UK GAAP”, and are set out in a 
separate section of the Annual Report & Accounts on page 75.
2. Alternative Performance Measures
The Group uses a number of alternative (non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“non-GAAP”)) ﬁnancial measures which are not 
deﬁned within IFRS. The Directors use these measures in order to assess the underlying operational performance of the Group and as 
such, these measures are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures. The following non-GAAP measures are 
referred to in this Annual Report & Accounts.
2.1 Adjusted operating proﬁt
At the foot of the consolidated Income Statement, “adjusted operating proﬁt” is deﬁned as operating proﬁt before amortisation and 
impairment of acquisition intangible assets, acquisition expenses and adjustments to deferred consideration (collectively, “acquisition 
related charges”). The Directors believe that adjusted operating proﬁt is an important measure of the underlying operational performance 
of the Group.
2.2 Adjusted proﬁt before tax
At the foot of the consolidated Income Statement, “adjusted proﬁt before tax” is separately disclosed, being deﬁned as proﬁt before tax 
and before the costs of restructuring or rationalisation of operations, the proﬁt or loss relating to the sale of property, fair value 
remeasurements under IAS 39 in respect of future purchases of minority interests, and acquisition related charges. The Directors believe 
that adjusted proﬁt before tax is an important measure of the underlying performance of the Group.
2.3 Adjusted earnings per share
“Adjusted earnings per share” is calculated as the total of adjusted proﬁt, less income tax costs, but excluding the tax impact on the items 
included in the calculation of adjusted proﬁt and the tax effects of goodwill in overseas jurisdictions, less proﬁt attributable to minority 
interests, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. The Directors believe that adjusted earnings 
per share provides an important measure of the underlying earning capacity of the Group.
2.4 Free cash ﬂow
At the foot of the consolidated Cash Flow Statement, “free cash ﬂow” is reported, being deﬁned as net cash ﬂow from operating activities, 
after net capital expenditure on ﬁxed assets and including proceeds received from business disposals, but before expenditure on business 
combinations/investments and dividends paid to both minority shareholders and the Company’s shareholders. The Directors believe that 
free cash ﬂow gives an important measure of the cash ﬂow of the Group, available for future investment.
2.5 Trading capital employed
In the segment analysis in note 3, “trading capital employed” is reported, being deﬁned as net assets less cash and cash equivalents and after 
adding back borrowings, retirement beneﬁt obligations, deferred tax, amounts in respect of future purchases of minority interests and 
adjusting for goodwill in respect of the recognition of deferred tax on acquisition intangible assets. Return on trading capital employed is 
deﬁned as the adjusted operating proﬁt, divided by trading capital employed plus all historical goodwill and adjusted for the timing effect 
of major acquisitions and disposals. Return on trading capital employed at the sector level does not include historical goodwill. The 
Directors believe that return on trading capital employed is an important measure of the underlying performance of the Group.
3. Business Segment Analysis
For management reporting purposes, the Group is organised into three main business segments: Life Sciences, Seals and Controls. These 
segments form the basis of the primary reporting format disclosures below. The principal activities of each of these segments is described 
in the review of Group Performance on pages 4 to 21. Segment revenue represents revenue from external customers; there is no 
inter-segment revenue. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment, as well as those that can be 
allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets exclude cash and cash equivalents, deferred tax assets and corporate assets that cannot be allocated on a reasonable 
basis to a business segment. Segment liabilities exclude borrowings, retirement beneﬁt obligations, deferred tax liabilities and corporate 
liabilities that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business segment. These items are shown collectively in the following 
analysis as “unallocated assets” and “unallocated liabilities”, respectively.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2012 53
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
3. Business Segment Analysis continued
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue – existing businesses 76.4 74.4 90.8 80.0 76.8 76.2 244.0 230.6
 – acquisitions 2.0 – 9.1 – 5.1 – 16.2 –
Revenue 78.4 74.4 99.9 80.0 81.9 76.2 260.2 230.6
Adjusted operating proﬁt – existing businesses 17.9 17.1 19.1 14.9 13.8 13.2 50.8 45.2
– acquisitions 0.1 – 1.3 – 0.6 – 2.0 –
Adjusted operating proﬁt 18.0 17.1 20.4 14.9 14.4 13.2 52.8 45.2
Acquisition related charges (note 11) (2.7) (2.7) (2.5) (1.7) (1.2) (0.4) (6.4) (4.8)
Operating proﬁt 15.3 14.4 17.9 13.2 13.2 12.8 46.4 40.4
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Operating assets 25.9 21.8 37.9 33.0 32.1 27.8 95.9 82.6
Investment – – 0.7 – – – 0.7 –
Goodwill 47.6 45.3 16.5 14.2 15.7 14.9 79.8 74.4
Acquisition intangible assets 16.4 16.6 13.2 9.8 2.6 0.9 32.2 27.3
89.9 83.7 68.3 57.0 50.4 43.6 208.6 184.3
Unallocated assets:
– Deferred tax assets 2.9 2.8
– Cash and cash equivalents 11.4 17.8
– Corporate assets 3.5 3.5
Total assets 226.4 208.4
Operating liabilities (14.0) (11.9) (10.3) (8.9) (13.5) (13.0) (37.8) (33.8)
Unallocated liabilities:
– Deferred tax liabilities (4.5) (4.8)
– Retirement beneﬁt obligations (5.4) (5.4)
– Future purchases of minority interests (3.2) (2.0)
– Borrowings (3.5) (5.6)
– Corporate liabilities (4.8) (4.9)
Total liabilities (59.2) (56.5)
Net assets 167.2 151.9
Other segment information
Capital expenditure 2.3 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.3 3.5 1.7
Depreciation/amortisation 1.2 1.0 0.6 0.8 0.3 0.3 2.1 2.1
Alternative Performance Measures (note 2)
Life Sciences Seals Controls Total
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Net assets 167.2 151.9
Add/(less):
– Deferred tax, net 1.6 2.0
– Retirement beneﬁt obligations 5.4 5.4
– Future purchases of minority interests 3.2 2.0
– Cash and cash equivalents (11.4) (17.8)
– Borrowings 3.5 5.6
– Adjustment to goodwill (7.7) (7.0) (1.2) (1.3) (1.2) (0.6) (10.1) (8.9)
Group trading capital employed 159.4 140.2
Corporate liabilities, net 1.3 1.4
Segment trading capital employed 68.2 64.8 56.8 46.8 35.7 30.0 160.7 141.6 54 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
4. Geographic Segment Analysis by Origin
Revenue Adjusted operating proﬁt Non-current assets
1
Trading capital employed Capital expenditure
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
United Kingdom 69.8 61.8 12.5 10.9 21.6 18.2 27.5 22.0 0.6 0.2
Rest of Europe 37.6 40.8 5.3 5.8 11.6 13.5 19.3 19.8 0.2 0.3
North America 152.8 128.0 35.0 28.5 91.8 81.4 112.6 98.4 2.7 1.2
260.2 230.6 52.8 45.2 125.0 113.1 159.4 140.2 3.5 1.7
1 Non-current assets exclude the investment and deferred tax assets.
5. Group Employee Costs
The key management of the Group are the Executive and non-Executive Directors who have authority and responsibility for planning 
and controlling all signiﬁcant activities of the Group. The Directors’ emoluments and interests in shares of the Company are given in  
the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 43 and amounted in total to £2.1m (2011: £1.9m). The charge for share-based payments of 
£0.8m (2011: £0.7m) relate to the Group’s share schemes, described in the Remuneration Report. The fair value of services provided as 
consideration for part of the grant of the LTIP awards has been based on a predicted future value model and was £0.3m (2011: £0.2m).
Group staff costs, including Directors’ emoluments, are as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Wages and salaries 42.8 38.3
Social security costs 3.8 3.4
Pension costs – deﬁned contribution 1.1 0.8
Share-based payments 0.8 0.7
48.5 43.2
The average number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year were:
2012
Number
2011
Number
Life Sciences 270 223
Seals 489 432
Controls 292 245
Corporate 11 10
Number of employees – average 1,062 910
Number of employees – year end 1,117 954
6. Financial Expense, net
2012
£m
2011
£m
Interest and similar income
– interest receivable on short term deposits 0.1 0.1
– net ﬁnance income from deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme (note 25) 0.1 0.2
0.2 0.3
Interest expense and similar charges
– bank commitment and facility fees (0.1) (0.3)
– interest payable on bank borrowings (0.3) (0.3)
(0.4) (0.6)
Net interest expense (0.2) (0.3)
– fair value remeasurement of put options (note 20) (0.2) (0.9)
Financial expense, net (0.4) (1.2)
The fair value remeasurement of £0.2m (2011: £0.9m) includes £0.1m (2011: £0.1m) which relates to the unwinding of the discount on the 
liability for future purchases of minority interests.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2012 55
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
7. Tax Expense
2012
£m
2011
£m
Current tax
The tax charge is based on the proﬁt for the year and comprises:
 UK corporation tax 3.3 3.1
 Overseas tax 11.8 9.7
15.1 12.8
Adjustments in respect of prior year:
 Overseas tax (0.1) –
Total current tax 15.0 12.8
Deferred tax
The deferred tax credit based on the origination and reversal of timing differences comprises:
 United Kingdom (0.1) (0.2)
 Overseas (0.5) (1.0)
Total deferred tax (0.6) (1.2)
Total tax on proﬁt for the year 14.4 11.6
In addition to the above credit for deferred tax included in the consolidated Income Statement, deferred tax relating to the retirement beneﬁt 
scheme and cash ﬂow hedges of £0.3m (2011: £0.3m) was credited directly to Other Comprehensive Income. A further £0.6m (2011: £nil) 
was credited directly to equity which related to share-based payments.
Factors affecting the tax charge for the year:
The difference between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax 
to the proﬁt before tax is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Proﬁt before tax 46.0 39.2
Tax on proﬁt at UK effective corporation tax rate of 25% (2011: 27%) 11.5 10.6
Effects of:
 Change in UK tax rates 0.2 0.2
 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 2.7 0.4
 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years (0.1) –
 Fair value remeasurements – 0.2
 Other permanent differences 0.1 0.2
Total tax on proﬁt for the year 14.4 11.6
The Group earns its proﬁts in the UK and overseas. The UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 26% to 24% on 31 March 2012; however as 
the Group prepares its ﬁnancial statements for the year to 30 September, the effective tax rate for UK corporation tax in respect of the year 
ended 30 September 2012 was 25% (2011: 27%) and this rate has been used for tax on proﬁt in the above reconciliation. The Group’s net 
overseas tax rate is higher than that in the UK, primarily because the proﬁts earned in the USA are taxed at rates of up to 38%. 
A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 25% (effective from 1 April 2011) was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, and 
further reductions to 24% (effective from 1 April 2012) and 23% (effective from 1 April 2013) were substantively enacted on 26 March 2012 
and 3 July 2012, respectively. The 2012 UK Budget on 21 March 2012 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce further to 
22% by 2014.
These further reductions in the UK corporation tax rate are likely to lead to a further reduction in the future UK current tax charge. The 
deferred tax asset at 30 September 2012 has been calculated based on the rate of 23% substantively enacted at 30 September 2012. The 
anticipated effect of the announced further 1% rate reduction on the Group’s current and deferred tax is not expected to be signiﬁcant.
8. Dividends
2012
pence
per share
2011
pence
per share
2012
£m
2011
£m
Interim dividend, paid in June 4.2 3.5 4.7 3.9
Final dividend of the prior year, paid in January 8.5 6.2 9.5 7.0
12.7 9.7 14.2 10.9
The Directors have proposed a ﬁnal dividend in respect of the current year of 10.2p per share (2011: 8.5p) which will be paid on 23 
January 2013, subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 16 January 2013. The total dividend for the current 
year, subject to approval of the ﬁnal dividend, will be 14.4p per share (2011: 12.0p). 
The Diploma Employee Beneﬁt Trust holds 962,337 (2011: 1,094,512) shares, which are not eligible for dividends.  56 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
9. Earnings Per Share
Basic and diluted earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary 5p share are calculated on the basis of the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 
during the year of 112,373,327 (2011: 112,423,842) and the proﬁt for the year attributable to shareholders of £31.3m (2011: £27.0m). 
There are no potentially dilutive shares.
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share, which is deﬁned in note 2, is calculated as follows:
2012
pence
per share
2011
pence
per share
2012
£m
2011
£m
Proﬁt before tax 46.0 39.2
Tax expense (14.4) (11.6)
Minority interests (0.3) (0.6)
Earnings for the year attributable to shareholders of the Company 27.9 24.0 31.3 27.0
Acquisition related charges 5.6 4.3 6.4 4.8
Fair value remeasurement of put options 0.2 0.8 0.2 0.9
Tax effects on goodwill, acquisition intangible assets and fair value remeasurements (0.6) (1.2) (0.7) (1.3)
Adjusted earnings 33.1 27.9 37.2 31.4
10. Goodwill
Life Sciences
(Restated)
£m
Seals
£m
Controls
£m
Total
(Restated)
£m
At 1 October 2010 38.2 14.2 14.9 67.3
Acquisitions 7.3 – – 7 .3
Exchange adjustments (0.2) – – (0.2)
At 30 September 2011
45.3 14.2 14.9 74.4
Acquisitions (note 22) 1.5 3.0 1.1 5.6
Exchange adjustments 0.8 (0.7) (0.3) (0.2)
At 30 September 2012 47.6 16.5 15.7 79.8
The Directors carry out an impairment test on all goodwill generally twice a year. Goodwill is ascribed to a business which, for the 
purpose of these impairment tests, is referred to as a cash generating unit. The impairment test requires each cash generating unit to 
prepare “value in use” valuations from discounted cash ﬂow forecasts. The cash ﬂow forecasts are based on a combination of annual 
budgets prepared by each business and on a ﬁve year strategic plan, prepared at a Group level.
The key assumptions used to prepare the cash ﬂow forecasts relate to gross margin, growth rates and discount rates. The gross margins 
are assumed to remain sustainable, which is supported by historical experience; growth rates generally approximate to the long term 
average rates for the markets in which the business operates, unless there are particular factors relevant to a business, such as start-ups. 
The annual growth rates used in the cash ﬂow forecasts in respect of the next ﬁve years vary between 2% and 5% in each of the sectors; 
these annual growth rates then trend down towards 2.0% over the longer term. 
The cash ﬂow forecasts are discounted to determine a current valuation, using a pre-tax discount rate of ca. 13% (2011: 13%). This rate is 
based on the characteristics of lower risk, non-technically driven, distribution businesses with robust capital structures, which is broadly 
consistent with each of the Group’s businesses.
Based on the criteria set out above, no impairment in the value of goodwill was identiﬁed.
The Directors have also carried out sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions to determine whether a “reasonably possible change” in 
any of these assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill. This analysis indicates that a “reasonably possible change” in these 
key assumptions would be unlikely to give rise to an impairment charge to goodwill in any of the businesses in the Life Sciences or Seals 
segments. However, in the Controls sector a reduction of 2% in revenue growth in the medium term in one of the businesses in this 
sector would result in an impairment charge of up to £0.3m. Before any sensitivities and based on the original assumptions in respect 
of this business in the Controls sector, there is limited headroom in the cash ﬂow valuation. In the prior year, the sensitivity analysis 
indicated that a reduction of 2% in revenue growth in the medium term in the Controls sector would have resulted in an impairment 
of £0.2m. The headroom, before sensitivities, in respect of these businesses in the Controls sector last year was £0.7m.
As described further in the Group Accounting Policies note 1.1, goodwill of £13.1m recognised in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements at 
30 September 2011 on acquisition of the outstanding minority interest in AMT, a business in the Life Sciences sector, has been written off 
directly against total shareholders’ equity and the balances at 30 September 2011 have been restated accordingly.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2012 57
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
11. Acquisition and Other Intangible Assets
Customer
relationships
£m
Supplier
relationships
£m
Trade
names and
databases
£m
Total
acquisition
intangible
assets
£m
Other
intangible
assets
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2010 20.9 10.3 2.6 33.8 2.2
Additions –––– 0.4
Acquisitions 2.9 6.4 – 9.3 –
Exchange adjustments – (0.2) – (0.2) –
At 30 September 2011 23.8 16.5 2.6 42.9 2.6
Additions –––– 0.2
Acquisitions (note 22) 10.4 0.6 – 11.0 –
Disposals – – – – (0.1)
Exchange adjustments (0.6) 0.2 (0.1) (0.5) –
At 30 September 2012 33.6 17.3 2.5 53.4 2.7
Amortisation
At 1 October 2010 6.3 3.9 0.9 11.1 1.6
Charge for the year 2.5 1.7 0.3 4.5 0.3
At 30 September 2011 8.8 5.6 1.2 15.6 1.9
Charge for the year 3.5 2.0 0.3 5.8 0.2
Disposals – – – – (0.1)
Exchange adjustments (0.2) – – (0.2) –
At 30 September 2012 12.1 7.6 1.5 21.2 2.0
Net book value
At 30 September 2012 21.5 9.7 1.0 32.2 0.7
At 30 September 2011 15.0 10.9 1.4 27.3 0.7
Acquisition related charges are £6.4m (2011: £4.8m) and comprise £5.8m (2011: £4.5m) of amortisation of acquisition intangible assets 
and £0.6m (2011: £0.3m) of acquisition expenses.
Acquisition intangible assets relate to items acquired through business combinations which are amortised over their useful economic life.
Economic
life
Customer relationships 5–15 years
Supplier relationships 7–10 years
Databases and trade names 5–10 years
The fair value of customer relationships was assessed using a discounted cash ﬂow model; the databases were valued using a 
replacement cost model; the amount in respect of supplier relationships and trade names were valued on a relief from royalty method.
Other intangible assets comprise computer software that is separately identiﬁable from plant and equipment and includes software 
licences.
12. Investment
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Investment 0.7 –
On 16 April 2012, and as an integral part of the acquisition of J Royal, the Group purchased a 10% interest in the share capital of 
Kunshan J Royal Precision Products Inc. (“JRPP”), a supplier to J Royal for £0.7m (US$1.0m). The Group has no involvement in the 
day-to-day operations or management of JRPP. At 30 September 2012, there was no material difference between the carrying value of 
the investment and its fair value.  58 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
13. Property, Plant and Equipment
Freehold
properties
£m
Leasehold
properties
£m
Plant &
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2010 8.8 1.1 16.6 26.5
Additions – 0.1 1.2 1.3
Acquisitions –– 0.3 0.3
Disposals – (0.1) (0.5) (0.6)
At 30 September 2011 8.8 1.1 17.6 27.5
Additions – 0.8 2.5 3.3
Acquisitions (note 22) – 0.1 0.2 0.3
Disposals – – (4.0) (4.0)
At 30 September 2012 8.8 2.0 16.3 27.1
Depreciation
At 1 October 2010 2.1 0.7 12.6 15.4
Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.8
Disposals – (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
At 30 September 2011 2.2 0.7 13.9 16.8
Charge for the year 0.1 0.1 1.7 1.9
Disposals – – (3.9) (3.9)
At 30 September 2012 2.3 0.8 11.7 14.8
Net book value
At 30 September 2012 6.5 1.2 4.6 12.3
At 30 September 2011 6.6 0.4 3.7 10.7
Land included above, but not depreciated, is £2.0m (2011: £2.0m). Capital commitments contracted, but not provided, were £1.2m (2011: £nil).
Freehold properties includes ca. 150 acres of land at Stamford (“the Stamford land”) which comprises mostly farm land and former quarry 
land. In the Directors’ opinion the current value of this land is £0.5m (net book value: £nil) (2011: £0.5m and £nil, respectively).
14. Deferred Tax
The movement on deferred tax is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 October (2.0) (1.3)
Credit for the year (note 7) 0.6 1.2
Acquisitions (note 22) (0.9) (2.3)
Accounted for in equity 0.6 –
Accounted for in other comprehensive income 0.3 0.3
Exchange adjustments (0.2) 0.1
At 30 September (1.6) (2.0)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the 
balances net.
Assets Liabilities Net
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 (0.7) (0.6) (0.3) (0.2)
Goodwill and intangible assets – – (6.2) (5.5) (6.2) (5.5)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 1.2 1.4 – – 1.2 1.4
Inventories 1.0 0.8 – – 1.0 0.8
Share-based payments 1.5 0.8 – – 1.5 0.8
Trading losses 0.4 0.3 – – 0.4 0.3
Other temporary differences 0.9 0.6 (0.1) (0.2) 0.8 0.4
5.4 4.3 (7.0) (6.3) (1.6) (2.0)
Set off of deferred tax (2.5) (1.5) 2.5 1.5 – –
2.9 2.8 (4.5) (4.8) (1.6) (2.0)
No deferred tax has been provided on unremitted earnings of overseas Group companies as the Group controls the dividend policies of 
its subsidiaries. Unremitted earnings may be liable to overseas taxation (after allowing for double taxation relief) if they were to be 
distributed as dividends. The aggregate amount for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised in respect of unremitted 
earnings was £1.8m (2011: £1.2m).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2012 59
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
15. Inventories
2012
£m
2011
£m
Finished goods and goods held for resale 45.8 38.4
Inventories are stated net of impairment provisions of £4.3m (2011: £3.6m). During the year £0.5m (2011: £0.5m) was recognised as an 
expense relating to the write-down of inventory to net realisable value.
16. Trade and Other Receivables
2012
£m
2011
£m
Trade receivables 37.4 33.0
Less: impairment provision (0.4) (0.5)
37.0 32.5
Other receivables 1.9 2.2
Prepayments and accrued income 1.7 1.6
40.6 36.3
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date, by currency was:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Sterling 12.9 10.4
US dollars 9.1 8.6
Canadian dollars 8.9 9.5
Euro 4.2 2.7
Other 2.3 1.8
 37.4 33.0
Trade receivables, before impairment provisions, are analysed as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Not past due 30.3 26.2
Past due, but not impaired 6.7 6.2
Past due, but partially impaired 0.4 0.6
 37.4 33.0
The ageing of trade receivables classiﬁed as past due, but not impaired is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Up to one month past due 5.5 4.7
Between one and two months past due 0.8 1.1
Between two and four months past due 0.4 0.3
Over four months past due 0.1 0.1
 6.8 6.2
The movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows:
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 October 0.5 0.6
(Credited)/charged against proﬁt, net (0.1) 0.2
Utilised by write off – (0.3)
At 30 September 0.4 0.5 60 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
17. Trade and Other Payables
2012
£m
2011
£m
Trade payables 20.5 19.6
Other payables 3.1 2.3
Other taxes and social security 2.3 1.5
Accruals and deferred income 12.6 11.8
38.5 35.2
The maximum exposure to foreign currency risk for trade payables at the reporting date, by currency was:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Sterling 5.1 5.4
US dollars 9.2 8.4
Canadian dollars 1.1 1.2
Euro 4.2 3.7
Other 0.9 0.9
 20.5 19.6
18. Cash and Cash Equivalents
Sterling
£m
US$
£m
C$
£m
Euro
£m
Other
£m
2012
Total
£m
Sterling
£m
US$
£m
Can$
£m
Euro
£m
Other
£m
2011
Total
£m
Cash at bank 2.3 3.4 2.7 0.7 1.4 10.5 2.7 3.3 3.8 2.2 1.0 13.0
Short term deposits – – –0.9 –0.9 3.7–– 1.1 – 4.8
2.3 3.4 2.7 1.6 1.4 11.4 6.4 3.3 3.8 3.3 1.0 17.8
The short term deposits and cash at bank are both interest bearing at rates linked to the UK Base Rate, or equivalent rate.
19. Financial Instruments
The Group’s principal ﬁnancial instruments, other than a limited number of forward foreign currency contracts, comprise cash and short 
term deposits, investment, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables, borrowings and other liabilities. Trade and other 
receivables and trade and other payables arise directly from the Group’s day-to-day operations. 
The ﬁnancial risks to which the Group is exposed are those of credit, liquidity, foreign currency, interest rate and capital management. An 
explanation of each of these risks, how the Group manages these risks and an analysis of sensitivities is set out below, or on page 25 
within Principal Risks and Uncertainties, which has been audited. 
a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of ﬁnancial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a ﬁnancial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations; this arises principally from the Group’s trade and other receivables from customers and from cash balances (including 
deposits) held with ﬁnancial institutions.
The Group is exposed to customers ranging from government backed agencies and large public and private wholesalers, to small 
privately owned businesses and the underlying local economic risks vary throughout the world. Trade receivable exposures are managed 
locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer. 
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of potential losses in respect of speciﬁc trade and other 
receivables where it is deemed that a receivable may not be recoverable. When the receivable is deemed irrecoverable, the allowance 
account is written off against the underlying receivable. The Group has not had any material irrecoverable trade receivables in the past 
ﬁve years. 
Exposure to ﬁnancial counterparty credit risk is controlled by the Group treasury team in establishing and monitoring counterparty limits. 
Centrally managed funds are invested entirely with counterparties whose credit rating is “AA” or better.
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk was as follows:
Carrying amount
2012
£m
2011
£m
Trade receivables 37.0 32.5
Other receivables 1.9 2.2
Cash and cash equivalents 11.4 17.8
50.3 52.5
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2012 61
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
19. Financial Instruments continued
There is no material difference between the carrying amount of the ﬁnancial assets and their fair value at each reporting date. An analysis 
of the ageing and currency of trade receivables and the associated provision for impairment is set out in note 16. An analysis of cash and 
cash equivalents is set out in note 18. 
b) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its ﬁnancial obligations as they fall due. The Group continually monitors net 
funds and forecast cash ﬂows to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Group’s requirements in the short, medium and 
long term and, in order to do so, arranges borrowings. Additionally, compliance with debt covenants are monitored and during 2012 all 
covenants have been fully complied with. 
The Group is highly cash generative and uses monthly cash ﬂow forecasts to monitor cash requirements and to optimise its return on 
deposits. Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on hand to meet foreseeable operational expenses, but the Group also 
has a committed £20m revolving bank facility (with an option to increase its facility to £40m, subject to market pricing) which expires in 
November 2013. Interest on this facility is payable at between 150 and 195 bps over LIBOR, depending on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA. 
At 30 September 2012, £3.5m (2011: £5.6m) of the facility had been drawn down. 
The undrawn committed facilities available at 30 September are as follows: 
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
Expiring within one year – –
Expiring after one year but within two years 16.5 14.4
The Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities are as follows: 
Carrying amount
2012
£m
2011
£m
Trade payables 20.5 19.6
Other payables 3.1 2.3
Other liabilities 3.8 3.1
Borrowings 3.5 5.6
30.9 30.6
The maturities of the undiscounted ﬁnancial liabilities are as follows:
Less than one year 26.4 22.7
One-two years 3.5 7.7
Two-ﬁve years 1.2 0.6
31.1 31.0
Less: Discount (0.2) (0.4)
30.9 30.6
There is no material difference between the carrying amount of these ﬁnancial liabilities and their fair value at each reporting date. 
c) Currency risk
The Group’s currency risk comprises translational and transactional risk from its exposure to movements in US dollars, Canadian dollars, 
Euros and Australian dollars. The transactional exposure arises on trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents and 
these balances are analysed by currency in notes 16, 17 and 18, respectively. Net foreign exchange losses of £0.1m (2011: £0.1m gain) 
were recognised in proﬁt for the year.
The Group holds forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge forecast transactional exposure in certain of the Group’s businesses to 
movements in the US dollar and Euro. These forward foreign exchange contracts are classiﬁed as cash ﬂow hedges and are stated at fair 
value. The net fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts used as hedges at 30 September 2012 was a £0.3m liability (2011: £0.6m 
asset). The amount removed from Other Comprehensive Income and taken to the consolidated Income Statement in cost of sales during 
the year was £0.5m debit (2011: £0.6m credit). The fair value of cash ﬂow hedges taken to Other Comprehensive Income during the year 
was £0.4m debit (2011: £0.6m credit).
The currency risk arising from both translational and transactional risks are described further on page 25 within Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
d) Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will affect the Group’s results. The Group’s interest rate risk arises primarily from 
its cash funds and borrowings.
The Group does not undertake any hedging of interest rates. All cash deposits, held in the UK and overseas, are held on a short term basis 
at ﬂoating rates or overnight rates, based on the relevant UK Base Rate, or equivalent rate. 
Surplus funds are deposited with commercial banks that meet the credit criteria approved by the Board, for periods of between one to six 
months at rates that are generally ﬁxed by reference to the relevant UK Base Rate, or equivalent rates. It is estimated that an increase of 1% 
in interest rates would not have a signiﬁcant impact on the Group’s adjusted proﬁt before tax.
An analysis of cash and cash equivalents at the reporting dates is set out in note 18.  62 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
19. Financial Instruments continued
e) Fair values
There are no material differences between the carrying value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities and their fair value. The basis for 
determining fair values are as follows:
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are valued at year end spot rates adjusted for the forward points to the contract’s value date, and gains and losses 
taken to equity. No contract’s value date is greater than 24 months from the year end.
Trade and other receivables/payables
As the majority of receivables/payables have a remaining life of less than one year, the nominal amount is deemed to reﬂect the fair value. 
Other liabilities
The carrying amount represents a discounted value of the expected liability which is deemed to reﬂect the fair value. 
f) Capital management risk
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, supplier and market conﬁdence, provide strong returns 
to shareholders and to support the future development of the business. The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash 
equivalents, debt, which includes borrowings and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued share capital, 
reserves and retained earnings.
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements. There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital 
management during the year. 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or increase bank borrowings.
20. Other Liabilities
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Future purchases of minority interests 3.2 2.0
Deferred consideration 0.6 1.1
3.8 3.1
Analysed as:
Due within one year 2.8 0.8
Due after one year 1.0 2.3
The movement in the liability for future purchases of minority interests is as follows:
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
At 1 October 2.0 13.2
Released to retained earnings on acquisition – (12.1)
Put options entered into during the year 1.0 –
Unwinding of discount 0.1 0.1
Fair value remeasurements 0.1 0.8
At 30 September 3.2 2.0
The Group retains put options to acquire the outstanding minority interests. On 6 June 2012, as part of the acquisition of Diagnostic Solutions 
Pty Limited (“DSL”), a put and call option was entered into with the outstanding minority shareholders which is exercisable from 1 October 
2014. The ﬁnancial liability in respect of this put option was £1.0m. 
At 30 September 2012 the Group retained put options to acquire minority interests in BGS, HPS and M Seals which are exercisable within the 
next twelve months.
At 30 September 2012 the estimate of the ﬁnancial liability to acquire the outstanding minority shareholdings was reassessed by the Directors, 
based on their current estimate of the future performance of these businesses and to reﬂect foreign exchange rates at 30 September 2012. This 
led to a remeasurement of the fair value of these put options and the liability was increased by £0.1m (2011: £0.8m increase). This charge, 
together with the charge from unwinding the discount on the liability, was in aggregate £0.2m (2011: £0.9m) and has been charged to the 
consolidated Income Statement.
At 30 September 2012 deferred consideration of £0.6m comprises £0.3m payable to the former vendors of CMI in respect of certain 
commitments entered into at acquisition and £0.3m payable to the vendors of Amfast Limited in respect of certain gross proﬁt targets to 
be achieved in the year ending 31 March 2013. These amounts are expected to be paid during the next year. 
On 20 December 2011 deferred consideration of £0.8m was paid to the former vendors of CMI in ﬁnal settlement of their 
performance payment. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2012 63
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
21. Minority Interests
£m
At 1 October 2010 3.1
Minority interests acquired 0.7
Share of proﬁt 0.6
Dividends paid (3.9)
At 30 September 2011 0.5
Acquisition of subsidiary 0.7
Share of proﬁt 0.3
Dividends paid (0.1)
At 30 September 2012 1.4
22. Acquisition and Disposal of Subsidiaries
On 12 December 2011 the Group acquired the trade and net assets of J Royal Co. Inc (“J Royal”) for maximum consideration of £11.8m 
(US$18.4m). The initial cash consideration paid on acquisition was £10.4m (US$16.3m) and a further £1.4m (US$2.0m) was paid on 29 
March 2012 in ﬁnal settlement of the performance payment, including a small adjustment in respect of net assets at completion. 
Acquisition expenses of £0.3m (US$0.4m) were incurred on the acquisition of both J Royal and JRPP. 
On 30 March 2012 the Group acquired 100% of Abbeychart Limited (“Abbeychart”) from Mr P Best for consideration of £4.0m, including a 
small adjustment in respect of net assets at completion.
On 10 May 2012 the Group acquired 100% of Amfast Limited (“Amfast”) from Mr C Myers and Ms C Brotherton for a maximum 
consideration of £4.3m, including deferred consideration of £0.3m. Acquisition expenses of £0.1m were incurred on these two 
acquisitions.
On 6 June 2012 the Group acquired 80% of Diagnostic Solutions Pty Ltd (“DSL”), from Ms E de Gooyer and Mr P West for cash 
consideration of £3.0m (A$4.8m); the outstanding 20% of shares are subject to put and call options exercisable from October 2014 at an 
agreed multiple of earnings before interest and tax. The minority interest recognised at the acquisition date was measured by reference to 
the fair value of the minority interest and amounted to £0.7m (A$1.2m). The fair value was assessed by reference to the purchase price 
paid for the controlling interest. Acquisition expenses of £0.2m (A$0.3m) were incurred on this acquisition.
The consideration for all these acquisitions was paid in cash and met from the Group’s existing cash and borrowing resources.
Set out below is an analysis of the net book value and fair value of the net assets acquired and the consideration payable in respect of 
these acquisitions:
J Royal Other acquisitions Total
Book value
£m
Fair value
£m
Book value
£m
Fair value
£m
Book value
£m
Fair value
£m
Acquisition intangible assets 0.1 6.1 – 4.9 0.1 11.0
Property, plant and equipment – – 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3
Inventories 1.8 1.8 2.8 2.4 4.6 4.2
Trade and other receivables 1.4 1.4 2.8 2.8 4.2 4.2
Trade and other payables (0.6) (0.6) (2.6) (2.6) (3.2) (3.2)
Deferred tax – – (0.1) (0.9) (0.1) (0.9)
Net assets acquired 2.7 8.7 3.3 6.9 6.0 15.6
Goodwill arising on acquisitions 3.0 2.6 5.6
Minority share of net assets (including goodwill) – (0.7) (0.7)
11.7 8.8 20.5
Cash paid 11.8 11.0 22.8
Cash acquired (0.1) (2.5) (2.6)
Expenses of acquisition 0.3 0.3 0.6
Net cash paid, after acquisition expenses 12.0 8.8 20.8
Provision for deferred consideration payable – 0.3 0.3
Less: Expenses of acquisition (0.3) (0.3) (0.6)
Total consideration 11.7 8.8 20.5
Goodwill arising on these acquisitions of £5.6m is represented by the product know-how held by employees, prospect for sales growth 
from new customers and operating cost synergies. Goodwill and acquisition intangible assets relating to these acquisitions of £9.1m will 
be allowable for a tax deduction in future years. 64 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
22. Acquisition and Disposal of Subsidiaries continued
From the date of acquisition to 30 September 2012, the newly acquired businesses contributed £16.2m to revenue and £2.0m to proﬁt 
before tax, after allocation of Head Office costs. If the acquisition of these businesses had been made at the beginning of the ﬁnancial 
year, these businesses would have contributed £26.5m to revenue and £3.4m to proﬁt before tax. Proﬁt before tax should not be viewed 
as indicative of the results of these businesses that would have occurred if these acquisitions had been completed at the beginning of the 
year.
On 22 May 2012 the Group sold its controlling interest in a1-envirosciences AG, a company based in Switzerland, to members of its 
management team for maximum consideration of £0.4m. During the year the business contributed £1.0m (2011: £2.9m) to revenues and 
£nil (2011: £0.4m) to adjusted operating proﬁt. No gain or loss on this disposal has been recognised in the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements.
23. Reconciliation of Cash Flow from Operating Activities
2012
£m
2011
£m
Proﬁt for the year 31.6 27.6
Depreciation/amortisation of tangible and other intangible assets 2.1 2.1
Acquisition related charges 6.4 4.8
Share-based payments expense 0.8 0.7
Financial expense, net 0.4 1.2
Tax expense 14.4 11.6
Operating cash ﬂow before changes in working capital 55.7 48.0
Increase in inventories (4.1) (5.5)
Increase in trade and other receivables (1.2) (3.3)
Increase in trade and other payables 0.1 1.4
Cash paid into deﬁned beneﬁt schemes (note 25) (0.3) (0.3)
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 50.2 40.3
24. Net Funds
The movement in net funds during the year is as follows:
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (6.1) (12.6)
Decrease/(increase) in borrowings 2.2 (5.4)
(3.9) (18.0)
Effect of exchange rates (0.4) 0.1
Movement in net funds (4.3) (17.9)
Net funds at beginning of year 12.2 30.1
Net funds at end of year 7.9 12.2
Comprising:
Cash and cash equivalents 11.4 17.8
Borrowings (3.5) (5.6)
Net funds at 30 September 7.9 12.2
The Group has a committed £20m revolving bank facility which expires on 18 November 2013. At 30 September 2012, the Group had 
utilised £3.5m of this facility. Interest on this facility is payable at between 150 and 175 bps over LIBOR, depending on the ratio of net debt 
to EBITDA.
25. Retirement Beneﬁt Obligations
The Group maintains a deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme in the UK called Diploma Holdings PLC UK Pension Scheme (“the Scheme”). The 
Scheme is closed to further accrual and the assets of the Scheme are held in separate trustee administered funds. The Scheme is funded 
in accordance with rates recommended by an independent qualiﬁed actuary on the basis of triennial or shorter period reviews using the 
projected unit method.
Pension deﬁcit included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Market value of Scheme assets
Equities 16.1 13.8
Bonds 4.5 4.2
Cash 0.1 0.2
20.7 18.2
Present value of Scheme liabilities (26.1) (23.6)
(5.4) (5.4)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2012 65
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
25. Retirement Beneﬁt Obligations continued
Amounts credited to the consolidated Income Statement:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Charged to operating proﬁt – –
Interest cost (1.2) (1.2)
Expected return on Scheme assets 1.3 1.4
Credited to ﬁnancial income (note 6) 0.1 0.2
0.1 0.2
Amounts recognised in the consolidated Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Merger of legacy schemes – (0.4)
Experience adjustments on Scheme assets 1.3 (1.8)
Changes in assumptions on Scheme liabilities (1.1) 2.1
Experience adjustments on Scheme liabilities (0.6) (0.5)
Actuarial loss on Scheme liabilities (0.4) (0.6)
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the consolidated Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income, since 
the transition to IFRS, is £4.9m (2011: £4.5m).
Analysis of movement in the pension deﬁcit:
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 October 5.4 5.3
Merger of legacy schemes – 0.4
Amounts credited to consolidated Income Statement (0.1) (0.2)
Contributions paid by employer (0.3) (0.3)
Actuarial loss 0.4 0.2
At 30 September 5.4 5.4
Analysis of movements in the present value of the Scheme liabilities:
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 October 23.6 21.6
Merger of legacy schemes – 2.9
Interest cost 1.2 1.2
Actuarial loss 0.6 0.5
Loss/(gain) on changes in assumptions 1.1 (2.1)
Beneﬁts paid (0.4) (0.5)
At 30 September 26.1 23.6
Analysis of movements in the present value of the Scheme assets:
2012
£m
2011
£m
At 1 October 18.2 16.3
Merger of legacy schemes – 2.5
Expected return on assets 1.3 1.4
Actuarial gain/(loss) 1.3 (1.8)
Contributions paid by employer 0.3 0.3
Beneﬁts paid (0.4) (0.5)
At 30 September 20.7 18.2
The actual return on Scheme assets during the year was a £2.6m gain (2011: £0.4m loss). 66 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
25. Retirement Beneﬁt Obligations continued
Principal actuarial assumptions for the Scheme at balance sheet dates:
2012 2011 2010
Inﬂation rate – RPI 2.6% 3.2% 3.2%
  – CPI 1.9% 2.5% –
Expected rate of pension increases – RPI – – 3.2%
  – CPI 1.9% 2.5% –
Discount rate 4.6% 5.1% 5.0%
Number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond age 65
 Men 22.4 22.3 22.1
 Women 24.8 24.6 25.0
Expected return on Scheme assets
1
Analysed as:
Equities 7.8% 8.0% 8.0%
Bonds 4.3% 3.8% 5.0%
Cash 1.0% 1.0% 1.0%
1 The expected return for each class of scheme assets is based on a combination of historical performance, current market yields and advice from investment managers.
Demographic assumptions:
Basic mortality table used: S1NA
Year the mortality table was published: CMI 2010
Allowance for future improvements in longevity: Year of birth projections, with a long term improvement rate of 1.25%
Allowance made for members to take a cash lump sum on retirement: Members are assumed to take 100% of their maximum cash sum 
(based on current commutation factors)
Sensitivities:
Sensitivity of 2012 pension liabilities to changes in assumptions are as follows:
Impact on pension liabilities
Assumption Assumption
Estimated 
increase 
%
Estimated 
increase 
£m
Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% 9.2 2.4
Expected rate of pension increase Increase by 0.5% 3.4 0.9
Life expectancy Increase by 1 year 1.1 0.3
Cash funding:
Accounting costs do not impact on the incidence or amount of cash contributions for deﬁned beneﬁt plans. Future cash contributions are 
determined based upon triennial actuarial valuations.
Date of last formal funding valuation 30 September 2010
Deﬁcit £2,682,000
Funding level 87%
Funding approach Assumes that Scheme assets will outperform Government 20 year ﬁxed 
interest gilt yield by 2.90% pa pre-retirement and 0.80% pa post-retirement
Post retirement mortality table S1NA
Post retirement mortality projections CMI 2010 with long term improvement rate of 1.25% pa
Contributions per annum to remove the deﬁcit £320,000
Period over which the deﬁcit is expected to be removed 1 October 2010 – 30 September 2021
Expected contributions during FY2013 £326,400
Current investment strategy 80% Equities/20% Bonds
Number of deferred members at date of actuarial valuation 344
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the year ended 30 September 2012 67
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
25. Retirement Beneﬁt Obligations continued
History of experience gains and losses:
All experience adjustments are recognised directly in equity, net of related tax.
2012 2011 2010
1
2009
1
2008
1
Experience adjustments arising on Scheme assets:
Amount (£m) 1.3 (1.8) 0.3 0.7 (3.4)
% of Scheme assets 6% 10% 2% 5% 27%
Changes in assumptions arising on present value of Scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) (1.1) 2.1 (2.2) (3.8) 3.0
% of present value of Scheme liabilities 4% 9% 10% 20% 21%
Experience adjustments arising on present value of Scheme liabilities:
Amount (£m) (0.6) (0.5) 0.1 – (0.1)
% of present value of Scheme liabilities 2% 2% – – 1%
Present value of Scheme liabilities (26.1) (23.6) (21.6) (18.8) (14.2)
Market value of Scheme assets 20.7 18.2 16.3 14.1 12.5
Deﬁcit (5.4) (5.4) (5.3) (4.7) (1.7)
1 Amounts relate only to the two principal schemes.
26. Commitments
At 30 September 2012 the Group has total lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
Land and Buildings
2012
£m
2011
£m
Lease payments due:
Within one year 1.8 1.4
Within two to ﬁve years 4.3 2.3
After ﬁve years 0.9 0.6
7.0 4.3
Operating lease payments made in respect of land and buildings during the year were £2.1m (2011: £1.4m).
27. Auditor’s Remuneration
During the year the Group received the following services from the auditor:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of:
– the Company’s annual report 0.1 0.1
– the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2
Total audit fees 0.3 0.3
Non-audit fees of £13,500 (2011: £10,500) were paid to the Group’s auditor for other assurance services, including £11,000 (2011: £10,500) 
in connection with the Half Year Announcement. In 2011, the Group also paid £11,000 for taxation services provided in Canada and Denmark.
28. Exchange Rates
The following exchange rates have been used to translate the results of the overseas businesses:
Average Closing
2012 2011 2012 2011
US dollar 1.58 1.61 1.61 1.56
Canadian dollar 1.59 1.59 1.59 1.62
Euro 1.22 1.15 1.26 1.16
29. Subsequent Events
On 2 November 2012 the Group acquired the assets and goodwill of Rayquick GmbH (“Rayquick”) from Mr S Rias for a maximum 
consideration of £1.3m (€1.7m), before expenses. The initial cash paid was £1.0m (€1.3m) and up to a further £0.3m (€0.4m) is payable 
depending on revenues reported in the year ending 31 December 2012. In the year ended 31 December 2011 Rayquick reported 
unaudited revenues of £1.6m (€2.4m). 68 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as 
endorsed by the European Union, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. The 
accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied in 2012 and the comparative period. The following new standards, 
amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and have been endorsed by the EU; these are mandatory for 
the ﬁrst time for the year ended 30 September 2012:
 Amendment to IFRIC 14: Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement.
 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes: Fair Value of Award Credit.
 Annual Improvements to IFRS issued May 2010.
 Amendment to IFRS 7: Disclosures – Transfers of Financial Assets.
The introduction of these amendments has had no impact on the results, ﬁnancial position or presentation of the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements.
1 Group Accounting Policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments which are held at fair value. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, 
as discussed on page 46.
In the year ended 30 September 2011, the Group acquired the outstanding 25% minority interest in AMT Vantage Group Inc and accounted for 
the difference of £13.1m between the cash paid of £12.5m and the minority interest book value as goodwill. Subsequent to the publication of 
the 2011 Annual Report & Accounts, it was conﬁrmed that the difference of £13.1m should have been written off directly against total 
shareholders’ equity in accordance with the new IAS 27 “Consolidated & Separate Financial Statements”, rather than added to goodwill. The 
Group has therefore corrected this amount in the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IAS 8 “Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors” and the balances for goodwill and total shareholders’ equity at 30 September 2011 have been restated accordingly.
1.2 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements incorporate the ﬁnancial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company 
(its subsidiaries). Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of an entity so as to 
obtain beneﬁts from its activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated 
Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those 
detailed herein to ensure that the Group ﬁnancial statements are prepared on a consistent basis. All intra-group transactions, balances, 
income and expenses are eliminated in preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
Non-controlling interests, deﬁned as minority interests, in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identiﬁed separately from the 
Group’s equity therein. Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the 
minority’s share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
1.3 Acquisitions
Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to 
the Group. Goodwill at the acquisition date represents the cost of the business combination (excluding acquisition related costs, which 
are expensed as incurred) plus the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree in excess of the fair value of the identiﬁable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is tested annually for impairment. Negative goodwill arising on acquisition is 
recognised immediately in the income statement.
Minority interests may be initially measured at fair value or, alternatively, at the minority interest’s proportionate share of the recognised 
amounts of the acquiree’s identiﬁable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made for each business combination separately.
1.4 Divestments
The results and cash ﬂows of major lines of businesses that have been divested have been classiﬁed as discontinued businesses.
1.5 Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods and services supplied to customers, after deducting 
sales allowances and value added taxes; revenue receivable for services supplied to customers, as opposed to goods, is less than 3% of Group 
revenue. Revenue is recognised when the risk and rewards of ownership transfers to the customer, which depending on individual customer 
terms, is at the time of despatch, delivery or upon formal customer acceptance. Provision is made for returns where appropriate. Service 
revenue received in advance is deferred and recognised on a pro-rata basis over the period of the contract.
1.6 Employee beneﬁts
The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the deﬁned contribution and deﬁned beneﬁt type. The deﬁned beneﬁt scheme is 
closed to the accrual of further beneﬁts.
(a) Deﬁned contribution pension plans: Contributions to the Group’s deﬁned contribution schemes are recognised as an employee 
beneﬁt expense when they fall due.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Group Accounting Policies
For the year ended 30 September 2012 69
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
1 Group Accounting Policies continued
(b) Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan: The deﬁcit recognised in the balance sheet for the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme is the present 
value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets. The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is 
calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit cost method and by discounting the estimated future cash ﬂows using 
interest rates on high quality corporate bonds. The pension expense for the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan is recognised as follows:
(i) Within the Income Statement:
 Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments – where the item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment is 
recognised in operating proﬁt;
 Interest cost on the liabilities of the schemes – calculated by reference to the scheme liabilities and major assumptions, 
including the discount rate, at the beginning of the year; and
 Expected return on the assets of the schemes – calculated by reference to the scheme assets and long term expected rate of 
return at the beginning of the year.
(ii) Within the Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income:
 Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the scheme arising from actual experience and any changes in 
assumptions at the end of the year.
 The Group has adopted a policy of recognising all actuarial gains and losses for its deﬁned beneﬁt scheme in the period in 
which they occur, outside the consolidated Income Statement, but in the consolidated Statement of Income and Other 
Comprehensive Income.
(c) Share-based payments
 The Executive Directors of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby the 
Directors render services in exchange for shares in the Company, or rights over shares (“equity-settled” transactions).
 Equity-settled transactions are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date takes account of the 
effect of market based measures, such as the Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”) targets upon which vesting of part of the award is conditional, 
and is expensed to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to equity. The 
cumulative expense recognised is adjusted to take account of shares forfeited by Executives who leave during the performance or vesting 
period and, in the case of non-market related performance conditions, where it becomes unlikely that shares will vest. For the market based 
measure, the Directors have used a predicted future value model to determine fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
 The Group operates an Employee Beneﬁt Trust for the granting of shares to Executives. The cost of shares in the Company purchased 
by the Employee Beneﬁt Trust are shown as a deduction from equity.
1.7 Foreign currencies
The individual ﬁnancial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which that entity operates. For the purpose of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the results and ﬁnancial 
position of each entity are translated into UK sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
(a) Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency:
 Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are initially recorded at the rates of exchange 
prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each subsequent balance sheet date:
(i) Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising on 
the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement;
(ii) Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated; and
(iii) Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are retranslated using the exchange rates at the date the fair value 
was determined. Where a gain or loss on non-monetary items is recognised directly in equity, any exchange component of that 
gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity and conversely, where a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in the 
Income Statement, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised in the Income Statement.
(b) Translation from functional currency to presentational currency:
 When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Group’s presentational currency, its results and ﬁnancial position 
are translated into the presentational currency as follows:
(i) Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date;
(ii) Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such an average rate does 
not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used; and
(iii) All resulting exchange differences are recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity; these cumulative 
exchange differences are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of.
(c) Net investment in foreign operations:
 Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign operation are 
recognised in the Income Statement in the separate ﬁnancial statements of the reporting entity or the foreign operation as 
appropriate. In the consolidated Group accounts such exchange differences are initially recognised in translation reserves as a separate 
component of equity and subsequently recognised in the Income Statement on disposal of the net investment. 70 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
1.8 Taxation
The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable proﬁt for the year, which differs from proﬁt before taxation as reported in the Income Statement. Taxable 
proﬁt excludes items of income and expense that are taxable (or deductible) in other years and also excludes items that are never taxable 
or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas tax, is calculated using rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities in the ﬁnancial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Temporary 
differences arise primarily from the recognition of the deﬁcit on the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme, the difference between 
accelerated capital allowances and depreciation and for short term timing differences where a provision held against receivables or stock 
is not deductible for taxation purposes. However, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises 
from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that 
affects neither the tax proﬁt, nor the accounting proﬁt.
Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the 
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is possible that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future. No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, as the Group controls the dividend 
policies of its subsidiaries.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the Income Statement, except when the item on which the tax or charged is credited or charged 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable proﬁts will be available to allow all or part 
of the assets to be recovered. Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to enforce current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same ﬁscal authority.
1.9 Property, plant and equipment
Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in bringing 
the asset into use, but excluding interest. All other repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the Income Statement in the period 
in which it is incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an inﬁnite life. Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the 
asset is available for use and is charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost, less residual value of 
the asset, over its estimated useful life as follows:
Freehold property  – between 20 and 50 years 
Leasehold property  – term of the lease
Plant and equipment – plant and machinery between 3 and 7 years
  – IT hardware between 3 and 5 years
  – ﬁxtures and ﬁttings between 5 and 15 years
The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at each 
ﬁnancial year end. Assets held under ﬁnance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, 
where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if 
the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses arising on disposals are determined by 
comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the Income Statement.
1.10 Intangible assets
All intangible assets, excluding goodwill arising on a business combination, are stated at their amortised cost or fair value less any 
provision for impairment.
(a) Research and development costs
 Research expenditure is written off as incurred. Development costs are written off as incurred until it can be demonstrated that the conditions 
for capitalisation as described in IAS 38 “Intangible Assets” are met. At which point further costs are capitalised as intangible assets up until the 
intangible asset is readily available for production and amortised on a straight-line basis over the asset’s estimated useful life.
 Costs are capitalised as intangible assets unless physical assets, such as tooling, exist when they are classiﬁed as property, plant 
and equipment.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Group Accounting Policies
For the year ended 30 September 2012 71
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
1 Group Accounting Policies continued
(b) Computer software costs
 Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment its costs are capitalised as other intangible assets. 
Amortisation is provided on a straight line basis over its useful economic life of between three and seven years.
(c) Acquired intangible assets – business combinations
 Intangible assets that are acquired as a result of a business combination, including, but not limited to, customer lists, supplier lists, 
databases, technology and software and patents and that can be separately measured at fair value, on a reliable basis, are separately 
recognised on acquisition at the fair value, together with the associated deferred tax liability. Amortisation is charged on a straight line 
basis to the Income Statement over the expected useful economic lives.
(d) Goodwill – business combinations
 Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration over the 
aggregate fair value of the identiﬁable intangible and tangible assets and net of the aggregate fair value of the liabilities (including 
contingent liabilities of businesses acquired at the date of acquisition). Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is 
subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Impairment testing is carried out annually or more frequently 
if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Goodwill on acquisitions is not amortised.
1.11 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of (i) its fair value less costs to sell and (ii) its value in use; its 
value in use is the present value of the future cash ﬂows expected to be derived from the asset or cash-generating unit, discounted using 
a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset or 
cash-generating unit. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
(a) Impairment of goodwill
 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit; cash-generating units for this purpose are the 
business entities which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored by the Group’s Board of 
Directors for internal and management purposes. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for 
impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
 If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated ﬁrst 
to reduce the goodwill attributable to the cash-generating unit.
 An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
(b) Impairment of other tangible and intangible assets
 At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at 
the lowest levels for which there are separately identiﬁable cash inﬂows. Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an 
individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
 Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years. A reversal of an 
impairment loss for tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
1.12 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, (generally calculated on a weighted average cost basis) and net realisable value, after making 
due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving inventory. Cost comprises direct materials, duty and freight-in costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to 
make the sale. 72 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
1 Group Accounting Policies continued
1.13 Financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument.
(a) Trade receivables
 Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value, do not carry any interest and are reduced by a charge for impairment for 
estimated irrecoverable amounts. Such impairment charges are recognised in the Income Statement.
(b) Trade payables
 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are initially measured at their fair value.
(c)  Cash and cash equivalents
 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, interest bearing deposits, bank overdrafts and short term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of 
changes in value. Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and can form an integral part of the Group’s cash management system.
(d) Put options held by minority interests
 On exercise of put options held by minority shareholders in the Group’s subsidiaries, the purchase price of the shares is calculated by 
reference to the proﬁtability of the relevant subsidiary at the time of exercise, using a multiple based formula. The net present value of the 
estimated future payments under these put options is shown as a ﬁnancial liability. The corresponding entry is recognised in equity as a 
deduction against retained earnings. At the end of each year, the estimate of the ﬁnancial liability is reassessed and any change in value is 
recognised in the Income Statement, as part of ﬁnance income or expense. Where the liability is in a foreign currency, any change in the 
value of the liability resulting from changes in exchange rates is recognised in the Income Statement.
(e)  Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge accounting
 The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments in the form of forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the effects of its 
exposures to ﬂuctuations in foreign exchange arising from operational and ﬁnancial activities. In accordance with its treasury policy, 
the Group does not hold or issue derivative ﬁnancial instruments for trading purposes. The fair value of forward foreign exchange 
contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
 Under IAS 39, hedging relationships are categorised by type and must meet strict criteria to qualify for hedge accounting. At the inception of 
the transaction the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item. The Group also documents its 
assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the ﬁnancial instruments that are used in hedging transactions are 
highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ﬂows of hedged items. The Group uses cash ﬂow hedges (eg forward foreign 
exchange currency contracts) to hedge exposure to variability in cash ﬂows of a highly probable forecast transaction.
 In relation to cash ﬂow hedges, to hedge ﬁrm commitments which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain 
or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly to other comprehensive income 
and the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated Income Statement. For cash ﬂow hedges that do not result in the 
recognition of an asset or a liability, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated Income 
Statement in the same year in which the hedged ﬁrm commitment affects the net proﬁt and loss, for example when the future sale 
actually occurs.
 Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualiﬁes for 
hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive 
income is kept in equity until the hedged transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net 
cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the consolidated Income Statement for the year.
 The Group does not use ﬁnancial instruments to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities that 
are attributable to a particular risk and could affect the consolidated Income Statement (fair value hedges). No ﬁnancial instruments 
are used to hedge net investments in a foreign operation (net investment hedges).
1.14 Available for sale ﬁnancial assets (Investment)
Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets comprise equity securities which are not held for the purposes of equity trading. They are initially 
recognised at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
1.15 Leases
Leases are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risk and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. Leases include hire purchase contracts which have characteristics similar to ﬁnance or operating leases. All other leases are 
classiﬁed as operating leases. Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over 
the term of the relevant lease. Beneﬁts received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a 
straight-line basis over the expected lease term.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Group Accounting Policies
For the year ended 30 September 2012 73
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
1 Group Accounting Policies continued
1.16 Other liabilities
Other liabilities are recognised when the Group has legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is possible that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation. Other liabilities are measured at the Director’s best estimate of the expenditure required to 
settle the obligation at the balance sheet date. 
1.17 Dividends
The annual ﬁnal dividend is not provided for until approved at the Annual General Meeting; interim dividends are charged in the period 
they are paid.
1.18 Share capital and reserves
Ordinary shares are classiﬁed as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a 
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. The Group also maintains the following reserves:
(a) Translation reserve – The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial 
statements of foreign businesses.
(b) Hedging reserve – The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash ﬂow 
hedging instruments that are determined to be an effective hedge. 
(c) Retained earnings reserve – The retained earnings reserve comprises total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to 
shareholders. Bonus issues of share capital and dividends to shareholders are also charged directly to this reserve. On acquisition of 
minority interests, the liability held in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the future purchases of those minority interests is 
released to the retained earnings reserve. In addition the cost of acquiring shares in the Company and the liability to provide those 
shares to employees, is accounted for in this reserve. 
Where any Group company purchases the Company’s equity share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury shares or 
indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes), is 
deducted from equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such 
shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and 
the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders. These shares are used to satisfy share 
awards granted to Directors under the Group’s share schemes. The trustee purchases the Company’s shares on the open market using 
loans made by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
1.19 Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards not yet effective
The IASB has published a number of new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards which are not yet effective, but 
will be mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012. Set out below are those which are 
considered most relevant to the Group:
 IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments – Recognition and Measurement”: change in categorisation, recognition and measurement of ﬁnancial 
assets;
 IFRS 10/11/12 “Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Interests in other Entities”: suite of new 
standards on consolidation and related matters;
 IAS 19 “Employee Beneﬁts”: amendment to basis of accounting for deﬁned beneﬁt schemes; and
 IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements”: revision of presentation of comprehensive income.
The Group has considered the impact of these in future periods and no signiﬁcant impact is expected on reported proﬁt or net assets.
2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements
In order to prepare these consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 1 above, 
management has used estimates and judgements to establish the amounts at which certain items are recorded. Critical accounting 
estimates and judgements are those which have the greatest impact on the ﬁnancial statements and require the most difficult and 
subjective judgements about matters that are inherently uncertain. Estimates are based on factors including historical experience and 
expectations of future events that management believe to be reasonable. However given the judgemental nature of such estimates, 
actual results could be different from the assumptions used. The critical accounting estimates and judgements are set out below: 74 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements continued
2.1 Goodwill impairment
The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill has a value that will beneﬁt the performance of the Group 
over future periods. To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least annually, of the carrying value of 
the Group’s capitalised goodwill, using discounted cash ﬂow forecasts to derive the “value in use” to the Group of the capitalised 
goodwill. This calculation is usually based on projecting future cash ﬂows over at least a ﬁve year period and using a terminal value to 
incorporate expectations of growth thereafter. A discount factor is applied to obtain a current value (“value in use”). The “fair value less 
costs to sell” of an asset is used if this results in an amount in excess of “value in use”.
Estimated future cash ﬂows for impairment calculations are based on management’s expectations of future volumes and margins based 
on plans and best estimates of the productivity of the assets in their current condition. Future cash ﬂows therefore exclude beneﬁts from 
major expansion projects requiring future capital expenditure where that expenditure has not been approved at the balance sheet date.
Future cash ﬂows are discounted using discount rates based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital, adjusted if appropriate for 
circumstances speciﬁc to the asset being tested. The weighted average cost of capital is impacted by estimates of interest rates, equity 
returns and market and country related risks. The Group’s weighted average cost of capital is reviewed on an annual basis.
The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Group’s 
businesses for this purpose. Changes to the assumptions and discount rates used in making these forecasts could signiﬁcantly alter the 
Directors’ assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
2.2 Retirement beneﬁts
The Group’s ﬁnancial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension retirement beneﬁts to current 
and former employees. It is the Directors’ responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the costs of 
meeting such future obligations. These assumptions are set after consultation with the Scheme’s actuary and are consistent with those 
assumptions used to determine the ﬁnancing elements related to the Scheme’s assets and liabilities. Whilst the Directors believe that the 
assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect the Group proﬁt and ﬁnancial position. Details of these 
assumptions, which are based on advice from the Scheme’s actuary, are set out in note 25.
2.3 Taxation
The Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions around the world. Tax regulations generally are complex and in some jurisdictions 
agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities can take several years. Consequently, at the balance sheet date tax liabilities and assets are 
based on management’s best estimate of the future amounts that will be settled. While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates 
recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
Deferred tax assets mainly represent timing differences that the Group expects to recover at some time in the future and by their nature, 
the amounts recorded are therefore dependent on management’s judgement about future events. Account has also been taken of future 
forecasts of taxable proﬁt in arriving at the values at which these deferred tax assets are recognised. If these forecast proﬁts do not 
materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the timing difference might be recognised, then the 
value of the deferred tax asset will need to be revised in a future period.
2.4 Current assets
In the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to establish the net realisable value of various elements of working capital, 
principally inventory and trade receivables. Impairment charges are made against obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or doubtful debts.
The decision to make an impairment charge is based on the facts available at the time the ﬁnancial statements are approved and are also 
determined by using proﬁles, based on past practice, applied to certain aged inventory and trade receivables categories. In estimating the 
collectability of trade receivables, judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current creditworthiness of each 
customer and related ageing of the past due balances. Speciﬁc accounts are assessed in situations where a customer may not be able to 
meet its ﬁnancial obligations due to deterioration of its ﬁnancial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
2.5 Property, plant and equipment
It is Group policy to depreciate its property, plant and equipment assets, except freehold land, on a straight-line basis over their estimated 
useful lives. This applies an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the delivery of goods and services. A key element of this 
policy is the estimate of the useful life applied to each category of property, plant and equipment which, in turn, determines the annual 
depreciation charge. Variations in asset lives could impact Group proﬁt through an increase or decrease in the depreciation charge.
2.6 Future purchases of minority interests
The Group’s ﬁnancial statements include a ﬁnancial liability for the net present value of the expected amount that it will pay in future years 
to acquire the outstanding shares held by minority shareholders in the Group’s subsidiaries. This amount is based on the Directors’ 
estimate of the future proﬁtability of the relevant subsidiary and on an assumption of the exchange rates prevailing at the time the 
payment is made. Any changes to the estimated proﬁtability of the relevant business and/or changes to the assumption of the relevant 
exchange rate, will change the estimate of this ﬁnancial liability.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
Group Accounting Policies
For the year ended 30 September 2012 75
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Note
2012 
£m
2011
£m
Fixed assets
Investments c 72.0 72.0
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings (42.1) (42.2)
Total assets less current liabilities 29.9 29.8
Capital and reserves
Called up equity share capital d 5.7 5.7
Proﬁt and loss account e 24.2 24.1
29.9 29.8
The ﬁnancial statements of Diploma PLC, company number 3899848, were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 November 2012 
and signed on its behalf by:
BM Thompson NP Lingwood
Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 30 September 2012
a) Accounting Policies
a.1 Basis of accounting
These ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as discussed on page 46, under the historical cost convention 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK Accounting Standards. As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 
2006, no separate proﬁt and loss account is presented for the Company. 
a.2 Investments and dividends
Investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment. Dividend income is recognised when received. Dividend distributions are 
recognised in the Company’s ﬁnancial statements in the year in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim 
dividends are recognised when paid.
a.3 Employment Beneﬁt Trust and employee share schemes
Shares held by the Diploma Employee Beneﬁt Trust (“the Trust”) are stated at cost and accounted for as a deduction from shareholders’ 
funds in accordance with UITF 38. Shares that are held by the Trust are not eligible for dividends until such time as the awards have vested 
and options have been exercised by the participants.
b) Directors’ remuneration
No emoluments are paid directly by the Company; information on the Directors’ remuneration and interests in the share capital of the 
Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 43.
c) Investments
£m
Shares in Group undertakings
At 30 September 2012 and 1 October 2011 72.0
Details of the principal subsidiaries are set out on page 78.
d) Share Capital
2012 
Number
2011 
Number
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
Allotted, issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p each
At 30 September 113,239,555 113,239,555 5.7 5.7
During the year 132,175 shares were transferred from the Diploma Employee Beneﬁt Trust to participants in connection with the exercise of 
options in respect of awards which have vested under the 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan. At 30 September 2012 the Trust held 962,337 
(2011: 1,094,512) ordinary shares in the Company representing 0.8% of the called up share capital. The market value of the shares at 30 
September 2012 was £4.6m (2011: £3.5m).
e) Reconciliation of movement in shareholders’ funds
Share capital 
£m
Proﬁt and 
loss account 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 October 2011 5.7 24.1 29.8
Retained proﬁt for the year –0.1 0.1
At 30 September 2012 5.7 24.2 29.9
Parent Company Balance Sheet
As at 30 September 2012 76 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Independent Auditor’s Report on the Group ﬁnancial statements to the Members of Diploma PLC
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2012 which comprise the consolidated 
income statement, the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position, the consolidated cash ﬂow statement, the consolidated statement of 
income and other comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Group accounting policies and the 
related notes 1 to 29. The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement for preparing the Financial Statements, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Group ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to 
audit and express an opinion on the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the Group ﬁnancial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2012 and of its proﬁt for the year then ended;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 the directors’ statement in relation to going concern; 
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code speciﬁed for our review; and
 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Parent company ﬁnancial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2012 and on 
the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
Ian Waller (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London 
19 November 2012
Independent Auditor’s Reports
For the year ended 30 September 2012 77
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Independent Auditor’s Report on the Parent Company ﬁnancial statements to the Members of Diploma PLC
We have audited the Parent company ﬁnancial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2012 which comprise the 
Parent company balance sheet and the related notes a) to e). The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in 
an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement for preparing the Financial Statements, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Parent company ﬁnancial statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the annual report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on ﬁnancial statements
In our opinion the Parent company ﬁnancial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent company’s affairs as at 30 September 2012;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
and
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the Parent company ﬁnancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
 the Parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements of Diploma PLC for the year ended 30 September 2012.
Ian Waller (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London 
19 November 2012 78 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Group 
percentage 
of equity 
capital
Country of 
incorporation or 
registration
Life Sciences
a1-envirosciences Limited 100% England
a1-envirosciences GmbH 100% Germany
Somagen Diagnostics Inc 100% Canada
AMT Electrosurgery Inc 100% Canada
Vantage Endoscopy Inc (formerly Carsen Medical Inc) 100% Canada
Big Green Surgical Company Pty Limited 80% Australia
Diagnostic Solutions Pty Limited 80% Australia
Seals
HB Sealing Products Inc 100% USA
J Royal US, Inc 100% USA
HKX Inc 100% USA
Hercules Europe BV 100% Netherlands
All Seals Inc 100% USA
RTD Seals Corp 100% USA
M Seals A/S 90% Denmark
FPE Limited 100% England
Controls
IS Rayfast Limited 100% England
IS Motorport Inc 100% USA
Amfast Limited 100% England
Clarendon Engineering Supplies Limited 100% England
Cabletec Interconnect Components Systems Limited 100% England
Sommer GmbH 100% Germany
Filcon Electronic GmbH 100% Germany
HA Wainwright (Group) Limited 100% England
Abbeychart Limited 100% England
Hitek Limited 100% England
Other Companies
Diploma Holdings PLC 100% England
Diploma Holdings Inc 100% USA
A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the next Annual Return of Diploma PLC ﬁled with the Registrar of Companies.
Principal Subsidiaries 79
DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Announcements (provisional dates):
First Interim Management Statement released 16 January 2013
Second Interim Management Statement released 30 July 2013
Half Year Results announced 13 May 2013
Preliminary Results announced 18 November 2013
Annual Report posted to shareholders 2 December 2013
Annual General Meeting (2012) 16 January 2013
Annual General Meeting (2013) 15 January 2014
Dividends (provisional dates)
Interim announced 13 May 2013
Paid  19 June 2013
Final announced 18 November 2013
Paid (if approved) 22 January 2014
Annual Report & Accounts: 
Copies can be obtained from the Group Company Secretary at the address shown below.
Share Registrar – Computershare Investor Services PLC: 
The Company’s Registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ. 
Telephone: 0870 7020010. Their website for shareholder enquiries is www.computershare.co.uk
Shareholders’ enquiries: 
If you have any enquiry about the Company’s business or about something affecting you as a shareholder (other than questions dealt with 
by Computershare Investor Services PLC) you are invited to contact the Group Company Secretary at the address shown below.
Secretary and Registered Office:
AJ Gallagher FCIS, Solicitor, 12 Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6AX. Telephone: 020 7549 5700. Fax: 020 7549 5715. 
Registered in England and Wales, number 3899848.
Website: 
Diploma’s website is www.diplomaplc.com
Financial Calendar and Shareholder Information 80
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Year ended 30 September
Continuing businesses
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2009
£m
2008 
£m
Revenue 260.2 230.6 183.5 160.0 156.2
Adjusted operating proﬁt 52.8 45.2 32.1 25.6 26.6
Finance (expense)/income (0.2) (0.3) 0.1 (0.1) 0.2
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 52.6 44.9 32.2 25.5 26.8
Acquisition related charges (6.4) (4.8) (3.5) (3.1) (2.7)
Fair value remeasurements (0.2) (0.9) (2.0) (1.9) (3.0)
Proﬁt before tax 46.0 39.2 26.7 20.5 21.1
Tax expense (14.4) (11.6) (8.8) (7.1) (7.2)
Proﬁt for the year from continuing businesses 31.6 27.6 17.9 13.4 13.9
Proﬁt from discontinued businesses – – 5.1 0.9 0.5
Proﬁt for the year 31.6 27.6 23.0 14.3 14.4
Capital structure
Equity shareholders’ funds 165.8 151.4 136.1 121.4 108.1
Minority interest 1.4 0.5 3.1 2.7 1.9
Add/(less): cash and cash equivalents (11.4) (17.8) (30.1) (21.3) (15.7)
 borrowings 3.5 5.6 – – –
 retirement beneﬁt obligations 5.4 5.4 5.3 4.7 1.7
 future purchases of minority interests 3.2 2.0 13.2 13.1 11.2
 deferred tax, net 1.6 2.0 1.3 2.0 3.3
 adjustment to goodwill in respect of deferred tax (10.1) (8.9) (6.6) (6.5) (6.0)
Trading capital employed 159.4 140.2 122.3 116.1 104.5
Net (decrease)/increase in net funds (3.9) (18.0) 8.6 2.2 2.0
Add: dividends paid 14.3 14.8 10.2 9.1 7.8
acquisition of businesses 22.3 28.2 11.0 12.2 7.9
Free cash ﬂow 32.7 25.0 29.8 23.5 17.7
Per ordinary share (pence)
Basic earnings 27.9 24.0 14.6 10.8 11.4
Adjusted earnings 33.1 27.9 18.9 14.8 16.0
Dividends 14.4 12.0 9.0 7.8 7.5
Total shareholders’ equity 146 134 120 107 95
Dividend cover 2.3 2.3 2.1 1.9 2.1
Ratios % %%%%
Return on trading capital employed 26.6 25.4 22.1 19.0 22.4
Working capital: revenue 16.5 16.1 15.4 17.6 17.2
Operating margin 20.3 19.6 17.5 16.0 17.0
Continuing and discontinued businesses £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 260.2 230.6 188.8 175.7 172.3
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 52.6 44.9 31.6 26.7 27.5
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share (pence) 33.1 27.9 18.5 15.6 16.4
Notes
1 Return on trading capital employed represents operating proﬁt, before acquisition related charges, as a percentage of trading capital employed (adjusted for the effect of the 
timing of major acquisitions and disposals). Trading capital employed is calculated as deﬁned in note 2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
2 Adjusted earnings per share is calculated in accordance with note 9 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
3 Total shareholders’ equity per share has been calculated by dividing equity shareholders’ funds by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the year end.
4 Dividend cover is calculated on adjusted earnings as deﬁned in note 2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
5 Acquisition expenses have been charged against proﬁt from 1 October 2009; prior to 1 October 2009 acquisition costs were included as part of the cost of investment.
6 The Group disposed of Anachem Limited in the ﬁnancial year ended 30 September 2010 and this business was reclassiﬁed as a discontinued business; the comparatives 
have been restated accordingly.
Five Year Record  Diploma PLC
12 Charterhouse Square
London EC1M 6AX
T +44 (0)20 7549 5700
F +44 (0)20 7549 5715
www.diplomaplc.com Essential to our Customers
DIPLOMA PLC
Annual Review 2012 Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Our
Sectors
IFC Group at a Glance
01 Financial Highlights
02 Chairman’s Statement
04 Our Business Model
06  Our Growth Strategy
08 Chief Executive’s Review
20 Directors and Advisors
22 Sector Overview
23 Five Year Record
24 Financial Calendar
Audited ﬁnancial statements are set out in the 
Annual Report & Accounts 2012.
“ Diploma PLC is an international group 
of businesses supplying specialised 
technical products and services.”
Life Sciences Suppliers of consumables, 
instrumentation and related services to the 
healthcare and environmental industries. 
Seals Suppliers of hydraulic seals, gaskets, 
cylinders, components and kits for heavy 
mobile machinery and industrial equipment.
Controls Suppliers of specialised wiring, 
connectors, fasteners and control devices 
for technically demanding applications. DIPLOMA PLC
North American revenue by sector European revenue by sector ROW revenue by sector
Group
at a Glance
The Group is well 
diversiﬁed by geographic 
and business area.
 Life Sciences
 Healthcare
 Environmental
 Seals
 Aftermarket
 Industrial OEM
 Controls
 Controls
Geography
1 By destination
North America
54%
of revenues
1
27% US
27% Canada
 Life Sciences
 Seals
 Controls
Europe
39%
of revenues
1
22% UK
17% Continental Europe
Rest of World
7%
of revenues
1 DIPLOMA PLC
We focus on essential products  
and services funded by customers’  
operating rather than capital budgets,  
giving recurring income and stable  
revenue growth.
Life Sciences
Healthcare (80% of revenues)
Medical devices and related consumables 
and services supplied to Pathology 
laboratories, Operating Rooms and 
GI Endoscopy suites and clinics
Environmental (20% of revenues)
Environmental analysers, containment 
enclosures and emissions monitoring 
systems
Seals
Aftermarket (60% of revenues)
Next day delivery of seals, sealing 
products and cylinder components for 
the repair of heavy mobile machinery
Industrial OEMs (40% of revenues)
Sealing products and custom 
moulded and machined parts supplied 
to manufacturers of specialised 
industrial equipment
Controls
Interconnect (70% of revenues)
Wiring, harness components and 
fasteners used in specialised applications 
in Aerospace, Defence, Motorsport, 
Energy, Medical and Industrial
Fluid Controls (30% of revenues)
Temperature, pressure and ﬂuid 
control products used in food, 
beverage and catering industries
30%
of revenues
1
270
employees worldwide
38%
of revenues
1
489
employees worldwide
32%
of revenues
1
292
employees worldwide Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
01 DIPLOMA PLC
Year ended 30 September
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
Revenue 260.2 230.6 13%
Adjusted operating proﬁt
1
52.8 45.2 17%
Adjusted operating margin
1
20.3% 19.6% 
Adjusted proﬁt before tax
1,2
52.6 44.9 17%
Proﬁt before tax 46.0 39.2 17%
Free cash ﬂow 32.7 25.0 31%
Pence Pence
Adjusted earnings per share
1,2
33.1 27.9 19%
Basic earnings per share 27.9 24.0 16%
T otal dividends per share 14.4 12.0 20%
Free cash ﬂow per share 28.9 22.1 31%
1 Before acquisition related charges.
2 Before fair value remeasurements.
Note:
Diploma PLC uses alternative performance measures as key ﬁnancial indicators to assess the underlying performance of 
the Group. These include adjusted operating proﬁt, adjusted proﬁt before tax, adjusted earnings per share and free cash ﬂow. 
The narrative in the Annual Review is based on these alternative measures and an explanation is set out in note 2 to the 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements included in the Annual Report & Accounts.
Another year of strong growth
Financial Highlights Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
02 DIPLOMA PLC
Chairman’s Statement 
Investing for Growth
Over the last ﬁve years, against 
a backdrop of uncertain global 
markets, the Group has achieved 
20% pa compound growth in earnings 
by a combination of good organic 
growth and selective, value-enhancing 
acquisitions. Market capitalisation has 
more than doubled over the ﬁve year 
period and early in the ﬁnancial year, 
the Group entered the FTSE 250 index.
I am pleased to report that the Group 
has made further progress during 
this ﬁnancial year and has delivered 
substantial value to shareholders with 
another year of strong double-digit 
growth in earnings and dividends.
The ability of the Group to continue 
to deliver these strong returns to 
shareholders over the next ﬁve year period, 
requires a commitment to invest strongly 
in establishing a ﬁrm foundation for 
growth. As I indicated last year, the Board 
has approved signiﬁcant investment across 
the Group’s businesses, designed to 
ensure that the Group will continue 
to deliver strong growth.
By the end of the 2013 ﬁnancial year, 
the Group will have invested ca. £3m in 
new and enlarged facilities for several 
businesses in the Group. Substantial 
investment has also now commenced on 
large ERP IT projects in three businesses 
and another project is planned to 
commence later in 2013 with an aggregate 
investment of ca. £2m. We have also 
invested in broadening the skill base across 
the Group, through a combination of 
recruiting additional senior management 
and new training programmes, at an 
additional annual cost of ca. £1m.
The Board is conﬁdent that with 
these investments and with further 
value-enhancing acquisitions, the 
momentum of growth in the Group will 
be sustained over the next ﬁve years.
Performance
Group revenue increased in 2012 by 
13% to £260.2m (2011: £230.6m) with the 
continued strong performance in the Seals 
businesses being the main driver to growth 
and with good contributions from the Life 
Sciences and the Controls businesses. 
Adjusted operating margins increased 
further during the year to 20.3% (2011: 
19.6%) reﬂecting the operational leverage in 
the North American Seals businesses and as 
a result, adjusted operating proﬁt increased 
by 17% to £52.8m (2011: £45.2m).
Underlying Group revenues and adjusted 
operating proﬁt increased by 6% and 11% 
respectively, after adjusting for the impact 
from acquisitions, the divestment of a 
small business in Switzerland and 
currency movements on the translation 
of overseas results.
Adjusted proﬁt before tax increased by 17% 
to £52.6m (2011: £44.9m) and adjusted 
earnings per share, helped by the purchase 
of minority interests last year, increased 
by 19% to 33.1p (2011: 27 .9p).
The Group’s continuing ability to generate 
excellent cash ﬂow was demonstrated 
by an increase in free cash ﬂow of over 
30% to £32.7m (2011: £25.0m). This was 
after increasing capital investment to 
£3.5m (2011: £1.7m) which included 
£1.3m to upgrade facilities and other 
infrastructure assets.
“ The Group has delivered another year 
of strong double-digit growth in earnings 
and dividends.”
John Rennocks
Chairman Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
03
EPS growth
Adjusted EPS in pence
2012 33.1
27.9
18.9
14.8
16.0
2011
2010
2009
2008
+20% p.a.
TSR growth
TSR index, end September 2007 = 100
2012 262
170
147
86
71
2011
2010
2009
2008
+21% p.a.
Dividend growth
Dividends in pence per share
2012 14.4
12.0
9.0
7.8
7.5
2011
2010
2009
2008
+22% p.a.
DIPLOMA PLC
Five Year Performance
After investing £22.3m on acquiring 
businesses and making dividend 
distributions to shareholders of £14.2m, 
the Group had net cash funds of £7.9m 
at 30 September 2012. This demonstrates 
the continuing strength of the Group’s 
balance sheet and provides conﬁdence 
in the Group’s ability to continue to 
invest strongly for future growth.
Acquisitions
The Board’s strategy to accelerate 
growth through carefully selected, 
value enhancing acquisitions remains a 
key factor in providing outstanding returns 
to shareholders. Once acquisitions are 
completed, the Group looks to make 
appropriate investment in the newly 
acquired businesses to build a solid 
platform for future growth. 
The Board has continued to pursue 
this growth strategy during the year by 
investing over £22m in acquiring new 
businesses, with all three sectors of the 
Group beneﬁting from this investment. 
Each of these acquisitions has provided 
our existing businesses with opportunities 
to expand into new and related product 
and geographic markets.
We will continue to invest sensibly 
in broadening our businesses through 
a combination of organic investment 
and by acquisition. We have made 
good progress during the year in 
adding experienced resources which 
are designed to accelerate and broaden 
the acquisition programme over the 
coming years.
Dividends
With another year of good progress 
and in light of the strong balance 
sheet and free cash ﬂow, the Board 
is recommending an increase in the 
ﬁnal dividend of 20% to 10.2p per share 
(2011: 8.5p) which, subject to shareholder 
approval at the Annual General Meeting, 
will be paid on 23 January 2013 to 
shareholders on the register at 
30 November 2012.
The total dividend per share for the year 
will be 14.4p which also represents a 20% 
increase on 2011. This is well covered by 
Adjusted EPS at 2.3 times and remains in 
line with our objective of targeting 
towards a 2 times cover.
Governance
I am delighted to welcome Marie-Louise 
Clayton to the Board following her 
appointment as a non-Executive Director 
on 13 November 2012. As I indicated last 
year, this appointment represents the initial 
stage of developing the Board to meet the 
higher governance standards required of 
larger companies and we look forward to 
advancing this process over the next year 
with a further new addition. We have also 
made good progress during the year with 
updating our Board processes and policies 
to meet the UK Corporate Governance 
Code requirements. In September 2012, 
the Board separated the role of Company 
Secretary from the Group Finance Director 
with the appointment of Anthony 
Gallagher as Group Company Secretary.
Employees
We have continued to invest this year 
in developing our management group 
through the appointment of external 
resource and through new internal 
promotions across the Group. We 
continue to foster an entrepreneurial 
culture within our businesses which 
encourages all our staff to take 
responsibility for their own businesses. 
I wish to send my sincere thanks to 
everyone in the Group, whose 
exceptional efforts and dedication 
to deliver outstanding value to our 
customers, has allowed the Group 
to continue to make further progress.
Current Trading
The Life Sciences businesses have 
begun the year well, beneﬁting from 
the investments made last year in 
consolidating the Healthcare businesses 
in Canada and from expanding further 
in Australia. The Seals businesses are 
continuing to enjoy robust underlying 
growth in their key markets in North 
America. The Controls businesses 
are beneﬁting from the acquisitions 
completed in the UK last year, but 
Continental European markets continue 
to show little sign of underlying growth. 
The Group has a resilient business 
model with a good geographic spread 
of businesses which are supported by a 
strong Group balance sheet and robust 
cash ﬂow. The investments made this 
year will provide a platform to drive 
underlying growth and intensify the 
search for good quality acquisitions. 
These factors provide the Board with 
conﬁdence that, despite the background 
of weak global economic market 
conditions, the Group is well placed 
to make further progress in the new 
ﬁnancial year.
John Rennocks
Chairman
19 November 2012 Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
04 DIPLOMA PLC
Our Business Model
The Group comprises a number of high 
quality, specialised businesses which design 
their individual business models to make 
them essential to their customers.
The Group’s business model, supplying 
essential products and solutions to 
specialised market segments, supports 
steady organic revenue growth and 
sustainable attractive margins.
We encourage an entrepreneurial culture 
through a decentralised organisation 
structure; these essential values ensure 
that the businesses are agile and responsive 
to market changes.
Our businesses focus on supplying 
essential products and services funded 
by customers’ operating rather than 
capital budgets and supplied across a 
range of specialised industry segments.
The majority of the Group’s revenues 
are generated from consumable 
products. In many cases, the products 
will be used in repair and maintenance 
applications and refurbishment and 
upgrade programmes, rather than 
supplied to original equipment 
manufacturers.
These characteristics all contribute to the 
Group’s record of stable revenue growth 
over the business cycle.
Essential  
Products
=  recurring income and 
stable revenue growth Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
05 DIPLOMA PLC
“ Our business model is designed to  
make us essential to our customers.”
Our businesses design their individual 
business models to provide solutions 
which closely meet the requirements of 
their customers. 
The solutions can be in the form of:
 Highly responsive customer service, 
such as the next day delivery from 
stock of essential, but low value items;
 Deep technical support, where we 
work closely with our customers in 
designing our products into their 
speciﬁc applications;
 Added value services which, if we did 
not provide these services, customers 
would have to pay others to provide 
them or would require them to invest 
in additional resources of their own.
By supplying solutions, not just products, 
we build strong long term relationships with 
our customers and suppliers, supporting 
sustainable and attractive margins.
We encourage an entrepreneurial 
culture across our businesses, through 
a decentralised management structure. 
We want the managers to feel that they 
have the freedom to run their own 
businesses, while being able to draw 
upon the support and resources of a 
larger group where this is beneﬁcial.
Within our businesses we have strong, 
self-standing management teams 
who are committed to and rewarded 
according to the success of their 
businesses. This ensures that decisions 
are made close to the customer and that 
the businesses are agile and responsive 
to changes in the market and the 
competitive environment.
Essential 
Solutions
=  sustainable and  
attractive margins
Essential  
Values
=  agility and  
responsiveness Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
06 DIPLOMA PLC
Our Growth Strategy
The Group’s strategy is designed to deliver 
strong, double-digit growth by building larger, 
broader-based businesses in the three Group 
sectors – Life Sciences, Seals and Controls. 
The Group comprises a number of high quality, 
specialised businesses which, through their 
focus on essential products, solutions and values, 
generate stable “GDP plus” levels of organic revenue 
growth (5–6% p.a.) over the business cycle.
To complement the organic growth strategy, the 
Group has an ongoing acquisition programme, 
designed to accelerate growth and to facilitate  
entry into related strategic markets.
Post acquisition, the Group provides the investment 
required by the acquired business to build a solid 
foundation to deliver stable, proﬁtable growth.
Acquire
Build
Grow
Clear business criteria have been established 
to guide the Group’s acquisition programme:
 Fit with the Group’s business model of 
essential products, solutions and values;
 Marketing led with strong customer 
relationships;
 Secure supply of high quality, 
differentiated products;
 Capable management.
The principal ﬁnancial criteria are:
 Track record of stable, proﬁtable growth 
and cash generation;
 Exceed IRR threshold of 13% to ensure 
20%+ pre-tax ROI.
Acquisitions are intended to give entry into 
new but related markets and thereby extend 
the reach of the existing businesses and bring 
new growth opportunities. 
The acquisitions we make are of companies 
which are already successful and with a good 
track record. However, these businesses have 
typically reached the point where additional 
resources are needed to take them to the 
next level of growth.
Working with the management, we provide 
the investment required to build a solid 
foundation to allow the company to move 
to a new level of growth. The investment will 
normally be in new facilities and IT systems, 
increased but better managed working capital 
and additional management resource.
Once the acquisition is integrated into the 
Group, with a solid platform established, the 
focus is on delivering stable, proﬁtable growth. 
Except in the case of smaller, bolt-on 
acquisitions, the acquisitions will maintain 
their distinct sales and marketing identity and 
will be managed as independent business 
units. However, where there are opportunities 
for synergies with other Group businesses, 
these will be managed within larger 
business clusters.
Typically synergies come in the following areas:
 Cross-selling between the businesses;
 Joint purchasing between the businesses;
 Common back-office functions for ﬁnance 
and administration. Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
07 DIPLOMA PLC
“ Our Acquire, Build, Grow strategy can be seen  
in action in the three sectors.”
Acquisition spend
2012
£22.3m
2011
£28.2m
2010
£11.0m
2009
£12.2m
2008
£7 .9m
2007
£31.6m
See page 14 See page 16 See page 18 Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
08 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma (rebased) FTSE 250 (rebased, ex Investment Trusts)
Sep 07
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Sep 08 Sep 09 Sep 10 Sep 11 Sep 12
Growth in the value of a hypothetical £100 holding over ﬁve years
Chief Executive’s Review
“ In 2012 the Group has continued 
the growth trend with Adjusted EPS 
increasing by 19% and TSR by over 50%.”
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
Principal corporate 
objectives
Achieve double digit growth in adjusted 
EPS over the business cycle
Adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”), 
measured over the business cycle, 
provides an absolute benchmark of the 
Company’s performance. Over the last 
ﬁve years, adjusted EPS has grown at 
a compound growth rate of 20% p.a. 
through a combination of steady 
organic growth and carefully 
targeted acquisitions.
Generate TSR growth in the upper 
quartile of the FTSE 250 
Total shareholder return (“TSR”) is the 
growth in value of a share plus the value 
of dividends re-invested in the Company’s 
shares on the day on which they are paid. 
This is measured against the TSR growth 
of the FTSE mid-250 index (excluding 
investment trusts) (“FTSE 250”). The last 
ﬁve years have seen a compound TSR 
growth for Diploma of 21% p.a., which 
represents upper quartile performance 
as compared with the FTSE 250, where 
median TSR growth has been 5% p.a. 
Deliver progressive dividend growth 
with two times dividend cover
Diploma follows a progressive dividend 
policy with a target cover of two times 
on an adjusted EPS basis. Over the last 
ﬁve years, dividends have steadily grown 
at the rate of 22% p.a. and this continues 
the trend of increasing dividends in each 
of the last 13 years.  Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
09
2012 £260.2m
£230.6m
£183.5m
£160.0m
£156.2m
2011
2010
2009
2008
Total revenue £m
2012 +6%
+17%
+11%
-12%
+8%
2011
2010
2009
2008
Underlying organic revenue growth % p.a.
2012 20.3%
19.6%
17.5%
16.0%
17.0%
2011
2010
2009
2008
Operating margin as % of revenue
2012 £22.3m
£28.2m
£11.0m
£12.2m
£7.9m
2011
2010
2009
2008
Acquisition spend £m
2012 £32.7m
£25.0m
£29.8m
£23.5m
£17.7m
2011
2010
2009
2008
Free cash ﬂow £m
2012 16.5%
16.1%
15.4%
17.6%
17.2%
2011
2010
2009
2008
Working capital as % of revenue
2012 26.6%
25.4%
22.1%
19.0%
22.4%
2011
2010
2009
2008
ROTCE %
DIPLOMA PLC
“ Continuing strong performance delivers long 
term value to shareholders.”
Generate stable “GDP plus” organic revenue 
growth over the business cycle
The businesses target organic revenue growth, 
over the economic cycle, at a rate of 5–6% p.a. 
(“GDP plus” growth), with higher growth rates 
achieved at the Group level through carefully 
selected value enhancing acquisitions. 
Maintain stable attractive margins
Operating margin is an important measure of 
the success of the businesses in achieving superior 
margins by offering strongly differentiated products 
and customer focused solutions, as well as by running 
efficient operations. 
Accelerate growth through carefully selected 
value enhancing acquisitions
To complement the Group’s organic growth 
strategy, the Group has an ongoing acquisition 
programme, designed to accelerate growth and 
to facilitate entry into related strategic markets.
Generate consistently strong cash ﬂow to fund 
growth strategy and dividends
Free cash ﬂow is deﬁned as the cash ﬂow 
generated after tax, but before acquisitions 
and dividends. This measures the success of 
the Group and its businesses in turning proﬁt 
into cash through the careful management of 
working capital and investments in ﬁxed assets.
Create value by consistently exceeding 
20% ROTCE
Return on trading capital employed (“ROTCE”) 
is deﬁned as adjusted operating proﬁt as a 
percentage of trading capital employed (“TCE”). 
TCE excludes net cash and non-operating 
assets and liabilities, but includes all goodwill 
and acquired intangible assets.
Next level objectives Key performance indicators
 Total revenue growth: % p.a.
16%
     p.a.
compound
  Underlying organic revenue 
growth: % p.a.
+6%
     p.a.
average
  Operating margins: 
% of revenue
18% average
 Acquisition spend: £m
>20%ROI
 Free cash ﬂow: £m
£26m
     p.a.
average
 Working capital as % of revenue
16 - 1 7% average
 ROTCE: %
23%
     
average Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
10 DIPLOMA PLC
2012
Year in Review
Proven Strategy for Growth
The Group’s strategy is designed to 
generate strong, double-digit growth 
in earnings and value over the business 
cycle, by building larger, broader-based 
businesses in the three Diploma sectors 
of Life Sciences, Seals and Controls. Over 
the last ﬁve years, adjusted earnings per 
share (“EPS”) and total shareholder return 
(“TSR”) have grown at compound growth 
rates of 20% pa and 21% pa, respectively. 
In 2012, the Group has continued this 
growth trend, with adjusted EPS growing 
by 19% and TSR by over 50%. In addition, 
the Group has made signiﬁcant progress in 
making the investments needed to lay the 
robust foundation for continued growth 
in the next ﬁve year period. 
 
Good Operating Performance
In 2012, revenues increased by 13% to 
£260.2m (2011: £230.6m) with underlying 
growth of 6% after adjusting for currency 
effects, acquisitions and a small 
divestment. Adjusted operating margins 
for the year have increased to 20.3% of 
revenue (2011: 19.6%), though margins 
have reduced from the record high of 
20.8% at the Half Year mainly due to the 
investment programmes which have 
been initiated during the year.
Signiﬁcant progress has been made 
since the Half Year with the planned 
investments designed to support the 
future growth of the business. Two of the 
Industrial OEM Seals businesses in the US, 
RT Dygert and All Seals, both completed 
moves to larger new facilities. IS-Rayfast, 
the UK Controls business and Vantage, 
the Canadian Healthcare business, have 
also completed major facility moves in 
the ﬁrst quarter of the new ﬁnancial year. 
Three new IT projects have been started 
in the businesses, with further projects 
planned for later in the year. Finally, 
investment has been made in additional 
management resource within the major 
businesses and in the Diploma corporate 
group. In total, £2.1m of the planned 
£6.0m cash investment was made in 
the second half of the year, leading to 
additional operating costs of ca. £1.0m 
being added this year to support 
future growth. 
Even after these additional investments, 
free cash ﬂow in 2012 has again been 
strong at £32.7m (2011: £25.0m), with 
working capital as a percentage of 
revenue at 16.5%, in line with the 
longer term average of 16–17%. 
During the year, £20.8m was invested 
in the acquisition of DSL in Life Sciences, 
J Royal in Seals and Abbeychart 
and Amfast in Controls and a 10% 
minority interest in JRPP purchased 
for £0.7m. Return on trading capital 
employed (“ROTCE”) has increased to 
26.6% (2011: 25.4%) driven by the growth 
in proﬁts and strong management of 
working capital across the businesses.
Resilient Business Model
The Group comprises a number of high 
quality, specialised businesses which 
design their individual business models to 
make them essential to their customers. 
Our businesses are focused on supplying 
essential products and services which are 
funded by the customers’ operating rather 
than their capital budgets, providing 
recurring income and stable revenue 
growth. By supplying essential solutions, 
not just products, we build strong long 
term relationships with our customers and 
suppliers, which support sustainable and 
attractive margins. Finally we encourage 
an entrepreneurial culture in our 
businesses through our decentralised 
management structure and these essential 
values ensure that decisions are made 
close to the customer and that the 
businesses are agile and responsive 
to changes in the market and the 
competitive environment. 
Acquire, Build, Grow Strategy to Drive 
Double Digit Growth
Our businesses target organic revenue 
growth over the business cycle at the rate 
of 5–6% pa (“GDP plus” growth). Growth 
is then accelerated through carefully 
selected, value-enhancing acquisitions 
which ﬁt the business model and offer 
entry into new strategic markets. These 
acquisitions form an integral part of our 
sector growth strategies, designed to 
deliver strong double digit growth.
In general, when we acquire businesses, 
the acquisitions we make are of 
companies which ﬁt our business model 
and which are already successful, with a 
good track record. They will be marketing 
led with strong customer relationships 
and will have a secure supply of high 
quality, differentiated products. They will 
have capable management and a track 
record of stable, proﬁtable growth and 
cash generation. The objective is to 
generate a pre-tax return on investment 
(“ROI”) of at least 20% on each acquisition 
and hence support our Group objective 
of consistently exceeding 20% ROTCE.
The acquired businesses have often 
reached the point where additional 
resources are needed to take them to 
the next level of growth. Working with 
management, we provide the investment 
required to build a ﬁrm foundation to allow 
the business to move to a new level of 
growth. The investment will normally be 
in new facilities and IT systems, increased 
but carefully managed working capital 
and additional management resource.
Once the acquisition is integrated into 
the Group and a solid platform has been 
established, the priority is to grow the 
business. The acquired companies (other 
than small bolt-on acquisitions) maintain 
their distinct sales and marketing identity 
and are managed as independent 
business units. Where there are  Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
11 DIPLOMA PLC
“ The Group made good progress in executing 
the Acquire, Build, Grow strategy in each 
of the three sectors”
opportunities for real synergies, typically 
in cross-selling, purchasing and back 
office operations, the businesses are 
managed within larger business clusters. 
Sector Developments
Good progress was made during the 
year in executing the Acquire, Build, Grow 
strategy in each of the three sectors and 
the key developments and results this year 
are summarised below. 
Life Sciences
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
Revenue 78.4 74.4 +5%
Adjusted operating 
proﬁt 18.0 17.1 +5%
Adjusted operating 
margin 23.0% 23.0%
 Underlying revenue growth of 5%.
 Investment in newly formed Vantage 
business – integrated sales team, 
strengthened service and operations 
management, new facility.
 Investment in new Minimally Invasive 
Surgery business within AMT.
 Acquisition of DSL business in Australia 
– major new supplier added shortly 
after acquisition.
The Life Sciences businesses increased 
revenues in 2012 by 5% on a UK sterling 
basis, with a similar level of growth on a 
constant currency basis. Sector revenues 
beneﬁted from the contribution from the 
DSL business in Australia, acquired in 
June 2012 and a full year contribution 
from the CMI business, acquired in 
December 2010. In May 2012, the small 
Environmental operation in Switzerland 
was sold to its management thus 
reducing revenues. After adjusting for 
these acquisitions and the divestment, 
for minor currency effects and for the 
exceptional sale of face shields in the 
prior year, underlying sector revenues 
increased by 5%.
The Group’s Healthcare businesses 
in Canada and Australia (“Diploma 
Healthcare Group” or “DHG”) account 
for over 80% of the Life Sciences sector 
revenues. The DHG business model is 
built on the supply, on an exclusive basis, 
of high quality, manufacturer branded 
products secured by long term 
distribution agreements. Strong customer 
relationships are forged through high 
levels of customer service with highly 
qualiﬁed and experienced technical sales 
and product application staff working 
closely with the surgeons, Operating 
Room (“OR”) nurses and laboratory 
technologists. A large proportion (over 
60%) of DHG’s revenues are secured 
under multi-year customer contracts.
In Canada, DHG comprises three 
similar sized businesses focused on 
Electrosurgery (AMT), GI Endoscopy 
(Vantage) and Clinical Diagnostics 
(Somagen), each with good growth 
potential. During the year, the main 
investment has been in the new 
Vantage business, which from the start of 
the year brought together CMI, acquired 
in 2010, with AMT’s Endoscopy division. 
Vantage now operates under a single 
management team and offers a complete 
product range, taken to market by an 
integrated, fully trained sales team. 
Investment has been made in 
strengthening the management of the 
operational and service teams and shortly 
after the year end, the business relocated 
to a new larger facility close to the 
existing location in Markham, Ontario. 
After a year of consolidation, Vantage 
is now well positioned, with a strong 
management team, a solid operational 
foundation and a complete product 
range, to exploit opportunities for 
growth in the GI Endoscopy market.
Investment has also been made during 
the year in building a new Surgical 
business to supply specialised surgical 
instruments and devices used in 
laparoscopic and other minimally invasive 
surgical procedures. Exclusive distribution 
agreements have been signed with a 
number of leading suppliers in this area 
and several new suppliers are in the 
process of being added. This business will 
be developed as a distinct division within 
AMT, but using the existing infrastructure. 
As with AMT’s former GI Endoscopy 
division, this division has the potential of 
growing into a separate business when 
it has achieved critical mass through 
organic growth and/or acquisition.
The DHG business extended 
geographically in 2010 into Australia with 
the acquisition of BGS, a smaller version 
of the AMT business in Canada. In June 
2012, DHG expanded its presence in 
Australia through the acquisition of 80% 
of DSL, which supplies in-vitro diagnostic 
products to hospitals and private 
laboratories and shares a number 
of common suppliers with Somagen. 
DSL and BGS serve different customer 
segments and will be managed as 
separate business units with their own 
distinct sales and marketing identities. 
There will however be good opportunities 
for efficiencies between the businesses 
in the areas of operations and back 
office functions. 
The remaining ca. 15% of sector 
revenues are generated by the Group’s 
Environmental businesses in Europe, 
which supply a range of products used 
in Environmental Testing and Health & 
Safety applications. CBISS has 
experienced another strong year of 
trading, supplying continuous emissions 
monitoring systems and gas detection 
instruments. a1-envirosciences has fully 
consolidated its operations in Dusseldorf, 
Germany following the sale to management 
of the small operation in Switzerland. 
Northern European markets outside 
Germany are serviced by local sales 
and service resources.  Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
12 DIPLOMA PLC
Seals
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
Revenue 99.9 80.0 +25%
Adjusted operating 
proﬁt 20.4 14.9 +37%
Adjusted operating 
margin 20.4% 18.6%
 Underlying revenue growth of 13%; 
particularly strong in North American 
Aftermarket.
 Acquisition of J Royal in the US and 
minority interest in JRPP , a related 
supplier in China.
 Investment in new modern facilities for 
RT Dygert and All Seals.
 New IT system in development at 
M Seals – to go live in 2013.
The Seals sector revenues increased, 
in UK sterling terms, by 25% to £99.9m 
which included a contribution from 
J Royal, acquired in December 2011. 
After adjusting for this acquisition and 
for modest currency translation effects, 
underlying sector revenues increased by 
13%, reﬂecting particularly strong growth 
in the North American Aftermarket 
businesses. Adjusted operating proﬁts 
increased by 37% with adjusted operating 
margins increasing by 180bps to 20.4%, 
driven by operational leverage from 
the strong increase in revenues. 
Currently, just under 60% of Seals 
sector revenues are generated from 
the Aftermarket seals businesses of HFPG 
(Hercules, Bulldog and HKX) and FPE. 
The core Aftermarket business in North 
America supplies own-brand sealing 
products (often sourced from the same 
seal manufacturers who supply to the 
OEMs) across a broad range of mobile 
machinery applications. The key to 
success in this business is the ability to 
provide a next day delivery service from 
inventory, for seals and seal kits used in a 
broad range of different manufacturers’ 
machinery and different applications. 
Typically the ﬁrst three years of 
equipment life is controlled by the OEMs 
through product warranty and lease 
terms. However, after the equipment is 
sold into the pre-used market or moves 
out of warranty, we have a very 
compelling offering to customers by 
providing a responsive, next day delivery 
service for these time critical items. 
Over a number of business cycles, 
the Aftermarket seals businesses have 
demonstrated their resilience, but have 
also delivered strong underlying growth 
by taking market share. This has been 
achieved by maintaining high levels of 
customer service and product availability 
and continuing investment in IT systems 
and warehouse automation. The steady 
revenue growth over many years has 
delivered increased operational gearing 
with operating margins increasing 
substantially to the current levels, which 
are well in excess of 20% of revenues.
During the year, the Aftermarket 
businesses continued to beneﬁt from 
investments made in earlier years and 
succeeded in growing revenues by 14% 
on an underlying basis. This growth was 
achieved through a combination of new 
product introductions (new kits and 
metric seals in HFPG, broader range 
of cylinder parts in FPE) and various 
segment speciﬁc marketing initiatives. 
Selective price increases were also 
introduced to cover supplier cost 
increases and maintain margins. HKX 
in particular had an exceptional year, 
beneﬁting from the strong rebound in the 
excavator market in North America and 
making good progress in penetrating 
international markets. 
The Industrial OEM businesses now 
account for just over 40% of Seal sector 
revenues. These businesses supply seals, 
O-rings and custom moulded and 
machined parts to a range of specialised 
Industrial OEM customers. Our businesses 
work closely with customers to select the 
best seal manufacturer for the application, 
remain close at hand during the product 
development process and provide the 
logistics capabilities to support from 
inventory, small to medium sized 
production runs.
During the year, signiﬁcant investment 
was made in the US businesses to 
establish a solid foundation for future 
growth. RT Dygert consolidated its 
Minneapolis and Chicago operations into 
a single, modern facility in Minneapolis, 
while retaining a sales office in Chicago. 
All Seals invested in new sales resource 
and improved quality and purchasing 
processes. All Seals also moved into a 
more appropriate modern facility just 
before the end of the ﬁnancial year. 
The acquisition of J Royal was completed in 
December 2011 and this has proved a very 
complementary business to RT Dygert and 
All Seals. J Royal’s strength in the Eastern 
United States ﬁts well with RT Dygert 
(strong in the North and North West) and All 
Seals (strong in the West and South West). 
J Royal also brings its specialist experience 
in selling metal and glass components and 
assemblies that complement the more 
traditional sealing products. The investment 
in a 10% shareholding in JRPP , a key supplier 
to J Royal and based in China, reinforced 
this position.
With the investment this year in new 
facilities and strengthened management 
resources and with clear regional sales 
territories now agreed, these three 
Industrial OEM businesses in the US will 
now focus on delivering growth in the 
new ﬁnancial year. M Seals in Denmark 
is also focused on growth with a fast 
developing business in Sweden and 
the operation in China having delivered 
a solid ﬁrst year. The Industrial OEM 
2012
Year in Review
continued Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
13 DIPLOMA PLC
seal businesses will be managed 
independently by their management 
teams, but they will continue to look 
for synergies by cross-selling (taking 
advantage of different product and 
end-user specialisations) and through 
coordinated purchasing. 
Controls
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
Revenue 81.9 76.2 +7%
Adjusted operating 
proﬁt 14.4 13.2 +9%
Adjusted operating 
margin 17.6% 17.3%
 Underlying revenue growth of 2% 
driven by Aerospace & Defence, 
Motorsport, Energy and Industrial 
sectors; reduced activity in Continental 
Europe and Food & Beverage.
 Acquisition of Amfast extends 
Motorsport fastener business 
into Aerospace.
 Acquisition of Abbeychart extends 
involvement in Food & Beverage sector.
 New Swindon facility will be central 
management and operational hub 
for IS-Group businesses in the UK.
The Controls businesses increased 
revenues in 2012 by 7% on a UK sterling 
basis. After adjusting for currency effects 
and for the acquisitions of Amfast and 
Abbeychart, underlying growth was 2%. 
Adjusted operating proﬁts increased by 
9% to £14.4m with operating margins 
remaining stable at 17.6%. 
The major end-use segments served 
by the IS-Group and Filcon businesses 
(together ca. 70% of sector revenues) 
are Aerospace & Defence, Motorsport, 
Energy, Medical and Industrial. The 
businesses supply a range of high 
performance products used in technically 
demanding applications often in harsh 
environments. Here the business model 
is focused on providing product for 
refurbishment, upgrade and maintenance 
programmes for equipment in service. 
Support to major new build programmes 
is mostly limited to prototype and 
initial build stages and niche OEM 
markets. The businesses offer high quality, 
manufacturer branded products sourced 
under the terms of long term exclusive 
distribution agreements. Strong customer 
relationships are based on ex-stock 
availability of product, responsiveness, 
technical advice on product applications 
and a range of value added services. 
Plans were ﬁnalised during the year, for 
the relocation of the IS-Rayfast business 
into a new modern facility close to the 
existing location in Swindon; the move 
was successfully completed in early 
November of the new ﬁnancial year. 
This facility will accommodate the core 
IS-Rayfast business and will also act as the 
central management and operational hub 
for the IS-Group businesses in the UK. 
Investment was also made in the 
acquisition in May 2012 of Amfast, a 
specialist distributor of fasteners supplied 
to the manufacturers of passenger seats, 
galleys and other interior cabin 
equipment for civil aircraft. Amfast shares 
a number of suppliers with Clarendon, 
which supplies similar fastener products 
into Motorsport applications. Clarendon 
and Amfast will be managed together by 
a single management team and plans will 
be developed this year to integrate 
operational and back office functions. 
In early November 2012, after the year 
end, Sommer completed the acquisition 
of the assets and goodwill of Rayquick, 
a small distributor of specialist wiring 
components supplied to the electricity 
distribution sector in Germany. Sommer 
will integrate this business within its main 
operations in Stuttgart. 
The Hawco Group accounts for ca. 30% 
of sector revenues and supplies products 
principally to the Food & Beverage industry. 
Hawco supplies a range of control devices 
used in the sensing, measurement and 
control of temperature and pressure in 
applications such as chilled cabinets in food 
retail chains, bars and restaurants. In 
March 2012, the Hawco Group extended 
its involvement in the sector by investing in 
the acquisition of Abbeychart. This business 
is a specialised component distributor 
supplying to applications including hot 
drinks and vending machines, pure water 
and water cooling systems, soft drinks 
dispensing equipment and catering 
equipment. Abbeychart’s broad range of 
specialised components are used by both 
the original equipment manufacturers and 
by contractors and operators for the 
subsequent repair and maintenance 
of the equipment. 
Summary and Outlook
The Group’s resilient business model, 
supplying essential products and solutions 
to specialised market segments, supports 
steady organic growth in revenues and 
sustainable attractive margins. With a 
good geographic and end-use spread 
of activities, agile and responsive 
management and a strong balance 
sheet, the Group is well placed 
to withstand the effects of the general 
economic uncertainty. This has been 
demonstrated over the last ﬁve year 
business cycle with a resilient 
performance during the downturn, 
followed by strong growth in the 
recent period of slow recovery.
The investments made during the 
past ﬁnancial year, along with the new 
investment programme in the years 
ahead, are key to the Acquire, Build, Grow 
strategy in our major businesses. These 
investments are designed to provide the 
solid foundation for the growth of the 
Group over the next ﬁve year period.
Bruce Thompson
Chief Executive Officer
19 November 2012
“ The Group’s investment programme will provide 
the solid foundation to support strong growth 
over the next ﬁve years.” Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
14 DIPLOMA PLC
Acquire, Build, Grow
 Case Study – Healthcare
Healthcare 
acquisitions
2012
DSL (80%)
AUSTRALIA
2011
CMI 
CANADA
AMT (25%)
CANADA
2010
BGS (80%)
AUSTRALIA
2009
Meditech
CANADA
2007
AMT (75%)
CANADA
Over the last ﬁve years, the Healthcare businesses 
have increased revenues from £15m in 2007 to 
£65m in 2012; Healthcare now represents over 
80% of Life Sciences sector revenues. 
Five years ago, the larger part of the Life 
Sciences sector revenues were generated in 
Europe from products sold to Life Sciences 
research laboratories and to Environmental 
testing laboratories. Faced with declining 
growth and margins in these markets, the 
diversiﬁcation into Healthcare had started with 
the acquisition of Somagen in 2004 and AMT 
in 2007; by the end of the 2007 ﬁnancial year, 
Healthcare accounted for ca. 35% of revenues. 
Over the last ﬁve years, the Diploma 
Healthcare Group (“DHG”) has grown 
revenues through a combination of organic 
growth and acquisitions at a compound rate 
of more than 30% p.a. to a total of £65m in 
2012. Over the same period, the Group has 
exited the UK Research business (Anachem) 
and simpliﬁed the Environmental businesses. 
Healthcare now accounts for over 80% of 
Life Sciences sector revenues.
In Canada, DHG now comprises three 
ca. C$30m revenue businesses, focused 
on Electrosurgery & Minimally Invasive 
(“MI”) Surgery (AMT), GI Endoscopy 
(Vantage) and Clinical Diagnostics 
(Somagen). DHG has also extended 
into Australia and New Zealand with 
the acquisitions of BGS and DSL, 
which are smaller versions of AMT 
and Somagen respectively. Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
15 DIPLOMA PLC
Acquire
Entry into the Healthcare business 
was ﬁrst made in 2004 through the 
acquisition of Somagen, a supplier of 
clinical diagnostics products to hospital 
pathology laboratories across Canada. 
The acquisition of AMT in August 2007 
extended the business into the 
Operating Rooms of the same hospitals 
and the Meditech acquisition in 2009, 
established a leadership position 
in the ART/ IVF clinics.
Within the AMT business, a division 
had been formed to supply products 
to the GI Endoscopy suites in hospitals 
and private clinics (“AMT Endoscopy”). 
In 2011, Carsen Medical was acquired 
which offered a very complementary 
range of products to those supplied by 
AMT Endoscopy. At the end of the 2011 
ﬁnancial year, AMT Endoscopy was 
combined with CMI to form a new 
company, Vantage Endoscopy.
In 2010, DHG extended its business 
into Australia and New Zealand with 
the acquisition of BGS, a smaller version 
of AMT’s Electrosurgery business. 
In 2012, the acquisition was completed 
of DSL, which is a close equivalent to 
Somagen in Canada and shares several 
common suppliers.
Build
The new Vantage business is an 
excellent example of the Build stage of 
the growth strategy in action. Having 
created the company at the end of the 
2011 ﬁnancial year, by bringing together 
AMT Endoscopy and CMI, the priority 
was to make the investments needed to 
make this a fully integrated company.
During the 2012 ﬁnancial year, the 
two sales teams were integrated and 
extensive training was carried out to 
ensure all sales staff could sell the full 
product range. In addition, investment 
was made in strengthening the 
management of the operations and 
service functions, which are critical 
to the success of this business. Finally, 
plans were developed to relocate 
Vantage to a new modern facility 
and this move was completed in 
October 2012.
Vantage is now well positioned to 
supply and support the complete 
range of products for the growing 
GI Endoscopy market. 
Grow
In Canada, DHG now has three well 
established businesses operating in 
growing segments of the Healthcare 
market and each with signiﬁcant 
opportunities for growth by increasing 
market share and adding new products.
A new initiative to build a fourth 
“market silo” has been started with 
the formation of the Minimally Invasive 
Surgery division within AMT. As with 
AMT’s former Endoscopy division, this 
new division has the potential of 
growing into a separate business when 
it has achieved critical mass through 
organic growth and/or acquisition.
In Australia, BGS and DSL will draw on 
the experience and resources of AMT 
and Somagen respectively to grow their 
businesses. There should also be good 
synergy opportunities in the areas of 
operations and back office functions.
While the main focus currently is on 
growing the business in Canada and 
Australia, building on the investments 
already made, longer term DHG will 
look to build further by expanding into 
new markets and extending into new 
geographies on a step-by-step basis. 
Electrosurgery & 
MI Surgery
AMT
TORONTO, CANADA
ca. C$30m
BGS
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
ca. A$6m
GI Endoscopy
V antage
TORONTO, CANADA
ca. C$30m
Clinical Diagnostics
Somagen
EDMONTON, CANADA
ca. C$30m
DSL
MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA
ca. A$10m Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
16 DIPLOMA PLC
Acquire, Build, Grow
 Case Study – Industrial OEM Seals
Seals acquisitions
2012
J Royal
US
JRPP (10%)
CHINA
2010
All Seals
US
2009
RT Dygert
US
2008
Snijders
HOLLAND
2007
M Seals
DENMARK
Over ﬁve years, a group of Industrial OEM seal 
businesses has been built with revenues of over 
£40m in 2012 and now representing 40% of total 
Seals sector revenues.
Five years ago, the Seals sector was principally 
focused on the core Aftermarket Seal 
businesses in North America, providing next 
day delivery service for seals, seal kits and 
cylinders used in a range of heavy mobile 
equipment applications. 
Over the last ﬁve years, the Seals sector 
businesses have grown revenues at a 
compound rate of 22% p.a. to a total 
of £100m in 2012. The core Aftermarket 
businesses have made a strong contribution, 
growing revenues at a compound rate 
of 12% p.a. and extending their leadership 
positions through providing very high levels 
of customer service and seal availability. 
The principal driver for Seals sector growth 
in recent years however has been the creation 
of a sub-group of Industrial OEM Seals 
businesses with total revenues of over £40m 
in 2012 and now representing 40% of total 
sector revenues. These businesses supply 
seals, O-rings and custom moulded and 
machined parts to OEMs manufacturing 
a range of specialised industrial equipment.  Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
17
% Aftermarket
% Industrial OEM
2012 Total revenues
40%
of
£100m
2008 Total revenues
15%
of
£42.6m
DIPLOMA PLC
Acquire
Entry into the Industrial OEM Seals 
business was ﬁrst made through the 
acquisition, in August 2007, of M Seals 
based in Denmark, with a satellite 
operation in Sweden. 
The success of M Seals in Europe 
prompted a search for similar 
businesses in the US and in January 
2009, the acquisition was completed of 
RT Dygert. With its principal operations 
in Minneapolis and Chicago, RT Dygert 
had a solid reputation in the sector and 
a strong established position in the 
Mid-Western US States. 
The acquisition of RT Dygert was 
followed by the acquisition of All Seals 
in September 2010 and of J Royal in 
December 2011. All Seals is based in 
Orange County, California and sells ca. 
75% of its product in the South Western 
States. J Royal is based in North Carolina 
and is strong in the Eastern States. 
In April 2012, the Group also 
acquired a 10% shareholding in JRPP, 
a related Chinese supplier to J Royal, 
manufacturing a range of products 
and assemblies that are complementary 
to J Royal’s sealing products.
Build
All of these acquisitions were of 
companies that were already successful 
and with a good track record of 
proﬁtable growth. Since acquisition, 
we have been able to build them into 
stronger businesses by working with 
the management teams to make the 
investments required to take them 
to the next level of growth. 
In Europe, M Seals has invested in its 
rapidly growing operation in Sweden 
and in May 2011, M Seals established 
an operation in China building on its 
expertise in large diameter seals for 
turbine bearings. A new IT system 
is also in development at M Seals 
which is due to go live in 2013.
In North America, signiﬁcant investment 
has been made this year in facilities 
to support the future growth of the 
businesses. RT Dygert has consolidated 
its operations into a modern, high quality 
facility in Minneapolis while retaining 
a sales office in Chicago. All Seals has 
also completed its relocation to a 
higher quality facility. Investment has 
also been made across the businesses 
in strengthening the management teams 
and adding resources particularly in the 
areas of sales and quality management. 
Grow
With a strong foundation established 
through the investments made in the 
last two years, strong growth has 
already been achieved and the focus 
now is on exploiting the substantial 
further growth opportunities across 
the businesses.
In North America, the three Industrial 
OEM Seals businesses are already 
very complementary with strengths 
in different geographic regions. 
The businesses are managed 
independently by their management 
teams, but they will continue to look 
for synergies by cross-selling, taking 
advantage of their different product 
and end-user specialisations. There 
are also good opportunities in 
procurement, by consolidating the 
purchasing of common products. 
In Europe, M Seals will continue to grow 
revenues in its operations in Northern 
Europe and China and will look for 
opportunities to extend into other 
European countries. 
Acquisition opportunities will be sought 
to further supplement the organic growth 
from the existing businesses. These 
acquisitions may be complementary 
businesses in the North American and 
European markets or businesses in 
new geographic markets, in particular 
in Asia Paciﬁc. Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
18 DIPLOMA PLC
Controls acquisitions
2012
Amfast
UK
Abbeychart
UK
2010
ET Fisher
GERMANY
2008
Hitek
UK
2007
Cabletec
UK
Acquire, Build, Grow
 Case Study – Controls
Over ﬁve years, the Controls sector businesses 
have completed a series of acquisitions which 
have strengthened market positions in target 
segments and increased sector revenues 
to over £80m.
The Controls sector businesses 
generate over 90% of revenues 
from the UK and Northern 
Continental European markets. 
The businesses supply a range of 
high performance interconnect 
and ﬂuid controls products 
used in technically demanding 
applications, often in harsh 
environments. The principal 
end-use segments are Aerospace 
& Defence, Motorsport, Energy, 
Industrial and Food & Beverage.
Over the last ﬁve years, the 
Controls sector businesses, 
against the challenging economic 
and market backdrop in the major 
markets of the UK and Germany, 
have grown revenues from £60m 
in 2007 to over £80m in 2012. 
Over the period, this growth has 
been achieved by supplementing 
hard-won organic growth with 
a series of smaller acquisitions. 
These have expanded the product 
ranges offered and strengthened 
the competitive position in 
selected market segments. Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
19 DIPLOMA PLC
Acquire
The Controls sector acquisitions over 
the last several years have all been 
closely related acquisitions designed to 
extend and strengthen the businesses 
in related product and market 
segments. The acquisitions have added 
a total of ca. £18m to sector revenues.
The acquisition of Cabletec in 2007 
added a range of manufactured 
products, including braids, connectors 
and multi-core cables and earth 
bonding products, strengthening the 
position in Aerospace and Defence. In 
addition, Cabletec’s earth bonding and 
shunt products extended the business 
in the Energy and Industrial sectors. 
Hitek (acquired in 2008) added 
calibration services to the UK business 
and ET Fisher (acquired in 2010) 
strengthened Sommer’s position 
in the German Energy market.
In 2012, the acquisition of Amfast has 
extended the Clarendon Motorsport 
fastener business into the Civil 
Aerospace sector. The acquisition of 
Abbeychart has extended the Hawco 
Group Fluid Controls business further 
into other segments of the Food & 
Beverage market including hot drinks 
and vending machines, pure water and 
cooling systems, soft drinks dispensing 
and catering equipment. 
Build
The Build stage of the growth strategy 
has been demonstrated well by the 
development of the IS-Group over 
the last several years. The IS-Group 
comprises a number of businesses 
which retain their own sales and 
marketing identities and investment has 
been made in each of these businesses 
to strengthen the sales resources. 
Investment has also been made in 
a uniform IT system which has been 
implemented across the businesses and 
will be extended in the current ﬁnancial 
year to Amfast, the latest acquisition 
by the IS-Group. The uniﬁed system 
enables us to invest in increased but 
better managed inventory and the 
consolidated purchasing of 
common parts. 
In November 2012, the core IS-Rayfast 
business in the UK re-located to a 
modern new facility in Swindon; this 
will become the central management 
and operational hub for the IS-Group 
businesses in the UK.
 
Grow
The Controls sector businesses, with 
the bolt-on acquisitions completed, 
have a good coverage of their product 
and market segments in the principal 
markets in the UK and Northern 
Continental Europe. The main 
priority now is to implement sales 
and marketing initiatives to generate 
growth and increase market share. 
The recent acquisitions have added 
signiﬁcantly to the growth potential 
in the sector. The Amfast acquisition 
has extended the IS-Group’s fastener 
business into the attractive Civil 
Aerospace sector, with good growth 
opportunities in seats and cabin 
interiors. The addition of Abbeychart to 
the Hawco Group also opens up good 
opportunities for cross-selling to the 
highly complementary UK customer 
base; Hawco can also make use of the 
Abbeychart sales resources in the US 
to establish a position in the market.
The Controls sector businesses 
will continue to look for opportunities 
to make further bolt-on acquisitions 
to strengthen market positions in 
selected niche markets and to 
expand outside Europe. 
Markets
Acquisition
Aerospace &  
Defence Motor sport Energy Industrial
Food &  
Beverage
Abbeychart
Amfast
ET Fisher
Hitek
Cabletec Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
20 DIPLOMA PLC
Directors
and Advisors
Member of:
1 the Remuneration Committee
2 the Audit Committee
3 the Nomination Committee
John Rennocks (67) 
1, 3
Non-Executive Chairman
Appointed: Joined the Board 
in July 2002 and appointed 
Chairman in January 2004.
Skills and experience: John is 
a Chartered Accountant with 
over 40 years of experience 
in commerce and industry, 
including nearly 20 years as 
the Finance Director of FTSE 
100 companies. He has been 
a Non-Executive Director of 
many companies in the past 
17 years, including as 
Chairman of six other public 
or private companies across 
several industrial or support 
service sectors.
External appointments: John 
is currently a Non-Executive 
Director of Intelligent Energy 
PLC and Deputy Chairman 
of Inmarsat PLC.
Bruce Thompson (57)
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed: Joined the Board 
in 1994 as a Group Director 
and appointed Chief Executive 
Officer in 1996.
Skills and experience: 
Bruce started his career in the 
automotive industry, ﬁrst as a 
design engineer and then in 
product marketing. He then 
spent three years in international 
marketing with a construction 
materials company, developing 
new markets in Europe, the 
Middle East and North Africa. 
Prior to joining Diploma, he was 
a Director with Arthur D Little 
Inc., the technology and 
management consulting ﬁrm, 
initially in the UK and then 
as Director of the ﬁrm’s 
T echnology Management 
Practice based in Cambridge, 
Massachusetts.
External appointments: 
None.
Marie-Louise Clayton (52) 
2
Non-Executive Director 
Appointed: Joined the 
Board in November 2012. 
Skills and experience: 
Marie-Louise is a Chartered 
Certiﬁed Accountant who has 
held senior positions in Alstom 
(formerly, Alsthom GEC) and 
was previously Group Finance 
Director of Venture Production 
PLC. She has also been 
a Non-Executive Director of 
Forth Ports PLC and Ocean 
Rig ASA. 
External appointments: 
Marie-Louise is a 
Non-Executive Director of 
Zotefoams plc and of two 
private companies.
Nigel Lingwood (53)
Group Finance Director
Appointed: Joined the 
Company in June 2001 and 
appointed Group Finance 
Director in July 2001.
Skills and experience: 
Prior to joining the Company, 
Nigel was the Group Financial 
Controller at Unigate PLC 
where he gained experience 
of working in a large 
multi-national environment 
and on a number of large 
corporate transactions. 
Nigel qualiﬁed as a Chartered 
Accountant with Price 
Waterhouse, London.
External appointments: 
None. Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
21 DIPLOMA PLC
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
Solicitors
Ashurst
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London EC2A 2HA
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP
HSBC Bank plc
City Corporate Banking Centre
60 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4N 4TR
Investment Bankers
Lazard
50 Stratton Street
London W1J 8LL
Corporate Stockbrokers
Numis Securities
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LT
Ian Grice (59) 
1,2,3
Non-Executive Director
Appointed: Joined the Board 
in January 2007.
Skills and experience: 
A Chartered Engineer with 
over 35 years’ experience 
in the Support Services and 
Construction sectors, in the 
UK and International markets. 
Ian held senior roles in several 
industrial groups before 
joining the board of Alfred 
McAlpine plc in 1995 where 
he was Chief Executive Officer 
from 2003 to 2008.
External appointments: Ian 
is currently a member of the 
Supervisory Board of Arcadis 
NV, and a Non-Executive 
Director of three private 
companies.
Iain Henderson (56)
Chief Operating Officer
Appointed: Joined the Board 
as a Director in 1998 and 
appointed Chief Operating 
Officer in 2005.
Skills and experience: Iain 
qualiﬁed as a Chartered 
Management Accountant and 
began his career in the food 
industry, progressing to be an 
operations general manager 
with H J Heinz. Since 1988, 
Iain has specialised in the 
acquisition and development 
of small to medium sized 
enterprises within group 
structures. This was ﬁrstly 
within the privately owned 
Bricom MBO, where he ran 
ANC Holdings and from 
1994 in a public company 
environment as a Director 
of Glenchewton plc.
External appointments: 
None.
John Matthews (68) 
1,2,3
Non-Executive Director
Appointed: Joined the Board 
in 2003.
Skills and experience: John is 
a Chartered Accountant and a 
former Managing Director and 
Head of Corporate Finance at 
County NatWest. Subsequent 
to this he was Deputy 
Chairman and Deputy Chief 
Executive at Beazer plc, an 
international civil engineering, 
construction, house building 
and aggregates group. He has 
also been Chairman of Crest 
Nicholson plc and Regus plc 
and a non-Executive Director 
of a number of listed and 
private companies.
External appointments: John 
is currently a member of the 
Board of Aurelian Oil & Gas plc 
and an advisor to the Board of 
SDL plc and Chairman of two 
private companies. 22 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
Sector Overview
Life Sciences
30%
of revenues 
Geography
1
75%  Canada
17% Europe
8% ROW
Customers
82%  Clinical
10% Utilities
5% Chemical & Petrochemical
2% Life Sciences Research
1% Other Life Sciences
Products
68%  Consumables
23% Instrumentation
9% Service
270 employees worldwide 
1 By destination. 
Seals
38%
of revenues 
Geography
1
76%  North America
12% Europe
12% ROW
Customers
43% Industrial OEMs
38%  Heavy Construction
10% Other Industrial
4% Industrial Aftermarket
4% Dump & Refuse trucks
1% Logging & Agriculture
Products
62%  Seals & Seal Kits
12% O-rings
11% Attachment Kits
9% Gaskets
6% Cylinders & Other
489 employees worldwide 
Controls
32%
of revenues 
Geography
1
58%  UK 
35% Continental Europe
7% ROW
Customers
29% Industrial
28%  Aerospace & Defence
19% Food & Beverage
15% Motorsport
6% Energy & Utilities
3% Medical & Scientiﬁc
Products
44%  Wire & Cable
14% Connectors
14% Control Devices
12% Equipment & Components
10% Fasteners
6% Other Controls
292 employees worldwide 
Geography
1
Europe
39%
22%  UK 
17%  Continental Europe
1 By destination. 
Rest of World
7%
North America
54%
27%  US 
27%  Canada  23
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
DIPLOMA PLC
Five Year Record
Year ended 30 September
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
2009  
£m
2008  
£m
Revenue 260.2 230.6 183.5 160.0 156.2
Adjusted operating proﬁt 52.8 45.2 32.1 25.6 26.6
Adjusted proﬁt before tax 52.6 44.9 32.2 25.5 26.8
Fixed assets 13.0 11.4 11.7 12.4 12.8
Working capital 43.8 36.0 27.2 29.4 27.5
Trading capital employed 56.8 47.4 38.9 41.8 40.3
Goodwill and intangible assets 101.9 92.8 83.4 74.3 64.2
Investment 0.7 ––––
Trading capital employed (inc. goodwill) 159.4 140.2 122.3 116.1 104.5
Net cash funds 7.9 12.2 30.1 21.3 15.7
Other liabilities, net (0.1) (0.5) (13.2) (13.3) (10.2)
Net assets 167.2 151.9 139.2 124.1 110.0
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 50.2 40.3 34.3 34.2 27.8
Free cash ﬂow 32.7 25.0 29.8 23.5 17.7
Acquisition expenditure (22.3) (28.2) (11.0) (12.2) (7.9)
Pence Pence Pence Pence Pence
Adjusted earnings per share 33.1 27.9 18.9 14.8 16.0
Dividends per share 14.4 12.0 9.0 7.8 7.5
Net assets per share 147.7 145.4 122.9 109.6 97.1
% %%%%
Operating margin 20.3 19.6 17.5 16.0 17.0
Working capital as % of revenue 16.5 16.1 15.4 17.6 17.2
Return on trading capital employed 26.6 25.4 22.1 19.0 22.4
The information above has been extracted from the audited Annual Report & Accounts of Diploma PLC and does not constitute statutory information.
Diploma PLC uses alternative performance measures as key performance indicators to assess the underlying performance of the Group. These include adjusted operating proﬁt, adjusted proﬁt 
before tax, adjusted earnings per share and free cash ﬂow, as explained in note 2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in the Annual Report & Accounts. 24 DIPLOMA PLC
Diploma PLC Annual Review 2012
Financial Calendar and Shareholder Information
Announcements (provisional dates):
First Interim Management Statement released  16 January 2013
Second Interim Management Statement released 30 July 2013
Half Year Results announced   13 May 2013
Preliminary Results announced   18 November 2013
Annual Report posted to shareholders  2 December 2013
Annual General Meeting (2012)   16 January 2013
Annual General Meeting (2013)   15 January 2014
Dividends (provisional dates)
Interim announced    13 May 2013
Paid       19 June 2013
Final announced     18 November 2013
Paid (if approved)     22 January 2014
Annual Report & Accounts: 
Copies can be obtained from the Group Company Secretary at the address shown below.
Share Registrar – Computershare Investor Services PLC: 
The Company’s Registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ. 
Telephone: 0870 7020010. Their website for shareholder enquiries is www.computershare.co.uk
Shareholders’ enquiries: 
If you have any enquiry about the Company’s business or about something affecting you as a shareholder (other than questions 
dealt with by Computershare Investor Services PLC) you are invited to contact the Group Company Secretary at the address 
shown below.
Secretary and Registered Office:
AJ Gallagher FCIS, Solicitor, 12 Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6AX. Telephone: 020 7549 5700. Fax: 020 7549 5715. 
Registered in England and Wales, number 3899848.
Website: 
Diploma’s website is www.diplomaplc.com  DIPLOMA PLC
12 Charterhouse Square
London EC1M 6AX
T +44 (0)20 7549 5700
F +44 (0)20 7549 5715
www.diplomaplc.com
