 Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Hello, what
brings you 
to our store
today?
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 Directors’ Report
Business Overview
1 Welcome
2 Customer Plan
12 Group at a Glance
14 Highlights
15 Chairman’s Statement
16 Chief Executive’s Statement
Strategic Summary
20 Group Overview
21 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
22 Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives
Performance Review
24 Overview
26 UK & Ireland
28 Nordics
29 Other International
31 e-commerce
32 Group Financial Summary
35 Corporate Responsibility Review
Corporate Governance
40 Board of Directors
41 Executive Committee
42 Statutory Information
45 Corporate Governance Report
49 Audit Committee Report
51 Nominations Committee Report
52 Remuneration Report
62 Directors’ Responsibilities
Financial Statements
63 Independent Auditors’ Report
64 Consolidated Income Statement
65 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive
Income and Expense
66 Consolidated Balance Sheet
67 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
68 Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity
69 Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements
114 Company Balance Sheet
115 Company Cash Flow Statement
116 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
117 Notes to the Company Financial
Statements
Information for Shareholders
126 Five Year Record
128 Shareholder Information
129 Index
Contents
Cautionary statement
Certain statements made in this Annual Report and Accounts are forward-looking statements. Such statements are
based on current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results
to differ materially from any expected future events or results referred to in these forward-looking statements. Unless
otherwise required by applicable laws, regulations or accounting standards, we do not undertake any obligation to
update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or
otherwise. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be regarded as a profit forecast.
Front cover
Kristina Luropa, Combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World Megastore, Fulham, London Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 1
Welcome
Customer service is at
the heart of everything
we do. We want to
help you choose the
right product for your
needs and get the
most out of it.
Ulrika Gedin
El Giganten Megastore, Barkaby, Sweden 2 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
“It’s an exciting place to be
– and shopping is so easy.”
Signage
Our new format stores 
have better signage to 
help you find your product.
Signage
Our new format stores 
have better navigation 
and signage to help you 
find your product.
Clarity
We are improving our 
point of sale information,
making it easier to see the
features and benefits, as
well as compare products.
10,000
Our Megastores stock 
up to 10,000 products. 
We make sure that there 
is always availability,
especially on the most
popular items. Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
We are transforming our stores. Clearer signage and better navigation makes 
it easier to find the right product for your needs. With products on playtables,
powered up to try out, with 3D TV demonstrations, audio rooms, gaming stations
and experts on hand, there is plenty that makes our stores an exciting place to be.
Combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World Megastore, Fulham, London
Brands
All the best products are
clearly visible in distinct
areas, making it easier to 
find the products you want.
Our 2-in-1 Currys & 
PC World stores give 
you the best of both
brands with more
expertise across all
categories. Together 
they offer more.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 3
Bilal Chudhary
PC World, Staples Corner
Business Overview 4 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
“We’re here to help you work
out what’s right for you.”
We have improved our
ranges to give you great
choices and our FIVES
training means we can 
help you better, as well 
as explaining the features
and benefits.
Ben Edwards
Combined 2-in-1 
Currys & PC World,
Hemel Hempstead, Herts
Play
With all our products
powered up and available 
to road test, come and try
before you buy to make
sure you get the best
product for your needs. Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 5
We’re really interested in working out what’s right for you. Using our innovative FIVES service model, 
our colleagues are able to understand your needs better with great product knowledge to help you make
the right choice and get the most out of it. What’s important is that our customers are appreciating the
changes we’re making, with 87% of customers saying they are likely or very likely to recommend our
stores to their friends and family. There’s still more to do and we will continue to improve the shopping
trip for our customers every day however they wish to shop with us.
Digital cameras ready to try before you buy
Choice
Wider ranges mean more
choice of products to suit
your needs.
Help
More ticket information 
and ‘How to Choose’
boards, combined with 
our colleague training, 
will help you choose the
right product.
Value
Our commitment to value
ensures you can get the 
best price in our stores and
on our websites. Our price
promise means we won’t 
be beaten on price.
Business Overview 6 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
“People appreciate great 
service wherever they are.”
Share
We are improving the
shopping trip for our
customers in all of 
our operations across
Europe, helping us to 
grow market share.
UK & Ireland Nordics Other International Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
As an international Group, our customers, wherever they are, benefit from the
improvements we are making across the business. We are taking all the best bits 
of our businesses and sharing them across our Group. We are improving the store
environments, ranges and product knowledge, as well as introducing Megastores 
and providing better after-sales services in all our operations across Europe.
Combined UniEuro & PC City Megastore, Muratella, Rome, Italy
We are rolling out best
practices from each
operation across Europe
to offer our customers an
unbeatable combination of
value, choice and service.
Claudia Zanzarri
Combined UniEuro 
& PC City Megastore,
Muratella, Rome, Italy
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 7
Business Overview 8 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
“It’s easier than ever 
to shop online.”
Navigate
We are revamping our
websites, making them
easier to navigate and 
to see the features and
benefits of all the exciting
products available today.
e-commerce Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 9
PIXmania is Europe’s leading specialist electrical retailer, operating in 26 countries, 
and with good reason, it has the market leading operating platform, e-merchant,
leveraging the Group’s scale. With customer friendly navigation, great ranges and
deals and better product information we are rolling this platform out to our other
websites. Our Dixons.co.uk, Currys.co.uk and PCWorld.co.uk customers are 
already benefiting from this with improved websites.
Reserve
& Collect
Combining the ease 
of the internet with the
convenience of our stores
gives you greater choice 
of how you shop with us.
Great
deals
Our websites make it easy 
to see the great deals and
packages we have for
delivery direct to you or 
for you to pick up in store.
Business Overview Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
“We make things work 
and keep them working.”
We offer the UK’s biggest
range of after-sales
services, from next-day
delivery to home set-up
and support, as well as 
fix and repair facilities.
Sandeep Gurram
TechGuys, Watford
10 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Recycle
We’ll even take away 
your old product and 
recycle it for free. Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 11
We have made significant improvements to our after-sales services. You can now
have your products delivered either for free or at a time to suit you, next day in a 
three-hour time slot or, at our Megastores, we’ll even follow you home with your
product. We have also introduced a wider choice of services to ensure that you 
get the most out of your product and when the unfortunate does happen, we’re 
on hand to help you get it sorted quickly and smoothly.
Fix
Our new state-of-the-art
facility in the UK repaired over
1 million TVs last year. We
have over 2,500 engineers
in our TechGuys operation,
all there to help you.
Set-up
Technology gets more
complicated every day. 
We can help you get your
product up and running 
and show you how to 
get the most out of it.
Install
We have re-engineered 
our delivery and installation
network to ensure your
product can be up and
running as soon as it 
is delivered.
Advice
In-store, at home, online or
on the phone, our TechGuys 
are here to help.
Business Overview 12 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
Group at a Glance
UK & Ireland Nordics Other International e-commerce
Our brands Description Highlights
Currys is the UK’s largest specialist 
electrical retailer.
PC World is the UK and Ireland’s biggest
specialist computing retailer. 
We operate from High Street stores, Superstores
and Megastores. Currently most of our stores
operate under one brand. We are opening
combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World stores,
bringing the benefits of both brands in one
convenient location to our customers.
Dixons Travel stores are based at airports and 
the Eurotunnel terminal.
TechGuys is the UK’s leading help and support
service for electrical and computing products.
The UK & Ireland operations are the focus of the most significant
changes under the Renewal and Transformation plan. 156 stores
had been transformed by the end of the financial year, 12 of 
which are Megastores under the Currys and combined Currys 
& PC World formats.
The multichannel offering provides customers with the convenience
of online and accessibility of stores, particularly through the
reserve&collect facility.
Improvements are being made to the services we offer to
customers with a wider range, including online storage, installation
and repair. We now offer the UK’s leading delivery and installation
operation with options ranging from next day delivery in three hour
time slots to free delivery, as well as a free recycling option.
Dixons Travel is expanding its brand overseas with operations now open
in Rome airport and is identifying further opportunities across Europe.
Elkjøp is the leading specialist electrical retailer
across the Nordics.
Elkjøp and Lefdal stores operate in Norway,
El Giganten in Sweden and Denmark and
Gigantti in Finland.
Elkjøp is famous for customer service with an efficient centralised
operation. It has been able to leverage its leading market positions
across the Nordics and grow market share during the year.
It is reformatting all its stores as well as rolling out Megastores
across its markets with 16 now open.
Kotsovolos is Greece’s leading specialist
electrical retailer.
In Italy, we operate UniEuro electrical stores 
with some as combined 2-in-1 UniEuro & 
PC City stores.
In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, we operate
under the Electro World brand.
In Spain, PC City is the leading specialist
computing retailer.
In Turkey, we operate the Electro World brand
with a local joint venture partner.
Kotsovolos, with its strong market position, has been improving 
the offer for customers while controlling costs and stock in a difficult
economic environment.
The turnaround of the operations in Italy has made significant
progress with an improved store portfolio, better stock availability
and an improving sales and margin performance.
The operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia have been
streamlined and are now well positioned to exploit a recovery 
in consumer demand in those markets.
The operations in Turkey continue to go from strength to strength. 
It has now launched a franchise operation to provide an additional
opportunity for growth in that market. 
PIXmania is a pan-European electrical e-tailer
operating in 26 countries.
Dixons.co.uk is one of the leading UK electrical
e-tailers.
PIXmania has been growing its market positions across Europe
while leveraging the benefits of being part of the DSGi Group.
Dixons.co.uk was relaunched on the PIXmania e-merchant platform
during the year enabling it to offer customers an improved online
shopping experience.
Underlying sales by division
■ UK & Ireland £4,013.5m
■ Nordics £2,093.7m
■ Other International £1,503.2m
■ e-commerce £921.2m Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 13
Websites
Underlying sales
£million Stores
Selling space
’000 sq ft
Average selling 
area per store
sq ft Employees
www.currys.co.uk
www.pcworld.co.uk
www.pcwb.co.uk
www.techguys.co.uk
4,013.5 683 7,889 11,551 22,323
www.elkjop.no
www.elgiganten.se
www.elgiganten.dk
www.gigantti.fi
www.lefdal.com
2,093.7 269 4,061 15,097
www.kotsovolos.gr
www.unieuro.it
www.pccity.es
www.electroworld.cz
www.electroworld.gr
1,503.2 323 4,719 14,610
www.pixmania.com
www.dixons.co.uk
921.2 – – –
7,296
7,573
1,413
Countries we operate in
■ Stores and online presence
■ Online presence only
Stores only
Business Overview Note: references relate to definitions on page 25.
14 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
Highlights
Underlying Group sales
(1)
£million
2008/09 8,180.2
2007/08 8,292.2
2006/07 7,730.1
2005/06 6,875.9
2009/10 8,531.6
EBIT
(4)
£million
2008/09
2007/08 217.5
2006/07 291.0
2005/06 299.3
2009/10
83.0
133.2
Underlying profit before tax
(2)
£million
2008/09 56.1
2007/08 230.5
2006/07 312.6
2005/06 325.8
2009/10 90.5
Underlying diluted earnings per share
(2)(5)
Pence
2008/09 1.0
2007/08 7.4
2006/07 10.1
2005/06 10.4
2009/10 1.5 Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 15
I was delighted to be appointed your new Chairman in
September 2009 and am pleased to report an excellent year 
of progress. The changes we are making to the business make
shopping at our stores a much simpler and more enjoyable
experience. We have also made significant improvements 
to our service offering before, during and after the point of
purchase. These changes will enable us to offer a truly market
leading value, choice and service proposition for our customers.
The economic environment in all our markets has been
challenging throughout the year. However, it is encouraging to
see all the work under the Renewal and Transformation plan
starting to improve the performance of the business and our
results for the year, in particular in the second half. The operations
in the UK and Nordics delivered a good trading result with our
customers rewarding us with greater market share and improved
profitability. The turnaround of the business in Italy is making
good progress, and our operations in Greece, Spain, Turkey,
Central Europe and Dixons Travel performed well.
We have made great strides in our online offer with over
£1.4 billion of sales now transacted over the internet, through
our pure play internet operations of PIXmania and Dixons.co.uk
as well as through our multi-channel internet operations. Our
broad offering gives customers greater choice as to how they
shop with us, either in-store, online or a combination of both,
with the convenience of reserve&collect. 
I would like to thank our shareholders for their support in
strengthening our capital base through the Placing and Rights
Issue in April 2009. This provided the Group with the financial
resources to allow further investment in the Renewal and
Transformation plan and is enabling the Group to emerge from
the recession in a much stronger position. Since then we have
continued to improve the strength of the balance sheet through
an intense focus on cash generation and stock management. 
In May this year we announced that we had successfully
renegotiated our bank facilities. 
Short term progress will inevitably be impacted to some degree by
the uncertain UK and Continental European economic and political
prospects. However, through the Renewal and Transformation plan
we should have the momentum to remain positive as we improve
the business for customers and shareholders.
We have an extremely strong and focused management team
ably led by a very talented and determined Chief Executive.
I would like to thank our management team for their efforts 
and the contribution they have made to our progress during the
year. They have the strategy, the customer focus and resolution
to ensure continued long term progress in the years ahead. 
Of course, their efforts would have been in vain were it not 
for our 39,000 colleagues in the Group who are responsible 
for, above all, our interaction with customers. I would like to
congratulate every colleague for the progress they have made
and thank them for their hard work.
We are seeking shareholder approval to amend the Group’s
registered name to Dixons Retail plc in order to harness the
strength of the Dixons name as the Group delivers on the
Renewal and Transformation plan and improves profitability. 
The Dixons name resonates strongly with suppliers, the market
and colleagues in a way that DSG international has not been
able to without significant investment in the brand. Further
information on this proposal is set out in the accompanying
notice of annual general meeting.
This year, the Group selected two national charities to support,
Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation, which help to provide
access to technology for disadvantaged or disabled children. 
I am very proud of our colleagues, who have organised so many
fundraising activities, including supporting Blue Peter’s ‘Send a
Smile’ campaign as well as raising money for the DEC Haiti appeal.
I would like to thank my predecessor Sir John Collins for his
service and contribution to the Group. Our thanks also go to
Count Emmanuel d’André, who retired from the Board at last
year’s AGM, and John Whybrow, who retired from the Board 
in March this year. I would like to thank them both for their
significant contribution as non-executive directors. We wish
them well.
I would like to welcome Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen and Tim How 
as non-executive directors. Both Utho and Tim bring significant
management experience to the Group with proven track records
in the retail sector.
John Allan
Chairman
Chairman’s Statement
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
Our Renewal and Transformation plan is
improving the Group for our customers,
our colleagues and our shareholders.
Business Overview
John Allan Chairman We are two years into an intense period of work and progress
under our Renewal and Transformation plan. We have made
significant changes to the business. This year we really started
to see the benefits. With the customer at the heart of everything
we do, we are offering an unbeatable combination of value,
choice and service.
For clarity on our goals for customers, we have established the
core purpose of the Group as ‘bringing life to technology’. The
simple principle is to make technology exciting and accessible
for our customers, helping them to choose the right product 
for their needs and then to get the most out of it once they get
home. In order to deliver on our core purpose and to constantly
focus the business and our colleagues on the customer we
have developed our ‘Customer Plan’. Under each customer
promise there lies a detailed programme of work to assist in the
delivery of the Renewal and Transformation plan and achieve
our target of an EBIT return on sales of 3%-4%. I would like to
share with you some of the great work we are doing under each
element of the Customer Plan.
They’re interested in working out what’s right for me
We must give every customer trusted and great advice whenever
they come into our stores. Our colleague training programme
called FIVES gives our people good product knowledge and
skills. Our selling service is broken down into five parts so that
we understand a customer’s needs, match the appropriate
product to those needs and also help the customer understand
the features and benefits to ensure they get the most out of their
product. All our colleagues in the UK have already been through
FIVES training and many are now going through additional
programmes to reinforce our approach.
We have also improved our product training, often with the
support of manufacturers. We have new methods to help our
colleagues understand the products in our stores and to ensure
they can provide detailed information to our customers.
Our colleagues in the Nordics are already well versed in these
principles. Customers are increasingly recognising the great
experience they get in our stores across the region and are
rewarding us with greater market share and higher profitability 
in our Elkjøp Group. We will be developing these colleague
training programmes across all our Continental European
operations to share best practice in customer engagement.
We will also be improving the information available to stores 
to ensure they can better match colleague rostering with
customer footfall.
It’s an exciting place to be
We have now transformed over 200 stores across the Group.
The new formats provide a layout that is easier to shop, more
contemporary in look and feel as well as enabling customers 
to try products before they buy through the use of improved
shop fittings, such as playtables. Also, by improving ranges and
working with suppliers we can make our shops more appealing
and showcase technology that makes a difference.
This year we carried out a detailed analysis of our store portfolio
in the UK to determine the ideal footprint of stores that will best
serve customers’ needs. This is a combination of High Street
stores, Megastores and combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World
Superstores. Our long term goal is to get to 500 stores in the
UK with up to 70 Megastores, 330 Superstores, the majority 
of which will be combined 2-in-1 stores, and up to 100 High
Street stores. Our Megastores create a real destination for our
customers where they can experience the widest range of
electrical products under one roof. Our combined 2-in-1 Currys
& PC World Superstores bring the expertise of PC World to
more locations alongside the strength of the Currys brand in
consumer electrical and white goods.
Outside the UK, we are also reformatting stores using the same
principles as we have developed for Currys and PC World as
well as trialling and rolling out Megastores.
16 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
Chief Executive’s Statement
T o provide an unbeatable combination of
value, choice and service, we have put the
customer at the heart of everything we do.
John Browett Chief Executive Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 17
We have also improved our websites in the UK using PIXmania’s
market leading e-merchant platform. Our customers on the web
now have better product information, improved navigation and
easier screen layouts making it easier for customers to find the
products they are after.
It’s easy to shop
Our new store layout and improved websites make it easier 
than ever before for our customers to choose the right product.
We are improving signage and ticketing information to help
customers better understand the features and benefits of the
products. We are also introducing ‘customer journeys’ to ensure
customers have all they need to get the most out of their products
when they get them home.
Our reserve&collect facility, that allows customers to browse
and choose products on our websites and then reserve for
collection from a convenient store, continues to be popular and
this demonstrates how across all our platforms we aim to make
it an easy shopping trip for customers.
Business Overview
Colleagues
They’re
interested in 
working out 
what’s right 
for me
Problems
They deal
with queries
and complaints 
brilliantly
Post Purchase
They make
things work
and keep
them working
Customer
Plan
Value
The prices 
are good
Products
I can get
what I want
when I want it
Stores
It’s easy
to shop
Stores
It’s an exciting 
place to be 18 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
I can get what I want when I want it
We have improved ranges to ensure we have the best product
in stock for customers’ needs. We are constantly listening to
and learning from our customers to help us develop ranges
further. Of course, we need to ensure that the product is always
available and so we have improved our logistics infrastructure to
reduce complexity and increase availability. True availability is at
record levels. This work has also enabled us to hold more stock
in the centre to ensure the products are always in the right place
for the customer, as well as enabling us to increase the turnover
of our stock, improving working capital. We have made significant
progress, but we will be making further improvements in the
year ahead.
We have introduced choices on delivery for customers which
range from next day three hour timed delivery slots, to free
delivery, to even a ‘follow-me-home’ service at our Megastores.
Our services team have done a fantastic job of making sure 
we get it right first time for customers, and if there is an issue,
resolving it quickly to ensure the customer gets their product
when we say they will. We have introduced data and processes
to ensure customers are informed of when we are on the way to
them to help them plan their day around the expected delivery.
As a result, we are achieving a 99.8% success rate on first or
second delivery. We will continuously strive to improve this, but
we now operate the UK’s leading home delivery and installation
service for electricals.
The prices are good
As the market leader in many of our markets, we are able 
to leverage our international presence and size to allow us 
to offer our customers great deals at great prices every day. 
We constantly monitor prices in our markets and on the internet 
to ensure we are always one step ahead of our competitors.
The DSGi brands must be famous for value and we will
continuously improve the prices we offer customers. All this 
is backed up by our market leading price promise to refund
110% of the difference if a customer finds the same product
cheaper elsewhere.
They make things work and keep them working
Our TechGuys are available to help our customers get their
products working and keep them working. From in-store advice
to installation and set-up at home, from telephone and internet
advice to repair, we are committed to helping our customers
with issues and problems they encounter with the electrical
products they use. This year we have built a state of the art
facility in Newark for TV and laptop repairs. Consequently, 
we have significantly improved the service we can offer while
reducing costs. For example, we have now reduced the repair
time for TVs to less than six days.
We have introduced practices and processes to keep
customers informed of deliveries and repairs and our Premier
Club support agreement even provides customers with a loan
TV or laptop while it is away for repair.
The scale at which we operate in this area gives us a unique
competitive advantage. Our customers can trust us to provide
them with expertise and help with whatever challenge they face.
It also enhances the trust and brand perception of Currys and
PC World.
Outside of the UK, the repair and service functions operate
differently market by market. However, we will, over time, 
use the learnings from the UK across the rest of Europe.
Directors’ Report:
Business Overview
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
Working with suppliers
our new store formats
are great places to
showcase the latest
technology. Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 19
They deal with queries and complaints brilliantly
This year we made the decision to bring our call centre back 
in house. As a result, we now own the contact with customers
when they have a problem or query. We have made the
processes simpler. Through using root cause analysis of why
customers are contacting us, we are reducing the need for
them to do so. When a customer does have an issue we are
empowering our colleagues to take ownership of the issue 
to achieve a swift and satisfactory resolution.
The majority of the work we are doing under the Customer 
Plan has been focused on the UK where we see the greatest
opportunity to improve the business and profitability for the
benefit of not just our customers but also for our shareholders.
While we are improving the stores in our operations across 
the Group we also see opportunities for many elements of the
Customer Plan to be used right across the Group. Our businesses
outside the UK also have many practices that we can bring to
the UK. Our aim is to share these across the Group so we can
be best in class in all our businesses. 
We have made a significant amount of change, particularly in
the last year, and I am pleased to say that our customers are
starting to notice. Satisfaction measures from our mystery
shops and exit interviews in the UK are rising and, for the first
time, we now have over 80% of our customers scoring us as
being ‘satisfied’ or ‘very satisfied’ with their experience. This 
is a significant improvement on where the business has been
historically, but we still have more to do. I am also pleased to
see that our advocacy is improving with a 80% increase in
customers who are now very likely to recommend our stores 
to their friends and family.
Outlook
The economic backdrop across Europe has remained
challenging throughout the year. We expect these conditions 
to continue throughout the coming year in many of our markets,
particularly in the UK where consumer spending will come under
pressure from fiscal tightening. We are well prepared for this
environment and continue to focus on improving the offer for
customers while managing costs, margins, stock turn and cash
flow. Consequently, given the Renewal and Transformation plan,
Group profitability will continue to improve. 
Despite all the economic uncertainties the customer remains 
at the heart of all that we do.
John Browett
Chief Executive
The new combined
Currys & PC World 
2-in-1 stores provide
customers with the
range, expertise 
and authority of 
both brands in one
convenient location.
Business Overview 20 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
The objectives of the Group are described in the Chief Executive’s
Statement on pages 16 to 19.
The market in which the Group operates
Specialist electrical retailers are the predominant destination 
for customers in the European market. Buying groups, general
merchants and independents also have a retail presence across
Europe. The market is served by a relatively small number of
global manufacturers supplying goods to local, regional, national
and international retailers.
The internet delivers enhanced product information and
facilitates price comparability for consumers. Whilst this creates
new challenges, it also provides a significant opportunity. The
Group believes that over time internet demand will polarise
towards the larger retailers with scalable distribution and systems,
together with proven after-sales service and support.
Principal activities
DSGi is a specialist electrical and computing retailer which sells
consumer electronics, personal computers, domestic appliances,
photographic equipment and communication products. It is 
a multi-channel retailer, selling products in stores, over the
internet and by phone and provides product support services 
to customers. It also undertakes business to business (B2B)
sales and services.
The Group is organised into four divisions: UK & Ireland,
Nordics, Other International and e-commerce. Each division
offers a full range of the Group’s products and services. 
The activities of each division are described as follows:
■ UK & Ireland division comprises UK & Ireland Electricals 
and UK Computing. Both UK & Ireland Electricals and UK
Computing engage in multi-channel retail sales and provide
product support services to their customers. In addition, UK
Computing also engages in B2B sales of computer hardware,
software and services;
■ Nordics division, which operates primarily in Norway, Sweden,
Finland and Denmark, engages in multi-channel retail sales and
provides related product support services to its customers. It
also engages in B2B sales of computer hardware, software and
services. Across the region, the division operates a successful
franchise business, typically in smaller markets;
■ Other International division comprises operations in Italy,
Greece, Spain, Turkey, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. 
The Other International division engages in retail sales (including
multi-channel sales in some countries) and provides related
product support services to its customers in all its markets. 
It also engages in B2B sales of computer hardware, software
and services in Italy, Spain and Greece and has franchise
operations in Italy and Greece; and
■ e-commerce division is engaged in pure-play internet retail
sales, primarily through the PIXmania brand which operates 
in 26 countries across Europe and the Dixons.co.uk brand 
in the UK.
Overview of products and services
Products
The principal products sold by the Group are categorised as brown
goods, white goods, computing products and mobile phones.
Brown goods include: vision products, such as televisions and
DVD players; audio products, such as stereos, iPods and MP3
players; imaging products, such as cameras and camcorders;
gaming products, such as games consoles; and related
essentials and accessories.
White goods include: major domestic appliances such as
washing machines, dryers, refrigerators, freezers as well as gas
and electric cookers; and small domestic appliances such as
microwave ovens, vacuum cleaners, kettles, coffee makers,
toasters, irons and bread makers.
Computing products include desktop computers, laptop
computers, iPads, netbooks, printers and a wide range of
related essentials and accessories.
Mobile phones include pre-paid and contract mobile phones,
mobile broadband modems and related accessories.
Brown goods, computing products and mobile phones are
generally characterised by rapid technological advances that offer
major improvements in quality, functionality, interactivity and design.
White goods tend to benefit from innovation, fashion and improved
design and are typically heavily dependent on the replacement
cycle in most markets.
In addition to selling third party branded products, the Group sells
a number of own-branded products such as Advent in computing.
Services
The Group offers a broad range of product support services.
The most important of these, which represent a substantial
proportion of the revenue from support services provided by 
the Group, are customer support agreements for repairs and
protection against breakdown and mishap, and after-sales
support for products bought from the Group. In addition, the
Group provides a range of technical support, repair, installation
and other services, predominantly in relation to computing
products. The Group also offers a range of home delivery and
installation services for its products, including deliveries within
specified time frames, collection of customers’ old appliances,
appliance installation as well as television installation and set-up.
In the UK these services are provided through a network of
customer service centres: TechGuys clinics in PC World stores;
laptop and TV repair centres; and a dedicated TechGuys
telephone support team. The Group also has arrangements 
with a number of third parties for the repair of products
purchased at DSGi stores, particularly white goods.
Directors’ Report:
Strategic Summary
Group Overview Financial and operational Definition
Total sales Growth in total sales
Like for like sales The ability to grow sales in stores in the Group is an important measure of a brand’s appeal to
customers and its competitive position. The Board measures like for like sales as sales in stores
that have been open for a full financial year both at the beginning and end of the financial period
and are calculated using constant exchange rates. Customer support agreement sales are
excluded from all UK like for like calculations. Operations that are subject to closure have sales
excluded as of the announcement date. Stores subject to a refurbishment are excluded during
the period of refurbishment.
Sales targets and growth are set relative to the market and expected economic conditions.
Market position In line with the Group’s strategy to be the leading specialist electrical retailer in Europe, this is 
an important measure of how well customers are being engaged by the Group’s brands in each
market. Retailing operations should be, or be capable of becoming, the number one or number
two specialist electrical retailer in their market, measured by market share.
Underlying operating profit Continued growth of underlying operating profit enables the Group to invest in its future and
provide a return for shareholders. Targets are set relative to expected market performance.
Underlying profit before tax Continued growth of underlying profit before tax represents a measure of Group performance to
external investors and shareholders. Targets are set relative to expected market performance.
Free Cash Flow The Group defines Free Cash Flow as net cash generated from operations, less net finance
costs, taxation and net capital expenditure and excluding certain discrete items such as special
pension contributions. The management of cash usage, in particular working capital employed
in the business, optimises resources available for the Group to invest in its future growth and to
generate shareholder value.
Shareholder Definition
Underlying diluted The level of growth in EPS provides a suitable measure of the financial health of the Group 
earnings per share (EPS) and its ability to deliver returns to shareholders each year.
The Group targets growth in EPS commensurate with growth in earnings.
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) The relative performance measure over the longer term of the Group’s ability to deliver returns
for shareholders. For 2008/09 and 2009/10, the base which the Group used is to measure itself
against was a bespoke weighted average index of UK and European retailers over a three year
period. From 2010/11, the base will be to measure against the FTSE 250 index (comprising
FTSE 101-350 companies), excluding investment trusts, over a three year period.
Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 21
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
Under the Renewal and Transformation plan, the Group is developing a range of customer KPIs which the Board will consider for
inclusion in future reports.
Corporate Responsibility KPIs
During the year the Group reviewed the KPIs which it uses 
to monitor Corporate Responsibility (CR). The CR Committee
has agreed to monitor the following KPIs on an ongoing basis,
initially concentrating on the Group’s biggest business in the
UK and via the Group’s central buying function. The Group will
extend monitoring of the KPIs to the other Group businesses
over time. These KPIs are:
1. Staff diversity – age, gender and ethnicity of employees
2. Health and Safety – employee accidents and injuries
3. Performance on ethical supply chain audits
4. Customer satisfaction
5. Waste electrical equipment collected and recycled 
from customers
6. Business waste recycled
7. Group carbon emissions
8. Contributions to the community
Details are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review 
on pages 35 to 39. KPIs are monitored by the CR Committee
on behalf of the Board and the Board considers CR issues 
on an annual basis. The CR Committee assists the Board in
identifying risks to achieving the Group’s objectives and any
required mitigating actions. Risk
Economic environment
Risk that a prolonged economic downturn,
particularly in the UK, severely impacts our business
Meeting customer needs
Risk that our retail brands fail to meet the
expectations of our customers
Competition
Risk that competitors reduce the Group’s market
share and / or drive down margins in specific markets
Market margin pressure
Risk that margins are reduced due to falling
consumer demand, manufacturer supply,
competitors, regulation and tax
Changes in supplier credit
Risk that credit insurance is no longer available 
to electrical and computing suppliers
Employees
Risk that we fail to attract, develop and retain 
the necessary talent for our business
Changing technology / consumer
preferences
Risk that we fail to capitalise on new technology 
or emerging trends to maximise revenues
22 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Risk management is an integral part of business management and it’s something that DSGi takes seriously. The Group’s approach
to risk management combines a top-down understanding with bottom-up activity to gain a complete view of risk. For example, the
Board undertakes a regular review of risks facing the business, which included a thorough risk assessment from first principles at
the beginning of 2010. Some of the key risks facing the business, along with illustrations of mitigating actions are set out below:
Key risks
Directors’ Report:
Strategic Summary
Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives
Examples of mitigating action
■ Ongoing monitoring by Finance and the Executive Committee, including review 
of the portfolio of businesses
■ Renewal and Transformation plan to improve our business performance
irrespective of macroeconomic factors
■ Strategy and business planning which takes into account varying economic scenarios
■ Understanding our customers and monitoring our level of service through mystery
shopping, customer exit surveys and analysis of purchase data
■ Delivery of the Renewal and Transformation plan to improve our stores across the Group
■ FIVES customer service training for all colleagues and product workshops to
improve product knowledge
■ Implementation of the Customer Plan in the UK to improve the customer journey –
a clear and focused plan at the heart of the business (see Chief Executive’s Statement)
■ Innovations in service propositions and improved customer service levels across
the Group
■ Clearer and easier navigation of our e-commerce websites
■ Renewal and Transformation plan improving our stores, cost structure and 
service proposition
■ Continuing development of strong online brands, notably PIXmania and
Dixons.co.uk
■ Ensuring our prices offer good value, including a customer price index
■ Continued focus on ensuring we have an excellent range across all price points,
including own label brands
■ Continuing to take money out of our cost base
■ Building ever stronger relationships with suppliers
■ Ongoing engagement with suppliers and credit insurers
■ Improvements in stock turn
■ Innovations in, and close scrutiny of, working capital together with regular
monitoring and review
■ Group-wide standardised performance management
■ Talent reviews across the business
■ Store structures which provide a clear career path for all employees
■ Improved quality of training courses and development programmes with specialist
focus on service, product, commercial and technical
■ Bonus plans, which include a component relating to individual performance and
business performance
■ Reward strategy aligned to retain best talent
■ Strong supplier relationships (e.g. UK launch partner for Apple iPads)
■ Delivery of Customer Plan to respond to identified changes in technology
■ Store transformations to take into account emerging trends in store layouts
■ Exciting product launches to make our stores the destination for the latest technology 
(e.g. 3D TVs) Business Overview Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 23
Risk
Finance and treasury
Risk that the Group’s exposure to exchange rate,
interest rate, liquidity and credit risks have an
adverse or unexpected impact on results, funding
requirements or purchasing ability.
Pension risk and policies
Risk that the pension funding policy fails to react to
or address deficits, which may arise on the Group’s
pension schemes
Systems failure
Risk that a key system becomes unavailable for a
period of time
Legislative, contractual, reputational and
regulatory risks
Risk that we suffer reputational and / or financial
damage as a result of an exposure in our
compliance activities (e.g. competition, consumer
rights, intellectual property, contractual obligations,
health and safety or compromise of customer’s
confidential data)
Project delivery
Risk that a project delivering an element of our
Renewal and Transformation plan does not deliver
its anticipated benefits
Seasonality
A substantial proportion of revenue and operating profit
is generated during the third financial quarter, which
includes the Christmas and New Year season. In addition,
in southern Europe a second peak exists in the summer
period through sale of air conditioning units
Price deflation
Price deflation has been a common feature across
most electrical goods categories for a number of
years, primarily driven by technological advances
and improved efficiencies in production throughout
the life cycle of a product
Quality and location of store portfolio
This is a key contributor to the Group’s
performance and growth strategy
Damage to property and consequential
business interruption
The Group’s ability to distribute merchandise to its
stores and to sell and distribute merchandise to its
customers is reliant on its operational infrastructure,
particularly the efficient functioning of its distribution
centres and distribution network
Change in government policy
The Group is subject to a range of legal and regulatory
requirements originating from the UK and EU
Examples of mitigating action
■ Detailed group hedging policies reviewed through a separate Tax and Treasury Committee
■ Balance sheet management and reviews
■ Regular monitoring of receivables balance
■ Strong pre- and post-investment appraisal processes
■ Central control of treasury activity
■ Deficit reduction activities in place
■ Defined benefit section of UK scheme closed to future accrual
■ Contingency plans developed that are tested regularly
■ Evaluation, planning and implementation analysis carried out before updating 
or introducing new systems that have an impact on critical functions
■ Ongoing systems implementation in key areas of the business
■ In-house legal teams communicate on a regular and frequent basis and legal
reports are submitted to the Board
■ Launch of Group Ethical Conduct policy, supported by annual declaration 
of compliance by colleagues
■ Monitoring changes in legislation / regulation
■ Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to discuss reputational and
regulatory risks
■ Quality checks and factory audits for own-branded product assembly
■ Compliance Committee approves activity that may impact the terms of Group credit facilities
■ The portfolio plan is clearly defined and is managed and governed through regular
processes and meetings
■ Post-investment analysis and performance tracking put in place including financial
and customer measures
■ Projects under the Customer Plan are aligned to our UK budget
■ Financial planning takes into account expected peaks and troughs during the year
and the business is run accordingly
■ The proportion of services related business provides a regular stream of income
over the course of the year
■ Effective launches of new technology as it becomes available to the market
■ Growth of services related business to increase the number and value of 
non-product sales
■ Improve gross profit uplifts in transformed stores
■ The store portfolio is reviewed on a regular basis with a view to optimising our 
retail estate presence
■ Disaster recovery plans are in place
■ Insurance is purchased to mitigate against business interruption
■ Preventative measures are constantly being updated to reduce the likelihood 
of an incident
■ A number of committees exist to help DSGi manage its regulatory risks. There is a
Corporate Responsibility Committee and a Compliance Committee, both of which
are supported by our Legal and Company Secretarial functions
Strategic Summary Financial highlights
■ Total Underlying Group sales
(1) (2)
up 4% to £8,531.6 million
(2008/09 £8,180.2 million). 
■ Total Group sales, including those from closed businesses, 
up 3% to £8,532.5 million (2008/09 £8,317.8 million).
■ Group like for like sales
(3)
up 2% in the full year and up 6% 
in the second half.
■ Underlying Group gross margins flat across the full year.
■ Underlying EBIT
(4)
up 60% at £133.2 million 
(2008/09 £83.0 million).
■ Significant profit improvements including UK & Ireland 
up 21% and Nordics up 28%.
■ Underlying pre-tax profit
(2)
up 61% at £90.5 million 
(2008/09 £56.1 million).
■ Underlying diluted earnings per share
(2) (5)
up 50% at
1.5 pence (2008/09 1.0 pence). Basic earnings per share 
for continuing operations of 1.7 pence (2008/09 loss per
share of (10.2) pence).
■ Total profit before tax after net non-underlying items was
£112.7 million (2008/09 loss £(123.6) million).
■ Free Cash Flow
(6)
of £28.1 million before restructuring items
(2008/09 outflow of £(340.0) million).
■ As at 1 May 2010 the Group had net debt of £(220.6) million
(2008/09 £(477.5) million).
■ New £360 million revolving credit facility signed with syndicate
of banks, providing the Group with flexibility.
Operational highlights
■ Renewal and Transformation plan improving the offer 
for customers.
■ Store transformation programme on track:
− Over 200 stores had been reformatted across the Group 
by the year end;
− Additional 80 reformatted stores to be opened by Peak 
in the UK, including 21 Megastores;
− Two thirds of store portfolio by sales will be transformed 
in the UK by October 2010;
− Nordic store reformatting continues, with 16 Megastores
now open;
− Portfolio review completed with over 160 stores exited 
over the last two years. 
■ Reformatted stores continue to perform strongly:
− Average gross profit uplifts of 20% versus the rest of 
the chains;
− Average gross profit uplifts of 50% achieved in the
Megastores and 2-in-1s;
− Second year trading for reformatted stores remains strong.
■ Significant improvements to services for customers:
− Further compelling services for customers launched
including free delivery slots, next day timed delivery slots
and ‘follow-me-home’ services from Megastores;
− Better availability of stock in store with stock turn up 12%
year on year;
− Satisfaction measures rising, due to focus on service,
connectivity, delivery, installation and repair. 
■ Good progress with online operations:
− Internet sales of £1.4 billion, representing 16% of total
Group sales;
− Successful roll-out of ‘e-merchant’ operating platform 
to UK internet sites.
■ International plans making progress:
− Turnaround plans in Italy ahead of schedule with positive
like for like sales and margin improvements;
− Businesses in Greece and Spain weathering economic
challenges well and gaining market share.
■ £200 million four year cost saving programme on track,
delivering £50 million reduction in the year.
■ UK defined benefit pension scheme closed to future accrual
thereby reducing risk for the Group.
■ On track for medium term target of a 3%-4% EBIT return 
on sales.
Overview
24 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Performance Review Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 25
Business performance
Underlying sales and profit analysis
Underlying sales
(1)
Underlying profit /(loss)
(2)
52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 
ended ended ended ended
1 May 2010 2 May 2009 Like for like
(3)
1 May 2010 2 May 2009
Note £million £million % change £million £million
UK & Ireland Electricals 8 2,650.6 2,657.8 (1)% 32.0 17.7
UK Computing 9 1,362.9 1,570.8 (9)% 39.1 41.0
UK & Ireland 4,013.5 4,228.6 (3)% 71.1 58.7
Nordics 10 2,093.7 1,625.2 13% 97.4 76.1
Other International 11 1,503.2 1,519.0 flat (8.3) (23.7)
e-commerce 12 921.2 807.4 11% 11.3 15.0
Central costs (19.5) (25.0)
Total Group Retail 8,531.6 8,180.2 2% 152.0 101.1
Property losses (18.8) (18.1)
EBIT 133.2 83.0
Underlying net finance costs (42.7) (26.9)
Group underlying profit before tax 90.5 56.1
Notes
(1) Underlying Group sales exclude sales from closed businesses and discontinued operations. Closed businesses comprise the operations of PC City in Sweden and Markantalo 
in Finland. 
(2) Throughout this statement, references are made to ‘underlying’ performance measures. Underlying results are defined as excluding trading results from closed businesses, 
the amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one-off non-recurring items, profit on sale of investments, net fair value
remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations. These excluded items are described as ‘non-underlying’. The financial effect of these
items is shown in the analyses on the face of the income statement and in note 4 to the financial statements.
(3) Like for like sales are calculated based on stores that have been open for a full financial year both at the beginning and end of the financial period and are calculated using
constant exchange rates. Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations. Operations that are subject to closure have sales excluded 
as of the announcement date. Stores subject to a refurbishment are excluded during the period of refurbishment.
(4) Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT), or Operating Profit, are defined as underlying earnings before deduction of net finance costs and tax.
(5) The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of earnings per share for the periods prior to the Rights Issue, which completed on 9 June 2009, has been
multiplied by an adjustment factor to reflect the bonus element of the shares issued under the terms of the Rights Issue (as described in note 8 to the financial statements). 
The adjustment factor used was 1.2138.
(6) Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash flow from operating activities before special pension contributions, less net finance costs, less income
tax paid and net capital expenditure.
(7) Unless otherwise noted, throughout this statement figures relate to continuing operations, excluding the results of closed businesses. Total revenue including discontinued
operations and closed businesses was £8,543.4 million (2008/09 £8,415.1 million).
(8) UK & Ireland Electricals comprises Currys, CurrysDigital and Dixons Travel in the UK as well as the operations in Ireland.
(9) UK Computing comprises PC World, DSGi Business and TechGuys. Like for like sales are for PC World only.
(10) Nordics comprises the Elkjøp group (Elkjøp, El Giganten, Gigantti and Lefdal).
(11) Other International comprises Greece (Kotsovolos and Electro World), Italy (UniEuro, PC City and Dixons Travel Italy), Spain (PC City), Turkey (Electro World), the Czech Republic
(Electro World) and Slovakia (Electro World).
(12) e-commerce division comprises PIXmania and Dixons.co.uk Total sales in the UK & Ireland were down 5% to
£4,013.5 million (2008/09 £4,228.6 million) and like
for like sales were down 3% across the year. 
Like for like sales in the second half were up 3% 
as the Renewal and Transformation plan began to
deliver benefits. 
Underlying operating profit for the full year was up
21% at £71.1 million (2008/09 £58.7 million).
The economic environment in the UK & Ireland remained
challenging across the year. During the first half the Group 
was focused on cash margins while much of the Renewal and
Transformation plan and store reformatting was taking place. 
The business then experienced a strong Christmas Peak as the
benefits of the plan started to improve the business performance
and deliver market share gains in all major categories. 
UK & Ireland Electricals includes Currys, CurrysDigital and
Dixons Travel in the UK and Currys and PC World in Ireland.
Total sales were flat year on year at £2,650.6 million (2008/09
£2,657.8 million) with like for like sales down 1%, across the
year, but up 6% in the second half. Underlying operating profit
improved by 81% to £32.0 million (2008/09 £17.7 million).
UK Computing includes PC World, DSGi Business and
TechGuys. Total sales were down 13% at £1,362.9 million
(2008/09 £1,570.8 million) with like for like sales down 9%. 
The decline in sales was predominantly driven by lower sales 
in the B2B operations as small businesses reduced capital
expenditure during the credit crunch. Despite the weak sales
environment, underlying operating profit was relatively stable 
at £39.1 million (2008/09 £41.0 million).
UK & Ireland has historically been reported separately as
UK & Ireland Electricals and UK Computing. A key objective of
the Renewal and Transformation plan is to remove complexity,
simplify processes, make operations easier for colleagues and
reduce costs in the Group. As a result, the back office functions
supporting the PC World, Currys, CurrysDigital and Dixons 
Travel operations have been brought together with the combined
commercial, merchandising and buying teams supporting all
brands. The logistics infrastructure has also been consolidated
with the main warehouse in Newark providing one fulfilment
centre for stores and customers. In addition, with an increasing
number of combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC World stores, the
Electricals and Computing operations in the UK & Ireland will 
no longer report figures separately and will consequently be
reported as one operation going forward.
UK & Ireland
26 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Performance Review
Combined 2-in-1
Currys & PC World
Superstore in Hemel
Hempstead with our
new clear 2-in-1 
brand signage.
Underlying sales
£million
2008/09 4,228.6
2009/10 4,013.5
Underlying operating profit
£million
2008/09 58.7
2009/10 71.1 Business Overview Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 27
The main focus of the Renewal and Transformation plan has, to
date, primarily benefited the UK & Ireland operations. The stores
are benefiting from improved ranges and selling service. All
colleagues have now undergone FIVES training, our bespoke
training programme focusing on understanding and meeting 
a customer’s needs as well as improving product knowledge.
Stock management processes have improved significantly,
improving availability and ranges while controlling costs and
working capital utilised in the business.
During the year, significant improvements have been made to
the services infrastructure. This enables Currys and PC World 
to offer customers flexible options to suit their needs even
better, from the market leading next day delivery in three hour
timed slots to free delivery. Delivery times continue to improve
with ‘right first time’ achieving 97% with ‘right second time’
even higher. Utilising our logistics infrastructure we are able 
to offer free recycling without materially impacting costs or
carbon emissions.
The repair and support operations have been restructured,
improving processes and reducing costs. A new state of the art
repair facility for TVs and laptops has been opened in Newark.
These changes have enabled the Group to considerably improve
repair times, for example, halving the average repair time for
televisions to six days, with further improvements under way.
The contact centre was successfully brought back in house
enabling us to improve the quality of service and support offered
to our customers.
Dixons Travel continues to perform well. The new format stores
are being rolled out to existing locations bringing improved
ranges, playtables and store layouts to the airport stores. Dixons
Travel initiated its overseas expansion opening stores in Rome
airport. Since the year end Dixons Travel has opened a store in
Dublin airport. Further international locations are expected to 
be added over time. 
The TechGuys continues to be a valued differentiator providing
service and expertise to customers. TechGuys service desks are
now operational in PC World and combined 2-in-1 stores and has
been incorporated in the Currys Megastores. In August TechGuys
launched a range of over 60 enhanced services for customers
as well as introducing ‘Club’ and ‘Premier Club’ options for 
the ‘Whateverhappens’ customer support agreements. Under
the ‘Premier Club’, support agreement customers experience
enhanced levels of service such as faster response times and
the loan of a product if theirs has to be taken away for repair. 
In Ireland, the economic environment has been particularly
tough. The business there took early action to manage costs
resulting in an improving performance in the second half with
sales and profits up year on year.
DSGi Business experienced an extremely challenging trading
environment as smaller businesses reduced capital expenditure
during the credit crunch. The new management team is focused
on managing costs and cash. The B2B operations will benefit
when small businesses restart investment as the economic
environment improves.
As at 18 June 2010 the Group had transformed 164 stores in total
in the UK, of which 12 were Megastores and 20 were combined
2-in-1 Currys & PC World Superstores. The transformed stores
continue to deliver gross profit uplifts of 20%, with uplifts as high
as 50% in the Megastores and combined 2-in-1 Currys & PC
World Superstores.
While there are a limited number of reformatted stores over 
a year old, performance in the second year remains strong.
Management estimate that the transformed stores benefited the
like for like sales in the UK by approximately 3% across the year.
Having traded the new format stores through the important
Peak period the Group has determined the appropriate portfolio
and transformation programme going forward, and announced 
its intention to reduce the number of stores in the UK to
approximately 500 (excluding stores under the Dixons Travel
brand) over time. The Megastore and 2-in-1 combined stores
are proving to be particularly popular with customers. 
70 locations for the Megastore format have been identified 
with 60 being developed using existing stores in the portfolio
and the remainder resulting from the relocation of existing
stores. In addition the Group expects to have approximately
330 out of town Superstores, predominantly of the combined 
2-in-1 Currys and PC World format which can be similarly
created from within the existing portfolio. With limited overlap
between the PC World and Currys customer demographic the
combined 2-in-1 stores provide access to the PC World brand
in existing Currys markets. The Group also expects to continue
to operate up to 100 High Street locations.
In the UK & Ireland the Group expects to refurbish
approximately 100 stores during the 2010/11 financial year, with
the majority to be completed before Christmas 2010, as follows:
■ 21 new Megastores, taking the total in the UK to 33
Megastores;
■ 44 combined 2-in-1 Currys and PC World stores;
■ 12 Currys and PC World standalone Superstores; and 
■ 3 High Street stores.
The Group has also been implementing those parts of the store
transformation programme to existing stores across the portfolio
that improve the shopping trip for customers but require little or
no additional expenditure. As a result, these stores have already
benefitted from the improved ranges, colleague training and
enhanced after-sales help and support.
Performance Review In the Nordic region, Elkjøp delivered a very strong
performance with sales increasing by 22% in local
currency and 29% in sterling to £2,093.7 million
(2008/09 £1,625.2 million). 
Like for like sales were up 16% in the second half
and up 13% across the year. 
Underlying operating profits increased by 28% 
to £97.4 million (2008/09 £76.1 million). 
Elkjøp performed very strongly in all of its markets and product
categories. It has performed particularly strongly in Sweden and
Denmark despite the more challenging economic environments
experienced in these markets across the year. With excellent in
store service and customer engagement, the Nordic business is
the preferred operating model for the Group and practices are
being increasingly shared across all of the Group’s divisions.
Management continue to simplify the business, taking out costs
and reducing complexity. The efficient central operating structure,
customer focused business model and strong market positions
have enabled Elkjøp to gain market share from other competitors.
Elkjøp has now opened 16 Megastores which have performed
particularly well. It has also started a programme to refurbish
existing Superstores using the same principles employed in 
the UK businesses.
Elkjøp’s multi-channel offering continued to grow in all markets
doubling its sales through the internet during the year. Its
reserve and collect service continues to be well received 
by customers.
Nordic region results are stated excluding the businesses of
PC City in Sweden and Markantalo in Finland, which closed 
at the beginning of the financial year. 
Nordics
28 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Performance Review
Left
We are incorporating
new store formats in our
stores across Europe.
Right
Our excellent customer
service model in the
Nordics is being used
across the Group.
Underlying sales
£million
2008/09 1,625.2
2009/10 2,093.7
Underlying operating profit
£million
2008/09 76.1
2009/10 97.4 Business Overview Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 29
Directors’ Report:
Performance Review
The Other International division comprises
operations in Italy, Greece, Spain, the Czech
Republic, Slovakia and Turkey. Total sales were
down 5% at constant exchange rates and by 1% in
sterling to £1,503.2 million (2008/09 £1,519.0 million). 
A better performance in the second half with like 
for like sales up 4% resulted in a flat like for like
performance across the year. 
Underlying operating losses were reduced
significantly to £(8.3) million (2008/09 loss of
£(23.7) million).
Italy
This comprises UniEuro, PC City implants in UniEuro stores 
and Dixons Travel Italy operating in the airport in Rome. The
turnaround plan in Italy continues to make good progress.
Management actions have resulted in an improving trend in
sales with positive like for like sales, particularly in the second
half of the year despite a continued challenging economic
environment. Gross margins improved further year on year.
Stock control has also been improved, with stock turn up 
11%, while availability has increased by approximately 20%. 
UniEuro has experienced good growth in vision, computing,
communications, built-in appliances and accessories.
At the beginning of the year, UniEuro successfully completed 
its store rationalisation plan ahead of schedule, closing 51
underperforming stores and now operates from 97, largely 
out of town, stores. It has added 35 PC City implants into 
the portfolio, all of which are performing well. During the year,
UniEuro opened its first Megastore in Muratella in Rome. This 
is a 40,000 sq ft store refurbished along the same principles as
those in the UK and Nordics and has experienced strong gross
profit uplift. Management have also developed a new format 
for smaller stores and have completed the first three refits which
were successfully launched in May 2010 with strong gross profit
uplifts. The range improvements and cost efficiencies identified
as part of the turnaround plan continue to make good progress.
The economic outlook in Italy remains challenging, but the
turnaround plan puts UniEuro in a strong competitive position.
The improving performance gives management further
confidence in the prospects for UniEuro.
Greece
Kotsovolos is the market leading specialist electrical retailer 
in Greece. The difficult economic environment currently being
experienced in Greece is well documented. The business has
seen total sales impacted, particularly against tough comparables
Other International
Left
Our first Megastore 
in Italy employs the
new store format from
the UK.
Right
As such, it provides
the widest choice in its
markets for products
such as TVs.
Underlying sales
£million
2008/09 1,519.0
2009/10 1,503.2
Underlying operating loss
£million
(23.7) 2008/09
(8.3) 2009/10
Performance Review in the prior year. However, management have continued to
focus on the customer, maintained margins, reduced costs and
improved cash flow by increasing stock turn. They have also
continued to invest in the store renewal programme to limit the
effects of the weakening environment on bottom line performance.
During the period, Kotsovolos refurbished nine stores into the
Renewal and Transformation plan format, which are showing
encouraging uplifts and excellent feedback from customers. The
focus has also been on building new channels of business and
in one year Kotsovolos has become a significant player online,
increased the franchise network to 30 stores and commenced
operations of B2B sales, all of which have helped to offset the
negative trends in the market.
The operations in Greece are in a strong position with a market
leading offer and a strong focus on delivering for customers. As
such, it will benefit when the economy recovers. These strengths
will enable Kotsovolos to capitalise on the tough environment 
for competitors and to grow market share. 
Spain
While the consumer environment has been very tough in Spain
over the last two years, PC City remains the leading computer
specialist in the market. Costs have been reduced while
continuing to focus on the customer offer. 11 stores have been
closed and PC City now operates from 32 stores. Using some
of the principles of the UK transformation plan, management
introduced a light refit plan which adds incremental sales while
keeping the cash payback period to a minimum. These actions
have started to deliver improved gross margins, enabling the
business to significantly reduce losses year on year. They have
also enabled PC City to maintain its overall market share with 
11 fewer stores while positioning the business better for when
the Spanish economy recovers. Encouragingly, the business
delivered positive like for like sales during the second half,
despite the continued weak consumer environment. This
performance gives management further confidence in the
prospects for the business.
The Czech Republic and Slovakia
On 19 May 2009 and 1 September 2009 the Group sold the
operations of Electro World in Hungary and Poland, respectively,
in each case for a consideration of €1. Following these disposals,
the central operations in Prague and logistics infrastructure 
in Brno have been refocused on its core operations of the
Czech Republic and Slovakia, significantly reducing costs 
and complexity. 
Operations in the Czech Republic have performed well in their
markets, despite the weak consumer environment. During the
year, Electro World reformatted its first store in Prague, utilising
the Renewal and Transformation plan format which has reported
encouraging results with a great response from customers. 
The Group now operates 16 stores and a multi-channel internet
operation in the Czech Republic and three stores in Slovakia
which are trading in line with expectations. Management
recently announced plans to open three new stores in time 
for the Christmas Peak.
Turkey
The Group now operates 12 stores in Turkey under the Electro
World brand with its local joint venture partner. These new stores
are based on the Group’s new large space format, providing 
a greater product range and exciting retail environment for
customers. The business continues to deliver good sales growth
as customers recognise the benefits of large store formats in
delivering value, choice and service. With a solid store base now
established, it was announced in April 2010 the intention to roll
out a franchise operation in Turkey. The first franchise store
opened very successfully in Sakarya and further franchise stores
will be opened over the next two years.
30 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Performance Review
Other International continued
The standardisation 
of layout, fixtures and
fittings enables new
formats to be rolled 
out across the Group,
such as here in
Kotsovolos in Greece. Business Overview Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 31
e-commerce comprises PIXmania and Dixons.co.uk.
Total sales were up 14% at £921.2 million (2008/09
£807.4 million). 
Underlying operating profit was £11.3 million
(2008/09 £15.0 million).
PIXmania continues to trade strongly across all its markets. It
has experienced very strong sales growth in its core European
markets (France, Italy and Spain) driven by increased customer
acquisition through increased online and offline communication.
PIXmania has made good progress in all key categories,
including growth outside its traditional consumer electronics
categories. In addition, it has been investing in growth outside 
of its main markets especially emerging markets (e.g. Central
and Eastern Europe).
PIXmania’s newest channel, its reseller marketplace platform,
PIXplace, has grown its sales three-fold since launch with
expansion in new countries, the introduction of new categories
as well as an increase in new merchants transacting through
this platform.
The market-leading e-merchant platform was rolled out into 
the Group’s UK internet operations (dixons.co.uk, currys.co.uk,
pcworld.co.uk) in February 2010 and has improved navigation,
product display and information as well as the ability to show
attachments to customers.
With 276 million unique visitors during the year, PIXmania
websites reached the 4th rank of the most visited consumer
electronics e-tailers in the world according to Alexa.com.
Dixons.co.uk has been operating as a pure-play internet
operation for over three years. Following strong growth during
this period, a number of changes have been made to the
operating model to make the business even more relevant 
for customers. While dixons.co.uk performed well over the
important Christmas Peak, these changes impacted sales
performance during the rest of the year.
e-commerce
Underlying sales
£million
2008/09 807.4
2009/10 921.2
Underlying operating profit
£million
2008/09 15.0
2009/10 11.3
PIXmania provides
the Group with the
market-leading 
e-merchant platform
which provides
customers with
easier navigation as
well as improved
product knowledge.
Directors’ Report:
Performance Review
Performance Review Financial position
The Group’s financial priorities in 2009/10 included improving
profitability and strengthening the balance sheet:
■ Underlying EBIT increased by 60% to £133.2 million 
(2008/09 £83.0 million).
■ Underlying profit before tax increased by 61% to £90.5 million
(2008/09 £56.1 million).
■ Total profit before tax, after adding back non-underlying items
of £22.2 million, was £112.7 million (2008/09 loss before tax
of £(123.6) million).
■ Underlying diluted earnings per share increased by 50% to 
1.5 pence (2008/09 1.0 pence, after adjusting for the Rights Issue).
■ Loss making businesses in Hungary and Poland were
disposed of successfully.
■ Net proceeds of £291.3 million were received following the
Equity Placing and Rights Issue.
■ Significant headroom was maintained on the revolving credit
facility throughout the year and a new revolving credit facility
of £360 million was signed in May 2010.
■ The UK defined benefit scheme was closed to future accrual
reducing the deficit by £33.4 million.
■ Positive Free Cash Flow, before restructuring items, 
of £28.1 million was generated.
■ The Group’s working capital position was improved, through 
a reduction in debtors, and stock turn improved by 12%.
Underlying Group sales (excluding discontinued operations and
closed businesses) were up 4% to £8,531.6 million (2008/09
£8,180.2 million) and up 2% on a like for like basis. Underlying
Group sales were up 2% at constant exchange rates. Total
Group sales (including closed businesses) were up 3% to
£8,532.5 million (2008/09 £8,317.8 million). Group gross
margins were flat across the year.
Operational improvements
The Group is focused on re-engineering and simplifying the
operational processes within the Group in order to reduce costs
for the Company, improve the service provided to customers,
and assist colleagues in operating the business effectively.
There remains significant opportunity for productivity
improvements within the Group and management are targeting
these improvements to deliver some £200 million in cost savings
over a four year period. In the first year of this programme the
Group has delivered £50 million of cost savings through, for
example, efficiency initiatives in head office administration and 
in-store processes. Process improvement initiatives have already
contributed to reductions in levels of stock held by the Group as
well as improving stock turn by approximately 12% during the year.
The Group continues to implement the step change programme
that makes the business better for customers, easier for
colleagues to operate and cheaper for the Group.
Management remains confident that it can achieve a 3%-4%
EBIT return on sales, through the Renewal and Transformation
plan, over the medium term.
Free Cash Flow
Free Cash Flow before restructuring items was £28.1 million
(2008/09 outflow £(340.0) million) and total free cash outflow
was £(17.6) million (2008/09 £(404.2) million).
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
1 May 2010 2 May 2009
£million £million
Underlying profit before tax 90.5 56.1
Closed businesses loss before tax (0.2) (14.1)
Depreciation and amortisation 128.6 134.7
Working capital 39.7 (285.4)
Taxation (31.9) (35.7)
Capital expenditure (165.3) (140.7)
Sale of freehold property* 0.7 10.8
Other cash items (34.0) (65.7)
Free Cash Flow before restructuring items 28.1 (340.0)
Net restructuring items (45.7) (64.2)
Free Cash Flow (17.6) (404.2)
*
Sale of freehold property excludes £9.0 million of sale proceeds relating to the sale 
of the Group’s former warehouse in Stevenage (2008/09 £18.0 million). These sale
proceeds are shown within net restructuring and impairment costs.
Free Cash Flow before restructuring showed a significant
improvement over the prior year, driven by improved profitability,
improved working capital management and reduced hedge
losses, partly offset by increased capital expenditure relating 
to the Renewal and Transformation plan.
The improved working capital movement was primarily due to
improved stock management, including £43.9 million reduction
in stock aged over six months, and improved control of debtors.
This was partly offset by the continued unwinding of the
historically higher proportion of term versus pay-as-you-go
Customer Support Agreement deferred income. The prior year
was, as previously announced, impacted by the unwinding of
deferrals of supplier payments made at the end of the 2007/08
financial year which have not recurred.
Capital expenditure was £165.3 million (2008/09 £140.7 million),
up £24.6 million, reflecting the increased investment associated
with the Renewal and Transformation plan, particularly in the
UK. There were no significant disposals during the year, with
cash generated from the sale of property of £0.7 million
(2008/09 £10.8 million).
As previously disclosed, the Group has in place certain historical
hedging agreements. The principal outstanding agreements
relate primarily to foreign exchange and interest hedges. The
majority of these were put in place at the time the Group issued
its Bonds in 2002, and in relation to overseas investments. A
number of these hedges matured during the financial year and
resulted in a cash outflow of £62.2 million (2008/09 £83.3 million).
The remaining hedges at year end rates would imply a net cash
outflow of approximately £50 million, primarily payable in 2012.
Other cash items of £(34.0) million (2008/09 £(65.7) million)
improved by £31.7 million mainly due to increased add back of
non cash costs included in profit, such as pension interest and fee
amortisation, and the reduced hedge outflows mentioned above.
Group Financial Summary
32 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Performance Review Business Overview Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 33
Net restructuring and impairment reflects the cash outflows
relating to the strategic reorganisation activities and business
impairment, predominantly provided for in 2008/09. These
mainly comprise lease and other property related payments and
employee severance costs, less the final tranche of disposal
proceeds from the sale of a former warehouse in the UK.
Funding
Net (debt) / funds
At 1 May 2010 the Group had net debt of £(220.6) million,
compared with net debt of £(477.5) million at the end of the
previous year. The Group’s net debt includes restricted funds 
of £78.9 million (2008/09 £67.6 million) which predominantly
comprise funds held under trust for potential Customer Support
Agreement liabilities.
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
1 May 2010 2 May 2009
£million £million
Opening net (debt)/funds (477.5) 50.1
Free Cash Flow (17.6) (404.2)
Dividend – (60.3)
Equity Placing and 
Rights Issue 291.3 –
Acquisitions and 
disposals (7.0) (27.6)
Discontinued operations (8.6) (21.6)
Special pension 
contribution (12.0) (12.0)
Other items 10.8 (1.9)
Other movements 274.5 (123.4)
Closing net debt (220.6) (477.5)
Movements in net debt include net proceeds of £291.3 million
received from the Equity Placing and Rights Issue in the first 
half of the financial year, £7.0 million acquisition costs primarily
representing an associated undertaking in Norway being
acquired following the exercise of a put option, and £8.6 million
representing the net cash utilisation of the discontinued
operations in Hungary and Poland. The £12.0 million special
pension contribution was made in accordance with the
agreement with the trustee of the UK defined benefit pension
scheme to reduce the pension deficit. Other items include the
impact on net debt of the accounting revaluation of the 2012
Bonds, and of net funds held in foreign currencies, as well as
capital contributions made by the joint venture partner in Turkey.
On 12 May 2010 the Group signed a new revolving credit facility
agreement (the New Facility) for £360 million. The New Facility
will come into effect by 15 August 2010 at which time it will
replace the Group’s existing £400 million Facility. The terms 
and covenants attaching to the New Facility are substantially 
the same as that for the £400 million Facility except that the
guarantee structure comprises UK and Irish companies only,
thereby aligning it more closely to the Group’s 2012 Bond. 
At the earliest, the New Facility will mature on 15 August 2012
and would be extended to 15 August 2013 in the event that the
Group raises additional finance of a minimum of £100 million by
November 2011. It is the Group’s intention that the proceeds
from any such financing would principally be used to refinance
the Group’s 2012 Bond. 
This new agreement gives the Group the appropriate level 
of committed financing for its working capital needs. It also
provides the Group with the flexibility of either a longer term on
the New Facility or to enter into a new or revised revolving credit
facility at a later date.
Underlying net finance costs
Underlying net finance costs were £(42.7) million (2008/09
(£26.9) million). The movement year on year was driven by 
the following key areas:
■ Increased borrowing costs subsequent to the refinancing 
of the Group’s revolving credit facility.
■ Higher net pension interest set at the beginning of the
financial year largely as a result of a higher discount rate
applied to liabilities, which is a non-cash item.
■ Net foreign exchange losses.
■ Partly offset by interest earned on overpayments of tax 
in prior periods.
Adjustments to underlying results
Underlying profit before tax is reported before net non-underlying
credits of £22.2 million. A further explanation of these items is
shown below:
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
1 May 2010 2 May 2009
£million £million
Profit/(loss) before tax 112.7 (123.6)
Add back non-underlying items:
Trading results from 
closed businesses 0.2 14.1
Other non-underlying items:
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles 4.6 4.9
Net restructuring charges:
Strategic reorganisation 5.6 59.1
Business impairments – 96.1 
Change in pension benefits (33.4) -
Other items – (1.9)
Financing items:
Net fair value 
remeasurements 0.8 7.4
Other non-underlying 
items – total (22.4) 165.6
Total net non-underlying 
charges to add back (22.2) 179.7
Underlying profit before tax 90.5 56.1
Performance Review ■ In May the Group closed the standalone stores of PC City 
in Sweden and Markantalo in Finland. Trading results from
closed businesses comprises the pre-tax losses from 
these operations.
■ Amortisation of acquired intangibles of £4.6 million predominantly
comprises brand names with the year on year change being
affected by currency movements.
■ Strategic re-organisation costs of £5.6 million relate to the UK
business transformation and primarily comprise accelerated
depreciation charges associated with the reformat of the
UK & Ireland store portfolio and onerous lease obligations
following re-organisation of the service infrastructure. 
■ The change in pension benefits of £33.4 million arises from
the curtailment of the defined benefit section of the UK
pension scheme whereby this section was closed to future
accrual on 30 April 2010. The amount represents the effect 
of active members’ future salary increases, included in the
valuation assumptions of the deficit, now being capped at
inflation as they are now being treated as deferred members
of the scheme.
■ The financing charge of £0.8 million relates to net fair value
remeasurement losses on revaluation of financial instruments
as required by IAS 32 and 39 and can be volatile, dependant
on market conditions existing at the balance sheet date. 
Property losses
Property losses increased to £18.8 million (2008/09 £18.1 million
loss), primarily due to provisions made relating to closure or refit
of stores as part of the Renewal and Transformation plan.
Dividends
The Board believes that DSGi’s existing financial resources
should be used to invest in the Renewal and Transformation
plan, which is showing encouraging signs of delivering changes
in DSGi’s performance.
The Revolving Credit Facility and Letter of Credit Facilities
prohibit payments of dividends to shareholders in respect of 
the 2009/10 financial year. The same agreements do allow the
Company, subject to certain conditions, to pay a dividend in
respect of the 2010/11 financial year and beyond, however, 
the progress of the Renewal and Transformation plan remains
the priority; the Board aims to resume dividend payments when
appropriate, consistent with a sustained recovery in DSGi’s
operational and financial performance.
Consolidated balance sheet
Consolidated net assets at 1 May 2010 increased to
£875.1 million from £584.9 million. The main movements were
as follows: £49.8 million generated from underlying post-tax
profits together with £7.5 million of post-tax net non-underlying
credits and which are set out in the consolidated income
statement on page 64. Net assets benefited by £291.3 million
from the Placing and Rights Issue as well as foreign exchange
movements of £45.3 million. These benefits were partially offset
by actuarial losses of £156.0 million on the defined benefit
section of the UK pension scheme, although these were limited
by the largely associated tax benefits of £44.2 million. All of
these latter items affected reserves directly. 
Tax
The Group’s tax rate on underlying profit before tax was 45%
(2008/09: 61%). The decrease in the tax rate reflects a reduced
proportion of loss making businesses where tax benefits are not
fully recognised. 
Pensions
At 1 May 2010, the IAS 19 accounting deficit of the defined
benefit section of the UK pension scheme amounted to
£263.5 million (2 May 2009 £148.8 million). The assumptions
used for determining the accounting valuation use a consistent
basis to that adopted in prior periods. Although the assets of the
scheme have recovered considerably year on year, the overall
deficit has still increased substantially due to a significant increase
in the liabilities. This is due to an increase in the assumption for
long term inflation (which affects final salary on retirement)
coupled with a significant decrease in the discount rate applied 
to the liabilities which reflects yields on corporate bonds. 
Over recent years, the Group has implemented a number of
changes to pension arrangements in order to address the deficit
over the longer term. Since 1 September 2002, the defined
benefit section of the UK pension scheme has been closed to
new entrants and on 30 April 2010 was closed to future accrual
with automatic entry into the defined contribution section being
offered to those active members of the defined benefit section.
The effect of this change is to remove the future volatility
associated with adding further accrual for active employees 
as well as a more immediate benefit of £33.4 million to the
valuation of the liabilities which has been treated as a non-
underlying item as described further above. 
The actuarial deficit of £61.0 million (measured as at 5 April
2007) is being addressed by special cash contributions of
£12 million per annum which are payable in two equal tranches
of £6 million by June and December each year until December
2012. A further actuarial valuation as at 5 April 2010 is currently
underway, however, its results will not be known until early in the
2011/12 financial year.
34 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Performance Review
Group Financial Summary continued Business Overview Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 35
DSGi takes its responsibilities to its stakeholders seriously,
aiming to have policies and procedures in place which balance
the expectations of our customers, shareholders, employees
and the wider community with our own competitive objectives.
Set out in this review is a description of how we assess and 
act upon social, environmental and ethical issues relevant to 
our business together with details of how we measure our
performance in this area and examples of some of the actions
we have taken during the period under review. Our goal is to
achieve continuous improvement over time.
Our approach to Corporate Responsibility
The Group has appointed a Corporate Responsibility Committee
(CR Committee) which, in consultation with the Board, sets the
direction for the Group’s CR efforts and initiatives, monitors
action plans to realise opportunities and mitigate risks identified
and tracks progress on actions through an agreed set of key
performance indicators (KPIs). 
Throughout the period under review the Committee has reviewed
and maintained a matrix of opportunities and risks (the Risk
Matrix) arising from the Group’s operations, which has been
reviewed and approved by the Board. The aim of the Risk
Matrix is to ensure that CR focus is applied to the most
appropriate matters, taking into consideration the potential
operational and value impact. 
How we deliver
Governance of CR matters
The Group Finance Director, Nicholas Cadbury, is the executive
director with responsibility for CR matters. The CR Committee,
which is chaired by the Company Secretary and General
Counsel, also comprises other senior executives who have
responsibility for risk management, logistics, supply chain, 
UK operations, Group communications, human resources,
marketing and property. 
The Board considers CR matters, including relevant risks and
opportunities, at least annually. Minutes of meetings of the CR
Committee are circulated to the Board and Executive Committee,
so they can keep up to date with the action being taken in this
area and any issues which arise. 
The CR Committee met four times during the period under
review and a summary of key matters discussed is listed below:
■ ongoing evaluation of the Group’s risks and opportunities and
identification of areas where the CR Committee needs to
enhance reporting or control mechanisms already in place;
■ assessing the reporting structures in place and determining
changes to be implemented when gathering information in
respect of the KPIs;
■ reviewing the Group Health and Safety Policy; and
■ reviewing the impact of the Carbon Reduction Commitment
upon the UK business and the internal reporting mechanisms
to ensure compliance.
Risk management
During 2008/09 the CR Committee carried out a review of the
risks and opportunities for the Group on CR matters, which was
subsequently approved by the Board. The aim of the review was
to ensure our CR focus is on the most appropriate matters to the
evolving business. The review considered both short and long
term risks and opportunities and their potential operational and
value impact on the business. During 2009/10 the Committee
reviewed the risks identified in the light of the changing economic
and business landscape and undertook this review with
reference to new and prospective legislation giving consideration
as to when it comes into force. The review confirmed that the
agreed set of priorities developed in 2008/09 continued to be
appropriate, with additions to reflect the changes over time.
These priorities are: 
■ to add to and promote the customer proposition in relation 
to product reuse and recycling;
■ to reduce our impact on the environment and to raise revenue
and reduce costs through improved waste recycling;
■ to improve operational energy efficiency and forward planning;
■ to engage colleagues through the provision of rewarding
workplace environments and careers, whilst assisting in the
ongoing improvement of customer service levels;
■ to provide a safe and healthy environment for customers,
colleagues and visitors to our stores and other locations;
■ the provision of safe and reliable own-brand products,
achieved as a result of our expert technical knowledge, 
with products sourced from manufacturers who are audited
against our ethical requirements; and
■ an appropriate community giving policy, which complements
our interaction with the communities in which we work. 
A member of the CR Committee has been identified as
accountable for each of the priorities together with individuals
outside of the CR Committee who have responsibility for the
relevant area.
Our customers
Our primary aim as a business is to ensure that our customers
are at the heart of everything we do. We must deliver for our
customers an unbeatable combination of value, choice and
service. As a business we have developed a plan for the Group
which covers all aspects of our relationship with our customers
from the point at which they are thinking about choosing a
product to a lifelong service and technical support offer (the
Customer Plan). The Customer Plan is discussed in more detail
in the Chief Executive’s Statement on pages 16 to 19.
Corporate Responsibility Review
Directors’ Report:
Performance Review
Performance Review Customer satisfaction
Monitoring customer satisfaction is not just about ensuring 
that the customer receives excellent service. We use customer
feedback to drive our range selection and merchandising, store
layout and navigation, point of sale material, in store and after
sales services and the quality of goods available. During the
period under review a specific customer research team has
been established with the sole remit of capturing customer
insight. This insight is used to drive customer focused business
decisions and to make our plans for the store operations,
category, marketing, pricing and training teams.
We currently assess the level of customer satisfaction we deliver
in a number of ways: 
■ mystery shopping evaluates our performance around our
FIVES training programme in the UK;
■ internationally store exit surveys capture customer satisfaction
with our in-store experience; and
■ a new online programme is measuring customer experience
across all our online brands.
The mystery shop and exit interviews are designed to focus 
our stores on delivering a great ‘shopping trip experience’.
FIVES training is designed to empower colleagues to understand
a customer’s needs better and to deliver great service. It
encourages our colleagues and gives them confidence when
dealing with customers. During the period under review each
store’s performance on the mystery shopping programme has
been linked to that store’s reward and recognition, so that
individual colleagues understand the importance of giving 
our customers great service.
At each CR Committee meeting the Committee reviews the UK
data concerning customer satisfaction by service and by brand,
and this information is also reviewed by the Board. This data
has been collated since the beginning of 2009 and comparative
trend data is not available. The Committee continues to monitor
this KPI and will provide data externally over time.
Ethical sourcing
The Group is both a customer and a supplier. The Group seeks
to ensure that the high quality, choice and service that we
deliver to our customers are reciprocated by our suppliers. 
The Committee has adopted an ethical sourcing policy based
upon the Social Accountability 8000 criteria which applies to
suppliers of product which will be sold under one of the Group’s
own brands. In order to ensure compliance with our policy we
audit all new factories and reassess existing factories which
supply own brand product at least every two years. During the
year under review the criteria used to determine compliance
with our policy have been reviewed, changed and made more
rigorous. Due to the change in criteria, the comparative data
has been restated. With a wider supplier base we’ve
significantly increased the number of audits carried out.
We now rate suppliers based upon a Green Amber Red status.
Green status indicates that a supplier meets or exceeds the
standards expected by the policy. Where a supplier obtains an
Amber indicator not all of the minimum standards have been
met and a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) is agreed and issued.
This is followed up with an audit to address the issues raised,
which is carried out within six months of issuing the CAP . 
A factory with a Red indicator must provide a satisfactory CAP
within 30 days. A new supplier wishing to join the Group’s
supplier base will provisionally be awarded a Red indicator until
an audit is completed. If the supplier fails to provide the CAP 
it will be considered as a failure to meet our Policy and the
supplier will not be approved or will be de-listed as appropriate.
A full copy of our Ethical Sourcing policy is available on our
corporate website.
Performance on ethical supply chain audits
2009/10 2008/09* 2007/08*
Green (meets requirements) 6 14 15
Amber (minor improvements required) 148 73 47
Red (major corrective action required) 51 26 56
Total factories audited 205 113 118
Delisted / Not approved 39 48
*
2007/08 and 2008/09 have been restated to 2009/10 standards.
Our colleagues
Our 39,000 employees are our greatest asset and are a key
enabler of delivering the Customer Plan. We are committed to
high standards of employment practice and to providing equality
of opportunity, training and development and a safe workplace,
in addition to developing initiatives which encourage innovation.
We aim to reward individuals fairly and to ensure that all our
colleagues are incentivised in an appropriate way. 
Training and development
FIVES, our bespoke customer training plan, has continued to
develop. All our UK colleagues have received initial FIVES training
in previous years. This year over 7,800 UK colleagues have
attended a FIVES course. We have introduced FIVES to our UK
Contact Centres and all store managers have been refreshed on
FIVES to ensure our continued commitment to improve customer
service is maintained. In addition, the Group operates a wide
range of training solutions designed to ensure our colleagues
possess the latest product knowledge and are able to match the
benefits of products to the needs of our customers. We provide
specialist workshops hosted by our key partner manufacturers
and workshops delivered by our own product trainers to ensure
product learning is as up to date as possible. The new group
learning system ‘The Edge’ has also been launched in the UK
giving complete online training plans to all colleagues providing
lifelong learning in any role. ‘The Edge’ provides all store
managers with a complete view of the capability of their store 
to ensure the correct levels of customer experience.
36 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Performance Review
Corporate Responsibility Review continued Business Overview Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 37
We regularly assess our colleagues’ performance across the
Group through a balanced scorecard review. This bi-annual
review is based around our key principles and the individual’s
potential, to enable DSGi to provide talented individuals with
structured and rewarding career frameworks. The review helps
facilitate succession planning within business units, cascading
up to identify the business leaders of tomorrow within the Group.
Human resources policies
The Group has a comprehensive set of human resources policies,
which cover matters such as reward, health and well-being,
promotion, development and general working policies. The aim
of these policies is to set out our responsibilities and obligations
to our colleagues whilst demonstrating our commitment to be
an employer of choice. These policies, given the location of our
stores and subsequently colleagues, are normally communicated
across the Group via our intranet site. The policies are reviewed
regularly for compliance with current regulation and legislation.
Diversity
We value our colleagues and their right to be treated with
respect. We are committed to treating our colleagues equally
and fairly and we actively pursue a diversity policy. The UK &
Ireland’s policy on Equal Opportunities states that no employee
should suffer discrimination in respect of disability, gender, sexual
orientation, age, religious belief, race, colour, nationality, marital
status or any other reason. This policy applies to the recruitment,
training and career development of all colleagues. The policy is
communicated to all colleagues via the HR intranet site and is
reviewed regularly to ensure its effectiveness. Additionally, the
Group keeps records of the ethnic origins of new and existing
employees and recruitment and promotion decisions.
Staff diversity: age, gender and ethnicity of employees 
2009/10 2008/09 2007/08
Female 33% 33% 33%
Male 67% 67% 67%
Full time 67% 52% 57%
Part time 33% 48% 43%
Ethnic minority / non-national 27%
(1)
10% 17%
Aged over 50 7% 6% 8%
Average number of employees
(2)
38,746 38,169 40,730
(1) Data for those countries within the Group that are either required by law or voluntarily
record this information.
(2) Excluding employees related to discontinued operations.
Health and Safety
Taking all reasonably practicable steps to ensure the health,
safety and welfare of all customers, colleagues, visitors and
members of the public who are or may be affected by our
activities is very important to us. As a demonstration of this, 
a member of the Board has overall responsibility for Health 
and Safety and reports at least annually to the Board on 
the Group’s compliance with Health and Safety policies. 
The fundamentals to enable good compliance are already in
place. For example, the Group has a Health and Safety policy
across all of its operations which meets at least the minimum
legal requirements in the countries in which it operates and
emphasises the principles of good safety management. This 
is being augmented through a strategy to standardise Health
and Safety good practice across the Group, within a centrally
developed Safety Management Framework. For example, in 
the UK & Ireland, a fully functional safety management system 
is in operation. Risk assessments and regular Health and Safety
audits are carried out in the stores, warehouses and offices 
and each location has a nominated individual responsible for
Health and Safety.
Each jurisdiction has a matrix of Group Health and Safety
Standards and related KPIs within which the Group fulfils its
obligations and assists our colleagues in maintaining a healthy
and safe workplace and shopping environment. 
One of the key measures of the success of our Health and
Safety management is the rate of injuries and accidents to our
customers and our colleagues. Through data and root cause
analysis, focused risk assessment and proactive liaison with
design and merchandising functions to design out hazards at
source, we have achieved a significant reduction in accidents
over the past three financial years. This has been particularly
evident in our Renewal and Transformation stores, which makes
the customer journey better and the working environment for
our colleagues safer.
The key measures are reported each quarter to the CR
Committee, together with updates on ongoing initiatives and 
the actions proposed for the following quarter. A number of
initiatives are scheduled for 2010/11 which cover areas such 
as training, design, merchandising, audit and awareness.
Health and Safety: employee accidents and injuries
2009/10 2008/09 2007/08
Number of accidents 
or injuries reported 945 1,298 1,556
Rate of accidents 
per 1,000 employees 40.7 48.9 55.2
Data for the UK & Ireland.
Communication
DSGi places considerable value on internal communications in
order to create a universal understanding of the Group’s aims
and agenda. During the period under review the Group also
developed the Customer Plan, which focused the priorities for
2009/10 and which is now being implemented across the UK.
Regular communications in the form of blogs across the Group
cover matters which may affect our colleagues, including the
development and performance of the business.
Performance Review The Chief Executive regularly visits stores both in the UK and
overseas and discusses strategy with local management. The
Group also encourages local initiatives for communicating within
individual businesses, including updates from business directors
as well as daily store meetings. 
In the Nordics, the senior management team, including the
Managing Director, lead and participate in training sessions for
the store teams. This ensures that the management team have
an opportunity to discuss strategy and customer focus with 
the colleagues in-store and receive in return an insight into how
that strategy is being received by the customer.
Our stores and operations
Environment
As a business we are seeking to minimise the environmental
impact and carbon footprint associated with our operations 
and stores. To do this we look at initiatives to improve
■ the energy efficiency of the products we sell; 
■ our energy and transport efficiency; 
■ the reduction of both our and our customers’ waste; and
■ the recycling of products and packaging where possible. 
Products
One of the principal ways in which the EU and the UK intend 
to meet their targets for the reduction of CO
2
emissions is by
increasing energy efficiency across all sectors, including that 
of products and appliances. The aim is to improve the
environmental performance of products throughout their life-
cycle by systematic integration of environmental aspects at an
early stage in the product design. The Energy Using Products
Regulations are being phased in for a number of product
categories over a number of years. We have been in touch 
with all of our suppliers regarding their compliance with these
regulations to ensure the products that we stock meet the
requirements of the legislation. We also work hard to ensure 
our own brand products comply with applicable legislation.
In the UK, we have voluntarily joined a new initiative launched 
by the Energy Saving Trust and Department for Environment,
Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) to remove the least energy
efficient TVs from our stock, and educate shoppers about the
benefit of buying energy efficient products. This commitment
means that we will endeavour to stock TVs which meet new
minimum efficiency standards at least one year in advance 
of the EU introducing the Energy Using Products Regulations
which will apply to all retailers from July 2012. 
Energy and transport efficiency
Reviewing the way in which we operate our stores and transport
our products not only lowers our carbon emissions but also
reduces our cost base. During the period under review the
Company implemented a cross business working group to
ensure that the regulatory requirements of the CRC Energy
Efficiency Scheme are identified, understood and proactively
managed in the UK. We are currently collecting data in
compliance with the regulations and have made considerable
progress in our preparations to report externally next year on
this matter. The Group views this as a significant opportunity to
reduce both the emissions of our buildings and also our energy
costs. We hope to develop the lessons learnt from compliance
with the regulations and implement these across the Group. 
The information relating to carbon emissions from buildings has
only been collated since the beginning of 2009 and as a result
comparative data is not available. The CR Committee will
continue to monitor this KPI during the coming year and 
would aim to provide data externally over time.
The Group has an ongoing programme to look at ways of
reducing the environmental impact and associated cost of
delivering our products to our customers. During the period
under review the Group logistics team have reviewed the cubic
metre delivery load of each delivery and determined ways to
optimise the space used, thereby increasing the volume of
product transported in each vehicle. This has led to fewer
deliveries being required to deliver the same or greater volume
of product to our customers. This methodology has been
applied to the entire Group supply chain starting from the
container ships used to bring the product to country, the trains
used to deliver the product to distribution centre and the lorries
used to transport the product to store or customer. 
The Group has also increased the number of rail deliveries 
used in moving our goods from port to distribution centre and
has utilised over 1,200 train movements in the UK, saving
approximately £230,000 had the same volume of product been
moved by road. During the period under review we moved 670
containers by rail in Sweden which enabled us to reduce our
road mileage by 150,000 miles, saving 190 tonnes in CO
2
.
The Group also utilises ‘reverse logistics’ to transport electrical
products for recycling. This aims to efficiently use trucks
returning to the warehouse to transport these products in
vehicles that would otherwise be empty.
In the UK the Committee has reviewed the KPI data reported 
in prior years relating to carbon emissions from the delivery 
fleet and has widened the remit to include all road usage. For
2009/10 our UK delivery fleet has been split into two areas. This
consists of our home delivery fleet and our retail delivery fleet.
The CO
2
emissions for the home delivery fleet in 2009/10 were
8,250 tonnes and for the retail delivery fleet 15,750 tonnes. 
38 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Directors’ Report:
Performance Review
Corporate Responsibility Review continued Business Overview Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 39
Fleet carbon emissions
2009/10 2008/09* 2007/08*
Tonnes of CO
2
produced
UK home delivery fleet 8,250 13,844 17,364
UK retail fleet 15,750 13,706 18,008
Nordics delivery fleet 8,942 ––
Total 32,942 27,550 35,372
*
Data for 2007/08 and 2008/09 not available for Nordics region.
Waste recycled
Reducing the impact of packaging waste and increasing 
the volume of material recycled is a key opportunity for the
business as well as good for the environment and something
our customers appreciate and are responding to. Our ongoing
commitment to the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment
Directive (WEEE) has led to the Group developing its various
routes for the collection of end of life electrical goods. We
continue to offer in the UK the only free in-store and home
collection recycling service as part of our standard customer
service. This scheme, together with our cartridge recycling
process, is operated within our existing carbon footprint.
During the period under review the Waste Batteries and
Accumulators Regulations were introduced to the UK. In
response to this, all DSGi UK stores have battery collection
points within which our customers can place spent batteries 
for recycling. Our battery recycling target in the first year is
30 tonnes. The Committee will continue to monitor this data. 
Waste recycled 
2009/10 2008/09 2007/08
Waste recycled as a 
percentage of total waste:
(1)
UK 67% 53% 40%
Nordics
(2)
91% ––
(1) Not including WEEE.
(2) Data for Denmark, Sweden and Norway only. Data for 2007/08 and 2008/09 not
available for Nordics region.
Our community
The successful Switched on Communities programme put 
in place by the DSGi Foundation, a charitable trust which
administers donations from the Company for charitable
activities, came to the end of its three year programme in 2009,
during which time £1.5 million was donated to the three
supported charities.
Given the difficult economic environment experienced across
Europe the charitable activities in the UK were refocused to
reflect likely lower levels of fundraising activity. The new
programme continues the Switched on Communities theme 
of improving access to technology for disadvantaged and
disabled children, while encouraging colleagues to engage 
with their local communities by supporting local charities. 
While colleagues can support a charity of their choice, the
Group has selected two national charities that colleagues can
choose to support (Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation),
which are working locally with colleagues to support their
fundraising efforts.
Under the new programme our colleagues have participated 
in many local and national activities, including raising money 
for the two selected charities, the DEC Haiti appeal, operating
telephones for Comic Relief and collecting T-shirts as part of 
the Blue Peter ‘Send a Smile’ campaign, where we collected
over 30,000 T-shirts and saved Operation Smile over £90,000.
Colleagues are also invited to apply for a grant from the DSGi
Foundation to support their fundraising activities.
Given the continued difficult economic environment, fundraising
activity by colleagues has been lower than in previous years
which enabled the DSGi Foundation to satisfy grants from its
cash reserves rather than calling on the Group to make a cash
contribution for the reported financial year. 
In the Nordics the Elkjøp Group has raised a total of
NOK 1.25 million in support of the Norwegian Red Cross 
for their Water for Life campaign and for their Haiti appeal. 
This was through a combination of fundraising activities by
colleagues and donations by the Elkjøp Group.
Looking ahead to 2010/11, the Group plans to continue the
above programme of engaging with local communities around its
stores and to support activities that improve access to technology. 
Charitable donations made by the Foundation
Amount given
2009/10 £12,000
2008/09 £600,000
2007/08 £1,043,000
2006/07 £849,000
KPIs
The Group’s largest business is in the UK & Ireland representing
47% of Group sales in 2009/10; and the Group commenced
collecting all of the KPIs in respect of the UK business in
2008/09. In 2009/10 we commenced collecting data for other
countries where available. Our data for 2009/10 includes the
Nordics, which together with the UK & Ireland, represents 72%
of Group sales.
Nicholas Cadbury
Executive Director with responsibility for CR
Performance Review 40 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
1 John Allan
Chairman ■▲
John Allan (61) joined the Board on 23 June 2009 and was appointed
Chairman on 2 September 2009. He is a non-executive director of National
Grid plc and 3i Group plc. He was previously CFO of Deutsche Post,
having been appointed to the Management Board following its acquisition
of Exel plc in December 2005 where he had been Chief Executive since
September 1994. He started his career in marketing, at Lever Brothers,
moving to Bristol-Myers Company Ltd and then Fine Fare Ltd. He joined
BET plc in 1985 and was appointed to the board in 1987. He is a member
of the University of Edinburgh Campaign Board. He was previously
Chairman of Samsonite Corporation and a non-executive director of PHS
Group plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc and Connell plc and a member of 
the Supervisory Boards of both Lufthansa AG and Deutsche Postbank. 
2 John Browett
Chief Executive
John Browett (46) joined the Group as Chief Executive in December 2007.
He is also a non-executive director of easyJet PLC. He was formerly
Operations Development Director at Tesco plc, responsible for the design
and improvement of the Tesco operating model. Prior to this, he was 
CEO of Tesco.com, Group Strategy Director of Tesco plc and held a senior
position at Boston Consulting Group, where he worked with a variety of
clients specialising in consumer goods and retail. A graduate of Cambridge
University, he has an MBA from the Wharton Business School.
3 Nicholas Cadbury
Group Finance Director
Nicholas Cadbury (44) was appointed to the Board in July 2008 and took
over the role of Group Finance Director in August 2008. He joined the
Group in 1993 and has held various roles including Finance Director and
Commercial Director of PC World, Managing Director of Dixons Tax Free,
and, most recently, International Finance Director. He qualified as a
chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse.
4 Andrew Lynch FCA
Non-Executive Director ●■▲◆
Andrew Lynch (53) joined the Board in May 2003. He is Chairman of the
Audit Committee and the Board’s designated Senior Independent Director.
He is Chief Executive Officer of SSP , the travel concessions catering
company formerly part of Compass Group PLC. He was a director of
Compass Group from 1997 to 2005 where he held the position of Group
Finance Director from 1997 to 2003 and Chief Executive Officer of SSP
from 2003. His earlier career included corporate finance and financial
management positions with Prudential Corporation plc and KPMG. He is 
a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
5 Rita Clifton
Non-Executive Director ●■▲◆
Rita Clifton (52) joined the Board in September 2003. She is Chairman of
Interbrand, non-executive Chairman of Populus Ltd, the opinion pollster to
The Times, and a non-executive director of Bupa. She was a non-executive
director of Emap plc prior to its sale in 2008 and had previously spent 18
years in the advertising industry, including positions with Saatchi & Saatchi
and J Walter Thompson. She has been a member of the UK Government’s
Sustainable Development Commission, is a Trustee of WWF (World Wide
Fund for Nature) and is on the Assurance and Advisory board for BP’s
carbon offset programme ‘targetneutral’. She is also a Visiting Professor 
at Henley Management College and has recently been appointed
President of the Market Research Society.
6 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen
Non-Executive Director ●■▲◆
Utho Creusen (54) was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2010. He
has extensive international retail experience having spent the early part of
his career at OBI AG (a leading European DIY retailer) and he was Chief
Human Resources Director of Media-Saturn Holding GmbH (part of the
Metro AG Group) from 2002 – 2008. He is currently a non-executive
director of M.Video (a leading Russian consumer electronics retailer). 
He also holds a number of advisory and academic positions.
7 Tim How
Non-Executive Director ●■▲◆
Tim How (59) was appointed to the Board on 8 September 2009 and was
appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 31 March 2010.
He is a non-executive director of Henderson Group plc, Framlington AIM
VCT PLC and Framlington AIM VCT 2 PLC. He was Chief Executive of
Majestic Wine plc from 1989 to 2008, having initially led the management
buy-out of the business in 1989 and subsequently leading the flotation 
of the business on the London Stock Exchange Alternative Investment
Market (‘AIM’) in 1996. He was previously Managing Director of Bejam
Group plc. He holds an MA from Cambridge University and a Masters
Degree in Business Studies from London Business School.
● Member of the Audit
Committee
▲ Member of the Nominations
Committee
■ Member of the Remuneration
Committee
◆ Independent non-executive
director
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors
123
567
4 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 41
The Executive Committee is an international cross functional executive
team responsible for the implementation of strategy and the day to day
management of the Group’s business.
Steve Ager 
Commercial Director
Steve Ager (50) joined the Group in October 2008 from Tesco, where 
he held a number of commercial and buying roles both in the UK and
globally. While at Tesco, he set up operations in Asia and Central Europe;
he was responsible for the creation of the Tesco Express format and he
masterminded the Tesco Finest range.
Katie Bickerstaffe
Group People, Marketing and Property Director
Katie Bickerstaffe (43) joined DSGi as Group People, Marketing and
Property Director in June 2008. She was previously Managing Director of
Kwik Save, and Group Retail Director and Group HR Director at Somerfield.
Her earlier career included roles at Dyson, PepsiCo and Unilever.
Ronny Blomseth
Managing Director – Nordics
Ronny Blomseth (41) was appointed as Nordics Managing Director in
January 2009. He has worked for Elkjøp for 20 years, having previously
held positions as Managing Director and Sales Manager in Elkjøp Norway
and various positions in different stores for eight years. Prior to this, 
he completed a full time Economics degree at the Norwegian School 
of Management.
John Browett 
Chief Executive
See page 40
Nicholas Cadbury 
Group Finance Director
See page 40
Helen Grantham
Company Secretary & General Counsel
Helen Grantham (45) is the Group’s Company Secretary and General
Counsel. She joined the Group in 2007 from William Hill plc, where she
was Company Secretary and General Counsel. She has also served 
as Company Secretary at Chubb plc and Hepworth plc. Earlier in her
career she was an in-house lawyer at Boots and qualified as a solicitor
with Hammonds.
Sebastian James
Group Operations Director 
Sebastian James (43) was appointed as Group Operations Director leading
both the Retail and Services teams in January 2010, having previously
been Services Director until that date. As Group Development Director he
managed the Currys Transformation Programme. Prior to working at the
Group he was Chief Executive of Synergy Insurance Services Limited, a
private equity backed insurance company. He has wide retail experience 
as Strategy Director responsible for developing and implementing the
turnaround strategy at Mothercare plc. He started his career at The Boston
Consulting Group having completed an MBA at INSEAD.
Mario Maiocchi
Managing Director – Southern Europe
Mario Maiocchi (54) was appointed as Managing Director South Europe 
on 14 March 2010 having joined the Group in February 2008 as Managing
Director of UniEuro. Prior to joining the Group, he held the position of
President and General Manager of Metro Italia, CFO of Metro France and
MD of EMI Financial Services. He holds a BA from Bocconi University in
Milan and has attended several programmes at Harvard University, MIT
and INSEAD. He is also a visiting Professor in ‘Retail Marketing and Retail
Brands Strategy’ at Parma University.
Andrew Milliken
Transformation Director 
Andrew Milliken (39) was appointed Transformation Director in January
2009. He joined the Group in 2002 as Corporate Development Director,
moving to Managing Director of Airport Retail in 2004. He spent his early
career with The Boston Consulting Group and BBC Worldwide, and holds
an MBA from INSEAD.
Steve Rosenblum
Président – PIXmania
Steve Rosenblum (36) joined the Executive Committee in January 2007.
He has been Président of PIXmania since buying out the business with 
his brother and investment fund support in 2001. PIXmania was acquired
by the Group in 2006. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Commerce from
Concordia University, Montreal, Canada.
Jean-Emile Rosenblum 
Vice Président – PIXmania
Jean-Emile Rosenblum (32) has been Vice Président of PIXmania since
buying out the business with his brother and investment fund support 
in 2001. PIXmania was acquired by the Group in 2006. He holds a
Bachelor’s degree in Commerce from ISG, Paris.
Executive Committee 42 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Pages 1 to 62, together with any sections of this Annual Report and Accounts which have been incorporated by reference,
comprise the Directors’ Report which has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable
company law in England and Wales. The liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations
and restrictions provided by such law. The Performance Review, which can be found on pages 24 to 39, is based on many of 
the principles contained in the best practice statement ‘Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review’ issued by the
Accounting Standards Board (ASB). Reference to information that fulfils the business review requirements of Section 417 of 
the Companies Act 2006 together with other disclosures required in the Directors’ Report are set out below:
Section of Directors’ Report Page
Appointment and retirement of directors Statutory Information 43
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Statutory Information 44
Business performance Performance Review 24-34
Charitable donations Corporate Responsibility Review 39, 44
Chairman’s Statement Business Overview 15
Chief Executive’s Statement Business Overview 16-19
Conflicts of interest Statutory Information 43
Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance Report 45
Directors Board of Directors and Statutory Information 40, 43
Directors’ Responsibilities Directors’ Responsibilities 62
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance Statutory Information 43
Dividends Statutory Information 44
Employees (including diversity and equal opportunities) Corporate Responsibility Review 36-37
Environmental matters Corporate Responsibility Review 38-39
Factors likely to affect future performance Chief Executive’s Statement – Outlook 19
Financial position at end of the year Performance Review 32-34
Going concern Statutory Information 44
Key Performance Indicators Strategic Summary 21
Objectives and strategy of the Group Chief Executive’s Statement 16-19
Payment of suppliers Statutory Information 44
Political donations Statutory Information 44
Principal activities Strategic Summary 20
Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic Summary 22-23
Share capital structure Statutory Information 43
Social and community issues Corporate Responsibility Review 39
Substantial share interests Statutory Information 43
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Statutory Information Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 43
Share capital
Details of the Company’s share capital and changes to the
issued share capital during the period, including share options
exercised, are given in note 23(a) to the financial statements, 
on page 104.
Substantial share interests
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules,
DTR5, we have received notification as at 24 June 2010 of the
following interests in voting rights of 3% or more in the issued
share capital of the Company:
Directors
The names of the directors in office at the date of this report,
their biographical details and other information, are shown on
page 40. All of the directors served throughout the period,
except for John Allan, Tim How and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 
who were appointed on 23 June 2009, 8 September 2009 and
1 February 2010, respectively. John Whybrow served from the
beginning of the period until his resignation from the Board on
31 March 2010. Sir John Collins and Count Emmanuel d’André
served from the beginning of the period until their resignations
on 2 September 2009.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Andrew Lynch,
Tim How and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen would be the directors
required to retire at the 2010 AGM. It has, however, been agreed
that in line with best practice all directors will retire at this meeting
and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment. The
Remuneration Committee Report on pages 56 and 57 provides
details of applicable service agreements for executive directors
and terms of appointment for non-executive directors. The
Board is satisfied that each respective director is qualified 
for reappointment by virtue of their skills, experience and
contributions to the Board.
Percentage of issued
share capital at
24 June 2010
Schroders Plc 13.29%
Standard Life Investments Ltd 13.06%
Legal & General Group Plc 10.27%
UBS Global Asset Management 6.05%
Letko, Brosseau & Associates Inc. 5.73%
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 4.95%
Capital Research & Management Company 4.92%
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited 3.53%
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company
are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 57, 59 and 60.
No director had any beneficial interests in the shares of any
subsidiary undertaking or in any contract or arrangement (apart
from contracts of service) to which the Company or any subsidiary
was a party during or at the end of the financial period.
All of the Company’s share plans contain provisions relating 
to a change of control. Outstanding awards and options 
would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of
control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions
where applicable.
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance
Pursuant to Article 159 of the Articles of Association, the
directors, secretary and other officers of the Company are entitled
to be indemnified by the Company out of its own funds against
liabilities arising from the conduct of the Group’s business to the
extent permitted by law. The Group has purchased appropriate
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance cover which in general
terms indemnifies individual directors’ and officers’ personal
legal liability and costs for claims arising out of actions taken 
in connection with the Group’s business.
Conflicts of interest
The Articles of Association were amended at the 2008 AGM
with effect from 1 October 2008 to permit the Board to consider
and, if appropriate, to authorise situations where a director has
an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the
interests of the Company.
The Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare
conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those directors
who have no interest in the matter being considered. In deciding
whether to authorise a conflict and potential conflict, those
directors deciding the matter are requested to act in the way
they consider would be most likely to promote the success 
of the Company and may impose limits and conditions when
giving authorisation.
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee
to review on an annual basis the conflicts previously authorised
by the Board and to consider whether any authority provided
should remain in place, whether any terms and conditions
should be imposed or amended and whether such authority
should be revoked and to make such recommendations to 
the Board accordingly.
Corporate Governance 44 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Corporate activity
On 19 May 2009 the Group disposed of its operations in Hungary
(Electro World Magyarorzág Kereskedelmi És Szolgáltato Kft) 
to EW Electro Retail Limited (EWH) for consideration of €1. 
The sale saw the transfer of all nine stores, operations and
employees to EWH.
On 1 September 2009 the Group disposed of its operations 
in Poland (Electro World Polska sp. zo.o.) to IDMSA Brokerage
House (Dom Maklerski IDM S.A.) working with Mix Electronics
S.A., for a consideration of €1. The sale saw the transfer of all
eight stores, operations and employees.
Dividends
No dividend was paid in respect of the 52 weeks ended 
2 May 2009.
No dividend will be paid in respect of the 52 weeks ended
1 May 2010.
Going concern
In considering the going concern basis for preparing the financial
statements, the directors have considered the Company’s
objectives and strategy, risks to achieving its objectives and 
its review of business performance which are all set out in the
Directors’ Report and Business Review section of the Annual
Report and Accounts. The Group’s liquidity and funding
arrangements are described in notes 17 and 22(f) to the financial
statements as well as in the funding section of the performance
review and the directors consider that the Group has significant
covenant and liquidity headroom in its borrowing facilities for 
the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, after reviewing the Company’s expenditure
commitments, current financial projections and expected future
cash flows, together with the available cash resources and
undrawn committed borrowing facilities, the directors have
considered that adequate resources exist for the Company 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Charitable and political donations
During the period the Company, together with certain of its
subsidiaries, made donations of £136,000 (2008/09 £200,000)
for charitable purposes. Further information on charitable
activities is set out in the CR Review on page 39. 
During the year the Company made no payments (2008/09 £nil)
which constituted EU Political Expenditure. A resolution to
authorise the directors to incur EU Political Expenditure in the
coming year to an aggregate amount not exceeding £25,000
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Payment of suppliers
It is the Group’s policy to agree terms of payment with its
suppliers. Payments are made in accordance with these terms
provided that the supplier has complied with all the relevant
contractual obligations. Trade creditors at 1 May 2010 represent
49 days of annual purchases made during the period
(2 May 2009 50 days).
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors
Deloitte LLP are willing to continue in office as auditors to the
Company. Resolutions for their reappointment and to authorise
the directors to agree their remuneration will be proposed at 
the forthcoming AGM.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the
Companies Act 2006, each of the directors at the date of
approval of this report confirms that to their knowledge and
belief, and having made appropriate enquiries of other officers
of the Group:
■ so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information
of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
■ they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken 
as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are
aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on 8 September 2010 at Holiday Inn
London-Bloomsbury, Coram Street, Russell Square, London,
WC1N 1HT at 10.00am. Notice of the meeting, together with 
full details and an explanation of the business to be considered,
is given in a separate letter accompanying this report.
By Order of the Board
Helen Grantham
Company Secretary
24 June 2010
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Statutory Information continued Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 45
The Board recognises the importance of good corporate
governance and maintains high standards of corporate
governance for which the directors are collectively accountable 
to shareholders. Sound governance is central to achieving the
directors’ prime objective of maximising shareholder value and
comprises, principally, the processes by which the Group is
directed and managed, risks are identified and controlled and
effective accountability is assured. The directors consider that the
Company has throughout the period complied with the provisions
set out in Section 1 of the June 2008 Combined Code (the
‘Combined Code’). The following statement, together with the
Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 61, the Audit Committee
Report on pages 49 and 50 and the Nominations Committee
Report on page 51, explains how the Group has throughout 
the period applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code.
Board of Directors
Composition and performance
As at the date of this report, the Board comprises a non-
executive Chairman, who was considered to be independent
upon appointment, four non-executive directors considered 
by the Board to be independent and two executive directors.
In 2008/09, following Sir John Collins’ notification of his
intention to retire from the Board on 2 September 2009, Andrew
Lynch, the Senior Independent Director, led the search for an
additional director to assume the position of Chairman, having
considered the outgoing Chairman’s performance with the other
non-executive directors and having established an appropriate
role description. During the year, John Allan was appointed as 
a non-executive director and then, in succession to Sir John
Collins, became Chairman of the Board on 2 September 2009.
The Board, with the assistance of the Nominations Committee,
conducted an annual assessment of the Board, its committees
and individual director performance. This process was led by
the Chairman with the assistance of the Company Secretary
and involved:
■ the circulation of a questionnaire to each director;
■ individual meetings between the Company Secretary and
each director to provide feedback on the questionnaire and
any additional comments on performance;
■ a summary of comments (on an anonymous basis) being
circulated and discussed with the Chairman and then
circulated to the Board;
■ a meeting between the Chairman and each director to review
the responses and individual director performance; 
■ each committee considering a detailed questionnaire relating
to the relevant committees’ areas of responsibility and a
review of feedback, together with appropriate terms of
reference, at a committee meeting;
■ a review by the Nominations Committee of the Board’s size,
composition and structure, and the skills and experience of
the Board; and
■ feedback to the Board from the Board and committee
chairmen with recommendations regarding any action to
address issues identified.
The Senior Independent Director also discusses, on an individual
basis, the performance of the Chairman with each director and
provides feedback on these discussions to the Chairman.
The Board concluded that the balance of skills and experience
of the Board and its committees was appropriate for the
requirements of the Group. The recruitment of the additional
non-executive directors is detailed in the Nominations
Committee Report.
On appointment, each director receives a tailored induction
programme into the Group together with guidance and training
appropriate to their level of previous experience. The induction
programme is agreed at the outset between the relevant
director and the Company Secretary and involves both the
provision of information in writing relating to the Company, the
Board and its committees and relevant corporate governance
guidance and each director being given the opportunity to: 
■ meet with members of the Executive Committee and other
members of senior management;
■ visit the Group’s operations both in the UK and overseas,
including store visits and discussions with local colleagues;
■ meet with the Group’s auditors and other advisors; and
■ attend external seminars relevant to the retail industry and
corporate governance matters.
The Board met 13 times during the period, including nine
scheduled meetings and four ad hoc meetings convened to
deal with specific matters requiring Board consideration or
approval. Due to the ad hoc meetings being called at short
notice, not all the directors were available to attend these
meetings due to other commitments.
*
Tim How was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior commitment made
before his appointment.
The Board’s normal practice is to hold meetings both in the UK
Number of scheduled
meetings attended Scheduled meetings
Director during the period eligible to attend
Current directors
John Allan (Chairman) 8 8
John Browett 9 9
Nicholas Cadbury 9 9
Rita Clifton 9 9
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 2 2
Tim How 4* 5
Andrew Lynch 9 9
Former directors
Sir John Collins 4 4
Count Emmanuel d’André 4 4
John Whybrow 8 8
Corporate Governance Report
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance 46 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
and in Europe, enabling, in particular, the non-executive
directors to gain first-hand experience of markets in which the
Group operates and giving local management direct access 
to members of the Board. There were meetings of the non-
executive directors during the period without the executive
directors being present and meetings between the Senior
Independent Director and the other non-executive directors
without the Chairman being present.
The Articles of Association require one third of the Board not
otherwise subject to reappointment by shareholders to retire 
by rotation each year and ensure that over a three year period
each director is subject to reappointment by shareholders at 
a general meeting. For 2010 the Board has decided that each
director will retire and seek reappointment at the AGM on
8 September 2010. Whilst not required by the Combined Code,
the Board considers it best practice that directors are elected
each year.
Details of the directors retiring and seeking re-election at the
AGM are set out in the Statutory Information on page 43, with
detailed biographies of the Board members shown on page 40.
Information flows
The Chairman ensures that the Board has full and timely access
to all relevant information and holds occasional meetings with
the non-executive directors without the executive directors
being present to discuss, amongst other matters, corporate
strategy, performance and the performance of the executive
team. There is frequent contact between directors outside
formal meetings to progress the Group’s business and to
promote open communication and team working.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to meet members 
of senior management regularly, to undertake visits to all parts 
of the Group, particularly developing businesses, and to attend
external seminars on corporate governance matters. All
directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation
and changes in commercial and financial risks.
A corporate governance framework has been approved by the
Board which defines the role and responsibilities of the constituent
elements of the Group’s management structure. This enables the
Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the Group’s activities
so as to achieve its strategic objectives. The Board has a formal
schedule of matters reserved for Board approval, a copy of
which can be found on the corporate website.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes:
■ approval of the interim statement and Annual Report and
Accounts (including the review of critical accounting policies
and accounting judgements and an assessment of the
Company’s position and prospects);
■ approval of interim and final dividends;
■ the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors 
on the recommendation of the Audit Committee;
■ communication with shareholders, including approval of all
circulars, prospectuses and major public announcements;
■ changes relating to the Company’s capital structure and the
Memorandum and Articles of Association;
■ the appointment, removal and remuneration of non-executive
directors and the Company Secretary;
■ the terms of reference of Board committees, the Chairman
and the executive directors;
■ approval of the Group’s strategy and annual budget;
■ review of Group performance;
■ maintaining and monitoring the Group’s system of internal
control and risk management; and
■ approval of major capital expenditure or disposals, material
contracts, material acquisitions and divestments.
All directors have access to the services of the Company
Secretary and may take independent professional advice at 
the Company’s expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Board committees
The Board has established a number of committees to which it
has delegated specific responsibilities. Separate reports from the
Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, including
details of membership and terms of reference, are set out on
pages 49 to 61. The trading businesses are managed by
separate management committees and the Group has also
established an Executive Committee as detailed below.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the implementation
of strategy and the day to day management of the Group’s
business. Individuals from the Committee attend Board
meetings at the request of the Chairman to report on areas
within their executive responsibilities. Membership of the
Executive Committee and further information relating to the
Executive Committee members can be found on page 41.
All Board committees operate within written terms of reference
approved by the Board, which are available on request from the
Company Secretary. The Board receives and reviews minutes of
their meetings and those of the Executive Committee and the
Company Secretary is the secretary to the Executive Committee.
Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders
The Board attaches considerable importance to the
maintenance of constructive relationships with shareholders and
its other stakeholders. Relationships with suppliers, employees
and the community are further discussed in the CR Review 
on pages 35 to 39. Effective two way communication with
institutional investors and analysts is established through regular
presentations and meetings in the UK and overseas, usually 
by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group
Communications Director. The Chairman holds occasional
meetings with major shareholders to discuss matters of mutual
interest including corporate strategy and governance. Where
appropriate, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
communicates with major shareholders to canvas opinion 
when deciding remuneration policy. Matters arising from these
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report continued Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 47
presentations and meetings are communicated to the Board.
Presentations are conducted in accordance with the Financial
Services Authority’s Disclosure Rules on the dissemination of
inside information to ensure the protection of such information
that has not already been made available generally to the
Company’s shareholders.
The Board receives and reviews an investor relations report 
at each of its meetings. The Senior Independent Director is
available to discuss with shareholders any major issues that
cannot be resolved through normal channels and non-executive
directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with
major shareholders. The AGM provides an opportunity for 
the Board to communicate directly with shareholders and 
the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations
Committees are available at the meeting to answer questions
from shareholders. Notice of the AGM and related documents
are mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the
meeting with separate resolutions being proposed on each
substantially different issue. In addition to the interim report and
annual report and financial statements, shareholders can obtain
information about the Group from the corporate website.
Pension schemes
The Group operates a number of defined contribution and
defined benefit pension schemes. The principal scheme, which
operates in the UK, comprises a funded defined benefit section
and a defined contribution section. The defined benefit section
was closed to future accrual on 30 April 2010 with members 
of this section being offered membership of the defined
contribution section. A trust holds the assets of the scheme
separately from those of the Group and this trust is managed 
by a corporate trustee. There are six directors of the trustee
company: two have been nominated by the Group, two have
been selected from amongst the scheme membership and two
are independent directors. Asset management is delegated to 
a number of independent companies whose performance is
monitored by a specialist performance measurement service.
The scheme’s accounts are audited annually by Nexia Smith
and Williamson, who are not auditors to any Group companies.
Members of the scheme receive an annual statement of their
accrued benefits and a copy of the trustee’s annual report.
Further information about pensions is given in note 21 to the
financial statements.
Internal control
In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull working party
set out in ‘Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors 
on the Combined Code’, the Group has established and
maintained a process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the significant risks faced by the Group, for reviewing the
effectiveness of the system of internal control and for confirming
that action has been taken to remedy any significant failings or
weaknesses that have been identified. This process, which is
reviewed periodically by the Board, was in place throughout the
52 weeks ended 1 May 2010 and to the date of approval of the
financial statements.
Responsibility and accountability
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system 
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The 
Board delegates to executive management the day to day
responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks
facing the Group’s operations, and for implementing and
maintaining internal control systems that manage those risks 
in an efficient and effective manner, appropriate to their nature
and scale. Senior management is responsible and accountable
for internal control and risk management and for ensuring
compliance with the Group’s policies and procedures.
Inherent limitations and continuous improvement
In determining its policies on internal control, the Board has
regard to the materiality of the relevant risks, the likelihood of
losses occurring and the costs of control. The directors are
aware that the inherent limitations in any system of control
means that risk cannot be totally eliminated. It follows that the
Group’s system of internal control is designed to manage and
mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The
Group’s approach to managing and monitoring internal control
and risk assessment is reviewed regularly to identify ways in
which it can be improved and further embedded throughout 
the Group’s operations. Where significant weaknesses are
identified, these are investigated fully using appropriate internal
resources and, where deemed necessary, engaging external
expertise. Detailed plans are drawn up to remedy the
weaknesses and progress is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Control environment and control activities
In addition to the corporate governance structure described
above, the Group’s system of internal control and processes 
for managing risk comprise the following main elements: 
■ the Board and management committees meet regularly to
monitor progress against the targets set out in the Group’s
budget and strategic five year plan and to consider the 
re-forecasts of the Group’s expected financial period end
position. Financial and non-financial performance reports 
in varying levels of detail are produced daily, weekly and 
four-weekly to facilitate this review process;
■ the defined lines of authority established by the Board ensure
that significant decisions are taken at an appropriate level.
These include requirements for the approval and control of
both capital and operating expenditure, treasury operations
and cash management. The procedures in respect of
delegated authority have been enhanced during the year and
revised authorities have been issued, notably in respect of
contracts and commitments. Details on the schedule of
matters reserved for the Board are shown on page 46;
■ each business function has established procedures and
controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the
Group’s assets;
Corporate Governance 48 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
■ appropriate controls and procedures have been established
over the security of data held on, and functionality provided
by, the Group’s business systems. These include disaster
recovery arrangements. The Group’s computer systems are
periodically tested and reviewed by both Internal Audit and
the external auditors;
■ the Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to enable
them to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the roles
assigned to them. Established performance review and
development mechanisms exist to identify key objectives and
areas for improvement for each member of staff. Succession
planning forms an integral part of human resources
management;
■ Group Treasury operates within established and documented
policies and procedures. The policies are described in
note 22(a) to the financial statements and are reviewed and
approved annually by the Board or one of its Committees; 
■ the Group’s insurance covers the material risks to the 
Group’s assets and business and is reviewed annually by 
the Audit Committee;
■ local management at each business unit and in those
functions of the Group requiring greater overview, has
responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant
risks to their business areas together with design of mitigating
controls. They are supported in this role by the Internal Audit
and Risk Management function;
■ all entities within the Group are required to adhere to common
standards of internal control and corporate governance, which
are specified in documented guidance; and
■ post-completion assessments are carried out following 
major acquisitions.
Assurance and monitoring
The Board oversees the monitoring system whilst senior
management, under the direction of the Board, is responsible
for maintaining the appropriate internal control systems and for
managing risk at an operational level. Independent assurance
from both the external auditors and Internal Audit provides
important input into the monitoring system. The Board conducts
an annual evaluation of the management of risk and the
processes of internal control and has established a monitoring
framework comprising the functions set out below:
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee seeks ongoing assurance that the control
environment and activities described above are operating
effectively. For example, throughout the period under review the
Committee received reports from the external auditors and
Internal Audit. The Committee reports regularly to the Board and
the Audit Committee’s review of the effectiveness of the internal
controls is formally reported to the Board on an annual basis.
Internal audit
The Internal Audit department is fully independent of business
operations and has a Group-wide mandate. Its work is driven by
a risk-based methodology ensuring that the controls to mitigate
the Group’s key risks are audited on a regular basis. Its plans
are approved by the Audit Committee, which also receives
regular reports on its findings and progress of related actions.
The department also works with the businesses to promote and
further develop effective risk management within their operations.
The Group Director for Internal Audit and Risk Management
attends all Audit Committee meetings.
External auditors
The external auditors provide further independent observations
on certain elements of the internal financial controls as part of
their audit of the financial statements and their findings are
presented to the Audit Committee. The engagement and
independence of the external auditors is considered annually
before the Audit Committee makes a recommendation to 
the Board.
Corporate Responsibility (CR)
As set out in the Group’s CR Review on pages 35 to 39 the
Group’s CR Committee was chaired by the Company Secretary
throughout the period under review and the Committee’s
membership is made up of senior executives. During the 
period under review the Committee met on four occasions. 
The CR Committee assists the Board in identifying reputational
and other risks arising from the conduct of the Group’s
businesses. The Committee does this through undertaking a
risk assessment to identify key risks and opportunities and then
monitoring agreed mitigating action. It makes recommendations
on measurement tools and audit procedures and reports on 
the effectiveness of systems for managing CR related matters.
The Group Finance Director is the Board member with specific
responsibility for social, environmental, ethical and other 
CR related matters.
Whistleblowing
The Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a
confidential helpline operated by a third party. This can be used
to report, anonymously if so wished, on matters of concern to
employees. This can range from unethical behaviour, such as
fraud, to practices that might endanger the health of customers
and employees.
Corporate website
Further information relating to corporate governance including
terms of reference for Board committees, a full schedule of
matters reserved for the Board, and corporate responsibility
may be found on the corporate responsibility section of the
corporate website.
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report continued Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 49
Membership and meetings
The current membership of the Committee, whose biographies
and qualifications are set out on page 40, is set out in the table
below and comprises the four independent non-executive
directors. Count Emmanuel d’André and John Whybrow retired
as directors and members of the Committee with effect from
2 September 2009 and 31 March 2010, respectively. Tim How
and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen were appointed as members of the
Committee with effect from 8 September 2009 and 1 February
2010 respectively and have both attended all meetings since
their appointment. The remaining Committee members served
throughout the period. The Committee was scheduled to meet
four times during the period in June, September, November and
April in advance of key internal and external reporting dates. The
Committee has a formal schedule of matters to be considered
over the course of the year which are allocated across the 
four scheduled meetings. Any additional matters requiring
consideration are dealt with either at ad hoc meetings or
through discussions with the Chairman and other members 
of the Committee between meetings.
The Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience. 
The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee
during the period. Representatives of the external auditors, 
the Chairman, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial
Controller, the Group Chief Accountant and the Group Director
of Internal Audit and Risk Management were invited to attend
each meeting to ensure that Committee members were fully
informed and fully supported in carrying out their duties. The
Group Tax Director and the Group Treasurer also attended
meetings at the Committee’s request. Part of each meeting 
was held between the members of the Committee and the
external auditors in private.
Number of
meetings attended Meetings
Member during the period eligible to attend
Current directors
Andrew Lynch (Chairman) 4 4
Rita Clifton 4 4
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 1 1
Tim How 2 2
Former directors
Count Emmanuel d’André 1 2
John Whybrow 3 3
Role of the Committee
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility to:
■ monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any
formal announcements relating to the Group’s financial
performance;
■ review critical accounting policies and financial reporting
judgements;
■ review the integrity of the Group’s system of internal control
and risk management;
■ monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal
audit function;
■ review and approve the annual audit plan of both the internal
and external audit functions including the principal areas 
of focus;
■ review the Group’s risk and insurance programmes;
■ carry out an annual assessment of the external auditors,
review and monitor their independence and objectivity taking
into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory
requirements, assess the effectiveness of the external audit
process, approve the external auditors’ remuneration and
terms of engagement and make recommendations in respect
of their reappointment or removal;
■ review the directors’ conflicts of interest register and to agree
any amendments to previously approved conflicts;
■ review regularly the Group’s policy on the supply of non-audit
services by the external auditors taking into account relevant
ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services,
to approve the qualifying services and the level of non-audit
fees and to monitor the services provided. In this respect the
level of fees paid for non-audit services, when taken as a
proportion of the audit fee, is considered in addition to the
nature of such services in order to preserve the external
auditors’ independence and objectivity; and
■ monitor the results and effectiveness of arrangements under
which employees can raise in confidence issues of concern
relating to financial matters and internal controls
(whistleblowing).
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available
on the corporate responsibility section of the corporate website.
Audit Committee Report
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance 50 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Key matters considered
In addition to executing the responsibilities described above, 
the key matters considered by the Committee during the 
period included:
■ significant issues arising from reports from both the internal
and external audits;
■ measures adopted to ensure compliance with the Group’s
credit facilities;
■ the working capital position of the Group and the
management of its cash flow;
■ the carrying value of certain assets in the Group;
■ tax matters;
■ recommendations from the Nominations Committee
concerning the composition of the Committee;
■ a review of the Committee’s performance, and terms 
of reference;
■ the role and resources of Internal Audit;
■ a review of the Group’s Delegation of Authority policy;
■ the implementation of a new Ethical Conduct policy;
■ developments in corporate governance, such as the Walker
Review and the Financial Reporting Council’s review of the
Combined Code; and
■ the annual audit fee, with due regard to the balance between
audit and non-audit fees and the policy for approval of non-
audit fees paid to the Group’s auditors. It was considered that
this policy has been working well and remained appropriate.
The Committee, having considered the policies and procedures
applied by the Group and the internal policies and representations
of Deloitte LLP , including the regular rotation of audit partner,
remains satisfied with the auditors’ objectivity and independence
and the effectiveness of the audit process. Accordingly, the
Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution 
for their reappointment be proposed at the AGM.
Andrew Lynch FCA
Chairman of the Audit Committee
24 June 2010
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Audit Committee Report continued Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 51
Membership and meetings
The current membership of the Committee is set out in the table
below and comprises the four independent non-executive
directors and the Chairman. Sir John Collins and John Whybrow
retired as directors and members of the Committee with effect
from 2 September 2009 and 31 March 2010, respectively. 
John Allan was appointed as a member of the Committee on 
23 June 2009 and became its chairman on 2 September 2009.
Tim How and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen were appointed as
members of the Committee with effect from 8 September 2009
and 1 February 2010, respectively. The biographies and
qualifications of the current Committee members are set out on
page 40. The Committee met four times during the period and
the Company Secretary is secretary of the Committee.
Role of the Committee
The Committee’s principal roles and responsibilities are:
■ to keep under review the structure, size and composition of
the Board and its principal committees and to recommend
changes deemed necessary;
■ to identify, evaluate and nominate to the Board candidates 
for appointment to the Board;
■ to be responsible for succession planning for Board members,
in particular, the Chairman and Chief Executive; and
■ to make recommendations to the Board for the continuation
or otherwise of a director in office upon the expiry of any
specified term of appointment.
No member of the Committee participates in discussions or
decisions concerning their own appointment to the Board. 
The Committee’s full terms of reference are on the corporate
responsibility section of the corporate website.
Key matters considered
The principal matters considered by the Committee during the
period were the following:
■ the recruitment of Tim How and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 
as additional directors to join the Board. A role description
setting out the competencies and experience for the new 
role was agreed at the start of the recruitment process for
each role having considered the existing Board’s skills and
experience. This process was led by the Chairman with the
assistance of a recruitment consultancy, The Zygos
Number of
meetings attended Meetings
Member during the period eligible to attend
Current directors
John Allan (Chairman) 4 4
Rita Clifton 4 4
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 1 1
Tim How 3 3
Andrew Lynch 4 4
Former directors
Sir John Collins 0 0
Count Emmanuel d’André 0 0
John Whybrow 3 3
Partnership. The Committee believes that both Tim How and
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen are independent in character and
judgement on appointment and meet the independence
criteria as set out in the Combined Code;
■ the appointment of Tim How and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen;
■ reviewing the composition of the Board Committees following
the retirement of Sir John Collins and John Whybrow from 
the Board;
■ the evaluation of the Board undertaken during the year which
confirmed the Committee’s opinion that the Board’s size,
composition and structure and the Board Committee
structure were appropriate to the present needs of the Group.
The Committee is also satisfied that the present structure
offers strong leadership for the Company, but does not
concentrate authority in one or two key individuals. As part 
of the evaluation the Committee benchmarked the Board
against a peer group of companies;
■ the evaluation of the time commitment required from each
non-executive director and the Chairman in fulfilling their
respective roles, recognising the need for availability outside
the scheduled Board timetable;
■ a review of the Committee’s performance and terms of
reference; and
■ a review of the policy for external appointments for both 
non-executive and executive directors.
The Committee is satisfied that the Board keeps abreast of
developments within the industry through a mixture of private
research and presentations from internal and external advisors
on key areas of importance to the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that all the directors retiring at the
forthcoming AGM are properly qualified for reappointment by
virtue of their skills and experience and their contribution of
guidance and time to the Board’s deliberations.
John Allan
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
24 June 2010
Nominations Committee Report
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance 52 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
This report, approved by the Board, has been prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the
Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups (Accounts
and Reports) Regulations 2008 (‘Schedule 8’) and the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority. This report is divided
into two sections:
■ remuneration policy (not subject to audit as set out in sections
(I) to (V)) which details the role of the Committee, the
principles of remuneration and other matters; and
■ remuneration review (audited as set out in sections (VI) to (X))
which details directors’ and former directors’ emoluments,
share awards, share options and pension arrangements.
The purpose of this report is to inform shareholders of the
Company’s policies on directors’ remuneration for the financial
period ended 1 May 2010 and, so far as practicable, for
subsequent years as well; and to provide details of the
remuneration of individual directors as determined by the
Remuneration Committee. Shareholders will be asked to
approve the report at the AGM on 8 September 2010.
Remuneration policy (not subject to audit)
(I) Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee
responsibility for determining policy in relation to, and approval
of, remuneration packages for senior management. This includes
the terms and conditions of employment of each of the executive
directors of the Company and for other senior management of
the Group; and policy in relation to the operation of the Group’s
share-based employee incentive schemes.
The membership of the Committee during the period under
review, whose biographies and qualifications are set out on
page 40, is set out in the table below and comprises the four
independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the
Company. Sir John Collins retired as a director with effect from
2 September 2009 and John Whybrow retired as Chairman of
the Committee and as a director with effect from 31 March
2010. John Allan and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen joined the
Committee upon their appointments to the Board on 23 June
2009 and 1 February 2010, respectively. Tim How joined the
Committee on 9 September 2009 and became Chairman of the
Committee following John Whybrow’s retirement. The remaining
Committee members served throughout both the period under
review and the prior period.
The Chairman has joined the Committee in accordance with the
provision of the Combined Code permitting a company Chairman
to be a member, but not Chairman, of the Remuneration
Committee. The Committee’s terms of reference are shown on
the corporate responsibility section of the corporate website. 
The Committee met five times during the period.
*
Tim How and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen were unable to attend one Committee meeting
due to a prior commitment made before their respective appointments.
The Chief Executive and the Group People, Marketing and
Property Director attended meetings of the Committee by
invitation in an advisory capacity. Meetings are attended by the
Company Secretary (who acts as secretary to the Committee)
and by the Group Reward Director and occasionally by
representatives from the Group’s external remuneration
advisors, Hewitt New Bridge Street (a trading name of Hewitt
Associates Ltd) (HNBS).
Nobody attends any part of a meeting at which their own
remuneration is discussed. During the period under review the
Committee obtained advice from HNBS for which they received
fees of £119,000. HNBS provided no other services to the
Company other than as set out below. During the period under
review, HNBS, on a one-off basis, provided the Company with
advice on redesigning the pension arrangements offered to staff
and the future structure of these pension arrangements. The
pensions team operates separately from the rest of HNBS
remuneration consultants and there are provisions in place to
ensure that there is no crossover of information between the
two teams.
Number of
meetings attended Meetings
Members during the period during the period eligible to attend
Current directors
Tim How (Chairman) 2* 3
John Allan 5 5
Rita Clifton 5 5
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 1* 2
Andrew Lynch 5 5
Former directors
Sir John Collins 2 2
John Whybrow 4 4
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 53
(II) Remuneration principles
In setting its policies, the Committee has regard to several
factors including the benefits arrangements which apply below
senior management level and competitor benchmarking.
In implementing this policy, the Remuneration Committee takes
account of information and surveys from internal and independent
sources and the remuneration paid for comparable positions 
in other companies. It reviews data and surveys provided by
remuneration consultants and market research companies with
particular reference to the scale and composition of the total
remuneration packages payable to people with like responsibilities,
qualifications, skills and experience in businesses of similar size
and structure.
In setting the remuneration of the directors and senior
management, the Committee takes into account the economic
environment and financial performance of the Group, along 
with pay and employment conditions of employees elsewhere 
in the Group.
Executive directors
The objectives of the remuneration policy are to:
■ ensure that the remuneration structure motivates the directors
and senior management to succeed and appropriately rewards
them for their contribution to the attainment of the Group’s
short and long term results;
■ maintain, particularly through reward schemes based on
performance, a competitive package of pay and benefits
which provides the motivation for future achievement;
■ facilitate the building and retention of a high-calibre and
focused team which will work effectively to achieve the
Group’s longer term strategic objectives;
■ align the directors’ interests with those of shareholders by
offering participation in schemes which provide opportunities
to build shareholdings in the Company; and
■ facilitate effective succession planning.
The Committee is satisfied that the incentive structure for senior
management does not raise governance risks by inadvertently
motivating irresponsible or reckless behaviour.
In deciding the appropriate remuneration strategy for 2010/11
the Remuneration Committee has taken into account the
Company’s performance over the last year which has seen the
continued delivery of the Renewal and Transformation plan, a
recovery in the Group’s profitability and external factors such as
the economic environment and competitor interest in our senior
employee population.
(a) Base salaries
As a general policy, base salaries reflect the Committee’s
assessment of the mid-market rate for relevant positions and
levels of responsibility and the individual executive’s experience,
performance and value to the business. The Committee also
assesses pay and employment conditions of employees of the
Group when determining the executive directors’ remuneration.
For the period under review, the Committee agreed a salary
freeze across the organisation. This policy included both the
executive directors and senior management. The exception to
this was where pay increases were granted to a selective number
of employees whose base salary was considerably behind the
market or to individuals who were performing above expectation.
For 2010/11 the Committee has approved an overall inflationary
increase to base salaries across the whole UK workforce of
1.5%. This policy will also be applied to both the executive
directors and other senior management. The exception to this
will be where pay increases need to be granted to employees
whose base salary is considerably behind the market or to
individuals who are performing above expectation. In making
this decision the Committee had due regard to the salaries of 
all UK employees including the two executive directors.
Accordingly, the Chief Executive’s and Group Finance Director’s
salaries will be increased by 1.5% to £680,050 and £406,000
respectively for 2010/11.
At the 2009 AGM, shareholders approved the operation of the
Reward Sacrifice Scheme. Under this scheme the Chief Executive
and the Group Finance Director took up the opportunity to
sacrifice a portion of their base salary in return for receiving a
grant of non-performance related market value share options 
of an equivalent ‘fair value’ to the sacrificed salary (‘Reward
Sacrifice’). Under this scheme the Chief Executive agreed to
waive 25% of his 2009/10 annual salary and the Group Finance
Director 10% of his annual salary in exchange for the share
option grants. The salary sacrifice required in respect of this
scheme must be made during the 12 month period commencing
15 October 2009. During the period of salary sacrifice, all other
emoluments have been determined by reference to the base
salary levels prior to the sacrifice.
(b) Performance-related remuneration
The performance-based elements of remuneration are designed
to drive performance and to strengthen the alignment between
the interests of the Company’s shareholders and its senior
management, whilst encouraging management retention. The
components of performance-related remuneration are as follows:
Corporate Governance 54 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
(i) Annual cash bonus
During 2008/09 and 2009/10, performance-based
remuneration for the executive directors and senior
management team comprised an annual cash bonus plan
based on the achievement of the Group’s targets and personal
objectives. In the case of other participating executives below
Board level, divisional and business unit targets were applied
where relevant.
For 2009/10 the maximum potential bonus for the Chief
Executive was 100% of basic salary and for the Group Finance
Director was 85% of basic salary. Payment was dependent on
underlying Group operating profit (55% of bonus), Group Free
Cash Flow (25% of bonus) and achievement of personal
objectives (20% of bonus), which included an element related 
to non-financial objectives. For 2009/10 the maximum potential
bonus for members of the Executive Committee was 85% of
basic salary.
The bonus structure for 2009/10 was essentially unchanged
from 2008/09 with the exception that in 2008/09 the weighting
of bonus payable for Group operating profit and Group Free
Cash Flow were 60% and 20%, respectively. Although there
was an entitlement under the personal objectives element of 
the bonus plan, the executive directors volunteered not to
receive any bonus for the 2008/09 financial year and this offer
was accepted by the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the stretch targets for the
2009/10 bonus plan have been met and that there has been 
a genuine improvement in the Group’s underlying financial
performance representing a 60% increase in underlying
operating profit compared to 2008/09. The Chief Executive will
therefore receive a bonus payment totalling £670,000 and the
Group Finance Director £340,000. Members of the Executive
Committee will also receive bonus payments commensurate
with the Group’s performance during the period under review.
Bonus payments as detailed above are not pensionable.
For 2010/11 there will be no change in the existing bonus
potential for the executive directors; 100% of salary for the
Chief Executive and 85% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
The bonus paid will be dependent on underlying Group operating
profit (55% of bonus), Group Free Cash Flow (25% of bonus) and
achievement of personal objectives (20% of bonus). When setting
the objectives of the executive directors, the Committee has
considered corporate performance on environmental and social
governance matters; the Committee is satisfied that the
remuneration structure put in place for the executive directors
does not raise environmental and social governance risks by
inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Bonus targets for 2010/11 have been set at levels which are
considerably more demanding relative to 2009/10 using
benchmarks that reflect both internal business objectives and
external expectations. The Committee is satisfied that the targets
are challenging and would represent a significant increase in
underlying Group operating profit relative to 2009/10.
(ii) Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and Performance Share
Plan (PSP)
On 3 September 2008, the Company established a new
incentive plan called the PSP , which replaced the LTIP . The 
rules of the PSP permit awards to be made over shares worth
up to 100% of salary per annum (200% of salary in exceptional
circumstances). Awards under the PSP are subject to a Total
Shareholder Return (TSR) performance condition as it aligns
management interests with those of the shareholders.
For awards made in June 2008 and June 2009, TSR
performance was compared to that of a bespoke weighted
index comprising UK and European retailers. For the June 2008
award this group comprised Debenhams, Halfords Group,
Home Retail Group, Inchcape, Signet Group, Jelmoli, Kesa
Electricals, Kingfisher, Marks and Spencer Group, Metro Group,
Next, Praktiker, PPR, Sports Direct International and Tesco. 
All companies had equal weighting within the group other 
than Kesa Electricals and Metro Group, who have greater
competitive relevance and therefore have double weighting.
The comparator group for the June 2009 award was broadly
the same as for the 2008 awards with the exclusion of Jelmoli
and the inclusion of Brown (N) Group, Carphone Warehouse
Group, Game Group, HMV Group and WH Smith Group. 
The same weighting provisions in regard to Kesa and Metro
Group applied.
Under the TSR condition, full vesting occurs for performance
equivalent to the upper quartile over the three year performance
period reducing to 25% of an award vesting for performance
equivalent to median (nothing below). Vesting between these
targets will occur on a straight-line basis.
Awards to be made in 2010/11 will continue to be subject 
to TSR performance, however, TSR will be measured relative 
to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (comprising 
FTSE 101-350), excluding investment trusts, at the start 
of the performance period. Full vesting will occur for upper
quartile performance reducing on a straight-line basis to 25% 
of the award at median. No award will vest for below median
performance. Additionally, awards made to the executive
directors will contain an EPS underpin requiring total EPS
growth of RPI plus 2% per annum for the performance period.
The Committee believes that the revised comparator group will
align senior management’s interests with those of shareholders
in driving strong sustainable TSR performance relative to a
wider index. It also addresses concerns that the use of a
bespoke index is not transparent to participants.
Prior to vesting, the Remuneration Committee will satisfy itself
that the TSR performance achieved reasonably reflects the
financial performance of the Group and reserves the right to
vary awards accordingly. Any shares which vest cannot be
released within close periods.
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report continued Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 55
In 2009 the Remuneration Committee reviewed the level 
of award to be made under the PSP . In light of the fall in the
Company’s share price and the reduction in profitability at 
that time, the Committee determined that award levels should 
be reduced from 2008/09 levels in 2009/10. Accordingly, in
2009/10, John Browett and Nicholas Cadbury received awards
of 25% of salary (the number of shares awarded was determined
using an average share price over three months prior to grant).
Details of awards made in 2008/09 and 2009/10 to Nicholas
Cadbury and John Browett are contained in section (VIII) of 
this report.
As part of the 2009/10 review of the remuneration arrangements
the Committee recognised the contribution of the executive
directors to the delivery of the Renewal and Transformation plan
and their importance to the future performance of the Company.
The Company has also delivered improved profitability (operating
profit and profit before tax increased by 60% and 61%,
respectively, compared to 2008/09). Therefore, the Committee
decided that in 2010/11 the executive directors will be made 
a PSP award of 87% of salary, using a three month average
share price ending at the date of this report. The awards to be
made to the Executive Committee will be 44% of salary. These
arrangements are to ensure the Executive Committee are
appropriately incentivised and ‘locked in’ to the Company for 
a further three years.
(iii) Share Option and Reward Share plans
The Remuneration Committee approves the basis on which
options are granted to executive directors and other employees
under the Company’s discretionary share option schemes and
other performance plans. Options are normally granted annually
to executive directors and to senior management under the
Group’s Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP). The plan permits
making an award with a market value on the date of grant of 
not more than twice the recipient’s basic salary. However, in
exceptional circumstances (for instance to facilitate recruitment
or to retain key executives) this limit can be exceeded. Executive
directors and senior management are also entitled to participate
in the Sharesave plan on the same conditions as other
employees. The Company will be inviting employees to
participate in a Sharesave plan in July 2010.
In 2009/10, options were granted under the ESOP to the top 90
executives and other eligible employees including Regional and
Store Managers. Awards granted to the executive directors and
the participating employees were subject to an EPS target with
25% vesting for an EPS in 2011/12 of 2p and full vesting for an
EPS in 2011/12 of 4p (straight-line between these targets). 
No awards will vest if EPS in 2011/12 is less than 2p.
In 2009 the Remuneration Committee reviewed the level of
award to be made under the ESOP . In light of the fall in the
Company’s share price and the reduction in profitability at that
time, the Committee determined that award levels should be
reduced from 2008/09 levels in 2009/10. Accordingly, in
2009/10 John Browett and Nicholas Cadbury received awards
of 100% of salary (the number of shares awarded was
determined using an average share price over three months
prior to grant). 
Additionally the Committee, as described in the base salaries
section, in consultation with leading institutional shareholders
and their representative bodies, offered the senior executive
population an opportunity to receive a lower salary in 2009/10 in
return for receiving an additional grant of share options (Reward
Sacrifice). This proposal was approved at the September 2009
AGM and consequently, the remuneration package for 2009/10
was rebalanced, lowering fixed pay and raising variable pay as 
a consequence.
All share options, other than those under the Sharesave
scheme, are exercisable between three and 10 years from the
date of grant and, for those options subject to a performance
target, only if the Committee determines that the performance
conditions have been met. Such determination is made once
EPS figures are known for the relevant financial year and
targets, since 2004, are tested only once. All share options
lapse on the earlier of 10 years from the date of grant or, 
where performance conditions apply, on the date on which the
Remuneration Committee determines that the performance
conditions have not been met.
For 2010/11, options will be granted to the executive directors,
the top 90 executives and other eligible employees including
Regional and Store Managers. The vesting schedule will remain
the same as for prior years, with 25% of an award vesting for
performance equivalent to threshold and will be set at the time
of grant. The EPS targets will be significantly more challenging
than those applying to 2009/10 grants and will be disclosed in
next year’s remuneration report. Using a three month average
share price ending at the date of this report, the awards will
have a face value of up to 174% of salary for the executive
directors, with the Executive Committee receiving awards of
between 174% and 261% of salary to ensure the individuals
concerned are appropriately incentivised and ‘locked in’ to 
the Company for a further three years.
(iv) Dilution
A combination of both newly issued shares and shares bought
in the market are to be used to satisfy awards under the
Group’s employee share incentive arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee is aware of, and supports, 
the ABI guidelines regarding dilution and regularly monitors
compliance with these requirements. The Remuneration
Committee included provisions in the scheme rules adopted 
at the 2008 AGM which limit the number of newly issued shares
which can be granted to 10% of the issued share capital in 
10 years under all employee share schemes and 5% for the
executive directors and senior management under the
discretionary share plans.
Corporate Governance 56 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
As at the date of this report, the Company’s usage of shares
against the limits detailed above in respect of all employees 
in the all employee schemes was 7.16% of the issued capital;
and in respect of grants to executive directors and senior
management under discretionary plans was 2.73% of issued
capital. The Group uses a trust to hold existing shares and the
Committee’s intention is to make purchases, if required, of
shares taking into account the portion of awards and options 
to be satisfied by new issue, the likelihood of any performance
targets being met and also potential lapsing of awards when
employees leave the Group.
(v) Placing and Rights Issue
Following the Placing and Rights Issue, the Committee agreed
to adjust the approved share options awarded in prior years, 
to reflect the dilutive effect of the Rights Issue. This HMRC
specified adjustment was applied to both the approved and
unapproved options and outstanding LTIP and PSP awards, 
so that all awards granted would be treated in the same
manner. Adjustments to all the awards are reflected in the 
tables in the audited section of this report.
Further information on share-based payments is set out in note
26 to the financial statements.
(c) Taxable benefits
Each of the executive directors receives a cash payment in 
lieu of a company car and is a member of the non-contributory
DSGi medical expenses plan which provides benefits similar to
those applicable in comparable companies.
Further information on employee costs and those relating to
senior management is given in notes 6 and 33, respectively, 
to the financial statements.
(d) Pensions and related benefit
Until 30 April 2010, Nicholas Cadbury accrued benefits under
the defined benefit section of the DSGi Retirement & Employee
Security Scheme (DRESS). This is a funded, HMRC registered
contributory pension scheme which provides a pension at a
normal retirement age of 65 accrued at a rate of 1/60th of
pensionable salary per annum up to a maximum of 40 years.
Part of this pension may be exchanged for cash at the date of
retirement. Membership of the scheme also confers dependants’
pensions and insured lump sums on death in service (equal to
four times basic salary). Notwithstanding the abolition of the
statutory earnings cap for pension purposes on 6 April 2006, an
equivalent cap, adjusted annually for inflation, was introduced
for the purposes of DRESS. From 3 May 2009 the cap was
£123,600. Nicholas Cadbury was provided with a salary
supplement at the annual rate of 30% of the difference between
his basic salary and the scheme earnings cap as set by the
Company from time to time. A similar salary supplement
arrangement for pension purposes applies to five other 
senior executives.
Following a recent consultation with affected employees across
the UK, the Group has closed the defined benefit section of
DRESS to future accrual for all active members. This was
effective from 30 April 2010. As a result, Nicholas Cadbury will
accrue future pension benefits within the defined contribution
section of DRESS. The Company’s contribution will be set at 20%
of salary per annum and will be subject to the same earnings
cap as for the defined benefit section and which will be adjusted
annually for inflation (from 1 May 2010 this is £123,600).
Membership of the defined benefit section of DRESS provides
the option for the provision of dependants’ pensions and also
an insured lump sum on death in service. The insured lump sum
is four times basic salary. However, for a period of two years this
will be increased to six times in recognition of the fact that
members’ individual defined benefit accounts under the defined
contribution section of DRESS will be relatively small during this
period. This two year provision will apply equally to all members
of the defined benefit section of DRESS who are being
transferred to the defined contribution section with effect from
1 May 2010.
John Browett has chosen not to become a member of any
DSGi pension plan. However, he receives a contribution of
32.1% of basic salary to fund his own retirement arrangements.
John Browett is also entitled to receive life assurance cover
equal to four times basic salary and personal accident cover 
at the level of £2,000,000.
New externally recruited executive directors will be offered
membership of the defined contribution section of DRESS
(pensionbuilder) and the Remuneration Committee may exercise
its discretion regarding the level of award of any salary supplement
or enhanced contributions.
(e) Service agreements
John Browett and Nicholas Cadbury have service agreements
with DSG international plc which may be terminated at any time
by 12 months’ notice. Service agreements contain neither a
liquidated damages nor a change of control clause. It is the
Company’s policy to ensure that any payments made to a
director in the event of the early termination of a service
agreement reflect the circumstances giving rise to termination
and, where considered appropriate, the obligation of the
outgoing director to mitigate his loss. Accordingly, consideration
is given to making compensation payments in instalments and
is conditional on the leaver’s employment and earnings status.
The service agreements of the executive directors who 
served during the financial period were entered into on the
following dates:
Date
John Browett 6 Jun 2007
Nicholas Cadbury 13 Apr 2009
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report continued Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Financial Statements Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 57
The service agreements of the continuing directors are available
for inspection at the registered office of the Company during
normal business hours on each business day.
(f) External directorships
Executive directors are permitted to accept non-executive
directorships in external companies and to retain the fees which
they receive in such roles. Normally only one such appointment
will be authorised for each director. John Browett is a non-
executive director of easyJet plc and was paid a fee at the rate
of £45,000 per annum.
(III) Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for three year
terms, although appointments vary depending on length of
service and succession planning considerations.
Their current terms expire as follows:
The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by
the Board upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive and
the Group Finance Director.
John Allan’s fee is £250,000 per annum. The other non-
executive directors receive a fee of £48,000 per annum or euro
equivalent. The fee is normally reviewed bi-annually and is due
to be reviewed later in 2010.
The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees
receive an additional fee of £10,000 per annum. Andrew Lynch
has been designated Senior Independent Director for which he
receives a further fee of £5,000 per annum. Non-executive
directors derive no other benefits from their office and are not
eligible to participate in the Group’s pension scheme. It is
Company policy not to grant share options to non-executive
directors or to require part of their fees to be paid in the form 
of shares.
Letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are
available on application to the Company Secretary.
(IV) Directors’ share interests
The Committee implemented a policy in the 2008/09 financial
year of encouraging executive directors to build shareholdings in
the Company. The policy is that executive directors are required
to retain 50% of the net of tax out-turn from the vesting of future
awards or share options under the Company’s share plans until
a shareholding with a minimum value equivalent to their basic
salary is achieved.
Date
John Allan 1 Jul 2012
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 1 Feb 2013
Rita Clifton 1 Sep 2012
Tim How 7 Sep 2012
Andrew Lynch 24 May 2012
*
Or date of appointment if later.
Following the Placing and Rights Issue on 18 May 2009, each 
of the directors took their full rights to new ordinary shares.
There were no changes in directors’ restricted or unrestricted
share interest between 1 May 2010 and the date of this report.
(V) Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
The graph set out below shows the Company’s performance
measured by TSR on a holding of £100 in the Company’s
shares over the five years since 1 May 2005, measured against
the same amount invested in the FTSE 350 Index. The other
points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Source: Thomson Reuters.
This index has been selected as the Company has been 
a constituent of it throughout the five year period shown.
Unrestricted beneficial and family interests 1 May 2010 2 May 2009*
Executive directors
John Browett 214,285 125,000
Nicholas Cadbury 40,625 23,698
Non-executive directors
John Allan 271,428 171,428
Rita Clifton 24,903 2,500
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen – –
Tim How 80,000 –
Andrew Lynch 81,428 30,000
£
200
150
100
50
0
29 Apr
2006
30 April
2005
28 Apr
2007
3 May
2008
2 May
2009
1 May
2010
DSG international plc FTSE 350 Index
Corporate Governance 58 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Remuneration review (audited)
(VI) Directors’ remuneration
The following table shows an analysis of the emoluments of individual directors:
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
Basic salary Pension Cash Taxable 1 May 2010 Basic salary Pension Cash Taxable 2 May 2009
and fees contributions bonus benefits Total and fees contributions bonus benefits Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive
Current directors
John Browett 670
(1)
215
(2)
670 15 1,570 670 215
(2)
– 15 900
Nicholas Cadbury 400
(1)
83
(3)
340 16 839 338
(4)
58
(3)
– 16 412
Former directors
Kevin O’Byrne ––––– 152 35
(5)
– 5 192
1,070 298 1,010 31 2,409 1,160 308 – 36 1,504
Non-execuitve
Current directors
John Allan
(6)
184 – – – 184 –––––
Rita Clifton 48 – – – 48 47 – – – 47
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen
(7)
12 – – – 12 –––––
Tim How
(8)
31 – – – 31 –––––
Andrew Lynch 63 – – – 63 62 – – – 62
Former directors
Sir John Collins
(9)
125 – – – 125 327 – – 2 329
Count Emmanuel d’André
(10)
16 – – – 16 47 – – – 47
John Whybrow
(11)
53 – – – 53 57 – – – 57
532 – – – 532 540 – – 2 542
1,602 298 1,010 31 2,941 1,700 308 – 38 2,046
(1) John Browett and Nicholas Cadbury have elected to take up the opportunity to sacrifice a portion of their salaries under the Reward Sacrifice Scheme. Amounts sacrificed 
were £52,000 for John Browett and £40,000 for Nicholas Cadbury making their basic salaries after the sacrificed amounts £618,000 and £360,000, respectively.
(2) John Browett’s pension contribution payable to him represented an amount calculated as a percentage of basic salary to fund his own retirement arrangements.
(3) Nicholas Cadbury’s pension contributions represent 30% of the difference between his basic salary and the scheme earnings cap set by the Company.
(4) Amounts shown relate to Nicholas Cadbury’s period in office as a director (17 July 2008 to 2 May 2009).
(5) Kevin O’Byrne’s pension contributions represented amounts which would have been payable to DRESS had his pensionable salary not been subject to an earnings cap.
(6) Amounts shown relate to John Allan’s period in office as a director (23 June 2009 to 1 May 2010).
(7) Amounts shown relate to Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen’s period in office as a director (1 February 2010 to 1 May 2010).
(8) Amounts shown relate to Tim How’s period in office as a director (9 September 2009 to 1 May 2010).
(9) Sir John Collins retired as a director with effect from 2 September 2009.
(10) Count Emmanuel d’André retired as a director with effect from 2 September 2009.
(11) John Whybrow retired as a director with effect from 31 March 2010.
(VII) Directors’ pensions
Gross Increase in Transfer Transfer
increase in accrued value of value of Change in
Accrued Accrued accrued pension during accrued accrued transfer values
pension as at pension as at pension during the period, benefits as at benefits as at less members’
1 May 2010 2 May 2009 the period net of inflation 1 May 2010 2 May 2009 contributions
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Nicholas Cadbury 37 34 3 3 284 212 63
Accrued pension shown is that payable at normal retirement age (65).
The transfer value as at 1 May 2010 has been calculated in accordance with the Government regulations on the calculation 
of transfer values, ‘Occupational Pensions Schemes (Transfer Values) (Amendment) Regulations 2008’.
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report continued Business Overview Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 59
(VIII) Directors’ LTIP, PSP and Reward Share awards
The directors’ restricted beneficial interests shown in the table below represent the maximum number of shares which may vest
under the LTIP , PSP or Retention and Recruitment plan (Reward Shares). Details of the LTIP and PSP , including performance
conditions, are described in section (II)(b)(ii) of this report. 
In 2008, under the Retention and Recruitment plan, a limited number of senior executives below Board level received an award of
Reward Shares whereby no performance conditions applied, but, other than in the event of death or change of control, shares will
only be released in the event that the relevant individuals remain with the Group for a three year period. The Reward Shares were
considered necessary to ensure that those executives key to delivering the targets were appropriately incentivised and ‘locked in’ to
the Company for three years. The awards have been adjusted for the Rights Issue which is detailed in section (II)(b)(v) of this report.
End of
Market price Adjusted in Awarded in Lapsed in performance
on award At 3 May 2009 the period the period the period At 1 May 2010 period Vesting date
John Browett
LTIP
2007/08 115.50p 788,834
(1)
280,036 – – 1,068,870 N/A Dec 2010
(2)
2007/08 115.50p 1,125,541 399,567 – – 1,525,108 Apr 2010 Dec 2010
2008/09 38.50p 561,798 199,438 – – 761,236 Apr 2011 Jul 2011
PSP
2009/10 25.22p – – 664,155 – 664,155 May 2012 Jul 2012
2,476,173 879,041 664,155 – 4,019,369
Nicholas Cadbury
LTIP
2006/07 183.75p 38,095 – – (38,095) – May 2009 May 2009
2007/08 163.70p 43,982 15,613 – – 59,595 Apr 2010 Jun 2010
2008/09 38.50p 150,931 53,580 – – 204,511 Apr 2011 Jul 2011
PSP
2009/10 25.22p – – 396,511 – 396,511 May 2012 Jul 2012
Reward Shares
(3)
2008/09 38.50p 113,198 40,185 – – 153,383 N/A Jul 2011
346,206 109,378 396,511 (38,095) 814,000
(1) The award of 788,834 shares was made on 6 December 2007. The quantum of shares awarded was calculated using the mid-market value of the shares on 6 June 2007, the
date on which John Browett accepted the offer of employment with the Group. The ‘one-off’ award of shares was made in compensation of the significant value of share awards
and bonus entitlement John Browett was forfeiting upon joining the Company.
(2) The release of these shares, in most circumstances, is dependent on John Browett remaining in employment until the vesting date, 6 December 2010. These shares may vest 
on an earlier date in certain circumstances.
(3) The award was made prior to Nicholas Cadbury joining the Board.
The status of the provisional awards under the LTIP and PSP are reviewed regularly and as at the last review in June 2010, 
the status of the awards as at the date of this report is as follows:
Period in which provisional award made Status Award if status maintained
2008/09 TSR below median No award
2009/10 TSR above Index (+27%) Full vesting
Vesting of the 2007/08 LTIP award was dependent on the Company’s TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE
100 Index over the three financial years ended 3 May 2008, 2 May 2009 and 1 May 2010. These conditions were not met over the
relevant performance periods and the award has subsequently lapsed.
The ‘one-off’ LTIP award made to John Browett upon joining the Group is not subject to any performance conditions.
It is intended that any releases of shares under the LTIP will be satisfied by shares held in trust by Halifax EES Trustees International
Limited, the trustee of the employee share ownership trust. Vesting of the shares provisionally awarded under the LTIP in 2008/09
occurs in July 2011, subject to the attainment of performance targets. It is intended that any release of shares under the PSP in
respect of the award made in July 2009 will be satisfied by newly issued shares. Vesting of the shares provisionally awarded under
the PSP occurs in July 2012 subject to the attainment of performance targets.
Strategic Summary Performance Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance 60 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
(IX) Directors’ share options
Following the Rights Issue the number of options held and their respective exercise price have been adjusted as detailed in section
(II) (b)(v) of this report. No exercises occurred during the period.
Adjusted in Awarded in Lapsed in Date from which Expiry of the Exercise
At 2 May 2009 the period the period the period At 1 May 2010 Date of grant first exercisable exercise period price
John Browett
Discretionary 1,152,073 409,299 – – 1,561,372 6 Dec 2007 6 Dec 2010 5 Dec 2017 83.26p
2,247,191 798,675 – – 3,045,866 11 Jul 2008 11 Jul 2011 11 Jul 2018 27.63p
– – 2,656,622 – 2,656,622 23 Jul 2009 23 Jul 2012 23 Jul 2019 23.95p
Reward Sacrifice
(1)
– – 1,992,466 – 1,992,466 28 Sep 2009 28 Sep 2012 27 Sep 2019 28.43p
Sharesave
(2)
– – 24,768 – 24,768 24 Jul 2009 1 Oct 2012 31 Mar 2013 18.32p
3,399,264 1,207,974 4,673,856 – 9,281,094
Nicholas Cadbury
Discretionary 11,948 – – (11,948) – 19 Jul 1999 N/A N/A 334.75p
16,484 5,855 – – 22,339 17 Jul 2000 17 Jul 2003 17 Jul 2010 201.44p
25,974 9,226 – – 35,200 23 Jul 2001 23 Jul 2004 23 Jul 2011 170.45p
44,720 15,885 – – 60,605 22 Jul 2002 22 Jul 2005 22 Jul 2012 118.80p
84,133 29,887 – – 114,020 2 Jul 2007 2 Jul 2010 2 Jul 2017 118.40p
565,990 201,158 – – 767,148 11 Jul 2008 11 Jul 2011 11 Jul 2018 27.63p
787,064 279,535 – – 1,066,599 14 Aug 2008 14 Aug 2011 14 Aug 2018 41.84p
– – 1,586,043 – 1,586,043 23 Jul 2009 23 Jul 2012 23 Jul 2019 23.95p
Reward Sacrifice
(1)
– – 475,813 – 475,813 28 Sep 2009 28 Sep 2012 27 Sep 2019 28.43p
Sharesave
(2)
3,503 1,244 – (4,747) – 26 Feb 2007 1 Apr 2011 30 Sep 2011 99.52p
– – 24,768 – 24,768 24 Jul 2009 1 Oct 2012 31 Mar 2013 18.32p
1,539,816 542,790 2,086,624 (16,695) 4,152,535
(1) Details of the Reward Sacrifice Scheme may be found in section (II)(a) of this report.
(2) Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in the six month period following the date of maturity of a three year or five year savings contract.
(3) All of the options are granted for nil consideration.
The share price on 1 May 2010 was 33.10p and, adjusted to take account of the Placing & Rights Issue, ranged from 19.75p and
38.67p during the year.
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report continued Business Overview Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 61
Options are exercisable between three and 10 years from the date of grant, subject to performance conditions being met. The
following table summarises the performance conditions applicable to the executive directors’ and senior management’s discretionary
options (excluding Reward Sacrifice Options which do not have a performance condition) outstanding as at 1 May 2010:
Performance conditions Re-testing
Grants made before The market price on the date of exercise is at least 20% higher than the During the life 
1 July 2003 option price, assuming exercise takes place between three and four years of the option
after the date of grant. For later exercises, the rate of share growth is 
adjusted in line with the Retail Price Index (RPI).
Exercise is also conditional upon EPS having increased by not less than 
3% above the annual RPI over any consecutive period of three years 
during the life of the option.
Grants made between Over the three year performance period, EPS growth is equal to or greater No re-testing
11 October 2004 and than annual RPI plus 5% per annum. Where EPS growth is between annual
11 July 2008 RPI plus 3% and RPI plus 5%, options will vest on a straight-line basis 
between 50% and 100% of the award.
Grants made between Over the three year performance period, EPS growth is equal to or greater No re-testing
12 July 2008 and than annual RPI plus 4% per annum. For an award of 200% of salary where
23 July 2009 EPS growth is between annual RPI plus 4% and RPI plus 7% per annum, 
options will vest on a straight-line basis between 50% and 100% of the 
award. For an award of 300% of salary where EPS growth is between 
annual RPI plus 4% and RPI plus 10% per annum, options will vest on 
a straight-line basis between 33% and 100% of the award.
Grants made on 25% of the options vest for an EPS in 2011/12 of 2p. 100% of the options No re-testing
23 July 2009 vest for an EPS in 2011/12 of 4p, options will vest on a straight-line basis 
between 25% and 100% of the award.
Prior to 2005/06, share options were granted to other employees in the UK and overseas on the basis of management grade and
to employees with more than three years’ service. Since 2005/06 and until 2007/08, employees below executive level have either
participated in a cash settled performance share plan or in a few selected cases have been granted share options, both of which
were linked in most cases to the attainment of three year EPS targets. In 2008/09, share options were granted to other employees
in the UK and overseas on the basis of management grade; these options were granted with no performance conditions for those
employees below the top three management grades at the date of grant. In 2009/10, share options were granted to other
employees in the UK and overseas on the basis of management grade; these options were granted with the same performance
conditions as the executive directors.
(X) Former executive director
Pursuant to an agreement dated 1 October 2002, Lord Kalms, the former Chairman, was appointed President of the Company for
an initial period ending on 16 September 2012. He received £30,893 for his services as President during the year. His remuneration
is subject to annual review in line with RPI. He was provided with benefits amounting to £36,238 comprising membership of the
Group’s medical expenses plan, a car and related benefits and with office facilities. He is not eligible to participate in discretionary
share schemes or in any bonus arrangements.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Tim How
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
24 June 2010
Strategic Summary Performance Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance 62 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law
and regulations. UK company law requires the directors to
prepare financial statements for each financial year and under
that law, the directors have prepared the Group and the
Company financial statements in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the
European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company
and of the profit or loss of the Group for the period. In preparing
the financial statements, the directors are also required to:
■ properly select and apply accounting policies;
■ present information, including accounting policies, in a
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information; and
■ provide additional disclosures when compliance with 
the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable
users to understand the impact of particular transactions,
other events and conditions on the financial position and
financial performance.
In preparing both the Group and the Company financial
statements, suitable accounting policies have been used and
applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements
and estimates have been made. Applicable accounting
standards have been followed. The financial statements have
been prepared on the going concern basis as disclosed in the
Directors’ Report and Business Review.
The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate
accounting records and sufficient internal controls to safeguard
the assets of the Company and to take reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud or any other irregularities
and for the preparation of a Directors’ Report and directors’
Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial
statements, Article 4 of the IAS regulation. The directors are
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate
and financial information included on the Company’s website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement 
We confirm to the best of our knowledge:
■ the Group and Company financial statements give a true and
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit /
(loss) of the Group and Company, respectively; and
■ the business and financial review includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of the business and the
position of the Group and Company together with a description
of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
By Order of the Board
John Browett Nicholas Cadbury
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
24 June 2010 24 June 2010
Directors’ Report:
Corporate Governance
Directors’ Responsibilities Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 63
We have audited the consolidated and the Company financial
statements of DSG international plc for the 52 weeks ended
1 May 2010 which comprise the consolidated income statement,
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and
expense, the consolidated and Company balance sheets, 
the consolidated and Company cash flow statements, the
consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity and
the related notes 1 to 34 and C1 to C18. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as
adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required
to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and
the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s)
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Company’s
circumstances and have been consistently applied and
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinions
Financial statements 
In our opinion the financial statements:
■ give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the
Company’s affairs as at 1 May 2010 and of the Group’s profit
for the 52 weeks then ended;
■ have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the European Union; and
■ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
the Companies Act 2006 and as regards the Group financial
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
IFRSs issued by the IASB
As explained in note 1.1 to the Group financial statements, the
Group and Company, in addition to complying with its legal
obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union,
has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB). In our opinion the financial statements
comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
■ the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial
year for which the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the financial statements; and
■ the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report upon in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
■ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches visited by us; or 
■ the Company financial statements and the part of the
directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
■ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; and
■ we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
■ the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’
Report and Business Review in relation to going concern; and
■ the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
2006 Combined Code specified for our review.
Nicola Mitchell FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London, United Kingdom
24 June 2010
Independent Auditors’ Report
Financial Statements
Financial Statements 64 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
52 weeks ended 1 May 2010 52 weeks ended 2 May 2009
Non-underlying* Non-underlying*
Closed Closed
Underlying* businesses** Other Total Underlying* businesses** Other Total
Note £million £million £million £million £million £million £million £million
Continuing operations
Revenue 2,3 8,531.6 0.9 – 8,532.5 8,180.2 137.6 – 8,317.8
Profit / (loss) from operations 
before associates 131.6 (0.2) 23.2 154.6 79.4 (12.2) (158.2) (91.0)
Share of post-tax results of associates 12 1.6 – – 1.6 3.6 – – 3.6
Operating profit / (loss) 2,3 133.2 (0.2) 23.2 156.2 83.0 (12.2) (158.2) (87.4)
Finance income 58.2 – 1.1 59.3 69.6 – 32.2 101.8
Finance costs (100.9) – (1.9) (102.8) (96.5) (1.9) (39.6) (138.0)
Net finance costs 5 (42.7) – (0.8) (43.5) (26.9) (1.9) (7.4) (36.2)
Profit / (loss) before tax 90.5 (0.2) 22.4 112.7 56.1 (14.1) (165.6) (123.6)
Income tax (expense) / credit 7 (40.7) 0.1 (6.1) (46.7) (34.3) 2.7 (25.2) (56.8)
Profit / (loss) after tax 
– continuing operations 49.8 (0.1) 16.3 66.0 21.8 (11.4) (190.8) (180.4)
Loss after tax – discontinued operations 29 – – (8.7) (8.7) – – (38.9) (38.9)
Profit / (loss) for the period 49.8 (0.1) 7.6 57.3 21.8 (11.4) (229.7) (219.3)
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent company 52.3 (0.1) 7.6 59.8 21.7 (11.4) (229.7) (219.4) 
Minority interests (2.5) – – (2.5) 0.1 – – 0.1
49.8 (0.1) 7.6 57.3 21.8 (11.4) (229.7) (219.3)
Earnings / (loss) per share (pence) 8
Basic – total 1.7p (10.2)p
Diluted – total 1.7p (10.2)p
Basic – continuing operations 2.0p (8.4)p
Diluted – continuing operations 1.9p (8.4)p
Underlying earnings per share (pence) 1,8
Basic – continuing operations 1.5p 1.0p
Diluted – continuing operations 1.5p 1.0p
*
‘Underlying’ profit and earnings per share measures exclude the trading results of closed businesses, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business
impairment charges and other one-off, non-recurring items, profit on sale of investments, fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, 
discontinued operations. Such excluded items are described as ‘Non-underlying’. Further information on these items is shown in notes 1, 4, 5, 7 and 29.
**
Closed businesses comprise Markantalo and PC City Sweden whereby these store based businesses were closed on 10 May 2009 and 20 May 2009, respectively. 
These operations do not meet the definition of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5 and accordingly the disclosures made above differ from those for 
discontinued operations. 
Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 65
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
1 May 2010 2 May 2009
Note £million £million
Profit / (loss) for the period 57.3 (219.3)
Actuarial (losses) / gains on defined benefit pension schemes – UK 21 (156.0) (114.3)
– Nordics 21 1.5 (2.1)
Cash flow hedges 22
Fair value remeasurement (losses) / gains (18.4) 42.6
Losses / (gains) transferred to carrying amount of inventories 15.1 (27.4)
Gains transferred to income statement (3.8) (13.4)
Net investment hedges 22
Fair value remeasurement gains / (losses) 2.7 (74.3)
Investments 22
Fair value remeasurement gains / (losses) 0.8 (0.9)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 44.2 53.2
Currency translation movements 45.3 122.5
Net expense recognised directly in equity (68.6) (14.1)
Total comprehensive expense for the period (11.3) (233.4)
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent company (8.9) (236.9)
Minority interests (2.4) 3.5
(11.3) (233.4)
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income and Expense
Strategic Summary Performance Review 66 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
1 May 2010 2 May 2009
Note £million £million
Non-current assets
Goodwill 9 1,116.5 1,069.1
Intangible assets 10 130.7 148.4
Property, plant & equipment 11 541.0 489.6
Investments in associates 12 26.4 29.8
Trade and other receivables 14 58.0 68.5
Deferred tax assets 7 169.4 150.3
2,042.0 1,955.7
Current assets
Inventories 13 972.6 971.9
Trade and other receivables 14 395.1 508.2
Income tax receivable 1.9 8.3
Short term investments 15 8.5 9.0
Cash and cash equivalents 16 295.7 192.6
1,673.8 1,690.0
Assets held for sale 29 – 13.2
Total assets 3,715.8 3,658.9
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 17 (4.9) (4.8)
Borrowings 17 (98.5) (250.1)
Obligations under finance leases 18 (2.4) (2.8)
Trade and other payables 19 (1,605.9) (1,664.5)
Income tax payable (47.0) (58.0)
Provisions 20 (22.3) (72.1)
(1,781.0) (2,052.3)
Net current liabilities (107.2) (362.3)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 17 (321.4) (322.5)
Obligations under finance leases 18 (97.6) (98.9)
Retirement benefit obligations 21 (266.8) (153.0)
Other payables 19 (325.7) (369.8)
Deferred tax liabilities 7 (18.7) (22.7)
Provisions 20 (29.5) (40.4)
(1,059.7) (1,007.3)
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 29 – (14.4)
Total liabilities (2,840.7) (3,074.0)
Net assets 875.1 584.9
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 90.2 44.3
Share premium account 169.4 169.4
Other reserves 23 (537.5) (534.9)
Retained earnings 1,124.4 880.1
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 846.5 558.9
Equity minority interests 28.6 26.0
Total equity 875.1 584.9
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 24 June 2010 and signed on their behalf by: 
John Browett Nicholas Cadbury
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Financial Statements
Consolidated Balance Sheet Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 67
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
1 May 2010 2 May 2009
Note £million £million
Operating activities – continuing operations
Cash generated from / (utilised by) operations
*
27 270.3 (143.8)
Special contributions to defined benefit pension scheme 21 (12.0) (12.0)
Income tax paid
*
(31.9) (35.7)
Net cash flows from operating activities 226.4 (191.5)
Investing activities – continuing operations
Purchase of property, plant & equipment and other intangibles
*
(165.3) (140.7)
Purchase of subsidiaries 28 (7.0) (27.6)
Interest received
*
25.5 20.9
Decrease in short term investments 1.3 73.3
Disposals of property, plant & equipment and other intangibles
*
9.7 28.8
Dividend received from associate 4.0 4.9
Proceeds from sale of discontinued operations 29 – –
Net cash flows from investing activities (131.8) (40.4)
Financing activities – continuing operations
Issue of ordinary share capital 291.3 –
Additions to finance leases – 2.4
Capital element of finance lease payments (1.7) (1.7)
Interest element of finance lease payments
*
(7.1) (6.9)
(Decrease) / increase in borrowings due within one year (151.6) 249.9
Decrease in borrowings due after more than one year – (0.1)
Interest paid
*
(118.8) (126.8)
Investment from minority shareholder 5.0 5.7
Equity dividend paid – (60.3)
Net cash flows from financing activities 17.1 62.2
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (i)
Continuing operations 111.7 (169.7)
Discontinued operations 29 (8.6) (21.6)
103.1 (191.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period (i) 27 187.8 363.7
Currency translation differences (0.1) 15.4
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (i) 27 290.8 187.8
Free Cash Flow (ii) (17.6) (404.2)
(i) For the purposes of this cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise those items disclosed as ‘cash and cash equivalents’ on the face of the balance sheet, 
less overdrafts, which are classified within current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet. A reconciliation to the balance sheet amounts is shown in note 27.
(ii) Free Cash Flow comprises those items marked 
*
and comprises cash generated from / (utilised by) continuing operations before special pension contributions, less net finance
expense, less income tax paid and net capital expenditure. The directors consider that ‘Free Cash Flow’ provides additional useful information to shareholders in respect of cash
generation and is consistent with how business performance is measured internally.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Strategic Summary Performance Review 68 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Share Share Other Retained Minority
capital premium reserves earnings Sub total interests Total equity
£million £million £million £million £million £million £million
At 4 May 2008 44.3 169.4 (502.9) 1,115.9 826.7 26.8 853.5
Loss for the period – – – (219.3) (219.3) – (219.3)
Other comprehensive income and 
expense recognised directly in equity – – (52.8) 35.2 (17.6) 3.5 (14.1)
Total comprehensive income 
and expense for the period – – (52.8) (184.1) (236.9) 3.5 (233.4)
Equity dividends paid – – – (60.7) (60.7) – (60.7)
Minority interests – increase in capital ––––– 5.7 5.7
Transfers – – (6.7) 6.7 – – –
Put option exercised – – 27.5 – 27.5 (10.0) 17.5
Share-based payments – – – 2.1 2.1 – 2.1
Tax on share-based payments – – – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
At 2 May 2009 44.3 169.4 (534.9) 880.1 558.9 26.0 584.9
Profit for the period – – – 57.3 57.3 – 57.3
Other comprehensive income 
and expense recognised directly in equity – – (2.6) (63.6) (66.2) (2.4) (68.6)
Total comprehensive income 
and expense for the period – – (2.6) (6.3) (8.9) (2.4) (11.3)
Minority interests – increase in capital ––––– 5.0 5.0
Placing and Rights Issue 45.9 – 245.4 – 291.3 – 291.3
Transfer – – (245.4) 245.4 – – –
Share-based payments – – – 4.9 4.9 – 4.9
Tax on share-based payments – – – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
At 1 May 2010 90.2 169.4 (537.5) 1,124.4 846.5 28.6 875.1
Minority interests comprise shareholdings in PIXmania S.A.S., (PIXmania), ElectroWorld Iç ve Dis Ticaret AS (ElectroWorld Turkey)
and DSGi South-East Europe A.E.V.E. (Kotsovolos).
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 69
1 Accounting policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as adopted by the EU, IFRS issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies
Act 2006 applicable to those companies reporting under IFRS,
and have been prepared on a going concern basis as disclosed
in the going concern statement in the statutory information
section of the Directors’ Report on page 44.
The Group’s income statement and segmental analysis 
identify separately underlying performance measures and non-
underlying items. Underlying performance measures reflect 
an adjustment to total performance measures to exclude the
impact of closed businesses and other non-underlying items.
Underlying performance measures comprise profits and losses
incurred as part of the day to day ongoing retail activities of 
the Company and include profits and losses incurred on the
disposal and closure of owned or leased properties that occur
as part of the Group’s annual retail churn. The profits or losses
incurred on disposal or closure of owned or leased properties
as part of a one-off restructuring programme are excluded from
underlying performance measures and are therefore included,
among other items, within non-underlying items as described
below. The directors consider ‘underlying’ performance
measures to be a more accurate reflection of the ongoing trading
performance of the Group and believe that these measures
provide additional useful information for shareholders on the
Group’s performance and are consistent with how business
performance is measured internally.
Non-underlying items comprise trading results of closed
businesses, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net
restructuring and business impairment charges and other 
one-off, non-recurring items, profit on sale of investments, 
fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where
applicable, discontinued operations. Closed businesses are
those which do not meet the definition of discontinued
operations as stipulated by IFRS 5. Items excluded from
underlying results can evolve from one financial year to the 
next depending on the nature of reorganisation or one-off type
activities described above, however, for 2009/10, there were 
no new exclusions.
Underlying performance measures and non-underlying
performance measures may not be directly comparable with
other similarly titled measures or ‘adjusted’ revenue or profit
measures used by other companies.
Certain new accounting pronouncements have become
applicable during the period. During the period the Group 
has adopted:
■ IAS 1 ‘Revised Presentation of Financial Statements’. This
introduces a ‘statement of comprehensive income’. Instead 
of presenting one statement of comprehensive income the
Group has elected to present two statements: an ‘income
statement’ and a ‘statement of comprehensive income and
expense’. The Group has presented the consolidated
statement of changes in equity, which was previously
presented as a note, as a primary statement.
■ Amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments: Vesting
conditions and cancellations’. This restricts the definition 
of vesting conditions to include service and performance
conditions only. All other features are not vesting conditions
and must be reflected in the grant date fair value. It specifies
that all cancellations should receive the same accounting
treatment. This has impacted the accounting for Save As You
Earn (SAYE) share plans. The adoption of this amendment
has not had a significant impact on the Group’s results or 
net assets.
■ IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments disclosures (Amendment)’. 
This introduces additional disclosures regarding fair value
measurement and liquidity risk. This has had no impact on 
the Group’s results or net assets.
The Group previously adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments, 
in advance of its effective date, with effect from 4 May 2008.
Other new standards, amendments to standards and IFRIC
interpretations are effective for the Group during the current
financial period but are either not relevant or have had no
impact on the Group’s results or net assets.
The principal accounting policies are set out below:
1.2 Accounting convention and basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the
Company. Control is achieved where the Company has the
power to control the financial and operating policies of an 
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The results of
subsidiaries acquired are included from the date on which power
to control passes. The net assets of subsidiaries acquired are
recorded at their fair values. The results of subsidiaries disposed
of are included up to the effective date of disposal.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of
accounting from the date on which the power to exercise
significant influence passes.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 70 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
1 Accounting policies continued
1.3 Revenue
Revenue comprises sales of goods and services excluding sales
taxes. Revenue from sales of goods is recognised at the point
of sale or, where later, upon delivery to the customer and is
stated net of returns. Revenue earned from customer support
agreements is recognised as such over the life of the agreement
by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at 
the balance sheet date.
1.4 Other income, including non-operating income
Other income which is incidental to the Group’s principal
activities of selling goods and services and accordingly is not
recorded as part of revenue is recognised when the Group
obtains the right to consideration by performance of its
contractual obligations. Interest income is accrued on a time
basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the
effective interest rate applicable. Dividend income from
investments is recognised when the right to receive payment
has been established.
1.5 Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group which
represents a significant separate line of business which has
been sold. Classification as a discontinued operation occurs
upon disposal or earlier if beneficial title and risk has transferred
to the purchaser and in the case of a business acquired
exclusively with a view to subsequent disposal, on the date 
of acquisition.
Where the sale of a component of the Group is considered
highly probable and the business is available for immediate sale
in its present condition, it is classified as held for sale. Assets
and liabilities held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
1.6 Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms 
of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership to the lessee. The determination of the classification
of property leases is made by reference to the land and buildings
elements separately. All leases not classified as finance leases
are operating leases.
Finance leases
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at their fair
value on acquisition or, if lower, at the present value of the
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception 
of the lease and depreciated over their estimated useful lives 
or the lease term if shorter. The corresponding obligation to 
the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a liability. Lease
payments are apportioned between finance charges and
reduction of the lease obligation. Finance charges are charged
to the income statement over the period of the lease in
proportion to the capital element outstanding.
Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating property leases are charged 
to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the fixed
term of the lease. At the end of the fixed term of leases, rental
payments are reset to market rates, typically on an upwards
only basis.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into 
an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.
Where a lease forms part of a separate cash generating unit
(CGU), such as a store or group of stores, and business
indicators exist which could lead to the conclusion that the
carrying value of the CGU is not supportable, the recoverable
amount of the CGU is determined by calculating its value in 
use. The value in use is calculated by applying discounted cash
flow modelling to management’s projection of future profitability.
If an impairment of a CGU has been identified such that the
value in use is negative and a lease exists in that CGU, a
provision for the onerous portion of the lease is made equal 
to the lower of the outstanding lease commitment and the
negative present value of the CGU.
1.7 Translation of foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the
rate of exchange prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
retranslated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance 
sheet date. Exchange gains and losses arising on settlement 
or retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included 
in the income statement.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at
the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results
of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling 
at the average rates of exchange during the period. Exchange
differences resulting from the translation of the results and
balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are charged
or credited directly to retained earnings. Such translation
differences become recognised in the income statement in 
the period in which the subsidiary undertaking is disposed.
As the cumulative translation differences for all foreign
subsidiaries were deemed to be zero at the transition date to
IFRS on 2 May 2004, upon disposal of a foreign subsidiary, 
any gain or loss arising will include only those foreign exchange
gains or losses attributable to periods after that date.
1.8 Goodwill
On acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, the fair value of the
consideration is allocated between the identifiable net tangible
and intangible assets / liabilities on a fair value basis, with any
excess consideration representing goodwill. Goodwill in respect
of subsidiaries is capitalised as goodwill on the balance sheet;
goodwill relating to associates is capitalised in investments in
associates as part of the carrying value of the associate.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 71
Goodwill is not amortised, but instead is reviewed annually for
impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the
income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate the attributable amount
of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss 
on disposal.
1.9 Intangible assets
Acquired intangibles
Acquired intangibles comprise brands and customer lists
purchased as part of acquisitions of businesses and are
capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives on a
straight-line basis. Acquired intangibles are stated at cost less
accumulated amortisation and, where appropriate, provision for
impairment in value or estimated loss on disposal. Amortisation
is provided to write off the cost of assets on a straight-line basis
between three and 30 years.
Other intangible assets: computer software
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs
incurred both to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of assets on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of between
three and seven years. Costs associated with developing or
maintaining computer software are recognised as an expense 
as incurred unless they increase the future economic benefits 
of the asset, in which case they are capitalised.
Internally generated computer software is capitalised at cost 
if the project is technically and commercially feasible and the
economic benefits which are expected to be generated exceed
one year. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of
materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of
overheads. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when 
it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the
specific asset to which it relates. Amortisation is provided to
write off the cost of assets on a straight-line basis between
three and seven years.
Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated
amortisation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment 
in value or estimated loss on disposal.
1.10 Property, plant & equipment
Property, plant & equipment are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in
value or estimated loss on disposal. Depreciation is provided to
write off the cost of the assets by equal instalments over their
estimated useful lives. The rates used are:
Short leasehold property – over the term of the lease
Freehold and long – between 1
2
/ 3% and 2
1
/ 2% per annum
leasehold buildings
Fixtures, fittings – between 10% and 33
1
/ 3% per annum
and equipment
No depreciation is provided on freehold and long leasehold land
or on assets in the course of construction.
Property, plant & equipment are assessed on an ongoing basis
to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead to the
conclusion that the net book value is not supportable. Where
assets are to be taken out of use, an impairment charge is
levied. Where assets useful lives are shortened, an estimate is
made of their new lives and an accelerated depreciation charge
is levied. Where the property, plant & equipment form part of a
separate cash generating unit (CGU), such as a store or group
of stores, and business indicators exist which could lead to the
conclusions that the net book value is not supportable, the
recoverable amount of the CGU is determined by calculating 
its value in use. The value in use is calculated by applying
discounted cash flow modelling to management’s projection 
of future profitability and any impairment is determined by
comparing the net book value with the value in use.
1.11 Investments and other financial assets
The Group’s financial assets comprise cash and cash
equivalents, short term investments and those receivables
which involve a contractual right to receive cash from external
parties. Financial assets comprise all items shown in notes 14,
15 and 16 with the exception of prepayments and derivatives.
Under the classifications stipulated by IAS 39, short term
investments and trade and other receivables (excluding
derivative financial assets) are classified as ‘available for sale’
and ‘loans and receivables’, respectively. Cash and cash
equivalents and derivative financial instruments, which are
further described in notes 1.14 and 1.16, are classified as 
‘loans and receivables’ and ‘held for trading unless designated 
in a hedge relationship’, respectively.
All purchases and sales of investments and other financial
assets are recognised on the date that the Group becomes
committed to make such purchase or sale (‘the trade date’).
Investment in associates
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of
accounting from the date on which the power to exercise
significant influence passes.
Short term investments
Investments are initially measured at fair value and then
subsequently remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet
date owing to occasional sales of such investments. The fair
value of unlisted investments is estimated either by comparing
recent arm’s length transactions or by using discounted cash
flow analysis or other modelling techniques. Gains and losses
arising from revaluation at the balance sheet date are recognised
directly in equity. For unlisted investments a significant or
prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below 
its cost is considered evidence of impairment.
To the extent that any fair value losses are deemed permanent,
such impairment is recognised in the income statement. Upon
sale or impairment of the investments, any cumulative gains or
losses held in equity are transferred to the income statement. 72 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
1 Accounting policies continued
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables (excluding derivative financial
assets) are recorded at cost less an allowance for estimated
irrecoverable amounts and any other adjustments required to
align cost to fair value. The carrying amount of trade receivables
is reduced through the use of a provision account. A provision
for bad and doubtful debts is made for specific receivables
when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able
to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of 
the invoice. Receivables that are not assessed individually for
impairment are assessed for impairment on a collective basis
using ageing analysis to determine the required provision. 
Bad debts are written off when identified.
1.12 Taxation
Current taxation
Current taxation is the expected tax payable on the taxable
income for the period, using prevailing tax rates and adjusted
for any tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary
difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition
(other than in a business combination) of other assets and
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor 
the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will
not reverse in the foreseeable future. No provision is made 
for tax which would have been payable on the distribution 
of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries or associated
undertakings where it has been determined that these profits
will not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax
jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current 
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement,
except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are
expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences
are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have
been enacted, or substantially enacted by the balance sheet
date. Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
1.13 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost and net
realisable value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to
their present location and condition, both types of cost being
measured using a weighted average cost formula. Net realisable
value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated
and directly attributable costs of completion and costs to be
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
1.14 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand,
bank overdrafts and short term highly liquid deposits with a
maturity of three months or less and which are subject to an
insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts, which
form part of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the
cash flow statement, are shown under current liabilities.
1.15 Borrowings and other financial liabilities
The Group’s financial liabilities are those which involve a
contractual obligation to deliver cash to external parties at a
future date. Financial liabilities comprise all items shown in notes
17, 18 and 19 with the exception of other taxation and social
security, deferred income from customer support agreements,
other deferred income and other non-financial creditors. Under
the classifications stipulated by IAS 39, borrowings, finance
lease obligations and trade and other payables (excluding
derivative financial liabilities) are classified as ‘financial liabilities
measured at amortised cost’. Derivative financial instruments,
which are described further in note 1.16 below, are classified 
as ‘held for trading unless designated in a hedge relationship’.
Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recorded at the consideration received
less directly attributable transaction costs. Transaction costs 
are amortised through the income statement using the effective
interest method and the unamortised balance is included as
part of the related borrowing at the balance sheet date. A fair
value adjustment is made to the borrowing where hedge
accounting, as described in note 1.16 below, has been applied.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables (excluding derivative financial liabilities)
are recorded at cost. Derivative financial instruments, which
includes put options over equity held by minority shareholders,
are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently
remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date and are
held within assets or liabilities as appropriate. Gains and losses
arising from revaluation at the balance sheet date are recognised
in the income statement unless the derivatives are designated
as hedges and such hedges are proved to be effective.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 73
1.16 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivative financial instruments held by the Group are initially
recognised in the balance sheet at fair value within assets or
liabilities as appropriate and then subsequently remeasured to
fair value at each balance sheet date. Gains and losses arising
from revaluation at the balance sheet date are recognised in 
the income statement unless the derivatives are designated 
as hedges and such hedges are proved to be effective.
Derivatives are classified as non-current assets or liabilities
where a hedge relationship is identified and the remaining
maturity of the hedged item is greater than 12 months from 
the balance sheet date. Derivatives are classified as current
assets or liabilities in all other circumstances.
Fair values are derived from market values. The fair value of
financial instruments traded in active markets is based on
quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks
associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency
exchange rates. The Group uses derivative financial instruments
such as interest rate swaps, options, cross currency swaps 
and forward currency contracts to hedge these risks. The
Group does not use derivative financial instruments for
speculative purposes.
Where hedge accounting is to be applied, the Group formally
designates and documents the hedge relationship to which 
the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk
management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer meets
the criteria for hedge accounting.
The accounting treatment of derivatives that qualify for 
hedge accounting is dependent on how they are designated.
The different designations and accounting treatments are
explained below:
Fair value hedges
The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge the exposure to
changes in the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments that meet the ‘fair value’ hedging
requirements are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value
with corresponding fair value movements recognised within
finance income / costs in the income statement. For an effective
fair value hedge, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair
value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding
entry in the income statement. To the extent that the designated
hedge relationship is effective, such amounts in the income
statement offset each other. As a result, only the ineffective
element of any designated hedging relationship impacts the
income statement. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for
hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of the
hedged item for which the effective interest method is used, is
amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
Cash flow hedges
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge
the foreign currency exposure on inventory ordered and
purchased and certain sales of inventory. It is Group policy to
hedge between 80% and 100% of committed purchase orders
and sales. At any point in time the Group also hedges up to
80% of its estimated foreign currency exposure in respect of
forecast purchases and sales for the subsequent 12 months.
Orders and purchases as well as sales are each considered 
to be separate hedge transactions.
Derivative financial instruments that qualify for such cash flow
hedging are initially recognised on the balance sheet with gains 
and losses relating to the remeasurement of the effective portion 
of the hedge being deferred in equity. T o the extent that such items
are ineffectively hedged, gains or losses relating to the ineffective
portion are recognised in the income statement. Amounts taken 
to equity are transferred to the income statement when the
hedged transaction affects profit or loss (i.e. when a purchase 
or sale is made). For inventory purchases, the associated gains
or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised
in equity are included in the initial measurement of inventory. For
sales, the gains or losses on the derivative that had previously
been recognised in equity are included in the income statement
in the period in which the sale is made.
Net investment hedges
The Group uses currency forward contracts and currency swaps
to hedge its currency risk on the translation of net investments in
foreign entities. Gains and losses arising on the retranslation of the
investments and the related derivatives are recognised in equity.
However, this is on the basis that the hedging requirements of IAS
39 are met and the hedging relationship is effective. To the extent
that such items are ineffectively hedged, gains or losses relating to
the ineffective portion are recognised within the income statement.
1.17 Retirement benefit obligations
Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes
and contributions made to state pension schemes for certain
overseas employees are charged to the income statement on 
an accruals basis as contributions become payable.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the regular service cost 
of providing retirement benefits to employees during the period,
together with the cost of any benefits relating to past service, is
charged to operating results in the period. A credit representing
the expected return on assets of the retirement benefit schemes
during the period is included within other finance income. This 
is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at
the start of the financial period. A charge is included within 
other finance costs, representing the expected increase in the
liabilities of the retirement benefit schemes during the period.
The difference between the market value of the assets and the
present value of the accrued pension liabilities is shown as an
asset or liability in the balance sheet. Differences between the
actual and expected returns on assets during the period are
recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive
income and expense, together with differences arising from
changes in actuarial assumptions. 74 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
1 Accounting policies continued
1.18 Share-based payments
The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to
certain employees which are measured at fair value at the date
of grant. This fair value is expensed in the income statement 
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an
estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest as
adjusted for any non-market conditions.
A liability equal to the portion of services received from
employees is recognised at the current fair value determined at
each balance sheet date for cash settled share-based payments.
1.19 Estimates, judgements and critical accounting policies
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities. Significant items subject to
such assumptions and estimates include the useful lives of
assets; the measurement and recognition of provisions; the
recognition of deferred tax assets; and liabilities for potential
corporation tax. Actual results could differ from these estimates
and any subsequent changes are accounted for with an effect
on income at the time such updated information becomes
available. The most critical accounting policies in determining
the financial condition and results of the Group are those
requiring the greatest degree of subjective or complex
judgements. These relate to revenue recognition, inventory
valuation, onerous lease costs, the valuation of goodwill,
acquired intangible assets and property, plant & equipment,
share-based payments, post-retirement benefits and taxation,
and are set out below.
Revenue recognition
Revenue earned from the sale of customer support agreements
is recognised over the term of the contracts when the Group
obtains the right to consideration as a result of performance of
its contractual obligations. Revenue in any one year is therefore
recognised to match the proportion of the expected costs of
fulfilling the Group’s total obligations under the agreements. 
An estimate of the degree of performance of these contractual
obligations is determined by reference to extensive historical
claims data. Reliance on historical data assumes that current
and future experience will follow past trends. The directors
consider that the quantity and quality of data available provides
an appropriate proxy for current trends.
Inventory valuation
Inventories are valued at the lower of average cost and net
realisable value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those
overheads that have been incurred in bring the inventories to
their present location and condition, both types of cost being
measures using a weighted average cost formula. Net realisable
value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated
and directly attributable costs of completion and costs to be
incurred in the marketing, selling and distribution. Net realisable
value includes, where necessary, provisions for slow moving and
damaged inventory. The provision represents the difference
between the cost of stock and its estimated net realisable 
value, based on ageing. Calculation of these provisions requires
judgements to be made which include forecast consumer
demand, the promotional, competitive and economic
environment and inventory loss trends.
Provisions and accruals for onerous leases
If the Group vacates a store or other property prior to the expiry
of the related lease, or a lease forms part of a separate CGU
whereby the carrying value of that CGU is not considered
supportable, it records a provision or accrual for the expected
lease payments that the Group will incur prior to assignment 
or sublease of the property. Such a calculation requires a
judgement as to the timing and duration of the expected vacant
periods and the amount and timing of future potential sublease
income. When making these judgements, the directors consider
a number of factors, including the landlord, the location and
condition of the property, the terms of the lease, the specific
marketplace demand and the economic environment.
Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant & equipment
impairment reviews
Goodwill is required to be valued annually to assess the
requirement for potential impairment. Other assets are assessed
on an ongoing basis to determine whether circumstances exist
that could lead to the conclusion that the net book value of
such assets is not supportable. Impairment testing on goodwill
is carried out in accordance with the analyses described in 
note 9. Such calculations require judgement relating to the
appropriate discount factors and long term growth prevalent in
a particular market as well as short and medium term business
plans. The directors draw upon experience as well as external
resources in making these judgements.
In assessing impairment of intangible assets and property, 
plant & equipment, discounted cash flow methods are used as
described in note 1.10. Judgement is required in determining
the appropriate discount factors as well as the short and
medium term business plans. As for goodwill, the directors
draw upon experience and external resources in making 
these judgements.
Share-based payments
The charge for share-based payments is calculated by
estimating the fair value of the award at the date of grant using
either the Binomial or Black Scholes option pricing model or 
the Monte Carlo simulation. The option valuation models used
require highly subjective assumptions to be made including 
the future volatility of the Company’s share price, expected
dividend yields, risk-free interest rates and expected staff
turnover. The directors draw upon a variety of external sources
to aid in the determination of the appropriate data to use in
such calculations.
Defined benefit pension schemes
The surplus or deficit in the UK defined benefit scheme that 
is recognised through the statement of recognised income 
and expense is subject to a number of assumptions and
uncertainties. The calculated liabilities of the scheme are based
on assumptions regarding salary increases, inflation rates,
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 75
discount rates, the long term expected return on the scheme’s
assets and member longevity. Such assumptions are based 
on actuarial advice and are benchmarked against similar
pension schemes.
Taxation
Tax laws that apply to the Group’s businesses may be amended
by the relevant authorities, for example as a result of changes in
fiscal circumstances or priorities. Such potential amendments
and their application to the Group are monitored regularly and
the requirement for recognition of any liabilities assessed where
necessary. The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of
different jurisdictions and judgement is required in determining
the appropriate provision for transactions where the ultimate 
tax determination is uncertain. In such circumstances, the
Group recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes due based 
on best information available and where the anticipated liability
is probable and estimable. Where the final outcome of such
matters differs from the amounts initially recorded, any
differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax
provisions in the period to which such determination is made.
Where the potential liabilities are not considered probable, 
the amount at risk is disclosed unless an adverse outcome 
is considered remote.
Deferred tax is recognised on taxable losses based on the
expected ability to utilise such losses. This ability takes account
of the business plans for the relevant companies, potential
uncertainties around the longer term aspects of these business
plans, any expiry of taxable benefits and potential future volatility
in the local tax regimes.
1.20 New accounting standards and interpretations
During the period, the following new standards, and
amendments to existing standards, which are applicable to the
Group were published, but do not become effective until future
accounting periods:
The following are effective for the financial year ending
30 April 2011:
■ IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations. IFRS 3 Revised
introduces a number of changes in the accounting for
business combinations that will impact the amount of 
goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period 
that an acquisition occurs and the future reported results.
■ IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial
Statements. IAS 27 Revised requires that a change in 
the ownership interest of a subsidiary is accounted for 
as an equity transaction. These changes must be applied
prospectively and will affect future acquisitions and
transactions with minority interests.
It is not expected that these changes will have a material impact
on the net results or net assets of the Group, however, they may
impact acquisitions in the future.
2 Segmental analysis
The Group’s operating segments have been determined based
on the information reported to the Board. This information is
predominantly based on geographical areas which are either
managed separately or have similar trading characteristics such
that they can be aggregated together into one segment and in
the case of e-commerce, as a business area with geographical
territories aggregated. Accounting policies for each operating
segment are the same as those for the Group as described in
note 1. The Group evaluates each operating segment based 
on underlying operating profits which excludes those items
described in note 1.1.
All segments are involved in the multi-channel sale of high
technology consumer electronics, personal computers,
domestic appliances, photographic equipment, communication
products and related financial and after-sales services. The
principal categories of customer are retail, business to business
and online.
During the period the Group disposed of its operations in
Hungary and Poland, both of which have been classified as
discontinued operations and were previously shown in the Other
International division. Further information is provided in note 29.
The Group’s reportable segments have been identified as follows:
■ UK & Ireland comprises UK & Ireland Electricals and UK
Computing both of which are engaged predominantly 
in retail sales, associated peripherals and services and 
related financial and after-sales services with the latter 
also engaging in business to business sales of computer
hardware and software.
■ Nordics comprises the Elkjøp Group which operates in
Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Iceland, Greenland 
and the Faroe Islands. The Nordics division engages
predominantly in retail sales.
■ Other International comprises operations in Italy, Greece,
Spain, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Turkey. The Other
International division engages predominantly in retail sales.
■ e-commerce comprises pure-play online retailers. It is engaged
in online retail sales and operates in all of the countries in which
the other divisions operate and across Europe.
Closed businesses comprise Markantalo and PC City Sweden
whereby these store operations were closed on 10 May 2009
and 20 May 2009, respectively. Owing to their closure rather
than disposal, these operations do not meet the definition of
discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5. 76 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
2 Segmental analysis continued
(a) Income statement
2009/10
External Intersegmental Underlying Total
revenue revenue Revenue profit / (loss) profit / (loss)
£million £million £million £million £million
UK & Ireland 4,013.5 101.7 4,115.2 71.1 93.7
Nordics 2,094.6 1.7 2,096.3 95.8 95.6
Other International 1,503.2 1.5 1,504.7 (8.3) (9.0)
e-commerce 921.2 3.8 925.0 11.3 7.9
Eliminations – (108.7) (108.7) – –
8,532.5 – 8,532.5 169.9 188.2
Share of post-tax result of associates 1.6 1.6
Operating profit before central costs and property losses 171.5 189.8
Central costs (19.5) (14.8)
Property losses (18.8) (18.8)
Operating profit 133.2 156.2
Finance income 58.2 59.3
Finance costs (100.9) (102.8)
Profit before tax for the period 90.5 112.7
External revenue for the Nordics includes £0.9 million relating to closed businesses.
Reconciliation of underlying profit / (loss) to total profit / (loss)
2009/10
Amortisation Net Change in Net fair 
Underlying Closed of acquired restructuring pension value re- Total
profit / (loss) businesses intangibles charges benefits measurements profit / (loss)
£million £million £million £million £million £million £million
UK & Ireland 71.1 – (0.5) (5.6) 28.7 – 93.7
Nordics 95.8 (0.2) –––– 95.6
Other International (8.3) – (0.7) – – – (9.0)
e-commerce 11.3 – (3.4) – – – 7.9
169.9 (0.2) (4.6) (5.6) 28.7 – 188.2
Share of post-tax result of associates 1.6 ––––– 1.6
Operating profit before central costs 
and property losses 171.5 (0.2) (4.6) (5.6) 28.7 – 189.8
Central costs (19.5) – – – 4.7 – (14.8)
Property losses (18.8) ––––– (18.8)
Operating profit 133.2 (0.2) (4.6) (5.6) 33.4 – 156.2
Finance income 58.2 –––– 1.1 59.3
Finance costs (100.9) –––– (1.9) (102.8)
Profit before tax for the period 90.5 (0.2) (4.6) (5.6) 33.4 (0.8) 112.7
Share of post-tax result of associates relates to the Nordics.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 77
2008/09
External Intersegmental Underlying Total
revenue revenue Revenue profit / (loss) profit / (loss)
£million £million £million £million £million
UK & Ireland 4,228.6 84.2 4,312.8 58.7 (17.0)
Nordics 1,762.8 1.1 1,763.9 72.5 14.2
Other International 1,519.0 2.3 1,521.3 (23.7) (42.6)
e-commerce 807.40.4807.815.011.7
Eliminations – (88.0) (88.0) – –
8,317.8 – 8,317.8 122.5 (33.7)
Share of post-tax result of associates 3.6 3.6
Operating profit / (loss) before central costs and property losses 126.1 (30.1)
Central costs (25.0) (39.2)
Property losses (18.1) (18.1)
Operating profit / (loss) 83.0 (87.4)
Finance income 69.6 101.8
Finance costs (96.5) (138.0)
Profit / (loss) before tax for the period 56.1 (123.6)
External revenue for the Nordics includes £137.6 million relating to closed businesses.
Reconciliation of underlying profit / (loss) to total profit / (loss)
2008/09
Amortisation Net Business Net fair 
Underlying Closed of acquired restructuring impairment value re- Total
profit / (loss) businesses intangibles charges charges measurements profit / (loss)
£million £million £million £million £million £million £million
UK & Ireland 58.7 – (0.4) (43.0) (32.3) – (17.0)
Nordics 72.5 (12.2) (0.5) – (45.6) – 14.2
Other International (23.7) – (0.7) – (18.2) – (42.6)
e-commerce 15.0–(3.3)–––11.7
122.5 (12.2) (4.9) (43.0) (96.1) – (33.7)
Share of post-tax result of associates 3.6 ––––– 3.6
Operating profit / (loss) before central costs 
and property losses 126.1 (12.2) (4.9) (43.0) (96.1) – (30.1)
Central costs (25.0) – – (14.2) – – (39.2)
Property losses (18.1) ––––– (18.1)
Operating profit / (loss) 83.0 (12.2) (4.9) (57.2) (96.1) – (87.4)
Finance income 69.6 –––– 32.2 101.8
Finance costs (96.5) (1.9) – – – (39.6) (138.0)
Profit / (loss) before tax for the period 56.1 (14.1) (4.9) (57.2) (96.1) (7.4) (123.6)
Share of post-tax result of associates relates to the Nordics.
Strategic Summary Performance Review 78 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
2 Segmental analysis continued
(b) Geographical analysis
Revenues are allocated to countries according to the entity’s country of domicile. Revenue generated by the UK business was
£3,878.7 million (2008/09 £4,086.8 million). Revenue by destination is not materially different to that shown by domicile. Revenue
from discontinued operations is shown in note 29.
Non-current assets comprise property, plant & equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, investments in associates and non-current
trade and other receivables. Non-current assets held by the UK, Italy and PIXmania were £327.4 million (2009 £290.9 million),
£180.8 million (2009 £184.5 million), and £236.7 million (2009 £251.7 million), respectively. Non-current assets held by the Nordics
were £799.3 million (2009 £738.2 million) and predominantly comprised goodwill (as disclosed in note 9) which has not been
allocated to individual countries.
(c) Balance sheet
2009/10
Segment Investment Total Segment
assets in associates segment assets liabilities Net assets
£million £million £million £million £million
UK & Ireland 1,543.1 – 1,543.1 (1,087.4) 455.7
Nordics 1,054.3 26.4 1,080.7 (467.2) 613.5
Other International 696.8 – 696.8 (1,351.6) (654.8)
e-commerce 373.3 – 373.3 (335.3) 38.0
Central 1,411.3 – 1,411.3 (987.5) 423.8
Eliminations (1,389.4) – (1,389.4) 1,389.4 –
Continuing operations 3,689.4 26.4 3,715.8 (2,839.6) 876.2
Discontinued operations – – – (1.1) (1.1)
3,689.4 26.4 3,715.8 (2,840.7) 875.1
2008/09
Segment Investment Total Segment
assets in associates segment assets liabilities Net assets
£million £million £million £million £million
UK & Ireland 3,386.7 – 3,386.7 (3,003.0) 383.7
Nordics 998.3 29.8 1,028.1 (515.1) 513.0
Other International 673.8 – 673.8 (1,378.2) (704.4)
e-commerce 387.0–387.0(346.3)40.7
Central 3,038.5 – 3,038.5 (2,683.1) 355.4
Eliminations (4,879.3) – (4,879.3) 4,879.3 –
Continuing operations 3,605.0 29.8 3,634.8 (3,046.4) 588.4
Discontinued operations 24.1 – 24.1 (27.6) (3.5)
3,629.1 29.8 3,658.9 (3,074.0) 584.9
Central assets and liabilities predominantly comprise intersegment balances, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, net retirement
benefit obligations, derivative financial instruments and tax assets and liabilities.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 79
(d) Other information
2009/10
Capital expenditure
Intangible Property, plant Share-based
assets & equipment Depreciation Amortisation payments
£million £million £million £million £million
UK & Ireland 7.3 95.8 58.7 15.5 3.2
Nordics 2.6 29.9 21.1 4.7 0.6
Other International 2.8 26.6 21.4 3.8 0.6
e-commerce 1.4 2.4 3.0 6.1 0.1
Central – 5.4 1.6 0.6 1.2
Continuing operations 14.1 160.1 105.8 30.7 5.7
Discontinued operations –– 0.1 ––
14.1 160.1 105.9 30.7 5.7
2008/09
Capital expenditure
Intangible Property, plant Share-based
assets & equipment Depreciation Amortisation payments
£million £million £million £million £million
UK & Ireland 7.8 46.4 72.8 15.7 1.0
Nordics 4.9 20.9 20.8 5.0 –
Other International 2.1 28.2 24.8 3.0 0.2
e-commerce 1.93.92.44.8–
Central 15.14.61.20.40.6
Continuing operations 31.8 104.0 122.0 28.9 1.8
Discontinued operations 0.2 1.2 1.8 0.2 –
32.0 105.2 123.8 29.1 1.8
3 Revenue and operating profit / (loss)
2009/10 2008/09
Non-underlying Non-underlying
Closed Closed
Underlying businesses Other Total Underlying businesses Other Total
£million £million £million £million £million £million £million £million
Revenue 8,531.6 0.9 – 8,532.58,180.2 137.6 –8,317.8
Cost of sales (7,883.9) (1.1) (5.6) (7,890.6) (7,600.0) (149.8) (121.4) (7,871.2)
Gross profit / (loss) 647.7 (0.2) (5.6) 641.9 580.2 (12.2) (121.4) 446.6
Distribution costs (186.7) – – (186.7) (205.4) – – (205.4)
Administrative expenses (309.8) – 28.8 (281.0) (275.4) – (36.8) (312.2)
Other operating charge (19.6) – – (19.6) (20.0) – – (20.0)
Profit / (loss) from operations 
before associates 131.6 (0.2) 23.2 154.6 79.4 (12.2) (158.2) (91.0)
Share of post-tax results 
of associates 1.6 – – 1.6 3.6 – – 3.6
Total operating profit / (loss) 133.2 (0.2) 23.2 156.2 83.0 (12.2) (158.2) (87.4)
Non-underlying items comprise amortisation of acquired intangibles of £4.6 million (2008/09 £4.9 million), included within administrative
expenses, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one-off items. Such items are described further in note 4.
Included within underlying cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses is amortisation of other intangibles of 
£14.5 million, £2.8 million and £8.8 million, respectively (2008/09 £14.5 million, £2.8 million and £6.9 million, respectively).
Strategic Summary Performance Review 80 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
3 Revenue and operating profit / (loss) continued
2009/10 2008/09
Closed Closed
Underlyingbusinesses Total Underlying businesses Total
£million £million £million £million £million £million
Sale of goods 8,010.7 0.9 8,011.6 7,652.8 136.8 7,789.6
Revenue from services 520.9 – 520.9 527.4 0.8 528.2
8,531.6 0.9 8,532.5 8,180.2 137.6 8,317.8
Revenue from services predominantly comprises those relating to customer support agreements, delivery and installation, 
product repairs and product support.
2009/10 2008/09
Closed
Underlying Underlying businesses Total
£million £million £million £million
Inventories recognised as an expense 6,197.4 5,956.2 101.9 6,058.1
Cost of inventory write-down 35.7 31.7 6.5 38.2
Rentals paid under operating leases:
Plant and machinery 5.5 7.7 0.1 7.8
Property – non-contingent rent 365.7 348.4 5.1 353.5
Property – contingent rent 13.5 11.8 – 11.8
Rentals received under operating leases:
Property – subleases (5.5) (10.6) – (10.6)
2009/10 2008/09
Auditors’ remuneration
Audit services – Group financial statements 0.5 0.5
– Subsidiary financial statements 0.7 0.8
Total audit fees 1.2 1.3
Non-audit services pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.1
Corporate finance services – in capacity as auditors – 1.2
– other 0.1 2.7
Tax services – 0.7
Other 0.1 –
Total fees paid to the auditors 1.6 6.0
Auditors’ remuneration in respect of corporate finance services in the prior year comprised those activities carried out in the
capacity as auditors (reporting accountants) in respect of the Placing and Rights Issue. Other corporate finance services related 
to businesses disposed and aborted disposals together with fees associated with the refinancing described in note 17. Fees in
respect of corporate finance services for disposal of businesses have been charged as part of costs of disposal.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 81
4 Non-underlying items
2009/10 2008/09
Closed Closed
businesses Other Total businesses Other Total
Note £million £million £million £million £million £million
Included in operating profit / (loss):
Closed businesses (i) (0.2) – (0.2) (12.2) – (12.2)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – (4.6) (4.6) – (4.9) (4.9)
Net restructuring charges (ii) – (5.6) (5.6) – (59.1) (59.1)
Business impairment charges (iii) ––– – (96.1) (96.1)
Change in pension benefits (iv) – 33.4 33.4 –––
Other items (v) ––– – 1.9 1.9
(0.2) 23.2 23.0 (12.2) (158.2) (170.4)
Included in net finance costs:
Closed businesses ––– (1.9) – (1.9)
Net fair value remeasurements 
of financial instruments (vi) – (0.8) (0.8) – (7.4) (7.4)
– (0.8) (0.8) (1.9) (7.4) (9.3)
Total impact on profit / (loss) before tax (0.2) 22.4 22.2 (14.1) (165.6) (179.7)
Included in income tax expense:
Closed businesses 0.1 – 0.1 2.7 – 2.7
HMRC settlement (vii) ––– – (52.7) (52.7)
Other non-underlying items – (6.1) (6.1) – 27.5 27.5
0.1 (6.1) (6.0) 2.7 (25.2) (22.5)
Total impact on profit / (loss) after tax (0.1) 16.3 16.2 (11.4) (190.8) (202.2)
(i) Closed businesses: Comprises the operating activities of Markantalo and PC City Sweden which were closed on 10 May 2009
and 20 May 2009, respectively.
(ii) Net restructuring charges – strategic reorganisation
Property Asset Other
charges impairments charges Total
£million £million £million £million
2009/10 (2.3) (3.3) – (5.6)
2008/09 (3.9) (13.6) (41.6) (59.1)
Net restructuring charges relate to the renewal and transformation of the UK business which has been focused mainly on the
reformatting of the UK store portfolio and the reorganisation of the service offering.
Property charges comprise onerous lease costs and charges related to vacating properties. Asset impairments, which are
mainly in respect of the reformatting of the UK store portfolio, relate to intangible assets and items of property, plant &
equipment which are to be eliminated from the business over a shorter period than their current useful expected lives and in
addition for 2008/09, inventories. Impairments of intangible assets and property, plant & equipment comprise a combination 
of asset write offs and incremental accelerated depreciation charges associated with the economic useful life of these assets
being shortened and for which incremental charges of £5 million (2008/09 £5 million) are expected to be incurred, spread 
over the next three financial periods. In 2008/09, other charges predominantly comprised employee severance and contract
termination costs.
Strategic Summary Performance Review 82 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
4 Non-underlying items continued
(iii) Net business impairment charges:
Property Other
Goodwill Other assets credits / credits /
impairment impairment (charges) (charges) Total
£million £million £million £million £million
2008/09
Italian business – – 12.4 6.4 18.8
Other businesses (10.2) (45.2) (50.5) (9.0) (114.9)
(10.2) (45.2) (38.1) (2.6) (96.1)
2009/10: No such charges were incurred.
2008/09: The Italian business impairment credits related to the reversal of charges incurred in prior periods whereby liabilities
were settled at lower amounts than those originally provided.
2008/09: Other business impairments comprised businesses in Spain, closed businesses in the Nordics as well as stores 
in underperforming locations in the UK High Street. Goodwill impairment related to the full write off of Markantalo in Finland
following the announcement of the closure of this business. Other asset impairments comprised the Markantalo brand name,
other intangible assets, property, plant & equipment and inventory. Other charges related predominantly to employee severance.
(iv) The change in pension benefits arises from the closure to future accrual of the defined benefit section of the UK pension
scheme which occurred on 30 April 2010 and which is described further in note 21(c).
(v) 2008/09: Other items related to releases of unutilised provisions and settlement income received for claims for damages
incurred following the Buncefield explosion in December 2005 and for which exceptional charges were incurred in the 2005/06
financial year.
(vi) Net fair value remeasurement gains and losses on revaluation of financial instruments: Items excluded from underlying finance
income and expense represent the gains and losses arising from the revaluation of derivative financial instruments under
methodologies stipulated by IAS 39 compared with those on an accruals basis (the basis upon which all other items in the financial
statements are prepared). Also included within this amount are remeasurement losses relating to put options predominantly held
by minority shareholders. Such a treatment is a form of revaluation gain or loss created by an assumption that the derivatives will
be settled before their maturity.
Such gains and losses are unrealised and in the directors’ view also conflict with both the commercial reasons for entering into
such arrangements as well as Group Treasury policy whereby early settlement in the majority of cases would amount to
speculative use of derivatives.
(vii) 2008/09: On 4 June 2009, following an agreement in principle in April 2009, the Group agreed a settlement with HMRC in
respect of a dispute concerning certain historical intra group trading arrangements in the years 1997 to 2005 as well as certain
other matters. The settlement exceeded the provision already held in the balance sheet and accordingly a non-underlying
income tax charge of £52.7 million was recorded in current tax. This charge was in addition to the tax effects applied to the 
net non-underlying charges before tax and was treated as non-underlying owing to its size and one-off non-recurring nature.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 83
5 Net finance costs
2009/10 2008/09
Note £million £million
Bank and other interest receivable (ii) 20.6 21.8
Expected return on pension scheme assets 37.6 47.8
Fair value remeasurement gains on financial instruments
*
(iv) 1.1 32.2
Finance income 59.3 101.8
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 interest and related charges (18.3) (18.3)
Bank loans, overdrafts and other interest payable
Underlying (iii) (29.9) (24.1)
Closed businesses 
*
– (1.9)
Finance lease interest payable (7.1) (6.9)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (45.6) (47.2)
Fair value remeasurement losses on financial instruments
*
(iv) (1.9) (39.6)
Finance costs (102.8) (138.0)
Total net finance costs – continuing operations (43.5) (36.2)
Underlying total net finance costs – continuing operations (i) (42.7) (26.9)
(i) Underlying total net finance costs excludes items marked 
*
. See note 4 for a description of such items. Net finance costs 
for closed businesses comprise interest on bank loans and overdrafts.
(ii) Bank and other interest receivable comprise:
2009/10 2008/09
£million £million
Interest on cash and cash equivalents and short term investments 2.6 8.2
Interest on overpayments of tax in prior periods 6.2 –
Exchange gains – 12.2
Remeasurement of financial instruments on an accruals basis 11.8 1.4
20.6 21.8
Included within the bank loans, overdrafts and other interest payable (2009 bank and other interest receivable) within
remeasurement of financial instruments on an accruals basis are exchange gains of £16.9 million (2008/09 gains of £5.1 million)
which is a natural offset for a £16.9 million charge (2008/09 £5.1 million charge) arising from financial instruments not in a formal
designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
(iii) Bank loans, overdrafts and other interest payable comprise:
2009/10 2008/09
£million £million
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (22.2) (13.5)
Exchange losses (4.6) (0.9)
Remeasurement of financial instruments on an accruals basis (3.1) (9.7)
(29.9) (24.1)
Included within the remeasurement of financial instruments is a £3.1 million charge (2008/09 £8.2 million charge) which is not 
in a designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
(iv) Fair value remeasurement gains and losses include gains of £nil (2008/09 £4.2 million) and losses of £0.7 million (2008/09
£11.5 million) which are not in a designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
(v) Interest income of £2.6 million (2008/09 £8.2 million) and expense of £55.3 million (2008/09 £38.7 million) is included within 
net finance costs relating to assets and liabilities respectively not held at fair value through the income statement.
Strategic Summary Performance Review 84 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
6 Employees
Staff costs for the period were:
2009/10 2008/09
£million £million
Wages and salaries 724.9 704.9
Social security costs 109.3 103.7
Other pension costs 15.4 17.3
849.6 825.9
In addition to the above other pension costs, a non-underlying curtailment gain of £33.4 million was incurred as described in note 4. 
The average number of employees, including part time employees, was:
2009/10 2008/09
Number Number
UK & Ireland 22,323 22,978
Nordics 7,296 7,091
Other International 7,573 8,517
e-commerce 1,413 1,213
Corporate centre and shared services 141 143
Continuing operations 38,746 39,942
Discontinued operations 170 856
38,916 40,798
7 Tax
(a) Income tax expense
2009/10 2008/09
£million £million
Current tax
UK corporation tax at 28% 0.4 0.2
Double tax relief (0.4) (0.2)
– –
Overseas taxation – underlying 25.0 24.2
– non-underlying: closed businesses
*
– (1.1)
Credit in respect of other non-underlying items
*
– (3.1)
Adjustment in respect of earlier periods:
UK corporation tax – underlying (1.8) 6.8
– non-underlying
*
– 52.7
Overseas taxation 1.3 (5.3)
24.5 74.2
Deferred tax
Current period – underlying 18.0 9.6
– non-underlying: closed businesses
*
(0.1) (2.5)
Charge / (credit) in respect of other non-underlying items
*
6.1 (24.4)
Adjustment in respect of earlier periods:
UK corporation tax – underlying (6.0) 1.6
Overseas taxation – underlying 4.2 (2.6)
– non-underlying: closed businesses
*
– 0.9
22.2 (17.4)
Income tax expense – continuing operations 46.7 56.8
Underlying income tax expense – continuing operations 40.7 34.3
Underlying income tax expense excludes those items marked 
*
. Tax relating to discontinued operations is included in note 29.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 85
2008/09: On 4 June 2009, following an agreement in principle in April 2009, the Group agreed a settlement with HMRC in respect
of a dispute concerning certain historical intra group trading arrangements in the years 1997 to 2005 as well as certain other
matters. The settlement exceeded the provision already held in the balance sheet and accordingly a non-underlying income tax
charge of £52.7 million was recorded in current tax. This charge was in addition to the tax effects applied to the net non-underlying
charges before tax described in note 4 and was treated as non-underlying owing to its size and one-off non-recurring nature.
A reconciliation of the notional to the actual income tax expense is set out below:
2009/10 2008/09
Note £million £million
Profit / (loss) before tax – continuing operations 112.7 (123.6)
Loss before tax – discontinued operations 29 (8.7) (38.9)
104.0 (162.5)
Tax on profit / (loss) at UK statutory rate of 28% 29.1 (45.5)
Non-qualifying depreciation 1.9 2.9
Differences in effective overseas taxation rates 3.5 3.7
Non-deductible charges 1.6 2.6
Non-taxable gains on property disposals 1.2 2.4
Non-taxable other gains– underlying (0.2) (0.3)
Non-deductible losses – non-underlying (0.1) 8.9
Overseas deferred tax not recognised – continuing operations 5.3 14.5
– discontinued operations 0.8 6.3
Adjustment in respect of earlier periods – underlying (2.3) 0.5
– non-underlying – 53.6
Non-deductible loss on discontinued operations 1.6 4.6
Other differences 4.3 2.6
Income tax expense – total 46.7 56.8
Expense attributable to discontinued operations 29 – –
Income tax expense – continuing operations 46.7 56.8
The effective tax rate on underlying earnings of 45% (2008/09 61%) is expected to fall in future periods due mainly to unrecognised
losses starting to form a lower proportion of net profits. The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax 
losses of £105.8 million (2008/09 £96.3 million) of which £0.9 million (2008/09 £8.8 million) have no time restriction over when 
they can be utilised. The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to time restricted tax losses of £104.5 million
(2008/09 £87.5 million) for which the weighted average period over which they can be utilised is five years (2008/09 five years).
Strategic Summary Performance Review 86 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
7 Tax continued
(b) Deferred tax
Accelerated Retirement Losses Other
capital benefit carried timing
allowances obligations forward differences Total
£million £million £million £million £million
At 4 May 2008 (3.9) 21.1 25.9 13.7 56.8
Credited to income statement 22.3 (8.5) 0.5 3.1 17.4
Credited directly to equity – 32.6 – 20.8 53.4
Currency retranslation – – 3.5 (3.5) –
At 2 May 2009 18.4 45.2 29.9 34.1 127.6
Charged to income statement 14.6 (13.5) (2.1) (21.2) (22.2)
Acquisitions 0.2 – – 0.1 0.3
Credited directly to equity – 43.2 – 1.3 44.5
Currency retranslation (0.2) 0.1 (0.3) 0.9 0.5
At 1 May 2010 33.0 75.0 27.5 15.2 150.7
Summary of assets and liabilities as disclosed:
2010 2009
£million £million
Deferred tax assets 169.4 150.3
Deferred tax liabilities (18.7) (22.7)
150.7 127.6
Analysis of deferred tax relating to items credited / (charged) directly to equity in the period:
2009/10 2008/09
£million £million
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 43.2 32.6
Net losses / (gains) on revaluation of cash flow hedges 2.0 (0.5)
Net (gains) / losses on hedges of net investments (0.8) 20.8
Unrealised (gains) / losses on investments (0.2) 0.3
Credited to comprehensive expense 44.2 53.2
Share-based payments 0.3 0.2
44.5 53.4
The recognition of trading losses carried forward is considered supportable due to the ability to offset losses against future profits.
The Group has provided deferred tax of £nil (2008/09 £0.8 million) in relation to temporary differences associated with investments
in subsidiaries and the income tax consequences of paying dividends. In all other cases, the Group has determined that the
undistributed profits of its overseas subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future. The deferred tax which has not
been recognised for the taxes which would be payable on the undistributed earnings of the Group’s investment in subsidiaries 
is £nil (2008/09 £27.8 million).
As a result of share disposals, allowable losses have been incurred which are available for offset against certain future chargeable
gains. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as it is considered that there is insufficient evidence
that chargeable gains will arise. The deferred tax asset not recognised, measured at the standard rate of 28%, is not less than
£352.0 million (2008/09 £352.0 million). Where permitted, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset for financial
reporting purposes.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 87
8 Earnings / (loss) per share
2009/10 2008/09
Note £million £million
Basic and diluted earnings / (loss)
Total (continuing and discontinued operations) 59.8 (219.4)
Discontinued operations – loss after tax 29 8.7 38.9
Continuing operations 68.5 (180.5)
Adjustments
Closed businesses 0.2 14.1
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4.6 4.9
Net restructuring charges 5.6 59.1
Business impairment charges – 96.1
Other items – (1.9)
Change in pension benefits (33.4) –
Net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments 0.8 7.4
(22.2) 179.7
Tax on adjustments
Closed businesses (0.1) (2.7)
HMRC settlement – 52.7
Other non-underlying items 6.1 (27.5)
6.0 22.5
Total adjustments (net of taxation) (16.2) 202.2
Underlying basic and diluted earnings 52.3 21.7
Million Million
Basic weighted average number of shares 3,495.6 2,148.7
Employee share option and ownership schemes 23.9 3.1
Diluted weighted average number of shares 3,519.5 2,151.8
Pence Pence
Basic earnings / (loss) per share
Total (continuing and discontinued operations) 1.7 (10.2)
Discontinued operations 0.3 1.8
Continuing operations 2.0 (8.4)
Adjustments (net of taxation) (0.5) 9.4
Underlying basic earnings per share 1.5 1.0
Diluted earnings / (loss) per share
Total (continuing and discontinued operations) 1.7 (10.2)
Discontinued operations 0.2 1.8
Continuing operations 1.9 (8.4)
Adjustments (net of taxation) (0.4) 9.4
Underlying diluted earnings per share 1.5 1.0
The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation for earnings per share information for the periods prior to the Rights
Issue, which completed on 9 June 2009, has been multiplied by an adjustment factor to reflect the bonus element in the shares
issued under the terms of the Rights Issue. The adjustment factor used was 1.2138.
Basic and diluted earnings / (loss) per share are based on the loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders. Underlying
earnings per share are presented in order to show the underlying performance of the Group. Adjustments used to determine
underlying earnings are described further in note 4.
Strategic Summary Performance Review 88 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
9 Goodwill
2010 2009
£million £million
Cost
At beginning of period 1,502.7 1,358.2
Additions 7.3 17.7
Disposals (28.7) (0.2)
Currency retranslation 35.2 127.0
At end of period 1,516.5 1,502.7
Impairment
At beginning of period 433.6 373.9
Impairment charges – 10.3
Disposals (28.1) –
Currency retranslation (5.5) 49.4
At end of period 400.0 433.6
Net book value at end of period 1,116.5 1,069.1
Disposals relate mainly to closed businesses. As required by IFRS 3, goodwill is subject to annual impairment reviews. These reviews
are carried out using the following criteria. An amount of goodwill is attributed to each specific acquisition. Such acquisitions are
determined to be a ‘Cash Generating Unit’ (CGU) as determined by IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’. The recoverable amount of each
CGU is determined based on calculating its value in use. The value in use is calculated by applying discounted cash flow modelling
to management’s own projections covering a five year period. Cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated using a long
term growth rate equivalent to the relevant market’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The value in use is compared to the carrying
amount in order to determine whether impairment has occurred.
The impairment charge in 2008/09 related to Markantalo.
The most significant components of goodwill relate to Elkjøp Nordic AS (Elkjøp), UniEuro S.p.A. (UniEuro) and PIXmania S.A.S.
(PIXmania). In addition to management’s five year projections, the key assumptions used in calculating value in use as well as the
carrying values are:
2010 2009
Key assumptions for 2010 Key assumptions for 2009
Growth rate Pre-tax risk Net book Growth rate Pre-tax risk Net book
beyond adjusted value beyond adjusted value 
five years discount rate £million five years discount rate £million
Elkjøp 3.0% 10.9% 667.4 3.0% 11.0% 610.8
UniEuro 1.0% 12.3% 144.3 1.2% 12.3% 147.3
PIXmania 1.8% 13.0% 181.7 2.1% 13.2% 185.6
The growth rate beyond five years is based on GDP for the territories in which these businesses operate.
The discount rates applied to cash flows are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital with a risk premium reflecting
the relative risks in the markets in which the businesses operate.
The five year projections, which have been approved by management, have been prepared using strategic plans which incorporate
the relative performance of competitors and knowledge of the current market together with management’s views on the future
achievable growth in market share, impact of the Renewal and Transformation plan and profitability over the longer term. In forming
these views, management draws on past experience as a measure to forecast future performance. Key assumptions used in
determining the forecasts comprise sales, costs and margins. Historical amounts for both the businesses under impairment review
as well as from other parts of the Group are used to generate the values attributed to these assumptions. Achievable growth in
market share takes into account the anticipated success of store offerings versus competitors as well as internal and external
competitor intelligence.
Sensitivities
A sensitivity analysis had been performed on each of the base case assumptions used for assessing the goodwill with other
variables held constant. The directors have concluded that in the case of Elkjøp there are no reasonably possible changes in 
any key assumption which would cause the carrying amount of goodwill to exceed its value in use. In the case of UniEuro and
PIXmania, it is reasonably possible that a change in a key assumption could occur and accordingly the following sensitivities 
are presented.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 89
UniEuro
In respect of management’s five year projections, a decrease of 7.9% in operating profit in year five, whilst maintaining other
elements of the five year projections, would cause the current headroom of £13.1 million in the value in use over the net book value
of the goodwill to erode to £nil.
A decrease in the growth rate beyond five years of 1.9% or an increase in the pre-tax adjusted discount rate of 0.6% would cause
the headroom in the value in use over the net book value of the goodwill to erode to £nil.
PIXmania
In respect of management’s five year projections, a decrease of 13.3% in operating profit in year five, whilst maintaining other
elements of the five year projections, would cause the current headroom of £30.0 million in the value in use over the net book value
of the goodwill to erode to £nil.
A decrease in the growth rate beyond five years of 1.8% or an increase in the pre-tax adjusted discount rate of 1.1% would cause
the headroom in the value in use over the net book value of the goodwill to erode to £nil.
10 Intangible assets
Software Software Sub-total
Acquired (externally (internally other 
intangibles acquired) generated) intangibles Total
£million £million £million £million £million
Cost
At 4 May 2008 78.6 109.8 67.7 177.5 256.1
Additions – 30.9 1.1 32.0 32.0
Disposals – (9.0) (3.1) (12.1) (12.1)
Transfers to assets held for sale – (0.3) – (0.3) (0.3)
Currency retranslation 9.5 2.0 1.4 3.4 12.9
At 2 May 2009 88.1 133.4 67.1 200.5 288.6
Additions – – 14.1 14.1 14.1
Disposals – (14.0) (11.3) (25.3) (25.3)
Currency retranslation (0.8) 1.6 (0.2) 1.4 0.6
At 1 May 2010 87.3 121.0 69.7 190.7 278.0
Amortisation
At 4 May 2008 13.0 62.8 36.4 99.2 112.2
Charge for the period – regular 4.9 14.0 9.5 23.5 28.4
– accelerated – 0.5 0.2 0.7 0.7
Non-underlying impairment 6.6 – – – 6.6
Disposals – (8.8) (2.1) (10.9) (10.9)
Transfers to assets held for sale – (0.3) – (0.3) (0.3)
Currency retranslation 1.6 1.3 0.6 1.9 3.5
At 2 May 2009 26.1 69.5 44.6 114.1 140.2
Charge for the period – regular 4.6 15.1 10.7 25.8 30.4
– accelerated – 0.3 – 0.3 0.3
Disposals – (13.6) (11.2) (24.8) (24.8)
Currency retranslation 0.4 0.9 (0.1) 0.8 1.2
At 1 May 2010 31.1 72.2 44.0 116.2 147.3
Net book value
At 1 May 2010 56.2 48.8 25.7 74.5 130.7
At 2 May 2009 62.0 63.9 22.5 86.4 148.4
Acquired intangibles predominantly comprise brand names. Amortisation of intangibles relates to continuing operations (2008/09
£28.9 million and £0.2 million relating to continuing and discontinued operations, respectively). For 2008/09, non-underlying
impairment of acquired intangibles relates to the Markantalo brand as shown in note 4.
Included within the carrying amount of brand names are £35.4 million and £17.0 million (2009 £39.4 million and £18.0 million)
relating to the euro denominated PIXmania and Kotsovolos brand names, respectively and for which the remaining life of these
assets is 11 years and 24 years, respectively.
Strategic Summary Performance Review 90 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
11 Property, plant & equipment
2010 2009
Fixtures, Fixtures, 
Land and fittings and Land and fittings and 
buildings equipment Total buildings equipment Total
£million £million £million £million £million £million
Cost
At beginning of period 205.0 1,207.0 1,412.0 207.4 1,173.1 1,380.5
Additions 0.3 159.8 160.1 0.7 104.5 105.2
Acquisitions – 0.8 0.8 –––
Disposals (1.3) (124.8) (126.1) (6.3) (98.8) (105.1)
Transfers to assets held for sale ––– – (12.9) (12.9)
Currency retranslation 1.8 7.2 9.0 3.2 41.1 44.3
At end of period 205.8 1,250.0 1,455.8 205.0 1,207.0 1,412.0
Depreciation
At beginning of period 49.4 873.0 922.4 43.1 806.1 849.2
Charge for the period – regular 8.2 94.7 102.9 7.7 105.5 113.2
– accelerated – 3.0 3.0 – 10.6 10.6
Non-underlying impairment ––– – 37.2 37.2
Disposals (0.4) (119.0) (119.4) (2.8) (92.4) (95.2)
Transfers to assets held for sale ––– – (12.9) (12.9)
Currency retranslation 0.6 5.3 5.9 1.4 18.9 20.3
At end of period 57.8 857.0 914.8 49.4 873.0 922.4
Net book value 148.0 393.0 541.0 155.6 334.0 489.6
Included in net book value
Land not depreciated 16.2 – 16.2 16.0 – 16.0
Assets in the course of construction 0.5 5.9 6.4 0.5 39.7 40.2
Assets held under finance leases 71.4 1.9 73.3 74.9 3.2 78.1
Depreciation charged in the period comprises £105.8 million and £0.1 million (2008/09 £122.0 million and £1.8 million) relating 
to continuing and discontinued operations, respectively. For 2008/09, non-underlying impairment included £4.0 million and
£2.8 million relating to the Group’s Hungarian and Polish operations, respectively, which have been treated as discontinued 
as described in note 29.
There have been no additions to finance leases during the year (2008/09 £2.4 million). The leased assets are pledged as security 
for the related finance lease liabilities.
Included within disposals of fixtures and fittings are assets with a net book value of £1.3 million relating to the disposal of Poland 
as described in note 29.
12 Investments in associates
2010 2009
£million £million
At beginning of period 29.8 29.3
Share of profit after tax 1.6 3.6
Disposals (1.9) –
Acquisitions 0.6 –
Dividends (4.2) (4.9)
Currency retranslation 0.5 1.8
At end of period 26.4 29.8
Comprising:
F-Group (40%) 25.8 28.0
Other 0.6 1.8
26.4 29.8
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 91
The Group’s share of post-tax results of associates is recorded as a single line in the income statement within operating results.
Additional information for selected income statement and balance sheet headings for F-Group and to which the Group’s share 
of 40% is applied are as follows:
2009/10 2008/09
£million £million
Income statement
Revenue 227.6 203.4
Profit after tax 5.9 7.9
2010 2009
£million £million
Balance sheet
Assets 61.4 67.5
Liabilities (25.2) (26.6)
Net assets 36.2 40.9
Investments in other associates comprise shareholdings in several different enterprises in the Nordic region, none of which are
significant.
13 Inventories
2010 2009
Note £million £million
Finished goods and goods for resale 1,017.5 1,038.3
Provision for obsolete and slow moving goods (44.9) (56.0)
Non-underlying impairment 4 – (10.4)
972.6 971.9
14 Trade and other receivables
2010 2009
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Note £million £million £million £million
Trade debtors 259.6 7.2 293.2 13.8
Provision for bad and doubtful debts (28.0) (0.2) (24.0) (2.1)
231.6 7.0 269.2 11.7
Derivative financial instruments 22 3.0 25.0 4.5 30.3
Other debtors 61.1 9.9 103.9 22.8
Prepayments 57.7 5.0 66.4 3.7
Accrued income 41.7 11.1 64.2 –
395.1 58.0 508.2 68.5
The majority of trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 day terms. The balance
comprises both business to business receivables and consumer credit receivables with no material individual balances. The total
financial assets included within trade and other receivables are £362.4 million (2009 £471.8 million). The carrying amount of trade
and other receivables approximates fair value with no concentration of credit risk.
There are no balances within other debtors which are secured by bank guarantee (2009 £9.0 million).
Strategic Summary Performance Review 92 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
14 Trade and other receivables continued
The Group’s trade debtors included the following amounts which are past due at the end of the period and for which the Group has
not provided for owing to the amounts being considered recoverable:
2010 2009
£million £million
Up to six months past due 42.4 79.4
Six to 12 months past due 5.0 6.0
Over 12 months past due 5.9 5.7
53.3 91.1
Movements on the provision for bad and doubtful debts are as follows:
2010 2009
£million £million
At beginning of period 26.1 25.1
Charge for the year 17.8 15.7
Utilisation of provision (16.1) (16.0)
Currency retranslation 0.4 1.3
At end of period 28.2 26.1
The Group does not hold any collateral as security over receivables balances.
15 Short term investments
2010 2009
£million £million
Floating rate notes 3.2 9.0
Money market deposits 5.3 –
8.5 9.0
Floating rate notes have a nominal value of £3.8 million (2009 £10.4 million) and have an average expected maturity of 2.6 years
(2009 1.5 years). Money market deposits are made for varying periods of 90 to 180 days with an average maturity of 104 days. 
The carrying amount of money market deposits approximates their fair value.
Short term investments include £nil (2009 £3.8 million) which, together with certain cash and cash equivalents, are held under trust
to fund customer support agreement liabilities as disclosed in note 27.
16 Cash and cash equivalents
2010 2009
£million £million
Cash at bank 161.3 88.0
Money market deposits 134.4 104.6
295.7 192.6
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. Money market
deposits are made for varying periods of up to 90 days with an average maturity of 18 days (2009 16 days). The carrying amount 
of money market deposits approximates their fair value.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 93
17 Borrowings
2010 2009
£million £million
Current
Bank overdrafts 4.9 4.8
Other borrowings 98.5 250.1
103.4 254.9
Non-current
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 321.4 322.4
Other borrowings – 0.1
321.4 322.5
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand.
Current borrowings include £95.0 million (2009 £250 million) which was drawn down under the £400 million sterling committed
facility (the £400 million Facility) at a weighted average effective yield of 4.30% (2009 4.88%). These borrowings have an average
maturity of nine days (2009 62 days) and are eligible for renewal under the terms of the £400 million Facility. The £400 million Facility
has a maturity date of October 2011, however, this will be affected by a new revolving facility agreement which is discussed further
below.
On 12 May 2010, the Group signed a new revolving credit facility agreement (the New Facility) for £360 million. The New Facility will
come into effect by 15 August 2010 at which time it will replace the £400 million Facility. The terms and covenants attaching to the
New Facility are substantially the same as that for the £400 million Facility except that the guarantee structure comprises UK and
Irish companies only, thereby aligning it more closely to the arrangements under the 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (the Bonds).
At 1 May 2010, the available undrawn amount of the £400 million Facility was £305 million (2009 £150 million).
The carrying amount of current borrowings and overdrafts approximates their fair value.
The Bonds are denominated in sterling with a nominal value of £300 million, paying interest annually, are unsecured, are guaranteed
by DSG Retail Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, and are listed on the London Stock Exchange. Unless previously redeemed or
purchased and cancelled they will be redeemed at par on 15 November 2012. The Bonds may be redeemed in whole or in part 
at their principal amount plus accrued interest by DSG international plc by providing 30 to 60 days’ notice to the bondholder. The
Bonds may also be purchased in the open market by any company within the Group. In either circumstance, the Bonds and any
unmatured coupons will be cancelled and may not be re-issued or re-sold. The value of the Bonds excludes accrued interest of
£8.4 million (2009 £8.4 million), included in trade and other payables. Further information concerning fair value, hedging and ensuing
interest rate and currency profiles relating to the Bonds is included in note 22.
Strategic Summary Performance Review 94 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
18 Obligations under finance leases
2010 2009
Present value Present value
Minimum of minimum Minimum of minimum
lease lease lease lease 
payments payments payments payments
£million £million £million £million
Amounts due:
Within one year 8.3 7.1 10.0 8.6
In more than one year and not more than five years 33.8 26.1 33.9 25.2
In more than five years 139.7 66.8 167.6 67.9
181.8 100.0 211.5 101.7
Less future finance charges (81.8) – (109.8) –
Present value of lease obligations 100.0 100.0 101.7 101.7
Less amounts due within one year (2.4) (2.4) (2.8) (2.8)
Amounts due after more than one year 97.6 97.6 98.9 98.9
The majority of finance leases relate to properties in the UK where obligations are denominated in sterling and lease terms vary
between 15 and 26 years. The effective borrowing rate on individual leases ranged between 4.57% and 8.15% (2009 between
5.61% and 8.34%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements
have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The total value of minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases was £nil (2009 £0.8 million).
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
19 Trade and other payables
2010 2009
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Note £million £million £million £million
Trade creditors 1,001.4 6.5 988.7 –
Other taxation and social security 103.2 – 100.2 –
Derivative financial instruments 22 9.6 74.8 38.4 104.0
Other creditors 53.8 15.8 120.8 2.3
Accruals 293.7 73.1 193.4 84.8
Deferred income – customer support agreements 133.2 153.5 162.2 175.0
Deferred income – other 11.0 2.0 60.8 3.7
1,605.9 325.7 1,664.5 369.8
Included in other creditors and accruals is £66.1 million (2009 £97.4 million) relating to other non-financial liabilities. The total
financial liabilities included in trade and other payables are £1,378.2 million (2009 £1,292.6 million). The carrying amount of trade
and other payables approximates their fair value.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 95
20 Provisions
2010 2009
Property Severance Property Severance
related and other Total related and other Total
£million £million £million £million £million £million
At beginning of period 91.9 20.6 112.5 80.3 17.0 97.3
Additions 2.3 – 2.3 74.6 51.0 125.6
Utilisation (41.3) (14.2) (55.5) (46.1) (39.8) (85.9)
Credited to income statement – non-underlying ––– (12.4) (7.5) (19.9)
Transfers to liabilities directly associated 
with assets held for sale ––– (10.1) (1.1) (11.2)
Disposals (6.1) – (6.1) –––
Currency retranslation (1.0) (0.4) (1.4) 5.6 1.0 6.6
At end of period 45.8 6.0 51.8 91.9 20.6 112.5
Analysed as:
Current 16.3 6.0 22.3 51.5 20.6 72.1
Non-current 29.5 – 29.5 40.4 – 40.4
45.8 6.0 51.8 91.9 20.6 112.5
Additions during the period relate to restructuring charges which are described further in note 4. Property related provisions mainly
comprise onerous lease contracts. Included in utilisation is £nil and £0.8 million (2008/09 £3.2 million and £0.5 million) relating to
the Group’s Hungarian and Polish operations, respectively, which were disposed of during the year and have been treated as
discontinued. Disposals relate to the Group’s Polish operations.
Of the amounts included within non-current liabilities remaining at 1 May 2010, the majority are expected to be utilised within the
next five years.
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations
2010 2009
Note £million £million
Retirement benefit obligations – UK 21 (b) – (d) (263.5) (148.8)
– Nordics (3.3) (4.2)
(266.8) (153.0)
The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes.
The principal scheme which operates in the UK includes a funded defined benefit section whose assets are held in a separate
trustee administered fund. The scheme is valued by a qualified actuary at least every three years and contributions are assessed in
accordance with the actuary’s advice so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members. Since
1 September 2002, the defined benefit section of the scheme has been closed to new entrants and on 30 April 2010 was closed 
to future accrual with automatic entry into the defined contribution section being offered to those active members of the defined
benefit section at that time. Membership of the defined contribution section is offered to eligible employees.
In the Nordic region, the Group operates two funded secured defined benefit pension schemes with assets held by a life insurance
company as well as an unsecured pension arrangement. In addition, contributions are made to a state pension scheme. The net
movement in the obligation comprises a charge to operating profit of £1.0 million (2008/09 £0.9 million) with the remaining
movements relating to the benefits paid in the period, actuarial gains / (losses) and currency retranslation.
In other territories, the Group also provides other post-employment benefits which are largely governed by statute, in particular 
in Italy and Greece. These benefits are unfunded.
(a) Defined contribution pension schemes
The pension charge in respect of defined contribution schemes was £5.5 million (2008/09 £5.4 million).
Strategic Summary Performance Review 96 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations continued
(b) UK Defined benefit pension scheme – actuarial valuation and assumptions
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was last carried out as at 5 April 2007 using the projected unit method and has been used
to determine the level of funding to the scheme. A further actuarial valuation as at 5 April 2010 is currently underway, however,
results are not expected to be available until early in 2011/12. The Group’s contribution rate for 2009/10, agreed in consultation
with the trustees’ actuaries, was 12.4% per annum of pensionable salaries (2008/09 12.5%) with the reduction representing a
change in the mix of contributions between different sections of the scheme. A ‘recovery plan’ has been agreed with the trustees 
of the scheme whereby the Company makes twice yearly contributions of £6.0 million which commenced in June 2008 and end in
December 2012. Since April 2007, the scheme has operated on a career average revalued earnings arrangement where benefits
are earned for each year of pensionable service as opposed to being calculated with reference to salary near to date of retirement.
The principal actuarial assumptions as at 5 April 2007 used for determining costs and contributions were:
Rate per annum
Discount rate for accrued benefits – Pre-retirement 6.6%
– Post-retirement 5.2%
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries – Up to April 2010 3.5%
– Thereafter 4.5%
Rate of increase to pensions – Guaranteed Minimum Pension 3.0%
– Pension in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pension 2.5% – 3.75%
Inflation 3.0%
Expected return on assets 6.5%
At 5 April 2007, the market value of the scheme’s investments was £688 million and, based on the above assumptions, the value of
the assets was sufficient to cover 92% of the benefits accrued to members after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The value of liabilities exceeded assets by £61.0 million.
(c) UK Defined benefit pension scheme – IAS 19
The following summarises the components of net benefit expense recognised in the consolidated income statement, the funded
status and amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. The methodologies set out in IAS 19 are different from those
used by the scheme actuaries in determining funding arrangements.
(i) Principal assumptions adopted
The assumptions used in calculating the expenses and obligations are set by the directors after consultation with the independent
actuaries.
Rates per annum 2010 2009
Discount rate 5.5% 6.7%
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.6% 3.8% / 4.3%*
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (pre / post April 2006 accrual) 3.5% / 2.3% 3.3% / 2.5%
Inflation 3.6% 3.3%
*
3.8% up to April 2010 and 4.3% thereafter.
The Group uses certain demographic assumptions when calculating scheme obligations which are those underlying the last formal
actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 5 April 2007. In particular, post-retirement mortality has been assumed to follow the standard
tables PA92 projected to calendar year 2008 in line with the ‘medium cohort’ factors set out in CMI working paper 1: ‘interim basis
for adjusting the “92” series mortality projections for cohort effects’, with an allowance for future mortality improvement in line with
medium cohort projection factors. Such tables represent an average expected longevity of between 87.1 years and 87.9 years for
men and between 90 years and 90.7 years for women (2009 87 years for men and 89.9 years for women) for those becoming 65
at the measurement date and an extra one year of longevity for both men and women becoming 65 in 15 years’ time.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 97
(ii) Amounts recognised in consolidated income statement
2009/10 2008/09
£million £million
Current service cost (charged to underlying operating profit) (4.7) (6.3)
Non-underlying curtailment 33.4 –
Total operating credit / (charge) 28.7 (6.3)
Expected return on plan assets 37.6 47.8
Interest cost on benefit obligations (45.6) (47.2)
Net other finance (costs) / income (8.0) 0.6
Total credited / (charged) to profit before tax 20.7 (5.7)
Other than the payments under the recovery plan, the Group does not expect to make any further contributions to its UK defined
benefit pension scheme in 2010/11.
The curtailment arises from the closure to future accrual of the scheme which occurred on 30 April 2010. The effect of the closure
has meant that all active members of the scheme have now become treated as deferred members. The effect of the closure is that
these members are no longer entitled to future salary increases other than in line with inflation. This amounts to a change in benefits
accruing to these members and results in a one-off reduction in the ultimate liabilities in respect of these individuals.
(iii) Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£million £million £million £million £million
Present value of defined benefit obligations (929.4) (693.3) (740.7) (726.7) (732.5)
Fair value of plan assets 665.9 544.5 689.7 688.3 590.8
Net obligation (263.5) (148.8) (51.0) (38.4) (141.7)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation:
2010 2009
£million £million
Opening obligation 693.3 740.7
Current service cost 4.7 6.3
Employee contributions 4.8 5.7
Interest cost 45.6 47.2
Actuarial losses / (gains) 241.4 (81.8)
Benefits paid (27.0) (24.8)
Curtailment gain (33.4) –
Closing obligation 929.4 693.3
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets:
2010 2009
£million £million
Opening fair value 544.5 689.7
Expected return 37.6 47.8
Employer contributions – regular 8.6 10.2
– special 12.0 12.0
Employee contributions 4.8 5.7
Actuarial gain / (loss) 85.4 (196.1)
Benefits paid (27.0) (24.8)
Closing fair value 665.9 544.5
Strategic Summary Performance Review 98 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations continued
Analysis of scheme assets:
2010 2009
Long term % of fair value Long term % of fair value
expected rate of total expected rate of total
of return £million scheme assets of return £million scheme assets
Equities 8.1% 400.2 60% 8.5% 293.5 54%
Property 6.4% 30.6 5% 6.7% 33.8 6%
Bonds / gilts 4.6% 222.4 33% 4.9% 192.8 35%
Cash 4.0% 12.7 2% 3.5% 24.4 5%
665.9 544.5
The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market prices prevailing at the balance sheet date,
applicable to the period over which the obligation is to be settled. Actual return on the scheme assets was a gain of £123.0 million
(2008/09 loss of £148.3 million). The actual return on other post-employment benefit scheme assets was not significant.
(iv) Experience adjustments recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense:
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£million £million £million £million £million
(Loss) / gain on scheme liabilities (241.4) 81.8 17.0 25.0 (45.6)
Effect of change in valuation methodology – – – 18.8 –
Gain / (loss) from actual less expected return on assets 85.4 (196.1) (41.7) 1.9 92.7
Actuarial (losses) / gains (156.0) (114.3) (24.7) 45.7 47.1
Cumulative actuarial (loss) / gain (261.5) (105.5) 8.8 33.5 (12.2)
(d) Sensitivities
The value of the UK defined benefit pension scheme assets is sensitive to market conditions, particularly equity values. Changes 
in assumptions used for determining retirement benefit costs and liabilities may have a material impact on the 2010/11 income
statement and the balance sheet. The main assumptions are the discount rate, the rate of inflation and the assumed mortality 
rate. The following table provides an estimate of the potential impacts of each of these variables if applied to the current period
consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
Underlying profit before tax Net deficit
2009/10 2008/09 2010 2009
Positive / (negative) effect: £million £million £million £million
Discount rate: 0.25% increase 0.5 1.4 52.5 38.0
Inflation rate: 0.25% increase* (2.5) (2.6) (45.3) (32.6)
Mortality rate: 1 year increase (1.9) (1.3) (33.4) (14.5)
*
The increase in scheme benefits provided to members on retirement is subject to an inflation cap.
(e) Other post-employment benefits – IAS 19
The Group offers other post-employment benefits to employees in overseas locations. At 1 May 2010 the net obligation in 
relation to these benefits was £11.5 million (2009 £12.3 million). The net movement in the obligation comprises a charge to
operating profit of £4.2 million (2008/09 £4.7 million) with the remaining movements relating to the benefits paid in the period 
and currency retranslation.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 99
22 Financial instruments
(a) Financial risk management objectives and policies
Treasury operations are managed centrally within policies approved by the Board and are subject to periodic independent internal
and external reviews. Group Treasury reports regularly to the Audit Committee and the Tax & Treasury Committee. The major
treasury risks to which the Group is exposed relate to market risks (movements in foreign exchange and interest rates), liquidity 
risk and credit risk. Areas where risks are most likely to occur are evaluated regularly. The Group uses financial instruments and
derivatives to manage these risks in accordance with defined policies. Throughout the period under review, in accordance with
Group policy, no speculative use of derivatives, foreign exchange or other instruments was permitted.
The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in note 1.16.
Exchange rate risk
The Group is exposed to exchange movements on recognised assets and liabilities, overseas earnings and translated values 
of foreign currency assets and liabilities. The Group’s principal translation currency exposures are the euro and Norwegian krone.
Taking into account the cost of hedging, the Group’s policy is to match, in whole or in part, currency earnings with related currency
costs and currency assets with currency liabilities through the use of appropriate hedging instruments.
The Group is also exposed to certain transactional currency exposures. Such exposures arise from purchases in currencies other
than in the functional currency of the entity. The Group’s principal transactional currency exposures are the US dollar and euro. 
It is Group policy to minimise the currency exposures on such purchases through the use of appropriate hedging instruments such
as forward exchange contracts. Such contracts are designed to cover exposures ranging from one month to one year.
Interest rate risk
The principal interest rate risks of the Group arise in respect of sterling cash, investments and borrowings, hedged internal
Norwegian krone liabilities and euro borrowings. Potential exposure to interest rate movements is mitigated by the Group’s policy 
to match to the extent possible the profile of interest payments with that of its interest receipts. Taking into account the cost of
hedging, further mitigation is achieved with interest based credit commissions received and through the use of interest based
hedging instruments. Such matching is evaluated regularly to ensure that risks are minimised.
Liquidity risk
It is Group policy to maintain a balance of funds, borrowings, committed bank and other facilities sufficient to meet anticipated short
term and long term financial requirements. In applying this policy the Group continuously monitors forecast and actual cash flows
against the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Uncommitted facilities are also maintained and used if available on
advantageous terms. It is Group Treasury policy to ensure that a specific level of committed facilities is always available based on
forecast working capital requirements.
Cash forecasts identifying the Group’s liquidity requirements are produced and are stress tested for different scenarios including,
but not limited to, reasonably possible decreases in profit margins and increases in interest rates on the Group’s borrowing facilities
and the weakening of sterling against other functional currencies within the Group.
Credit risk
The Group’s exposure to credit risk on liquid funds, investments (mainly bank deposits and floating rate notes) and derivative
financial instruments arises from the risk of non-performance of counterparties, with a maximum exposure equal to the book value
of these assets. The Group limits its exposure to credit risk through application of Group Treasury policy which restricts counterparties
to those with a minimum Moody’s long term credit rating of Aa3, bank financial strength rating of C and short term credit rating of
P1. The Group also has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any single financial institution. The Group continuously
reviews the credit quality of counterparties, the limits placed on individual credit exposures and categories of investments. The
Group does not anticipate non-performance of counterparties and believes it is not subject to material concentration of credit risk
given the policies in place.
The Group’s receivable balances comprise a large number of individually small amounts from unrelated customers, spread across
diverse industries and geographical areas. Concentration of risk is therefore limited and maximum exposure is equal to the book
value of receivables. Sales to retail customers are made predominantly in cash or via major credit cards. It is Group policy that all
customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. New credit customers are assessed
using an external rating report which is used to establish a credit limit. Such limits are reviewed periodically on both a proactive and
reactive basis, for example, when a customer wishes to place an order in excess of their existing credit limit. Receivable balances
are monitored regularly with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. Management therefore believe 
that there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for doubtful receivables.
Strategic Summary Performance Review 100 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
22 Financial instruments continued
Capital risk management
It is the Group’s policy to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain
the future development of the business. The Group is subject to certain externally imposed capital requirements in the form of
banking covenants involving borrowing ratios which it met throughout the period.
The Board has delegated responsibility for routine capital expenditure to a Capital Committee, which has approval responsibility for:
Group long term and budgeted capital spend, setting capital assessment criteria, new store capital approval, subsidiary company
funding, business acquisitions, business disposals and contingent liabilities such as guarantees. The Committee also approves
routine statutory and internal delegated powers of authority in relation to capital expenditure.
The Group considers the manner in which funds are distributed to shareholders by assessing the performance of the business, 
the level of available net funds and the short to medium term strategic plans concerning future capital spend as well as the need 
to meet banking covenants and borrowing ratios. Such assessment will influence the level of dividends payable as well as
consideration from time to time of market purchases of the Group’s own shares.
The Group monitors available net funds on a regular basis and this is affected by Free Cash Flow, one of the Group’s key
performance indicators as defined further in the Strategic Summary section of the Directors’ Report
(b) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
For receivables and payables classified as financial assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 32, fair value is estimated to be
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in notes 14 and 19, respectively. The categories of financial assets and liabilities
and their related accounting policy are set out in notes 1.11 and 1.15.
For those financial assets and liabilities which bear either a floating rate of interest or no interest, fair value is estimated to be
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in note 22(d).
The fair value of the Bonds is £297.0 million (2009 £216.1 million). The Bonds are carried at amortised cost, plus a fair value
adjustment, as a result of the fair value hedge discussed below. Excluded from the fair value is £8.4 million (2009 £8.4 million) 
of accrued interest which is included in trade and other payables.
Fair value of derivatives is predominantly determined using observable market data such as interest rates and foreign exchange
rates. As such, derivatives are classified as ‘Level 2’ under the requirements of IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’.
Fair values of derivatives by designation
2010
Trade and other receivables Trade and other payables
Current Non-current Current Non-current Total
Derivatives held to: £million £million £million £million £million
Hedge fair value interest rate risk – 25.0 – – 25.0
Manage the currency exposure of:
Financial assets and liabilities 1.6 – (1.2) – 0.4
Net investments in overseas subsidiaries – – – (74.8) (74.8)
Future transactions occurring within one year 1.4 – (8.4) – (7.0)
Total derivatives 3.0 25.0 (9.6) (74.8) (56.4)
2009
Trade and other receivables Trade and other payables
Current Non-current Current Non-current Total
Derivatives held to: £million £million £million £million £million
Hedge fair value interest rate risk – 30.3 – – 30.3
Manage the currency exposure of:
Financial assets and liabilities 2.6 – (12.6) – (10.0)
Net investments in overseas subsidiaries – – (24.1) (104.0) (128.1)
Future transactions occurring within one year 1.9 – (1.7) – 0.2
Total derivatives 4.5 30.3 (38.4) (104.0) (107.6)
Included in derivative financial instruments are forward foreign currency contracts, options, interest rate swaps and currency swaps.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 101
(c) Hedging activities
The Group manages exposures that arise on purchases and sales denominated in foreign currencies by entering predominantly 
into forward foreign exchange currency contracts. It also uses swaps and options to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange
translation exposure.
At 1 May 2010 the Group had interest rate swaps in place for the Bonds with a notional amount of £250 million (2009 £300 million)
whereby it receives a fixed interest rate of 6.125% and pays a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR. In order to provide a hedge
against certain euro denominated fixed asset investments and to finance working capital £200 million (2009 £250 million) has been
swapped into floating rate euro borrowings bearing interest based on EURIBOR.
The Group designates financial instruments as hedges under IAS 39 as follows:
Cash flow hedges
At 1 May 2010 the Group had forward foreign exchange contracts in place with a notional value of £435.6 million (2009 £72.7 million)
that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges. These contracts are expected to cover exposures ranging from one 
month to one year. The fair value of these currency derivatives which have been deferred in equity amounts to a £7.0 million loss 
(2008/09 £0.2 million gain). In respect of contracts which matured during the period, losses of £15.1 million and gains of £3.8 million
have been transferred out of equity into inventory and out of equity into operating profit, respectively (2008/09 gains of £27.4 million
and gains of £13.4 million).
Hedge ineffectiveness of £0.9 million loss was recorded in the income statement (2008/09 £3.0 million gain).
Fair value hedges
As mentioned above, the Group had interest rate swaps in place for the Bonds whereby it receives a fixed interest rate of 6.125%
and pays a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR. The interest rate swaps are used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair
value of £250 million (2009 £300 million) of the Bonds and have the same critical terms. The fair value of interest rate swaps
entered into as fair value hedges is an asset of £25.0 million (2009 an asset of £30.3 million).
A fair value loss on the interest rate swaps of £1.2 million (2008/09 gain of £28.0 million) has been recognised in the income
statement and offset by an equivalent fair value gain on the Bonds.
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations
At 1 May 2010 the Group had forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps in place with a notional value of
£200 million (2009 £374.0 million) which have been designated as a hedge of the net investments in foreign operations. Gains 
and losses on the retranslation of these derivatives are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net
investments in the foreign operations. The fair value of currency derivatives entered into as net investment hedges is a £74.8 million
loss (2008/09 £128.1 million loss).
No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in the income statement (2008/09 £nil).
(d) Interest rate profile of financial assets and financial liabilities by currency
The following table sets out the interest rate exposure of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group. The financial instruments
not included in the table are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
2010
Other 
sterling euro currencies Total
£million £million £million £million
Cash and cash equivalents and short term investments:
Floating rate 83.7 117.9 25.0 226.6
Fixed rate 67.4 2.6 7.6 77.6
151.1 120.5 32.6 304.2
Borrowings:
Floating rate (148.6) (219.1) – (367.7)
Fixed rate (53.6) – (3.5) (57.1)
Obligations under finance leases:
Fixed rate (98.0) (2.0) – (100.0)
(300.2) (221.1) (3.5) (524.8)
Net borrowings (149.1) (100.6) 29.1 (220.6)
Strategic Summary Performance Review 102 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
22 Financial instruments continued
2009
Other 
sterling euro currencies Total
£million £million £million £million
Cash and cash equivalents and short term investments:
Floating rate 36.8 75.8 (17.4) 95.2
Fixed rate 82.2 22.3 1.9 106.4
119.0 98.1 (15.5) 201.6
Borrowings:
Floating rate (303.7) (269.4) (4.3) (577.4)
Obligations under finance leases:
Fixed Rate (98.9) (2.8) – (101.7)
(402.6) (272.2) (4.3) (679.1)
Net borrowings (283.6) (174.1) (19.8) (477.5)
Floating rate cash and cash equivalents and short term investments relates to cash at bank and floating rate notes. Cash at bank
earns interest at floating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. Floating rate notes have an
effective yield of 1.00% (2009 1.88%).
Fixed rate cash and cash equivalents and short term investments are predominantly money market deposits (as shown in note 16)
and earn interest at an average effective rate of 0.54% (2009 1.04%).
Floating rate borrowings include bank overdrafts and fixed rate bonds after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps
entered into by the Group. The weighted average effective interest rate on bank overdrafts approximates 1.5% (2009 3.7%). 
The Group’s interest rate swaps (which relate to the Bonds) have a nominal value of £250 million (2009 £300 million) receive fixed
interest rates of 6.125% (2008/09 6.125%) and pay floating rates of LIBOR plus a margin which ranged from 1.59% to 3.35%
(2008/09 3.04% to 7.13%). Currency swaps with a nominal value of £200 million (2009 £250 million) receive LIBOR plus a margin
and pay EURIBOR plus a margin. The sterling floating rates ranged from 1.59% to 3.04% in the year (2008/09 3.04% to 6.82%)
and the euro floating rates ranged from 1.73% to 3.04% (2008/09 3.03% to 6.63%). Other swaps which matured in the period
exchanged Norwegian krone and sterling at fixed interest rates of 5.06% and 5.67% (2008/09 5.06% and 5.67%).
The other major component of floating rate borrowings is drawings under the £400 million Facility. Interest on drawn amounts on
the £400 million Facility was payable at LIBOR plus a margin of 3.75%. The commitment fee on undrawn amounts was 1.875%. A
utilisation fee of 0.5% was payable on drawings greater than £200 million but less than £300 million and a rate of 1.5% on drawings
greater than £300 million. The terms of the New Facility are similar, but with a utilisation fee of 0.25% being payable on drawings
greater than £120 million but less than £240 million and 0.5% payable on drawings greater than £240 million. Both the £400 million
Facility and the New Facility are described further in note 17.
Fixed rate borrowings refer to £50 million of the Bonds whereby the remainder have been swapped into floating rate borrowings 
as described in note 22(c).
Amounts in respect of other currencies relate to funds held within subsidiary companies, operating in the Nordic region and Central
Europe. The negative cash balance in the prior year arose in a multi-currency pooled facility and is offset by positive euro balances.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial
instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 103
(e) Sensitivity analysis
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, shows the sensitivity of profit / (loss) before tax and total equity to changes in specified
market variables on monetary assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments as listed below. As a consequence, the
sensitivity reflects the position as at 1 May 2010 and 2 May 2009, and is not necessarily representative of actual or future outcomes.
Changes in exchange rates affect the Group’s profit / (loss) before tax due to changes in the value of monetary assets and liabilities
and derivative financial instruments. Changes in exchange rates affect the Group’s total equity due to changes in the fair value of
derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and net investment hedges. The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to a reasonably
possible change in the Group’s key currencies of US dollar and euro, with other variables held constant. A 10% decrease would
have an equal and opposite effect.
Profit before tax Equity
2009/10 2008/09 2010 2009
Positive / (negative) effect £million £million £million £million
Change in exchange rates:
US Dollar + 10% (1.2) (0.2) 2.1 3.6
Euro + 10% (2.5) (2.1) (1.0) (39.6)
Changes in interest rates affect the Group’s profit / (loss) before tax, mainly due to the impact of floating rate borrowings, cash 
and derivative financial instruments. The Group’s principal floating rate interest rate exposures are based on LIBOR and EURIBOR.
The numbers below show the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates (uniform across all currencies), with other
variables held constant. A 1% decrease would have an equal and opposite effect. A 1% increase in interest rates would have a
negative effect on profit before tax and equity of £4.3 million (2008/09 a £7.2 million negative effect on loss before tax and equity).
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis:
■ the balance of borrowings, investments and the derivative portfolio are all held constant for the whole year.
■ all net investment, fair value and cash flow hedges are assumed to be highly effective.
■ the effect of changes in interest rates on fixed rate bonds is calculated after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
In combination these financial instruments are floating in nature.
■ changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges arising from movements 
in interest rates are recorded in the income statement. The impact of movements in exchange rates is recorded directly in equity.
■ changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments that are not in hedging relationships arising from movements 
in interest rates and exchange rates only affect the income statement to the extent that they are not offset by changes in an
underlying transaction.
(f) Liquidity risk
The table below analyses the Group’s contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities (excluding finance
lease liabilities, which are shown in note 18) and derivative assets and liabilities into their maturity groupings. The table includes 
both principal and interest flows.
2010
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
In more than
one year but
Within not more than In more than Carrying
one year five years five years Total value
£million £million £million £million £million
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (4.9) – – (4.9) (4.9)
Other borrowings (98.6) – – (98.6) (98.5)
Trade and other payables (1,317.5) (30.1) (22.1) (1,369.7) (1,378.2)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (18.4) (337.0) – (355.4) (321.4)
(1,439.4) (367.1) (22.1) (1,828.6) (1,803.0)
Derivative contracts
Inflows 892.0 242.7 – 1,134.7 1,135.9
Outflows (889.5) (301.9) – (1,191.4) (1,192.3)
2.5 (59.2) – (56.7) (56.4)
Strategic Summary Performance Review 104 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
22 Financial instruments continued
2009
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
In more than
one year but
Within not more than In more than Carrying
one year five years five years Total value
£million £million £million £million £million
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (4.8) – – (4.8) (4.8)
Other borrowings (252.1) – – (252.1) (250.2)
Trade and other payables (1,244.1) (11.3) (27.6) (1,283.0) (1,292.6)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (18.4) (355.4) – (373.8) (322.4)
(1,519.4) (366.7) (27.6) (1,913.7) (1,870.0)
Derivative contracts
Inflows 1,150.1 632.3 – 1,782.4 1,453.0
Outflows (1,178.0) (716.9) – (1,894.9) (1,560.6)
(27.9) (84.6) – (112.5) (107.6)
The carrying value of trade and other payables includes accrued interest on the Bonds of £8.4 million (2009 £8.4 million) and
interest on other borrowings of £0.4 million (2009 £1.5 million).
The Group reviews regularly its available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing facilities required to fulfil its objectives
and strategy. Cash flow forecasts are prepared covering a five year period and these are updated annually. Shorter term forecasts
are reviewed and monitored on a regular basis in varying degrees of granularity including, in some cases, daily review. These
forecasts are used in determining both the level of borrowings required for funding purposes as well as planning for repayments 
of borrowings either at their maturity or sooner where practical. An appropriate level of headroom is maintained to provide against
unexpected outflows or an unforeseen downturn in trading.
Included in note 17 are details of committed facilities, which are also maintained and used if available on advantageous terms.
23 Share capital and reserves
(a) Called up share capital
2010 2009
£million £million
Authorised
4,980,252,496 (2009 4,980,252,496) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 124.5 124.5
Allotted and fully paid
3,609,937,433 (2009 1,772,442,268) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 90.2 44.3
During the period, 36,403 shares (2008/09 none) were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share option and
ownership schemes.
On 9 June 2009 the Group completed a Placing and Rights Issue which raised gross proceeds of £310.6 million, of which
£100 million was raised by the Placing. The Placing comprised in aggregate 333,333,333 Placing Shares available for subscription
at an issue price of 30 pence per Placing Share. The Rights Issue was made on the basis of five new shares for each seven eligible
shares at 14 pence per new share and comprised 1,504,125,429 shares. Aggregate issue costs of the Placing and Rights Issue
were £19.3 million.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 105
(b) Other reserves
Capital
Merger redemption Investment Hedging Revaluation
reserve reserve in own shares reserve reserve Total
£million £million £million £million £million £million
At 4 May 2008 (386.1) 5.0 (2.3) (96.3) (23.2) (502.9)
Other comprehensive income and expense 
recognised directly in equity – – – (52.2) (0.6) (52.8)
Transfers –––– (6.7) (6.7)
Put option exercised –––– 27.5 27.5
At 2 May 2009 (386.1) 5.0 (2.3) (148.5) (3.0) (534.9)
Other comprehensive income and expense 
recognised directly in equity – – – (3.2) 0.6 (2.6)
Placing and Rights Issue 245.4 –––– 245.4
Transfer (245.4) ––––(245.4)
At 1 May 2010 (386.1) 5.0 (2.3) (151.7) (2.4) (537.5)
The merger reserve shown at 4 May 2008 and 2 May 2009 arose on the Group reconstruction which occurred during 1999/00. 
The Group reconstruction took the form of introducing a new parent company above the existing Group and the merger reserve
represents the difference between the capital structure of the new parent company and that of the former parent company.
The Placing and Rights Issue was effected through a structure which resulted in a merger reserve arising under Section 612 of 
the Companies Act 2006. Following receipt of the cash proceeds through the structure, the excess of the net proceeds over the
nominal value of the share capital issued was transferred from the merger reserve to retained earnings.
2008/09: Transfers between retained earnings and other reserves relate to the fair value remeasurement of a put option held by 
a minority shareholder.
Own shares held by the Group represent shares in the Company held by Halifax EES Trustees International Limited further details 
of which are given in note 25. The 3,579,476 shares held at 1 May 2010 had a market value of £1.2 million (2009 2,233,063 shares
held had a market value of £0.9 million) and their nominal value was £0.1 million (2009 £0.1 million).
24 Dividend paid
2009/10 2008/09
Per share £million £million
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders 
in the period – on ordinary shares of 2.5p each
Final dividend for 2007/08 3.43p – 60.7
25 Employee share ownership trusts
Halifax EES Trustees International Limited is the trustee of an employee share ownership trust (the Trust). At 1 May 2010, the Trust
held shares in the Company for the purposes of satisfying potential awards to specified executive directors and senior employees
under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), Performance Share Plan (PSP) and Retention and Recruitment Plan (Reward Shares)
share schemes. Details of the LTIP , PSP and Reward Shares are given in the Remuneration Report in section (II) (b) (ii) of the
Remuneration Report. The number of shares held by the Trust is shown in the table below and relate to increases from the exercise
of rights under the Placing and Rights Issue.
The Company’s aim is to hedge in part its obligations under the LTIP , PSP and Reward Shares by buying shares through the Trusts
to meet the anticipated future liability. The anticipated liability is regularly reassessed during the relevant performance period and
additional shares are purchased when required to meet an increase in this liability. The costs of funding and administering the Trusts
are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate. Shareholders’ funds are reduced by the net book value of
shares held in the Trusts which have not vested unconditionally.
2010 2009
Number Number
Investment in own shares 3,579,476 2,233,063
Halifax EES Trustees International Limited has waived all dividends except for a total payment of 1 penny at the time each dividend
is paid. The mid-market price of a share as at 1 May 2010 was 33.1 pence (2009 41.25 pence).
Strategic Summary Performance Review 106 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
26 Share-based payments
2009/10 2008/09
Note £million £million
Amounts charged / (credited) to operating profit
Share-based payments – equity settled (a) 4.8 2.1
– cash settled (b) 0.9 (0.3)
5.7 1.8
(a) Equity settled
Following the Placing and Rights Issue, the exercise price and the number of outstanding equity settled share-based payments
were adjusted to reflect the dilutive effect of the Rights Issue.
Share option plans
Employee Share Option Scheme (ESOS) and Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP)
Options are normally granted annually to executive directors and other senior executives. In September 2008, the Group adopted 
a new share option plan (ESOP) which replaced the existing ESOS. Options granted after this date have only been granted under
the new ESOP . The ESOS and ESOP permit making awards with a market value on the date of grant of not more than twice the
recipients’ salary apart from in exceptional circumstances when an award of not more than three times salary can be made. Options
are also granted to other employees in the UK and overseas on the basis of management grade. Vesting of options is based upon
remaining in service with the Group over a three year period, unless specific circumstances apply to a participant as determined by
the Remuneration Committee. Depending on grade, vesting is also dependent on the level of growth in underlying diluted earnings
per share (EPS) over a three year period. Options may be exercised up to seven years after the vesting date.
Save As You Earn (SAYE)
The Group offers to all of its UK and Irish employees having completed the relevant period of service, share-based savings plans
whereby amounts may be contributed up to a specified limit per plan and per employee. Three year and five year plans have been
offered annually, with exercise prices set at a 20% discount to the market share price on the date of grant. Exercise is conditional
upon employees remaining employed by the Group for the full term of the plan unless specific circumstances apply to a participant
as determined by the Remuneration Committee. Employees can choose to withdraw their contributions in full from the plan at any
time, together with any interest earned.
Details of equity settled share option plans outstanding during the year are as follows:
2009/10 2008/09
Weighted Weighted 
average average 
Note Number exercise price Number exercise price
At beginning of period 100,219,236 £0.70 67,313,571 £1.38
Adjustment for Placing & Rights Issue 34,516,309 – ––
Granted during the period (i) 137,783,431 £0.22 90,141,170 £0.36
Forfeited during the period (33,028,107) £0.49 (56,487,809) £0.97
Exercised during the period (ii) (37,385) £0.18 ––
Expired during the period (3,075,720) £3.35 (747,696) £1.33
At end of period (iii),(iv) 236,377,764 £0.31 100,219,236 £0.70
No options were exercisable at the end of either period.
2010 2009
(i) weighted average fair value of options granted during the period £0.13 £0.07
(ii) weighted average share price at the date of exercise £0.36 –
(iii) weighted average remaining contractual life for options outstanding 5.8 years 4.6 years
(iv) range of exercise prices for options outstanding £0.09 – £2.01 £0.13 – £3.35
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 107
The fair value of equity settled share option plans granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Binomial or Black Scholes
option pricing models taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The following table
lists the inputs to the models used for the periods ended 1 May 2010 and 2 May 2009 based on information prevailing at the date
of grant.
2010 2009
Dividend yield 0% 9.5%
Historical and expected volatility 78.3% – 81.2% 41.0%
Risk-free interest rate 2.6% – 2.7% 4.9%
Expected remaining life of options 3.0 years 3.5 years
Weighted average share price £0.25 £0.39
The expected remaining life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of the actual exercise patterns
that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends. Actual
outcome may differ from this assumption.
Other equity settled share plans
Executive directors’ and senior executives’ LTIP, PSP, Reward Sacrifice and Reward Shares
LTIP and PSP shares are provisionally awarded to executive directors, members of the Executive Committee and other participating
senior executives and are based upon performance measured in terms of the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) achieved by the
Company. Prior to 2008/09 TSR performance was based on performance over a three year period relative to the companies
comprising the FTSE 100 Index. For 2008/09 and 2009/10 TSR performance has been based on a bespoke weighted index
comprising UK and European retailers.
Details of LTIP and PSP equity settled share-based payments outstanding during the year are as follows:
2010 2009
Note Number Number
At beginning of period 9,133,540 7,647,103
Adjustment for Placing & Rights Issue 3,219,430 –
Provisionally awarded during the period (i) 3,290,663 8,462,316
Forfeited during the period (1,981,178) (3,546,386)
Expired during the period – (3,429,493)
At end of period (ii) 13,662,455 9,133,540
Exercisable at end of period 99,344 204,866
2010 2009
(i) weighted average fair value of awards awarded during the period £0.12 £0.18
(ii) weighted average remaining contractual life for awards outstanding 1.3 years 1.6 years
Reward Sacrifice options were offered to the senior executives in September 2009 and do not have any performance conditions.
During the year 11,902,442 options were granted at a fair value of £0.15 and 737,432 options lapsed. The number outstanding at
the end of the period is 11,165,010.
Reward Shares were granted to a limited number of executives in July 2008 and do not have any performance conditions. During
2008/09 6,042,751 shares were granted at a fair value of £0.29. During the current period an adjustment of 1,709,273 was made
to the number of Reward Shares outstanding as a result of the Placing and Rights Issue and 821,108 (2008/09 1,227,824) Reward
Shares lapsed. The number outstanding at the end of the period is 5,703,092.
Strategic Summary Performance Review 108 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
26 Share-based payments continued
The fair value of such other equity settled share-based payments granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the option
pricing models listed below as well as taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. 
The following table lists the inputs to the models used for the periods ended 1 May 2010 and 2 May 2009 based on information
prevailing at the date of grant.
2009/10 2008/09
Reward Reward 
PSP Sacrifice LTIP / PSP Shares
Option pricing model Monte Carlo Binominal Monte Carlo Black-Scholes
Dividend yield 0% 0% 9.5% 9.5%
Historical and expected volatility 81.2% 76.3% 42.5% –
Risk-free interest rate 2.6% 2.2% 5.1% –
Expected life of awards 3.0 years 3.0 years 3.0 years 3.0 years
Weighted average share price £0.25 £0.27 £0.39 £0.39
Further information concerning share-based incentive plans specific to directors is included in the Remuneration Report in sections
(II) (b) (ii) and (iii) of the Remuneration Report.
(b) Cash settled
Historical awards have been granted to employees on the basis of a monetary amount determined by grade and length of service.
Employees must remain in employment until the vesting date which occurs on the third anniversary of the date of grant unless
specific circumstances apply to a participant as determined by the Remuneration Committee. The vesting of such share-based
payments for employees above a certain grade is determined based on the level of growth in EPS over a three year period. Such
awards are settled in cash which is calculated based on the share price at the exercise date. The fair value of cash settled share-
based payment plans is estimated as at the date of grant using the Binomial option pricing model taking into account the terms 
and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. No cash settled awards had vested at 1 May 2010 (2009 none).
2010 2009
£million £million
Amount included within trade and other payables relating to cash settled share-based payments 1.0 0.2
(c) Additional SAYE, ESOS and ESOP information
During the period the 137,783,431 options under the employee share option scheme were granted to 5,172 employees at exercise
prices ranging between £0.18 and £0.37. At 1 May 2010 options outstanding for accounting purposes amounted to 236,377,764
shares (2009 100,219,236) analysed as follows:
SAYE ESOS & ESOP
Exercise price Exercise price
Date of grant Pence Number Date of grant Pence Number
2 Mar 2005 94.83 454,171 17 Jul 2000 201.44 2,515,161
27 Feb 2006 103.54 198,312 5 Feb 2001 198.48 17,030
26 Feb 2007 99.52 1,176,762 23 Jul 2001 170.45 3,529,554
26 Feb 2008 44.54 9,683,249 15 Feb 2002 168.23 18,494
23 Jul 2009 18.32 50,267,202 22 Jul 2002 118.80 3,586,337
7 Feb 2003 75.59 40,660
6 Dec 2007 83.26 1,561,372
11 Jul 2008 27.63 76,901,531
14 Aug 2008 41.84 1,066,599
16 Dec 2008 9.20 – 10.85 7,149,733
23 Jul 2009 23.95 61,984,158
28 Sep 2009 28.43 11,902,439
07 Dec 2009 36.88 4,325,000
61,779,696 174,598,068
Options granted under the ESOS and ESOP can vest between three to 10 years subject to performance conditions, where
applicable, being met. The performance conditions applicable to these schemes are set out in section (II) (b) (iii) of the
Remuneration Report.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 109
27 Notes to the cash flow statement
(a) Reconciliation of operating profit / (loss) to net cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities
2009/10 2008/09
£million £million
Operating profit / (loss) 153.2 (125.7)
Operating loss – discontinued operations 3.0 38.3
Operating profit / (loss) – continuing operations 156.2 (87.4)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4.6 4.9
Amortisation of other intangibles 25.8 23.3
Depreciation 102.8 111.4
Share-based payment charge 5.7 1.8
Share of post-tax results of associates (1.6) (3.6)
Loss on disposal of property, plant & equipment 19.6 19.9
Additions to non-underlying – provisions 2.3 84.5
– impairment and accelerated depreciation / amortisation 3.3 69.0
– change in pension benefits (33.4) –
Utilisation of non-underlying provisions (54.7) (82.2)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 230.6 141.6
Movements in working capital:
Decrease in inventories 14.1 166.7
Decrease / (increase) in trade and other receivables 117.6 (58.5)
Decrease in trade and other payables (92.0) (393.6)
39.7 (285.4)
Cash generated from / (utilised by) operations – continuing operations 270.3 (143.8)
Strategic Summary Performance Review 110 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
27 Notes to the cash flow statement continued
(b) Analysis of net funds / (debt)
Other non-cash Currency 
3 May 2009 Cash flow movements translation 1 May 2010
£million £million £million £million £million
Cash and cash equivalents* 192.6 102.8 – 0.3 295.7
Bank overdrafts (4.8) 0.3 – (0.4) (4.9)
187.8 103.1 – (0.1) 290.8
Short term investments 9.0 (1.3) 0.8 – 8.5
Borrowings due within one year (250.1) 151.6 – – (98.5)
Borrowings due after more than one year (322.5) – 1.1 – (321.4)
Obligations under finance leases (101.7) 1.7 – – (100.0)
(674.3) 153.3 1.1 – (519.9)
Net debt (477.5) 255.1 1.9 (0.1) (220.6)
Other non-cash Currency 
4 May 2008 Cash flow movements translation 2 May 2009
£million £million £million £million £million
Cash and cash equivalents* 365.8 (188.8) – 15.6 192.6
Bank overdrafts (2.1) (2.5) – (0.2) (4.8)
363.7 (191.3) – 15.4 187.8
Short term investments 82.0 (73.3) (0.9) 1.2 9.0
Borrowings due within one year (0.2) (249.9) – – (250.1)
Borrowings due after more than one year (294.6) 0.1 (28.0) – (322.5)
Obligations under finance leases (100.8) 1.7 (2.4) (0.2) (101.7)
(395.6) (248.1) (30.4) (0.2) (674.3)
Net funds / (debt) 50.1 (512.7) (31.3) 16.4 (477.5)
Restricted funds, which predominantly comprise funds held under trust to fund customer support agreements were £78.9 million
(2009 £67.6 million). Net debt excluding restricted funds totalled £299.5 million (2009 £545.1 million).
*
Cash and cash equivalents are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the consolidated balance sheet. For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow, cash and cash
equivalents comprise those amounts presented on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts (which are disclosed separately on the
consolidated balance sheet and as disclosed in note 17).
28 Acquisitions
No significant acquisitions were made other than the exercise of a put option by a majority shareholder in an associated
undertaking. The acquisition in 2008/09 related to the exercise of a put option by a minority shareholder.
2009/10 2008/09
£million £million
Total consideration paid for current period acquisitions 10.6 27.6
Less: cash acquired (3.6) –
Total consideration, net of cash acquired 7.0 27.6
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 111
29 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale
On 19 May 2009 the Group disposed of its operations in Hungary to EW Electro Retail Limited for consideration of €1 and
accordingly classified its assets and liabilities as held for sale as at 2 May 2009 owing to the sale being highly probable under 
the definitions stipulated in IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’.
On 1 September 2009 the Group disposed of its operation in Poland to IDMSA Brokerage House, working with Mix Electronics
S.A., for consideration of €1.
As a result of the above sales, the businesses have been classified as discontinued and the prior periods have been re-presented
on a consistent basis. Both businesses were previously shown in the Other International division.
(a) Net loss on disposals
The total net assets disposed were as follows:
Hungary Poland Total
£million £million £million
Inventories 6.9 8.0 14.9
Cash and cash equivalents 5.0 1.2 6.2
Other assets 1.3 2.4 3.7
Current trade and other payables (3.2) (3.5) (6.7)
Provisions (11.2) (6.1) (17.3)
Net assets disposed (1.2) 2.0 0.8
Loss on disposals (1.0) (4.7) (5.7)
(2.2) (2.7) (4.9)
Consideration –––
Disposal fees and exit costs (1.2) (1.9) (3.1)
Cumulative foreign exchange differences transferred from equity (1.0) (0.8) (1.8)
Consideration and costs (2.2) (2.7) (4.9)
Disposal fees mainly comprise fees payables to advisors. Exit costs mainly comprise asset write downs and impairments, together
with associated termination costs.
(b) Loss after tax – discontinued operations
2009/10 2008/09
£million £million
Loss after tax from discontinued operations (3.0) (38.9)
Net loss on disposals (5.7) –
Loss after tax – discontinued operations (8.7) (38.9)
The loss after tax from discontinued operations relates to Hungary and Poland.
2009/10 2008/09
Hungary Poland Total Hungary Poland Total
£million £million £million £million £million £million
Revenue – 10.9 10.9 50.5 46.8 97.3
Expenses – (13.9) (13.9) (72.0) (63.6) (135.6)
Operating loss – (3.0) (3.0) (21.5) (16.8) (38.3)
Finance costs ––– (0.6) – (0.6)
Loss before tax – (3.0) (3.0) (22.1) (16.8) (38.9)
Income tax expense ––– –––
Loss after tax from discontinued operations – (3.0) (3.0) (22.1) (16.8) (38.9)
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (1.0) (4.7) (5.7) –––
Tax on loss on disposal ––– –––
Loss for the period (1.0) (7.7) (8.7) (22.1) (16.8) (38.9)
All losses were attributable to the equity shareholders of the Company.
Strategic Summary Performance Review 112 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
29 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale
(c) Cash flows from discontinued operations
2009/10 2008/09
Poland Hungary Poland Total
£million £million £million £million
Operating activities (8.6) (12.4) (7.2) (19.6)
Investing activities – (0.2) (1.1) (1.3)
Financing activities – (0.6) (0.1) (0.7)
(8.6) (13.2) (8.4) (21.6)
Cash flows from investing activities relate to interest received and capital expenditure. Cash flows from financing activities relate 
to interest paid. 
30 Capital commitments
2010 2009
£million £million
Contracted for but not provided for in the accounts 21.1 12.9
31 Contingent liabilities
2010 2009
£million £million
Guarantees 54.5 75.0
Other 8.1 14.2
62.6 89.2
Guarantees comprise potential obligations to financial institutions in respect of activities undertaken in the normal course of
business and relate to amounts utilised under letter of credit facilities. In addition to the figures shown in the table above, contingent
liabilities also exist in respect of lease covenants relating to premises assigned to third parties.
32 Operating lease commitments
2010 2009
Land and Other Land and Other
buildings assets buildings assets
£million £million £million £million
Total undiscounted future committed payments due:
Within one year 381.7 8.7 395.3 7.0
Between two and five years 1,314.3 8.3 1,379.1 3.4
After five years 1,636.7 – 1,908.8 –
3,332.7 17.0 3,683.2 10.4
Operating lease commitments represent rentals payable for retail, distribution and office properties, as well as vehicles, equipment
and office equipment. Contingent rentals are payable on certain retail store leases based on store revenues.
The above figures include committed payments under onerous lease contracts for which provisions or accruals exist on the 
balance sheet including those for closed businesses. In addition, at 2 May 2009 £22.7 million and £35.2 million related to Hungary 
and Poland, respectively, which form part of discontinued operations as described in note 29.
Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases was £32.5 million 
(2009 £47.0 million).
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 113
33 Related party transactions
Transactions between Group undertakings, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and accordingly 
are not disclosed.
The Group via its registered charitable trust, the DSG International Foundation (the Foundation), made charitable donations 
of £12,000 (2008/09 £600,000). During the period the Company made charitable donations of £nil (2008/09 £200,000) to the
Foundation. The Company is the sole benefactor of the Foundation, the principal beneficiaries of which are concerned with
education, community affairs, health and disabilities, heritage and the environment.
Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum, members of the Executive Committee, together with close family members and
companies controlled by them, own 22.0% of PIXmania, a company controlled by the Group. In connection with their management
roles with respect to PIXmania, Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum received management fees of €258,000 (£228,000)
(2008/09 €258,000 (£217,000)). Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum together hold call options over additional shares 
in PIXmania representing 16.8% of the share capital held by the Group. The options can be exercised from 30 April 2011 and are
subject to certain conditions including the achievement of targets related to earnings and certain capitalisation values of the
PIXmania business. In addition to the call options, Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum have certain exit rights exercisable
between July 2011 and July 2013 in relation to their holdings in PIXmania.
Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum own a building which is occupied and leased by PIXmania. During 2009/10 total
rental payments of €645,000 (£570,000) (2008/09 €597,000 (£502,000)) were charged in relation to this property.
Remuneration of directors and key management personnel
The remuneration of non-executive directors, executive directors, and members of the Executive Committee, who are the key
management personnel of the Group, is set out below. Further information about individual directors’ remuneration, share interests,
share options, pensions and other entitlements, which form part of these financial statements, is given in sections (VI) to (X) of the
directors’ Remuneration Report which are described as having been audited.
2010 2009
£million £million
Short term employee benefits 7.9 6.6
Termination benefits – 1.0
Share-based payment 0.9 0.4
34 Post balance sheet event
On 12 May 2010, the Group signed a new revolving credit facility agreement (the New Facility) for £360 million. The New Facility will
come into effect by 15 August 2010 at which time it will replace the Group’s existing £400 million Facility. The terms and covenants
attaching to the New Facility are substantially the same as that for the £400 million Facility except that the guarantee structure
comprises UK and Irish companies only, thereby aligning it more closely to the Bonds. At the earliest, the New Facility will mature 
on 15 August 2012 and the Group has the ability to extend the New Facility to 15 August 2013 in the event that it raises additional
finance of a minimum of £100 million by November 2011. Further details of the New Facility are shown in notes 17 and 22.
Strategic Summary Performance Review 114 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
1 May 2010 2 May 2009 3 May 2008
Note £million £million £million
Non-current assets
Investments C4 1,723.7 1,718.8 1,716.7
Property, plant & equipment C5 – – 0.1
Deferred tax assets C3 – – 1.0
1,723.7 1,718.8 1,717.8
Current assets
Trade and other receivables C6 53.0 53.9 12.7
Income tax receivable – – 17.0
Cash and cash equivalents C7 80.7 – 40.6
133.7 53.9 70.3
Total assets 1,857.4 1,772.7 1,788.1
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts C8 – (359.9) –
Borrowings C8 (95.0) (250.0) –
Trade and other payables C9 (462.9) (216.9) (754.5)
(557.9) (826.8) (754.5)
Net current liabilities (424.2) (772.9) (684.2)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings C8 (319.7) (320.1) (289.5)
(319.7) (320.1) (289.5)
Total liabilities (877.6) (1,146.9) (1,044.0)
Net assets 979.8 625.8 744.1
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital C10 90.2 44.3 44.3
Share premium account 169.4 169.4 169.4
Investment in own shares (2.3) (2.3) (2.3)
Capital reserves 5.0 5.0 5.0
Profit and loss account 717.5 409.4 527.7
Equity shareholders’ funds 979.8 625.8 744.1
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 24 June 2010 and signed on their behalf.
John Browett Nicholas Cadbury
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Financial Statements
Company Balance Sheet  Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 115
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
1 May 2010 2 May 2009
Note £million £million
Operating activities
Cash generated from / (utilised by) operations C11 243.3 (549.0)
Income tax received 1.2 17.0
Net cash flows from operating activities 244.5 (532.0)
Investing activities
Dividend received 100.0 –
Interest received 20.4 1.7
Net cash flows from investing activities 120.4 1.7
Financing activities
Issue of ordinary share capital 291.3 –
(Decrease) / increase in borrowings due within one year (155.0) 250.0
Interest paid (60.6) (59.9)
Equity dividends paid – (60.3)
Net cash flows from financing activities 75.7 129.8
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents
*
C11 440.6 (400.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
*
C11 (359.9) 40.6
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
*
C11 80.7 (359.9)
*
For the purposes of this cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise those items disclosed as ‘cash and cash equivalents’ on the face of the balance sheet, less
overdrafts, which are classified within current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet. A reconciliation to the balance sheet amounts is shown in note C11.
Company Cash Flow Statement
Strategic Summary Performance Review 116 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Capital 
Share Merger Investment in redemption Retained
Share capital premium reserves own shares reserve earnings Total equity
£million £million £million £million £million £million £million
At 4 May 2008 44.3 169.4 – (2.3) 5.0 527.7 744.1
Loss for the period ––––– (59.7) (59.7)
Equity dividends paid ––––– (60.7) (60.7)
Share-based payments ––––– 2.1 2.1
At 2 May 2009 44.3 169.4 – (2.3) 5.0 409.4 625.8
Profit for the period ––––– 57.8 57.8
Placing and Rights Issue 45.9 – 245.4 – – – 291.3
Transfer – – (245.4) – – 245.4 –
Share-based payments ––––– 4.9 4.9
At 1 May 2010 90.2 169.4 – (2.3) 5.0 717.5 979.8
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement for the Company is included in these financial
statements. 
On 9 June 2009, the Company completed a Placing and Rights Issue, further details of which are shown in note C10. The Placing
and Rights Issue was effected through a structure which resulted in a merger reserve arising under Section 612 of the Companies
Act 2006. Following receipt of the cash proceeds through the structure, the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of
the share capital issued was transferred from the merger reserve to retained earnings. 
Own shares held by the Company represent shares in the Company held by Halifax EES Trustees International Limited, further
details of which are given in notes 23(b) and 25 to the Group financial statements.
Financial Statements
Company Statement of Changes in Equity Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 117
C1 Accounting policies
DSG international plc has historically prepared its financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting
Practices (UK GAAP). As permitted by Section 395 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected to present its financial
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 
Accordingly the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as adopted by the EU, IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act 2006
applicable to those companies reporting under IFRS. The transition date to IFRS for the Company was 3 May 2008 (the Transition
Date), being the start of the period of comparative information.
IFRS 1, ‘First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’, permits those companies adopting IFRS for the first
time to take advantage of certain exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS and make certain elections in the transition period.
The Company has elected to measure its investments in subsidiaries at the amounts stated under UK GAAP as at the transition
date to IFRS. 
Accounting policies have been consistently applied throughout the current and preceding periods. 
After making due enquiry, on the basis of current financial projections, the directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements. 
The Company’s accounting policies in relation to operating leases, share-based payments, translation of foreign currencies, tangible
fixed assets, taxation and derivative financial instruments are set out in note 1 to the Group financial statements. Other accounting
policies which are specific to the Company are set out below. 
(a) Share-based payments 
Where the Company has granted rights to its equity to employees of subsidiary undertakings in relation to equity settled share-
based payment arrangements the contribution to the subsidiary undertakings is recognised as an additional investment.
(b) Investments
Investments are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value.
(c) Post-retirement benefits 
It is not practical to allocate the underlying assets and liabilities of the defined benefit section of the pension scheme to the
Company on a consistent and reasonable basis. The Company has therefore accounted for its contributions to the defined benefit
section of the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. 
The Company’s contributions to the defined contribution section of the pension scheme are charged to the income statement 
on an accruals basis as they become payable.
C2 Directors’ and auditors’ remuneration
Details of directors’ remuneration, share interests, share options, pensions and other entitlements, which form part of these financial
statements, are given in the parts of the directors’ Remuneration Report which are described as having been audited. Fees paid to
the auditors in respect of their audit of the Company were £0.1 million (2008/09 £0.1 million).
C3 Taxation 
Deferred tax
2010 2009
£million £million
At beginning of period – 1.0
Charged to the income statement – (1.0)
At end of period – –
The deferred tax asset related to accelerated capital allowances. 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Strategic Summary Performance Review 118 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
C4 Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 
2010 2009
£million £million
Cost 
At beginning of period 1,718.8 1,716.7
Movement in the period 4.9 2.1
At end of period 1,723.7 1,718.8
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are set out in note C16.
C5 Property, plant & equipment 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment
2010 2009
£million £million
Cost
At beginning and end of period 0.5 0.5
Depreciation
At beginning of period 0.5 0.4
Charge for period – 0.1
At end of period 0.5 0.5
Net book value
At beginning and end of period – –
C6 Trade and other receivables
2010 2009 2008
£million £million £million
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 15.7 13.9 11.6
Derivative financial instruments 25.0 30.3 –
Other debtors 0.1 0.6 –
Prepayments 9.1 9.1 1.1
Accrued income 3.1 ––
53.0 53.9 12.7
Further information on derivative financial instruments is provided in note C13.
The majority of other receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 60 day terms. The total financial assets included within
trade and other receivables are £18.9 million (2009 £14.5 million and 2008 £11.6 million). The carrying amount of trade and other
receivables approximates fair value. There were no past due or impaired balances at the end of the period (2009 and 2008 £nil). 
C7 Cash and cash equivalents 
2010 2009 2008
£million £million £million
Cash at bank 80.7 – 17.8
Money market deposits – – 22.8
80.7 – 40.6
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. 
2008: Money market deposits were made for varying periods of up to 90 days with an average maturity of one day and earned
interest at an average effective rate of 5.52%. The carrying amount of money market deposits approximates their fair value.
Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 119
C8 Borrowings and overdrafts
2010 2009 2008
£million £million £million
Current 
Bank overdrafts – 359.9 –
Borrowings 95.0 250.0 –
95.0 609.9 –
Non-current
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 319.7 320.1 289.5
Bank overdrafts are subject to a pooling arrangement with other Group companies and are repayable on demand. 
Current borrowings represent amounts which have been drawn down under the £400 million sterling committed facility (the Facility).
Further details on both the Facility and the 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds (the Bonds) are provided in note 17 and 22 of the Group
financial statements. 
C9 Trade and other payables 
2010 2009 2008
£million £million £million
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 446.6 202.3 741.0
Accruals 16.3 14.6 13.5
462.9 216.9 754.5
Further information on derivative financial instruments is provided in note C13. 
The total shown equals the total financial liabilities. The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
C10 Share capital
Called up share capital
2010 2009 2008
£million £million £million
Authorised
4,980,252,496 (2009 4,980,252,496) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 124.5 124.5 124.5
Allotted and fully paid
3,609,937,433 (2009 1,772,442,268) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 90.2 44.3 44.3
During the period 36,403 shares (2008/09 none) were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share option schemes. 
On 9 June 2009 the Group completed a Placing and Rights Issue which raised gross proceeds of £310.6 million, and for which
further details are provided in note 23(a) of the Group financial statements. 
Strategic Summary Performance Review 120 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
C11 Notes to the cash flow statement 
(a) Reconciliation of operating loss to net cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities
2009/10 2008/09
£million £million
Operating loss (7.6) (5.5)
Movements in working capital:
Decrease / (increase) in trade and other receivables 2.3 (4.5)
Increase / (decrease) in trade and other payables 248.6 (539.0)
250.9 (543.5)
Cash generated from / (utilised by) operations 243.3 (549.0)
(b) Analysis of net debt
Other non-cash
3 May 2009 Cash flow movements 1 May 2010
£million £million £million £million
Cash and cash equivalents* – 80.7 – 80.7
Bank overdrafts (359.9) 359.9 – –
(359.9) 440.6 – 80.7
Borrowings due within one year (250.0) 155.0 – (95.0)
Borrowings due after more than one year (320.1) – 0.4 (319.7)
(570.1) 155.0 0.4 (414.7)
Net debt (930.0) 595.6 0.4 (334.0)
Other non-cash 
4 May 2008 Cash flow movements 2 May 2009
£million £million £million £million
Cash and cash equivalents* 40.6 (40.6) – –
Bank overdrafts – (359.9) – (359.9)
40.6 (400.5) – (359.9)
Borrowings due within one year – (250.0) – (250.0)
Borrowings due after more than one year (289.5) – (30.6) (320.1)
(289.5) (250.0) (30.6) (570.1)
Net debt (248.9) (650.5) (30.6) (930.0)
*
Cash and cash equivalents are represented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet. For the purposes of the cash flow, cash and cash equivalents comprise those
amounts represented on the balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts (which are disclosed separately on the balance sheet and as disclosed in note C8).
Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 121
C12 Post-retirement benefits
The Company maintains a pension scheme for eligible employees in the UK comprising both a defined benefit and defined
contribution section. The defined benefit section is a funded scheme with assets held in a separate trustee administered fund. 
The scheme is valued by a qualified actuary at least every three years and contributions are assessed in accordance with the 
advice of independent qualified actuaries so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members. 
The last valuation was carried out as at 5 April 2007, using the projected unit method and has been used to determine the level 
of funding to the scheme. A further actuarial valuation as at 5 April 2010 is currently underway, however, its results are not 
expected to be available until early 2011. 
The last actuarial valuation of the defined benefit section showed the value of assets to be sufficient to cover 92% of the benefits
accrued to members after allowing for expected future increases in earnings. The valuation of the defined benefit section for the
purposes of IAS 19 showed a gross pension deficit (before deferred tax) of £263.5 million (2009 £148.8 million and 2008
£51.0 million). Further particulars of the scheme are disclosed in note 21 to the Group financial statements.
Since 1 September 2002, the defined benefit section of the scheme has been closed to new entrants and on 30 April 2010 was
closed to future accrual with automatic entry into the defined contribution section being offered to those active members of the
defined benefit section at that time. Membership of the defined contribution section is offered to all eligible employees.
C13 Financial instruments 
(a) Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Company is exposed to liquidity, interest rate, exchange, credit and capital risks and adopts the same approach to the
management of these risks as the Group as set out in the Directors’ Report and in note 22 to the Group financial statements. 
(b) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
For receivables and payables classified as financial assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 32, fair value is estimated to be
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in notes C6 and C9, respectively. The categories of financial assets and liabilities
and their related accounting policy are set out in notes 1.11 and 1.15 to the Group financial statements. 
For those financial assets and liabilities which bear either a floating rate of interest or no interest, fair value is estimated to be
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in note C13 (d). 
Included in trade and other receivables is £25.0 million (2009 £30.3 million and 2008 £nil) relating to interest rate swaps held 
to hedge fair value interest rate risk. See note C13 (c) for further details. 
The Company uses swaps to manage its interest rate exposure. Further details on the Company’s interest rate swaps are included
in note 22(d) to the Group financial statements. 
(c) Hedging activities
The Company manages exposures that arise on interest rates by entering into interest rate swaps. Further information on fair value
hedging is set out in note 22(c) to the Group financial statements. 
Strategic Summary Performance Review 122 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
C13 Financial instruments continued
(d) Interest rate profile of financial assets and financial liabilities by currency
The following table sets out the interest rate exposure of the financial assets and liabilities of the Company. 
2010
Sterling Other Total
£million £million £million
Cash and cash equivalents:
Floating rate 80.3 0.4 80.7
Borrowings:
Fixed rate (53.3) – (53.3)
Floating rate (361.4) – (361.4)
(414.7) – (414.7)
Net borrowings (334.4) 0.4 (334.0)
2009
Sterling Other Total
£million £million £million
Borrowings:
Floating rate (930.0) – (930.0)
Net borrowings (930.0) – (930.0)
2008
Sterling Other Total
£million £million £million
Cash and cash equivalents:
Floating rate 17.1 0.7 17.8
Fixed rate 22.8 – 22.8
39.9 0.7 40.6
Borrowings:
Floating rate (289.5) – (289.5)
Net borrowings (249.6) 0.7 (248.9)
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial
instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Fixed rate cash and cash equivalents relate to money market deposits (as shown in note C7). 
Fixed rate borrowings comprise the unhedged part of the Bonds. Floating rate borrowings include bank overdrafts and fixed rate
bonds after taking into account the effect of interest rates swaps entered into by the Company and drawings under the £400 million
sterling committed facility. The weighted average effective interest rate on bank overdrafts in 2008/09 approximated 3.7%. Further
details on fixed and floating rate borrowings are shown in notes 17 and 22 to the Group financial statements. 
Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 123
(e) Sensitivity analysis
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, shows the sensitivity of profit before tax and total equity to changes in interest rates 
on derivative financial instruments and certain monetary items. The sensitivity analysis reflects the position as at 1 May 2010 and
2 May 2009, respectively, and is not necessarily representative of actual or future outcomes. 
Changes in interest rates affect the Company’s loss before tax, mainly due to the impact of floating rate borrowings, cash and
derivative financial instruments. The Company’s principal floating rate interest rate exposures are based on LIBOR. The following
sensitivity analysis shows a reasonably possible change in interest rates (uniform across all currencies), with other variables held
constant and the corresponding decrease would have an equal and opposite effect. A 1% increase in interest rates would have 
a negative effect on profit before tax and equity of £6.7 million (2008/09 a £10.9 million negative effect on profit before tax and
equity). Assumptions used in calculating the sensitivity analysis are set out in note 22(e) to the Group financial statements. 
(f) Liquidity risk
The table below analyses the Company’s contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivative
assets into their maturity groupings. The table includes both principal and interest flows.
2010
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
In more than
one year but
Within not more than Carrying
one year five years Total value
£million £million £million £million
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings (95.0) – (95.0) (95.0)
Trade and other payables (454.0) – (454.0) (462.9)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (18.4) (337.1) (355.5) (319.7)
(567.4) (337.1) (904.5) (877.6)
Derivative contracts
Inflows 15.3 30.6 45.9 44.8
Outflows (5.0) (15.4) (20.4) (19.8)
10.3 15.2 25.5 25.0
2009
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
In more than
one year but
Within not more than Carrying
one year five years Total value
£million £million £million £million
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (359.9) – (359.9) (359.9)
Borrowings (252.1) – (252.1) (250.0)
Trade and other payables (206.4) – (206.4) (216.9)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (18.4) (355.5) (373.9) (320.1)
(836.8) (355.5) (1,192.3) (1,146.9)
Derivative contracts
Inflows 15.3 45.9 61.2 70.1
Outflows (9.3) (27.8) (37.1) (39.8)
6.0 18.1 24.1 30.3
Strategic Summary Performance Review 124 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
C13 Financial instruments continued
2008
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
In more than
one year but
Within not more than Carrying
one year five years Total value
£million £million £million £million
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (746.1) – (746.1) (754.5)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (18.4) (373.9) (392.3) (289.5)
(764.5) (373.9) (1,138.4) (1,044.0)
Derivative contracts
Inflows 15.3 61.2 76.5 80.6
Outflows (15.4) (61.7) (77.1) (80.6)
(0.1) (0.5) (0.6) –
The carrying value of trade and other payables includes accrued interest on the Bonds of £8.4 million (2009 £8.4 million and 2008
£8.6 million) and accrued interest on other borrowings of £0.4 million (2009 £1.5 million and 2008 £nil). 
(g) Credit risk
The Company’s exposure to credit risk is discussed in note 22 (a) to the Group financial statements. The Company’s receivable
balances mainly consist of amounts due from subsidiary undertakings. Further information on the Company’s exposure to
significant concentration of credit risk on receivables from subsidiary undertakings is set out in note C15.
C14 Contingent liabilities
2010 2009 2008
£million £million £million
Guarantees 54.5 75.0 117.8
Other 2.8 1.8 14.1
57.3 76.8 131.9
Guarantees comprise potential obligations to financial institutions in respect of activities undertaken in the normal course of business.
C15 Related parties
During the period the Company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties as follows:
2009/10 2008/09
£million £million
Subsidiary undertakings
Recharge of costs 10.1 14.3
Interest paid (2.1) (26.6)
Dividends received 100.0 –
Recharge of costs relates to management charges for services provided to other Group companies.
Included within amounts repayable to subsidiaries are loans of £431.3 million (2009 £177.7 million and 2008 £708.5 million) with
maturity of one month but renewable on a rolling basis and bear interest at rates between 1.5% and 4.25% (2008/09 1.5% to
6.0%). The Company also has fixed loans of £14.2 million (2009 £20.8 million and 2008 £20.7 million) which have no maturity 
date and bear no interest.
Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 125
C16 Principal subsidiary undertakings 
The directors consider that to give full particulars of all Group undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. A full list
of Group undertakings is attached to the latest annual return. The following information relates to those subsidiary undertakings, 
all of which are engaged in retail activities, whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affect the
consolidated financial statements of the Group at 1 May 2010:
DSG international Holdings Limited – UK* El-Giganten AS – Denmark
DSG Retail Ireland Limited – Ireland Elkjøp Nordic AS – Norway
DSG Retail Limited – UK Gigantti OY – Finland
DSGi South-East Europe A.E.V.E. – Greece (99.2%) PIXmania S.A.S. – France (76.9%)
Electro World s.r.o. – Czech Republic PC City Spain S.A.U. – Spain
ElectroWorld Iç ve Dis Ticaret AS – Turkey (60%) UniEuro S.p.A. – Italy
El-Giganten AB – Sweden
*
A direct subsidiary undertaking of DSG international plc and a holding company.
Unless otherwise indicated, principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned. All Group undertakings operate in their country 
of incorporation.
C17 Financial information under International Financial Reporting Standards 
The key differences between UK GAAP and IFRS affecting the Company’s accounting policies are set out below. 
While this is not a comprehensive summary of all differences between UK GAAP and IFRS, other differences would have no effect
or no significant effect on the net loss or shareholders’ funds of the Company. The Company’s loss after tax for the period ended
2 May 2009 and shareholders’ funds as at 2 May 2009 and 3 May 2008 are unaffected by the change. 
(a) Presentation of financial statements
The primary financial statements are presented in accordance with IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ as revised in 2007.
Although similar, such a presentation differs from its UK GAAP equivalent. 
The statement of changes in equity, which was previously presented as a note under UK GAAP , is now presented as a primary
statement. 
IAS 1 requires a statement of cash flows to be presented. This was not previously required under UK GAAP . 
(b) Reclassifications
The following reflects the key presentational changes to the balance sheet. Such changes have no effect on either net assets 
or profits going forwards. 
■ Under UK GAAP , specific definitions exist for cash at bank and short term investments. Under IFRS, a new category described 
as ‘cash and cash equivalents’ replaces the UK GAAP equivalent of cash at bank and in hand. The definition of cash and cash
equivalents results in a reclassification of certain amounts from short term investments into cash and cash equivalents.
■ Under UK GAAP , deferred tax assets are split into amounts falling due within one year and amounts falling due after more than
one year. IFRS requires all deferred tax asset balances to be shown as non-current. 
C18 Post balance sheet events 
On 12 May 2010, the Company signed a new revolving credit facility agreement (the New Facility) for £360 million. The New Facility
will come into effect by 15 August 2010 at which time it will replace the Company’s existing £400 million Facility. The terms and
covenants attaching to the New Facility are substantially the same as that for the £400 million Facility except that the guarantee
structure comprises UK and Irish companies only, thereby aligning it more closely to the Bonds. At the earliest, the New Facility will
mature on 15 August 2012 and the Company has the ability to extend the New Facility to 15 August 2013 in the event that it raises
additional finance of a minimum of £100 million by November 2011. Further details of the New Facility are shown in notes 17 and 22
to the Group financial statements.
Strategic Summary Performance Review 126 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Consolidated income statement
2009/10 2008/09 2007/08 2006/07 2005/06
£million £million £million £million £million
Underlying revenue
(1)
8,531.6 8,180.2 8,292.2 7,730.1 6,875.9
Percentage change 4.3% (1.4)% 7.3% 12.4%
Underlying operating profit
(1)
/ EBIT
(2)
133.2 83.0 217.5 291.0 299.3
Underlying net finance (costs) / income
(1)
(42.7) (26.9) 13.0 21.6 26.5
Underlying profit before tax
(1)
90.5 56.1 230.5 312.6 325.8
Percentage change 61.3% (75.7)% (26.3)% (4.0)%
Closed businesses (0.2) (14.1) (15.9) (5.5) (5.8)
Acquired intangible amortisation (4.6) (4.9) (4.4) (4.7) (1.8)
Net restructuring costs and business impairment charges (5.6) (59.1) (20.7) (55.4) (22.4)
Business impairment charges – (96.1) (364.2) (115.1) –
Other items – 1.9 – – (4.1)
Changes in pension benefits 33.4 – – 4.7 –
Profit on sale of investment – – 1.7 – 2.9
Net fair value remeasurements (0.8) (7.4) (6.2) (10.5) 10.3
Profit / (loss) before tax – continuing operations 112.7 (123.6) (179.2) 126.1 304.9
Income tax expense (46.7) (56.8) (66.0) (77.3) (88.2)
Profit / (loss) after tax – continuing operations 66.0 (180.4) (245.2) 48.8 216.7
(Loss) / profit after tax – discontinued operations (8.7) (38.9) (14.5) (46.4) (5.0)
Profit / (loss) for the period 57.3 (219.3) (259.7) 2.4 211.7
Underlying diluted earnings per share (pence)
(1)
1.5p 1.0p 7.4p 10.1p 10.4p
Percentage change 50.0% (86.5)% (26.7)% (2.9)%
Dividends per ordinary share (pence) – – 5.45p 8.87p 8.45p
Consolidated cash flow
2009/10 2008/09 2007/08 2006/07 2005/06
£million £million £million £million £million
Underlying profit before tax
(1)
90.5 56.1 230.5 312.6 325.8
Closed businesses profit before tax (0.2) (14.1) (15.9) (5.5) (5.8)
Depreciation and amortisation 128.6 134.7 136.2 136.8 131.0
Working capital movements 39.7 (285.4) 8.1 (15.1) 15.4
Taxation (31.9) (35.7) (53.1) (100.8) (85.0)
Net capital expenditure (164.6) (129.9) (123.6) (108.0) (78.4)
Other (34.0) (65.7) (48.9) 15.8 (33.7)
Free Cash Flow before restructuring items
(3)
28.1 (340.0) 133.3 235.8 269.3
Net restructuring and other one-off items (45.7) (64.2) (37.6) (63.6) 33.9
Free Cash Flow
(4)
(17.6) (404.2) 95.7 172.2 303.2
Closing net (debt) / funds (220.6) (477.5) 50.1 224.9 439.6
Less restricted funds
(5)
(78.9) (67.6) (66.5) (111.2) (193.5)
Unrestricted net (debt) / funds
(5)
(299.5) (545.1) (16.4) 113.7 246.1
Information for Shareholders
Five Year Record  Business Overview Corporate Governance Information for Shareholders Financial Statements
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 127
Consolidated balance sheet
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£million £million £million £million £million
Non-current assets
Goodwill 1,116.5 1,069.1 984.3 1,057.1 1,087.6
Intangible assets 130.7 148.4 143.9 127.7 109.7
Tangible assets 541.0 489.6 531.3 580.6 641.4
Other non-current assets 253.8 248.6 154.7 144.2 187.0
2,042.0 1,955.7 1,814.2 1,909.6 2,025.7
Current assets
Inventories 972.6 971.9 1,093.1 1,030.6 873.4
Other current assets 397.0 516.5 501.7 409.9 370.4
Short term investments 8.5 9.0 82.0 185.9 232.6
Cash and cash equivalents 295.7 192.6 365.8 440.5 617.5
1,673.8 1,690.0 2,042.6 2,066.9 2,093.9
Assets held for sale – 13.2 – – –
Total assets 3,715.8 3,658.9 3,856.8 3,976.5 4,119.6
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts (4.9) (4.8) (2.1) (5.7) –
Other borrowings (98.5) (250.1) (0.2) (2.9) (8.8)
Obligations under finance leases (2.4) (2.8) (1.5) (1.0) (0.5)
Other current liabilities (1,652.9) (1,722.5) (2,070.1) (1,827.1) (1,712.1)
Provisions (22.3) (72.1) (46.2) (32.7) (27.7)
(1,781.0) (2,052.3) (2,120.1) (1,869.4) (1,749.1)
Net current (liabilities) / assets (107.2) (362.3) (77.5) 197.5 344.8
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (321.4) (322.5) (294.6) (290.4) (301.1)
Obligations under finance leases (97.6) (98.9) (99.3) (101.5) (100.1)
Retirement benefit obligations (266.8) (153.0) (54.0) (38.4) (141.7)
Other non-current liabilities (344.4) (392.5) (384.2) (354.1) (393.1)
Provisions (29.5) (40.4) (51.1) (18.4) (10.8)
(1,059.7) (1,007.3) (883.2) (802.8) (946.8)
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified 
as held for sale – (14.4) – – –
Total liabilities (2,840.7) (3,074.0) (3,003.3) (2,672.2) (2,695.9)
Net assets 875.1 584.9 853.5 1,304.3 1,423.7
Equity shareholders’ funds 846.5 558.9 826.7 1,281.7 1,414.4
Equity minority interests 28.6 26.0 26.8 22.6 9.3
Total equity 875.1 584.9 853.5 1,304.3 1,423.7
Notes:
(1) Underlying figures exclude the effects of trading results of closed businesses, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and 
other one-off non-recurring items, profits on sale of investments and net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations.
(2) EBIT comprises underlying operating profit.
(3) Free Cash Flow before restructuring items includes dividend payments to minority shareholders.
(4) Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash flow generated from operations before special pension contributions, net finance (costs) / income,
income tax and net capital expenditure.
(5) Unrestricted net (debt) / funds comprise cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and borrowings and exclude restricted funds which predominantly comprise funds
held under trust to fund customer support agreement liabilities.
Strategic Summary Performance Review 128 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
Registered office
Maylands Avenue, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire HP2 7TG.
Registered No. 3847921. www.dsgiplc.com
Registrars and transfer office
Capita IRG plc, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge,
Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0GA. Tel: 0871 664 0300
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open
8.30am – 5.30pm Monday to Friday). If calling from abroad 
the number is +44 20 8639 3399. The website address is
www.capitaregistrars.com
Joint brokers
Citigroup Global Markets, JP Morgan Cazenove.
Shareholder enquiries
Shareholders can access shareholding details over the internet
via our Registrars secure portal at www.capitashareportal.com
As well as checking name, address and shareholding details 
in the Shareholder Help section, you can download change of
address, dividend mandate and stock transfer forms. This is 
a secure site and you will need to register first. Please follow 
the simple instructions on the website. So that the system can
validate your enquiries an Investor Code is required. This is 
a numerical account number and can be found on both your
share certificate and your dividend tax counterfoil. 
Share dealing service
Online and telephone share dealing services are available
through our Registrars, providing easy access and simple to 
use services. There is no need to pre-register and the facilities
allow you to trade in ‘real time’ and at a known price which will
be given to you at the time you give your instruction. In order 
to deal via these facilities you will need your Investor Code (see
above) as well as stating your surname, full postcode and date
of birth. Details of the online dealing service are available on
www.capitadeal.com and the telephone dealing service is on
0871 664 0454 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras).
Lines are open Monday to Friday 8am to 4.30pm. 
Cazenove operates a postal share dealing service for private
investors who wish to buy or sell the Company’s shares. 
Details are available from Cazenove. Tel: 020 7155 5328.
CREST 
The Company’s shares are traded on CREST. CREST is a
voluntary system which enables shareholders to hold and
transfer their shareholdings electronically rather than by paper.
Shareholders holding shares in this way can opt to receive 
their dividends through the CREST system.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is obliged to make its share register available to
third parties on payment of a prescribed fee. This may result in
shareholders receiving unsolicited mail. If you wish to limit the
receipt of unsolicited mail you should write to: 
The Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 22, London W1E 7ER
or register on their website at www.mpsonline.org.uk
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share
donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares
whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them. Details of the
scheme are available on the ShareGift website, www.sharegift.org
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting 8 September 2010
Interim results announcement 25 November 2010
2010/11 Interim Statement publication January 2011
Alternative Format
If you would like this Annual 
Report and Accounts or any 
other shareholder documentation 
in an alternative format, 
please send a request to
corporate.affairs@dsgiplc.com
Information for Shareholders
Shareholder Information Page
A 
Accounting policies 69-75
Accounting estimates 
and judgements 74, 75
Acquired intangibles 89
Acquisitions 110
Amortisation 79, 89
Associates 90, 91
Audit committee 49, 50
Auditors’ remuneration 80
Auditors’ report 63
B
Balance Sheet (Group) 66
Board of Directors 40
Borrowings and borrowing facilities 93
Brands 89
C
Capital commitments 112
Capital expenditure 79, 90
Cash and cash equivalents 92
Cash flow statement (Group) 67
Colleagues 36, 37
Community 39
Company financial statements 114-125
Contingent liabilities 112
Corporate governance 45-48
Customer Plan 2-19
D
Deferred tax 86
Depreciation 79, 90
Directors’ remuneration 58
Directors’ interests 57, 59, 60
Directors’ report index 42
Discontinued operations 111, 112
E
Earnings / loss per share 87
Employee numbers 84
Environment 38, 39
Executive Committee 41
Designed and produced by Likemind www.likemind.com.
Photography by Anthony Charlton: In-Press Photography, Carl Lindhe Photography and DSG international plc Digital Studio.
Printed in the UK by St Ives Westerham Press Ltd. ISO14001:2004, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral
®.
The papers used in this report are Revive 50:50 Silk and Revive 50:50 Offset. They are produced from 50% recycled fibre from both pre- and post-consumer waste
sources, together with 50% Elemental Chlorine Free fibre from well-managed forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Page
F 
Finance costs / income 83
Finance leases 94
Financial instruments 99-104
Free Cash Flow 32, 33, 67
Funding 33, 93
G
Going concern 44
Goodwill 88, 89
H
Health and Safety 37, 38
I
Income statement 64
Intangible assets 89
Inventories 91
K
Key Performance Indicators 21
L
LTIP / Long term 
incentive plan 54, 55, 107, 108
M
Market / Marketplace 20
N 
Nominations committee 51
Non-underlying items 69, 81, 82
O
Operating lease charges 80
Operating lease commitments 112
Outlook 19
Page
P
Pensions 95-98
PSP / Performance 
share plan 54, 55,107, 108
Placing and Rights Issue 104
Post balance sheet event 113
Property losses 34, 76, 77
Property, plant & equipment 90
Provisions 95
R
Related party transactions 113
Remuneration report 52-61
Renewal and 
Transformation plan 15-19
Reward Shares 55, 107, 108
Reward Sacrifice 53, 60
Risk factors 22, 23
S
Segmental analysis 75-79
Selling space 13
Share-based payments 106-108
Share capital 104
Shareholder information 128
Short term investments 92
Statement of comprehensive 
income and expense 65
Store numbers 13
Subsidiary undertakings 125
T
Tax 84-86
TSR (Total Shareholder Return) 57
Trade and other payables 94
Trade and other receivables 91, 92
Treasury policy 99, 100
U
Underlying definition 69
Index
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10 129 Thank you 
for shopping
in our store
DSG international plc
Maylands Avenue
Hemel Hempstead
Hertfordshire
HP2 7TG
Tel 0844 800 2030
www.dsgiplc.com
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009/10
