 Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2010/11
Dixons Retail plc 
Maylands Avenue
Hemel Hempstead
Hertfordshire
HP2 7TG
T el 0844 800 2030
www.dixonsretail.com
Dixons Retail plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Bringing 
life to 
technology Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Dixons Retail plc is a specialist electrical 
retailer and services company which  
sells consumer electronics, personal 
computers, domestic appliances, 
photographic equipment, communication 
products and related services.
We are one of Europe’s leading  
specialist electrical retailing groups.  
We trade through over 1,200 stores and 
online, spanning 28 countries and we 
employ 38,000 people.
www.dixonsretail.com
Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.merchantcantos.com
Photography by Dennis Davis: Dennis Davis Photography and Dixons Retail plc Digital Studio. 
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO9001, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral 
The papers used in this report are Revive 50:50 Silk and Revive 50:50 Offset. They are produced from 50% recycled fibre from both pre- and post-consumer waste 
sources, together with 50% Elemental Chlorine Free fibre from well-managed forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship 
Council. The inks used are all vegetable oil based.  Dixons Retail plc 
01
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
EBIT
(4)
(£million)
2010/11 127.6
133.2
95.3
214.3
279.2
2009/10
2008/09
2007/08
2006/07
Underlying diluted earnings per share
(1,5)
(pence)
2010/11 1.6
1.5
1.3
7.0
9.4
2009/10
2008/09
2007/08
2006/07
Underlying proﬁt before tax
(1)
(£million)
2010/11 85.3
90.9
70.6
228.4
304.2
2009/10
2008/09
2007/08
2006/07
Underlying Group sales
(1)
(£million)
8,154.4
8,320.0
7,955.8
8,074.8
7,531.7
2010/11
2009/10
2008/09
2007/08
2006/07
Highlights 
Financial
Statements
Shareholder 
Information
Directors’  
Report 
and 
Business 
Review
Corporate
Governance
36  Board of Directors
37  Executive Committee
38  Statutory Information
40  Corporate Governance 
Report
44  Audit Committee Report
45  Nominations Committee 
Report
46  Remuneration Report
55  Directors’ 
Responsibilities
56  Independent Auditor’s 
Report
57  Consolidated Income 
Statement
58  Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive 
Income and Expense
59  Consolidated Balance 
Sheet
60  Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
 61  Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
62     Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
108  Company Balance 
Sheet
109  Company Cash  
Flow Statement
110  Company Statement of 
Changes in Equity
111  Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements
120  Five Year Record
122  Shareholder 
Information
123 Index
Performance 
Review
23 Overview
25 UK & Ireland
26 Nordics
27  Other International
28  Pure Play e-commerce
29  Group Financial 
Summary
32  Corporate Responsibility 
Report
Strategic 
Summary
08  Bringing life to 
technology 
16 Business Model
18 Looking Forward
19  Key Performance 
Indicators
20  Risks to Achieving the 
Group’s Objectives
Business
Overview
02  Group at a Glance
04  Chairman’s Statement
05  Chief Executive’s Review
Note: References related to definitions appear on page 24.
Cautionary statement 
Certain statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are forward-looking 
statements. Such statements are based on current expectations and are 
subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual 
results to differ materially from any expected future events or results referred 
to in these forward looking statements. Unless otherwise required by 
applicable laws, regulations or accounting standards, we do not undertake 
any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether 
as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Nothing in 
this Annual Report and Accounts should be regarded as a profit forecast.
Business Overview
01 - - 05
Strategic Summary
08 - - 22
Performance Review
23 - - 35
Corporate Governance
36 - - 55
Financial Statements
56 - - 119
Shareholder Information
120 - - 124 02 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
UK & Ireland
For more information please go to page 25 
Nordics
For more information please go to page 26 
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Group at a Glance
Leading European 
electrical retailing 
and services 
company
Currys and PC World are the UK & Ireland’s 
largest specialist electrical retailing and 
services chains.
We operate from High Street stores, 
Superstores and Megastores. We are 
increasingly opening combined 2-in-1 
Currys and PC World stores across all 
formats, bringing customers the benefits of 
both brands in one convenient location. 
Dixons Travel stores are based at all major 
UK airports.
KNOWHOW is our new market leading 
services brand.
Elkjøp is the leading specialist electrical 
retailer across the Nordics. 
Elkjøp and Lefdal stores operate in 
Norway, El Giganten in Sweden and 
Denmark and Gigantti in Finland.
www.currys.co.uk
www.pcworld.co.uk
www.dsgibusiness.com
www.knowhow.co.uk
Highlights
Our Renewal and Transformation plan is working and customers 
are experiencing better store environments, improved ranges and 
increased levels of service.
250 stores have been transformed so far, 31 of which are 
Megastores.
We launched KNOWHOW, our new face of service and product 
support which puts customers at the heart of everything we do. 
This features delivery and installation, set up of equipment and 
upgrades, help and support as well as repairs and protection. 
The multi-channel offering provides customers with the 
convenience of online shopping alongside the accessibility  
of our stores, particularly through the reserve&collect facility. 
Dixons Travel is expanding its brand overseas with operations 
now in Copenhagen, Rome, Milan and Dublin airports.
Highlights
Elkjøp continues to perform strongly in all of its markets and is 
expanding its business significantly as we grow market share 
across the Nordic region. Elkjøp operates an efficient operating 
model with centralised warehousing in Sweden serving all four 
principal markets in which it operates. With the lowest store-
based cost to sales ratio in the Group it provides the basis for the 
favoured operating model for the Group.
Elkjøp is increasing its footprint through Megastores by extending 
or refitting existing stores as well as refurbishing superstores to 
the new Group format. During the year Elkjøp delivered strong 
performance in Norway and delivered particularly strong 
improvement in Denmark, Finland and Sweden.
Underlying sales
(£million)
2,268.9
Underlying sales
(£million)
3,816.1
Average selling area 
per store
(sq ft)
12,752
Average selling area 
per store
(sq ft)
14,818
Number of stores
285
Number of stores
642
Average employees
 
23,091
Average employees
 
7,343
Selling space
(‘000 sq ft)
4,223
Selling space
(‘000 sq ft)
8,187
Our brands Our brands
www.elkjop.no
www.elgiganten.se
www.elgiganten.dk
www.gigantti.fi
www.lefdal.com  Dixons Retail plc 
03
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Other International
For more information please go to page 27 
Pure play e-commerce
For more information please go to page 28 
Underlying sales by division
(£million)
1
2 
3
4 
UK & Ireland £3,816.1m
Nordics £2,268.9m 
Other International £1,226.7m 
Pure play e-commerce £842.7m 
1
2
3
4
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Kotsovolos is Greece’s leading specialist 
electrical retailer. 
In Italy, we operate Unieuro electrical 
stores with some as combined 2-in-1 
Unieuro and PC City stores. 
In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, we 
operate under the Electro World brand. 
In Turkey, we operate the Electro World 
brand with a local joint venture partner. 
PIXmania is one of the largest pure play 
electrical retailers in Europe operating in 
26 countries. 
Dixons.co.uk is one of the leading UK 
online electrical retail brands.
www.kotsovolos.gr
www.unieuro.it
www.electroworld.cz
www.electroworld.gr
www.electroworld.com.tr
www.pixmania.com
www.dixons.co.uk
Highlights
The turnaround in Italy remains on track and the business 
delivered a positive EBITDA performance in the year, the first for 
several years. 
Trading conditions in Greece remain difficult, however, Kotsovolos 
continues to generate cash and as market leader is well 
positioned to gain further market share. 
Electro World in Central Europe is already a leading brand and is 
well positioned for the development of the Czech and Slovakian 
markets in the medium term. 
Electro World in Turkey remains a long term opportunity for the 
Group with our joint venture partner.
Highlights
Our pure play brands work together with our store based 
multi-channel brands to provide our customers with the shopping 
trip that suits their needs.
Overall the Group continues to see strong growth in the  
multi-channel operations.
The functionality of PIXmania’s e-merchant platform was 
developed further for Dixons.co.uk to provide an improved online 
shopping experience.
Underlying sales
(£million)
1,226.7
Underlying sales
(£million)
842.7
Average selling area 
per store
(sq ft)
14,380
Average selling area 
per store
(sq ft)
1,412
Number of stores
308
Number of stores
17
Average employees
 
6,191
Average employees
 
1,398
Selling space
(‘000 sq ft)
4,429
Selling space
(‘000 sq ft)
24
Our brands Our brands
Business Overview
01 - - 05 04 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Chairman’s Statement
John Allan
This has been a year when the economic environment has 
remained particularly challenging in many of the markets in  
which we operate. The Group has, however, remained focused 
on delivering a better experience for customers, which will 
position the business for significant progress when the  
economic environment improves. 
I am conscious that the Group has made only limited progress in 
financial returns year on year, but I can assure you that the Board is 
alive to the need to improve returns for shareholders. The work 
under the Renewal and Transformation plan has continued which 
will make the business better for our customers, simpler for our 
colleagues to manage and cheaper to run. This has started to 
show encouraging developments with improvements in customer 
satisfaction measures; we have maintained gross margins over the 
last two years in the face of competitive and challenging markets; 
our operations in the Nordics continue to go from strength to 
strength with sales up eight per cent. over the last year; we have 
taken decisive action in Spain to close our operations in a market 
where we saw little opportunity for short to medium term profitable 
recovery; and we have reduced costs by £50 million in the year.
Delivering a better 
experience for 
customers will 
position the Group for 
significant progress 
when the economic 
environment recovers 
In March this year we launched the KNOWHOW brand in the UK 
which encompasses all our after-sales services. KNOWHOW 
clearly puts the customer at the heart of everything we do and 
empowers all our colleagues to focus determinedly on our 
customers. Our KNOWHOW distribution and repair centre in 
Newark is world class. The logistics, distribution, repair and 
services areas are far better than many of our competitors. The 
efficient operation illustrates how far we have progressed in getting 
it right for customers first time. 
During the early part of the financial year we successfully issued a 
£150 million bond due 2015, which enabled us to repurchase just 
under half of the Group’s existing 2012 Bonds as well as extend 
the maturity of the Group’s working capital facility to 2013. This 
gives the Group a much more appropriate maturity profile on its 
debt facilities. 
We have made significant progress in transforming our stores  
with over 360 stores now in the Group’s new format, including  
65 Megastores across the Group. With a solid base of stores  
now transformed and significant improvements having been made 
to the Group’s operational processes we can now manage our 
capital expenditure carefully to ensure the Group has adequate 
capital to repay the remaining 2012 Bonds irrespective of the 
trading environment.
Recognising challenging conditions in some of our markets,  
and the ongoing business restructuring under the Renewal and 
Transformation plan, we have reviewed the balance sheet and 
made impairment and other non-underlying charges totalling 
£309.4 million. The additional cash impact of these charges is 
estimated as £39 million, of which approximately £8 million was 
incurred in 2010/11.
This year, the Group selected two national charities to support, 
Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation, which help to provide 
access to technology for disadvantaged children or those with 
disabilities. I am very proud of our colleagues, who have 
organised so many fundraising activities throughout the year  
for both these charities as well as a number of charities local to 
the communities in which our stores operate.
This year we welcomed Dharmash Mistry to the Board as a 
non-executive director, who has substantial retail experience in 
consumer-facing and internet businesses. 
The year ahead remains a challenging one, particularly in the UK, 
Greece and Italy. Your Board is confident that the changes that 
have been, and are being, made to the Group will enable it to 
navigate the difficult environment ahead in a better shape than it 
has ever been. I would like to thank the management team led by 
John Browett, and in addition all of our colleagues across the 
Group, for their persistent hard work. I am convinced that we will 
emerge increasingly as a winner in the electricals and services 
market as the economy recovers. 
John Allan
Chairman   Dixons Retail plc 
05
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Business Overview
01 - - 05
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Chief Executive’s Review
John Browett
The tough economic backdrop in many of our markets has made 
this a difficult year. Nonetheless, we have been able to balance 
improving our offer for customers whilst maintaining profitability. 
The shopping trip we provide to customers is more competitive 
and we see the impact on our business as we make our offer 
even better. Customers come to our stores because they are 
looking for great new products; however, they need a complete 
solution to get the best out of the latest technology. It is our job  
to make sure they leave our stores with the right products and 
services to meet all their needs. Increasingly, we are seeing the 
benefits of selling services effectively, particularly with the launch 
of KNOWHOW in the UK. 
Our Customer Plan is at the heart of the business and a key 
element of delivering on our core purpose of bringing life to 
technology, so I thought I would again lay out our progress in  
the last year under the plan. As ever, our objective is to make  
the business better for customers, easier for colleagues and 
cheaper to operate. 
They’re interested in working out what’s  
right for me
Our unique FIVES training programme has formed the basis of 
ensuring all our colleagues across Europe are equipped with the 
right tools to understand and meet customers’ needs. This year 
we have continued to refine and develop FIVES training, with 
colleagues attending many refresher courses. Alongside this we 
have introduced better product learning tools under our web
based Product Learning Centre. We have also worked with 
suppliers in the UK to hold over 900 workshops, enabling our 
colleagues to immerse themselves in fully understanding the 
features and benefits of a wide range of products, ensuring they 
can explain the exciting technology we sell to our customers.
We have also introduced a new colleague scheduling tool to all 
our shops in the UK to better ensure colleague availability meets 
our customer footfall patterns. This has already improved the 
measure of our colleague availability to our customers’ footfall  
in our stores by 20%.
Our objective is to be famous for great service. Our operations  
in the Nordics are already famed for excellent customer service 
and we can take many learnings from them and make further 
improvements as we roll out our vision to our other businesses. 
Through the actions so far we have made great progress with 
customer satisfaction metrics improving significantly since we 
started the Renewal and Transformation plan. In the year ahead 
there is much more we can do. Our new KNOWHOW services 
brand, launched in the UK at the beginning of 2011, embodies 
the behavioural attitudes that deliver a fantastic experience for 
our customers. Improved services and enhanced training plans 
will give our colleagues further tools to ensure every customer 
gets the right solution for their needs.
It’s an exciting place to be
We continue to develop our stores, making them exciting places 
to experience technology and find the right solutions for our 
customers’ needs. During the year we transformed over 130 
stores across the Group, which included 32 Megastores. In Italy 
the combined 2-in-1 format of Unieuro and PC City is now open 
in 19 locations and is proving to be a format that is as popular 
with Italian customers as it is in the UK. This to me proves that 
a well designed store and customer offer works across many 
markets. In the Nordics we now have 20 Megastores and will 
continue to transform stores to the larger Megastore format there 
in the years ahead. In the UK we now operate 31 Megastores  
and 56 combined 2-in-1 Currys and PC World superstores. We 
have also introduced the 2-in-1 format to the High Street with 
great initial results. These new store formats are consistently 
delivering gross profit uplifts of between 15% and 20% and in 
some cases higher in the first year versus the unrefurbished 
estate. Encouragingly they are maintaining these uplifts into the 
second year.
Our objective is to 
make the business 
better for customers, 
easier for colleagues 
and cheaper to operate
Customer 
plan
It’s easy  
to shop
It’s an exciting 
place to be
They’re  
interested 
in working out 
what’s right  
for me
They deal with 
queries and  
complaints 
brilliantly
They make  
things work  
and keep 
them working
The prices 
are good
I can get  
what I want 
when I want it 06 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
A significant validation of the changes we are making manifested 
itself in the fact that we were a key partner for Apple’s launch of 
the iPad in the UK. The fact that our stores are great places for 
new technology where products can be demonstrated and their 
features explained fully is why Apple chose to partner with us on 
this important product launch. In October 2010 we launched an 
exciting new advertising campaign around the Megastore format 
in the UK, featuring R2D2 and C3PO from the Star Wars films, 
which was hugely popular with customers. It is testament to the 
work we are doing that Lucas Films allowed their iconic Star Wars 
characters to be used to advertise ‘the greatest technology stores 
in our universe’. We have also started to implement in-store 
demonstrations which bring the features and benefits of kitchen 
appliances to life in our stores with the introduction of live kitchens.
Having integrated PIXmania’s market leading e-merchant 
platform into our UK sites we have now been able to improve  
the customer offer on both the pure play internet business of  
dixons.co.uk and our multi-channel businesses such as  
currys.co.uk and pcworld.co.uk.
We are also looking at ways to raise the bar in our store formats even 
higher and during the year we opened a trial store in Birmingham 
called Black. The aim is to trial new ways of merchandising and 
demonstrating high end technology products as well as integrating 
our new KNOWHOW services into the proposition. During 2011 we 
will learn from this trial and will be using the elements that customers 
like the most in all our store transformations.
It’s easy to shop
Our new store layout and improved websites make it easier than 
ever before for our customers to choose the right product. We 
have made great progress this year in helping customers choose 
the right product for their needs through clearer signage and 
better information at point of sale, helping to untangle technology 
for our customers.
Our reserve&collect facility is proving to be a great success with 
our customers, giving them the ease of the internet combined 
with the convenience of our stores. In the last year we have seen 
our multi-channel internet sales, driven by reserve&collect, rise by 
13% across the Group.
In the year ahead we will make further improvements to our 
multi-channel offering providing customers with improved 
information on our websites as well as access to a wider  
range of products online and in-store through our websites.
I can get what I want when I want it
We have launched our own label brands of Currys and PC World 
essentials, Logik, Advent, Goji and Sandstrøm. Having had over 
70 different own brands previously, this simplified our offering and 
gives customers a clear good-better-best range of products from 
which to choose.
With our partner, Phones4U, we opened 57 shop in shops, giving 
our customers access to the latest smartphones and networks 
from one of the UK’s largest mobile phone retailers.
We must ensure that we provide excellent service to our 
customers every time we come into contact with them. Through 
our ‘At home with FIVES’ training we can ensure that a customer 
has everything they need when we visit their homes, reducing the 
need for a further call out by 52%.
Having made significant progress in managing our stock in the 
warehouse and in-store across the Group, this year we plan to 
simplify processes still further which will improve availability online 
and in-store while freeing up more time for our colleagues to 
spend with customers.
As a part of the KNOWHOW rollout to our home services team 
we have introduced Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) to the 
team which will help improve customer feedback and time 
management of our colleagues.  Dixons Retail plc 
07
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Business Overview
01 - - 05
The prices are good
Our scale across Europe means that we are continually able  
to give our customers the latest products at the best prices.  
We monitor prices against our competitors regularly with, for 
example, over 300,000 products checked every week in the UK, 
so we know we are offering real value to our customers every 
day. All this is backed up by our market leading price promise  
to refund 110% of the difference if a customer finds the same 
product cheaper elsewhere.
There are further changes we plan to make in the year ahead.  
By simplifying our promotions processes, for example, we can 
give customers better deals on new products by making our own 
brand products even better value through cost reductions and 
giving customers good, better and best choices across  
our ranges. We are also conscious that not all of our customers 
are aware of the significant value we offer compared to our 
competitors, so we will start to improve the communication of 
that messaging in the year ahead.
They make things work and keep them working
This was a significant year for our support services. We brought 
the majority of the service operations in house in the UK. We 
know we can only improve the service we offer by owning and 
being directly responsible for all contacts with our customers. 
That enabled us to launch the KNOWHOW brand bringing 
together the home services, distribution, contact centre and 
repair operations. With all these services now operating as one 
clear customer focused brand we have already started to see  
the benefits for our customers. I am immensely proud of our 
colleagues’ enthusiasm for the KNOWHOW brand, but more 
importantly their desire to really help customers as much as 
possible every step of the way through the lifecycle of the 
technology they use. Our turnaround times for repair products is 
faster, with 93% being returned at a pre-booked time. Our right 
first time delivery is one of the highest in the industry and our 
customer satisfaction levels are continually improving.
Under the KNOWHOW brand we will make further improvements 
to the services our customers receive by, for example, shortening 
the repair times even further; enabling customers to track their 
product while it is being repaired; and a ‘no lemons’ policy which 
means that, under our support agreements, if we fail to fix the 
product properly after three attempts a customer can request  
a replacement. We will also start to roll out the KNOWHOW 
services to our international businesses. This is a multi-year project 
which will require tailoring to each market, but our customers need 
our help with their products wherever they are, so this presents a 
major opportunity for our customers and our shareholders.
They deal with queries and complaints brilliantly
This year we consolidated our UK call centres into one location  
in Sheffield as well as enabled many of our call centre colleagues 
to work from home, increasing the ability to match colleague 
availability with customer calls. By analysing the reasons why 
customers call us and providing them with better information to 
reduce the need to call us, we have reduced the number of calls 
we receive by 11%. Together with increased cross skilling we 
have increased the availability and ability of our colleagues to 
resolve customers’ issues. As a result we have seen increased 
customer satisfaction and reduced repeat calls. We have also 
made the processes for stores dealing with customers’ issues 
easier for our colleagues and better for our customers. 
 
In the year ahead we will improve our systems further so that 
customers and their products can be identified more easily  
when they call. We will continue to identify the root cause of 
customer calls and eliminate the need for customers to call in  
the first place.
 
As you can see, the volume of work on our Renewal and 
Transformation plan is still very high. Our reward is improving 
customer satisfaction and higher share in many of our markets. 
We are starting to stand out for customers and we have  
much more to deliver to make our customers’ shopping trip  
even better. 
 
These achievements would not be possible without the 
enthusiasm, dedication and hard work of our 38,000 colleagues 
across the business and I would like to thank them all for their 
contribution to making Dixons Retail a great business.
Outlook
The economic backdrop remains challenging, particularly in the 
first half as we anniversary the World Cup and iPad launch. 
However the Group is well prepared for this environment. We are 
creating a market leading differentiated customer offer, leaving us 
well set to emerge from the current climate ahead of the 
competition.
John Browett
Chief Executive 08 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
“Point and shoot and the moment’s captured. 
Transferred over to my iPad 2 and my photos 
are ready to edit, print or upload to the internet 
to share with my mates. The guys at Currys 
helped me find the right camera, lens and 
memory card too. They explained how to use 
KNOWHOW  online storage solutions where  
I can save my precious photos, music and 
videos. It’s amazing. It’s exactly what I need. 
Shoot, save and share!” 
‘‘ I love to 
capture the 
moment
’’
Technology at your fingertips with the 
iPad 2. Games, maps, apps, reading, films 
and photos have all been made faster and 
easier. Talk to your friends face to face 
using FaceTime and instantly upload photos 
and films for sharing online. Tablets are 
revolutonising the way we interact with our 
digital content.
The Nikon D5100 Digital SLR Camera 
delivers crystal clear images. It boasts  
Full HD 1080p video recording options  
with a 3” vari-angle LCD monitor making 
it easy to look back at photos and films.
Have fun taking perspective shots with the 
Nikon 10.5mm SLR Fisheye Lens. The 8GB 
Kodak High Speed Memory Card means you 
can take action shots in quick succession 
and has plenty of space for storing photos 
and films.  Dixons Retail plc 
09
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Strategic Summary
08 - - 22 10 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11  Dixons Retail plc 
11
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
“You don’t need to use a controller with XBox 
Kinect™, just your body and voice. It’s magic! 
We jump, dance, drive and play and the 
Kinect™ senses it all. It’s even better when 
Mum and Dad or even Gran and Grandad join 
in. We can watch movies too. They look 
amazing on the 3DTV which the KNOWHOW  
man put on the wall. He even set up Mum and 
Dad’s Bose DVD home entertainment system 
and connected the Kinect™ to the internet.  
Our family has so much fun, I can’t wait for  
the weekends!”
‘‘ We just want  
to have fun’’
For a premium home cinema surround sound 
experience, connect a Bose Lifestyle
®
 38 
DVD home entertainment system to your TV. 
The HD viewing quality brings your films to 
life. Audio can be shared in up to 14 rooms, 
even outdoors. It can also store up to 
340 hours of digital music.
The Xbox Kinect sensor puts you into the 
heart of the gaming action like never before. 
Your body is the game controller. You don’t 
have to hold controllers or struggle with 
wires. Just jump in front of the sensor  
and start playing.
Put on your 3D glasses and experience 
breathtaking 3D films and TV programmes 
on the Samsung 55” HD LED 3D Smart 
TV with integrated Freeview. Its Smart Hub 
provides access to the internet with features 
and apps. Watch films through a connected 
games console or stream them through  
the internet.
Strategic Summary
08 - - 22 12 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
“A new baby boy, a football mad son, and a  
tap dancing daughter equates to a mountain  
of washing alone. I needed a large, high 
performance energy-efficient washing 
machine. The team at Currys suggested the  
LG Direct Drive – the answer to my prayers!
It can take a huge 11kg wash load and is 
packed with features such as allergen 
sanitisation and Scrub motion – perfect for  
the kids’ clothes. It’s even got a Baby care  
wash programme and it’s so quiet. With 
KNOWHOW’s WHATEVER HAPPENS  
Kitchen Cover, I’ve got peace of mind too.”
‘‘ That’s a load 
off my mind’’
Steam irons take the strain out of ironing, 
cutting through the pile of ironing in no time. 
The ceramic soleplate and variable steam 
settings mean you can use the GV8360 Pro 
Express Turbo Steam Iron as a dry iron too.
Washing larger loads is light work with the 
11kg load LG Direct Drive Washing Machine. 
Inverter Technology means it effectively 
removes the dirt and bacteria that can 
aggravate allergies and has an A++ rating for  
energy efficiency.
We will deliver your appliance at a time to 
suit you and we’ll even recycle your old 
product for free. If you want us to install 
it, we KNOWHOW. If it needs a minor or 
major repair, we’ll fix it....and if we can’t, we’ll 
replace it. If you simply need a bit more help 
to get the most out of your purchase or  
even want an upgrade, we KNOWHOW to 
help you.  Dixons Retail plc 
13
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Strategic Summary
08 - - 22 14 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11  Dixons Retail plc 
15
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
“Just bought myself a state of the art TV from 
Currys. Lovely stuff. Slimline LED screen, Hi Def 
and 3D ready to watch the footie with the lads. 
Trouble is, I said to the bloke who served me at 
Currys that I knew how to install it and set it up. 
Thought it would be easy. Turns out it’s pretty 
technical stuff and I can’t work out what goes 
where. I needed someone with KNOWHOW . 
Luckily, I called Currys and they said they will 
arrange for someone from the KNOWHOW  
team to come over and install it for me. Now all 
we need to worry about is keeping the beer 
chilled!”
‘‘ I need  
someone  
with
KNOWHOW 
’’
Help & Support
Need data transferring to a new 
PC, help with getting rid of a virus 
on your laptop or help restoring 
missing data? We’re here to 
support you so you KNOWHOW 
to do it next time. Or, simply call 
us and we’ll help you 24/7 – again 
and again.
Deliver & Install
Our KNOWHOW team can 
deliver and install your new 
product on a day and time to suit 
you, seven days a week. We’ll 
even text you the night before  
to remind you we’re coming. 
Set Up & Upgrade
Laptops, cameras, tablets, home 
networks.... we KNOWHOW to set 
them up for you. If your PC needs 
more memory or you simply 
need us to help with a software 
upgrade, we can visit you at home 
or you can just pop into a store.
Repair & Protect
TV on the blink? Games console 
isn’t working quite right? We can 
repair your faulty PC, TV, games 
console and more in our state of 
the art repair lab and keep you up 
to date with its repair progress. 
We KNOWHOW to fix it for you.
Strategic Summary
08 - - 22 16 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Store Internet Products After-sales
service
Support
Value
Low cost operating model
Choice Service
Customer insight
  Sales advice
  Easy to shop
  Playtables
  2-in-1 store offering
  Multi-channel
  Pure play
   reserve&collect
  Specialist
  Great brands 
  Wide range
  Exclusivity
  Own brand product
  Delivery & installation
  Set up & upgrade
  Help & support
  Repair & protect
Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Business Model
Bringing life to technology
Our customers are at the centre of an increasingly digitised world 
which they can access and utilise in numerous different ways. 
Whether this be social media, online gaming, downloading 
movies, sharing pictures, cloud computing or energy efficient 
products, customers do not just come into our stores to buy 
products, but to find a solution to a need. It is our job to help find 
the right solution for our customers, ensuring they get the most 
out of the products they buy. As such we put our customers at 
the heart of everything we do. Our core purpose of bringing life to 
technology embodies our belief that in this increasingly complex 
world our customers need solutions and help. From this core 
purpose we have built our customer plan which is discussed in 
more detail in the Chief Executive’s Review on pages 5 to 7.
As one of Europe’s leading specialist electrical retailing and 
services companies we operate a business model that supports 
delivery of our Customer Plan.
Customer insight
In order to ensure we understand what our customers want, how 
they use the products they buy from us, and what they think of the 
service they get from us, we use extensive customer insight. This 
includes discussions at customer panels, interviews, home visits 
and other research. This is supported by mystery shopping in our 
own and competitors’ stores, exit surveys and customer feedback. 
We use this information to build our ranges, improve our stores and 
services as well as help us with other business decisions.
Stores and internet
Convenience and ease of navigation are key in attracting 
customers to shop with us. Through the Renewal and 
Transformation plan (more detail of which can be found at  
www.dixonsretail.com) we are improving our stores, making them 
easier to shop with, for example, improved navigation, better 
signage, playtables to allow customers to interact with products 
before they buy, as well as good advice on features and benefits 
from our colleagues. We are also combining our PC World and 
Currys stores into 2-in-1 stores which give our customers greater 
access to our specialist computing offer combined with our 
market leading mixed electrical offering, and enables us to 
improve our sales densities and rent to space mix. We favour the 
combined store format and we are implementing this in our 
stores across the Nordics and Other International businesses.
Our FIVES sales training programme combined with our Product 
Learning Centres provides our colleagues with the right tools to 
really understand customers’ needs and to provide them with the 
complete solution to properly meet those needs. We will continue 
to improve the training of our colleagues and the ways in which 
we can help them be experts in the products we sell.
Many of our customers research products online before coming 
in to store to buy, so ease of navigation, clear descriptions of 
products and related information are important for our websites. 
We are increasingly seeing customers combining the ease of the 
internet with the convenience of our stores by using our 
reserve&collect service. In the UK, we have implemented the 
market leading e-merchant platform from PIXmania which 
enables us to continually evolve and improve our online offer to 
ensure customers are engaged with our internet operations.
Products
Combining our customer insight with our market strength across 
Europe we can make sure we have the right range of products 
in our stores to suit customers’ needs. Our scale means that 
we can work with suppliers to showcase the latest technology 
and products in our stores, with areas dedicated to key suppliers’ 
products. This also enables us to get products exclusively in our 
stores, such as the iPad on launch in 2010.
Own brand products enable us to offer customers a greater range 
and choice of products at competitive prices. We have defined a 
clear good-better-best brand range of: Currys and PC World 
essentials; Logik; Advent; Goji; and Sandstrøm brands.
Customers are  
at the heart of  
everything we do  Dixons Retail plc 
17
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
After-sales services and support
Many of our customers need help with their products, whether  
it be delivery and installation, keeping their products up and 
running or repairing them when things go wrong. Our business  
in the UK & Ireland sets the benchmark for our services 
infrastructure. In May 2011 we relaunched our services under  
the new KNOWHOW brand with four clear pillars of support 
for customers to choose from.
We operate the largest network of two man deliveries in the UK 
with around 60,000 deliveries per week enabling us to provide 
customers with the convenience of next day delivery in a three hour 
time slot or the value of a free delivery later. Our KNOWHOW team 
in store, in our call centre and out in the field can provide set up 
and upgrade services as well as online fix and back up services. 
Our market leading range of help and support services help ensure 
a customer has the backing of expertise and support that keeps 
their technology up and running. In the event that a customer has 
a problem with their product we fix it. For example our state of 
the art repair facility in Newark repairs 600,000 laptops 
and televisions each year and is able to repair and return a 
laptop in six days. We offer customers a choice of support 
agreements such as ‘Premier’ which provides them with a loan 
TV, for example, if theirs needs to be taken in for repair.
Business Model
continued
Our low cost operating model drives continuous improvement 
in our processes and services. This continuous improvement 
enables us to re-invest back into providing better value products 
and services to our customers.
Direct ownership of the service infrastructure from end to end 
means we can ensure the best service at all touch points with  
our customers. We believe this gives us a unique operating 
model for a specialist electrical retailer and a significant 
competitive advantage in meeting the needs of our customers.
While much of the improvement work has been focused on the 
UK, core elements of the business model exist in our businesses 
in the Nordics and Other International divisions. Further services 
under the KNOWHOW brand will be rolled out to these divisions 
over the medium term.
Low cost operating model
Dixons Retail operates in a highly competitive market. In order to 
deliver an unbeatable customer offer we need to have a low cost 
to sales ratio relative to the service based business we run. This 
means we have to:
  have sufficient scale economics in each market – usually 
number one or two by market share;
 lean business processes – minimising wasteful activity;
  design our business processes end to end to minimise cost 
and deliver a high quality of service; and
 find new ways to continually improve what we do.
We use a technique called Lean Six Sigma to re-engineer our 
business processes to make them better for customers, easier 
for colleagues to operate and therefore cheaper to run.
Through this low cost operating model we can deliver an 
unbeatable offer for customers meaning that they reward us with 
increased market share and improved returns for our shareholders.
WEH = Whateverhappens customer support agreements
  Delivery & Recycling
  Built-in Cooker Installation
  Cooker Installation
  Washer and Dishwasher 
Installation
  Fridge Freezer Installation
  TV Set Up & Demo
  TV Wallmount & Demo
  Integrated Appliance Install
  Home Theatre Set Up & 
Demo
  Aerial Install & Tune
  Aerial Multiroom Install and 
Tune
  Freesat Setup & Demo
  Freesat Install & Demo
  Freesat + Install & Demo
 Set up and Support
  Store & Protect
  Virus & Spyware Removal
  24 7 Help and Advice
  Store & Share
  PC Tune Up
  System Reset & Restore
  Infinity
  Data Transfer & Check
  Data Wipe & Check
  Data Rescue & Protect
  Computer Set up & 
Personalise
  Software Install & Check
  Operating System 
Upgrade & Check
  Camera Set up & 
Personalise
  Component Install & Check
  Network Set up & Secure
  Memory Install & Check
  Tablet Set up & Tutorial
  Tablet Set up Tutorial & 
Internet Protection
  Netbook Set up
  Knowhow Appcentre
 Network Fault & Fix
  Aerial Fault & Fix
  WEH - Computing
  WEH Premier -Computing
  WEH - TV
  WEH Premier- TV
  WEH - Kitchen
  WEH Premier - Kitchen
  WEH - Technology
  Instant Replacement
  Games Console Fault 
& Fix
  Desktop PC Fault & Fix
  Digibox Fault & Fix
  Laptop Fault & Fix
  TV Fault & Fix
Strategic Summary
08 - - 22 18 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Looking Forward
The Group is making significant progress under the Renewal 
and Transformation plan. The operational processes across the 
business are on a firmer foundation, the customer offer is better 
than it has ever been and costs are under control.
Our offer for customers must continually improve. Here we set 
out just some of the innovations in the business which will enable 
us to remain one step ahead of the competition and firmly 
focused on customer needs in every market in which we operate.
This year we opened an exciting new concept store called Black in 
Birmingham. This is a 15,000 sq ft high street store on three floors, 
totally new in design and positioned as the ultimate place to get up 
close with the most wanted gadgets around. It is a must-visit store, 
appealing to customers who love their brands and how their kit 
looks. We are using Black to conduct a variety of trials, exploring 
new ways of making the shopping trip and the presentation of our 
exciting technology and services even better for customers. A 
totally new store layout, department style disciplines in categories, 
interactive displays and new ways of merchandising are all being 
explored in this store. We have embedded the new KNOWHOW 
services brand in the store, providing areas for customers to use 
the services we can provide in a more interactive and relaxed 
environment. Our colleagues have been encouraged to explore 
new ways of excelling at providing high levels of services and better 
solutions for customers. The customer feedback has been very 
encouraging and we are already taking learnings from this format 
into the rest of the store portfolio across the Group.
Simplifying the shopping trip for our customers is key to helping 
them buy the right solution as well as getting the best out of 
the technology they buy. This is why we created the customer 
journey in each category. We have trialled new ways of doing this 
in Black and elsewhere in our portfolio. We have now developed 
an improved customer journey around a vision which not only 
simplifies the technology for customers, but also helps them 
choose other products and services to get the complete solution. 
Trials of this have proved to be very successful and set the 
groundwork for improved customer journeys in other categories.
Added value services are a key differentiator in our business 
model (as discussed on page 17) and we will continue to innovate 
in this area. For example, having introduced PDAs for our delivery 
and installation team we are looking at other ways to use this 
technology, such as dynamic routing of our colleagues out in the 
field to make sure we meet and even exceed customers’ needs, 
the ability to provide customers with added value services while 
in their homes rather than on a second call out and use of the 
data provided by the PDAs to improve processes.
A lot of exciting things are going on, but we won’t sit still. We  
will continue to innovate to deliver a better shopping trip for  
our customers.
Keeping ahead of the 
competition  Dixons Retail plc 
19
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Key Performance  
Indicators
Financial and operational
Definition Performance
Total underlying  
sales
Growth in total underlying sales. The ability to grow sales is an 
important measure of a brand’s appeal to customers and its 
competitive position. 
 
 
 
 
Like for like  
sales
The Board measures like for like sales as sales in stores that 
have been open for a full financial year both at the beginning 
and end of the financial period and are calculated using 
constant exchange rates. Customer support agreement sales 
are excluded from all UK like for like calculations. Operations 
that are subject to closure have sales excluded as of the 
announcement date. Stores subject to a refurbishment are 
excluded during the period of refurbishment. All e-commerce 
pick-up store sales are included in like for like sales. Sales 
targets and growth are set relative to the market and expected 
economic conditions.
Market position
In line with the Group’s strategy to be the leading specialist 
electrical retailer in Europe, this is an important measure of how 
well customers are being engaged by the Group’s brands in 
each market. Retailing operations should be, or be capable of 
becoming, the number one or number two specialist electrical 
retailer in their market, measured by market share.
No.1 market positions in:
 UK & Ireland
 Nordics
 Greece
 Czech Republic
Underlying  
operating profit
Continued growth of underlying operating profit enables  
the Group to invest in its future and provide a return for 
shareholders. Targets are set relative to expected  
market performance.
Underlying profit  
before tax
Continued growth of underlying profit before tax represents 
a measure of Group performance to external investors  
and shareholders. Targets are set relative to expected  
market performance.
Free Cash Flow
The Group defines Free Cash Flow as net cash generated  
from operations, less net finance costs, taxation and net  
capital expenditure and excluding certain discrete items such 
as special pension contributions. The management of cash 
usage, in particular working capital employed in the business, 
optimises resources available for the Group to invest in its 
future growth and to generate shareholder value. 
(£million)
8,154.4
8,320.0
7,955.8
8,074.8
7,531.7
2010/11
2009/10
2008/09
2007/08
2006/07
(£million)
127.6
133.2
7,955.8
8,074.8
7,531.7
2010/11
2009/10
2008/09
2007/08
2006/07
(£million)
85.3
90.9
7,955.8
8,074.8
7,531.7
2010/11
2009/10
2008/09
2007/08
2006/07
2010/11: (2)%
2009/10: +2%
2010/11: £10.0m
2009/10: £(17.6)m
Shareholder
Underlying diluted 
earnings per share  
(EPS)
The level of growth in EPS provides a suitable measure of the 
financial health of the Group and its ability to deliver returns to 
shareholders each year. The Group targets growth in EPS 
commensurate with growth in earnings.
Total Shareholder  
Return (TSR)
This metric provides a relative performance measure over 
the longer term of the Group’s ability to deliver returns for 
shareholders. For 2009/10, the base which the Group used  
was to outperform a bespoke weighted average index of UK  
and European Retailers over a three year period. From 2010/11, 
the base has been to measure against the FTSE 250 Index 
(comprising FTSE 101-350 companies), excluding investment 
trusts, over a three year period.
See graph on page 50
 
2010/11: 1.6p
2009/10: 1 .5p
For more information on our Corporate 
Responsibility KPI’s see pages 32 to 35.
Strategic Summary
08 - - 22 20 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Risks to Achieving the  
Group’s Objectives
1.Macro-economic risks
Risk Examples of mitigating action
Economic environment
Risk that the economic downturn is prolonged through 2011, 
particularly in the UK
  Ongoing monitoring by Finance and the Executive Committee, 
including review of portfolio of the businesses 
  Renewal and Transformation plan to improve our business 
performance irrespective of macro economic factors
  Strategy and business planning which takes into account varying 
economic scenarios
Market specific characteristics 
Seasonality – A substantial proportion of revenue and operating 
profit is generated during the third financial quarter, which 
includes the Christmas and New Year season. Adverse trading  
in this relatively short period is likely to impact significantly the  
full year’s results
Price deflation – Price deflation has been a common feature 
across most electrical goods categories for a number of years, 
primarily driven by technological advances and improved 
production efficiencies 
   Financial planning takes into account expected peaks and troughs 
during the year and the business is run accordingly 
  Increasing the proportion of services related business, which offers 
a regular stream of income over the course of the year
  Effective launches of new technology as it becomes available to 
the market
  Growth of services related business to increase the number and 
value of non-product sales 
  Improve gross profit uplifts in transformed stores
  Control of stock and strong management over clearance and 
exit routes
2.Competitor and market place risks
Risk Examples of mitigating action
Competition 
Competitors reduce the Group’s market share and/or drive down 
margins in specific markets
  Renewal and Transformation plan is improving our stores, cost 
structure and service proposition
  Continuing development of strong online brands, notably PIXmania 
and Dixons.co.uk
   Ensuring our prices offer good value, including a customer 
price index
  Continuing to take money out of our cost base, and leveraging 
group-wide benefits where opportunities arise
  Building ever stronger relationships with suppliers 
Risk management is an integral part of business management and it is something that Dixons Retail takes seriously. The Group has 
continued to develop its approach during the past year and has taken steps to integrate risk management into business decision 
making. In addition, the Board and Group Executive have invested time to identify and assess the key risks facing the business.  
The principal risks and uncertainties are set out below along with an illustration of what is being done to mitigate them:  Dixons Retail plc 
21
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
2.Competitor and market place risks continued
Risk Examples of mitigating action
Changing technology/consumer preferences
Risk that we fail to capitalise on new technology or emerging 
trends to maximise revenues
Our retail brands fail to meet the expectations of customers
  Strong supplier relationships (e.g. UK launch partner of 
Apple iPad)
  Delivery of Customer Plan to respond to identified changes 
in technology
  Store transformations to take into account emerging trends in 
store layouts
   Exciting product launches to make our stores the destination for 
the latest technology (e.g. 3D TVs)
  Understanding our customers and monitoring our levels of service 
through mystery shopping, customer exit surveys and analysis of 
purchase data
  Continued focus on ensuring we have an excellent range across
all price points, including own label brands
   Renewal and Transformation plan improving the quality and 
optimising the location of our stores across the Group
  FIVES customer service training for all colleagues and product 
workshops to improve product knowledge
   Implementation of the Customer Plan in the UK to improve the 
customer journey – a clear and focused plan at the heart of  
the business
  Innovations in service propositions and improved customer service 
levels across the Group
  Clearer and easier navigation of our e-commerce websites
Legislative, contractual, reputational and  
regulatory risks
Risk that as a result of a change in legislation, a decision by a 
regulatory authority, or exposure in our compliance activities, the 
Group’s business is impacted by reputational or financial damage 
or a need to adapt the Group’s business and processes (e.g. 
competition, consumer rights, intellectual property, contractual 
obligations, health and safety or compromise of confidential 
customer data)
  In-house legal teams communicate on a frequent basis and legal 
reports are submitted to the Board
   Launch of Group Ethical Conduct policy, supported by annual 
declaration of compliance by colleagues
  Monitoring changes in legislation/regulation
  Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to discuss 
reputational and regulatory risks
  Quality checks and factory audits for own-branded product assembly
  Compliance Committee approves activity that may impact the 
terms of Group credit facilities
  Contact with regulatory authorities, such as in relation to the Office 
of Fair Trading’s (OFT) market study into extended warranties
3.Operational risks
Risk Examples of mitigating action
Employees
Risk that we fail to attract, develop and retain the necessary 
talent for our business
  Group-wide standardised performance management
  Talent reviews across the business
  Store structures which provide a clear career path for 
all employees
  Improved quality of training courses and development 
programmes with specialist focus on service, product, commercial 
and technical
  Bonus plans, which include a component relating to individual 
performance and business performance
  Reward strategy aligned to retain the best talent
Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Strategic Summary
08 - - 22 22 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
3.Operational risks continued
Risk Examples of mitigating action
Systems failure and damage to property and 
consequential business interruption
Risk that a key system becomes unavailable for a period of time
The Group’s ability to distribute merchandise to its stores and to 
sell and distribute merchandise to its customers is reliant on its 
operational infrastructure, particularly the efficient functioning of 
its distribution centres and distribution network
 Contingency plans developed that are tested regularly 
   Evaluation, planning and implementation analysis carried out 
before updating or introducing new systems that have an impact 
on critical functions
 Ongoing systems implementation in key areas of the business
  Disaster recovery plans are in place
   Insurance is purchased to mitigate against business interruption
  Preventative measures are constantly being updated to reduce the 
likelihood of an incident
Project delivery
Risk that a project delivering an element of our Renewal and 
Transformation plan does not deliver its anticipated benefits
  The portfolio plan is clearly defined and is managed and governed 
through clear processes and regular meetings
  Post-investment analysis and performance tracking is in place 
including financial and customer measures
  Projects under the Customer Plan are aligned to our 
UK budget
Internet
Risk we fail to build a successful internet business, both in its 
own right and as part of a multi-channel retailing model
 Execution of online strategy
 Investment in site functionality and user friendliness
   Roll-out of our e-merchant platform across our businesses 
  Successful marketing campaigns to raise the profile of online brands
4.Financial risks
Risk Examples of mitigating action
Changes in supplier credit
Risk that credit insurance is no longer available to electrical and 
computing suppliers 
  Ongoing engagement with suppliers and credit insurers
 Improvements in stock management
  Innovations in and close scrutiny of working capital together with 
regular monitoring and review
Finance and treasury
Risk that the Group’s exposure to exchange rate, interest rate, 
liquidity and credit risks have an adverse or unexpected impact 
on results, funding requirements or purchasing ability
  Detailed Group hedging policies reviewed through a separate Tax 
and Treasury Committee
  Balance sheet management and reviews
 Strong cash management
  Regular monitoring of receivables balances
 Strong pre and post investment appraisal processes 
 Central control of treasury activity
Pensions risk and policies
Risk that the pension funding policy fails to react to or address 
deficits, which may arise on the Group’s pension schemes
   Deficit reduction activities in place
 Defined benefit section of UK scheme closed to future accrual
Risks to Achieving the  
Group’s Objectives
continued  Dixons Retail plc 
23
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Business highlights
 Renewal and Transformation plan delivering a market leading 
offer for customers.
 Store transformation programme on track:
 – 360 stores reformatted at the year end;
 – 70 Megastores now open with average annual sales of  
£20 million;
 – Over 80 Megastores across the Group, including 40 in  
the UK and 25 in the Nordics will have been reformatted  
by Peak 2011;
 – Newly reformatted stores continue to deliver gross profit 
uplifts of 20% versus the unreformatted stores in the UK 
and 15% in the Nordics; and
 – Second year trading for reformatted stores maintained.
 Elkjøp performed strongly in all of its markets, gaining 
significant market share.
 New customer services brand KNOWHOW launched in the 
UK encompassing all after sales and support services.
 Multi-channel internet sales up 13% across the Group, reflecting 
the continued shift of sales to the multi-channel brands.
 Closure of loss making PC City operations in Spain ahead of plan.
 Cost savings on track:
 – £50 million savings delivered in the financial year; and
 – £50 million of additional cost savings expected in each of 
the next three years.
Impairment and restructuring
Recognising challenging conditions in some of our markets,  
and the ongoing business restructuring under the Renewal and 
Transformation plan, we have reviewed the balance sheet and 
made impairment and other non underlying charges totalling 
£309.4 million. The additional cash impact of these charges is 
estimated as £39 million, of which approximately £8 million  
was incurred in 2010/11. The impairments primarily relate to the 
closure of operations in Spain (£70.6 million), the impairment  
of acquired goodwill in relation to Kotsovolos in Greece 
(£53.2 million) and PIXmania (£106.3 million).
Overview
Key highlights
 Margins and underlying profit before tax, at £85.3 million, 
maintained in challenging market conditions. 
 Investment in the customer offer through the Renewal and 
Transformation plan is delivering.
 Increasing market share across most markets and sectors, 
particularly in the UK and Nordics.
 Step change to the customer focused business model, 
differentiating the offer for customers.
 Further benefits to come through rolling out refurbished and 
Megastore formats, the transformation of the services offer 
through KNOWHOW, upgraded websites and a leaner 
operating model.
Financial highlights
 Total underlying Group sales
(1)(2)
 down 2% to £8,154.4 million 
(2009/10 £8,320.0 million) and down 1% on a constant 
currency basis. 
 Total Group sales, including those from businesses to
 be closed and closed businesses, were £8,341.8 million 
(2009/10 £8,532.5 million).
 Group like for like sales
(3)
 down 4% in the second half and 
down 2% in the full year.
 Underlying Group gross margins were flat in the second half 
of the year and up 0.1% in the full year.
 EBIT
(4)
 of £127.6 million (2009/10 £133.2 million).
 Underlying pre-tax profit
(1)
 of £85.3 million (2009/10 £90.9 million).
 Underlying diluted earnings per share
(1)
 of 1.6 pence (2009/10
(5)
 
1.5 pence). Basic loss per share for continuing operations of 
(6.6) pence (2009/10 earnings per share of 2.0 pence).
 Total loss before tax, after deducting non-underlying items of 
£(309.4) million, was £(224.1) million (2009/10 profit before tax 
of £112.7 million).
 Free Cash Flow
(6)
 of £38.9 million before restructuring charges 
(2009/10 £28.1 million).
 As at 30 April 2011 the Group had net debt of £(206.8) million 
(2009/10 £(220.6) million).
 Rephased debt profile following issue of new 2015 Bonds and 
part repurchase of existing 2012 Bonds in July 2010.
Performance Review
23 - - 35 24 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Underlying sales and profit analysis
Underlying sales Underlying profit/(loss)
52 weeks  
ended  
30 April 2011 
£million
52 weeks  
ended  
 1 May 2010 
£million
 Currency 
neutral
 (7)
 
 % change
Like for like
(3)
 
% change
52 weeks  
ended 
 30 April 2011 
£million
52 weeks  
ended  
1 May 2010 
£million
UK & Ireland
(8)
3,816.1 4,013.5 (5)% (3)% 71.3 71.1
Nordics
(9)
2,268.9 2,093.7 +7% +5% 105.6 97.4
Other International
(10)
1,226.7 1,291.6 (2)% (5)% (21.6) (8.3)
Pure play e-commerce
(11)
842.7 921.2 (5)% (5)% 0.9 11.3
Central costs – – (15.8) (19.5)
Total Group Retail 8,154.4 8,320.0 (1)% (2)% 140.4 152.0
Property losses (12.8) (18.8)
EBIT 127.6 133.2
Underlying net finance costs (42.3) (42.3)
Group underlying profit before tax 85.3 90.9
Notes
(1)  Throughout this report, references are made to underlying performance measures. Underlying results are defined as excluding trading results from the business to be closed, closed 
businesses, the amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one off non-recurring items, profit on sale of investments, net fair value 
remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations. These excluded items are described as ‘non-underlying’. The financial effect of these items is 
shown in the analyses on the face of the income statement and in note 4 to the financial statements.
(2)  Business to be closed comprises PC City Spain. Closed businesses comprise the operations of PC City Sweden and Markantalo in Finland. Discontinued operations comprise operations in 
Poland and Hungary.
(3)  Like for like sales are calculated based on stores that have been open for a full financial year both at the beginning and end of the financial period and are calculated using constant exchange 
rates. Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations. Operations that are subject to closure have sales excluded as of the announcement date. Stores 
subject to a refurbishment are excluded during the period of refurbishment. All e-commerce pick-up store sales are included in like for like sales.
(4)  Underlying Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) equates to underlying operating profit and is defined as underlying earnings from retail operations, after property losses, before deduction 
of net finance costs and tax.
(5)  The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation of earnings per share for the period prior to the rights issue, which completed on 9 June 2009, has been multiplied by an 
adjustment factor to reflect the bonus element of the shares issued under the terms of the rights issue (as described in note 8 to the financial statements). The adjustment factor used was 1.2138.
(6)  Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash flow from operating activities before special pension contributions, less net finance costs, less income tax paid and 
net capital expenditure.
(7) Currency neutral change percentage reflects the year on year growth or decline in underlying sales, calculated excluding the effect of currency movements.
(8) UK & Ireland comprises Currys, CurrysDigital, Dixons Travel, PC World, operations in Ireland, DSGi Business and KNOWHOW. Like for like sales exclude DSGi Business.
(9) Nordics comprises the Elkjøp group and Dixons Travel Denmark.
(10)  Other International comprises Greece (Kotsovolos), Italy (Unieuro, combined 2-in-1 Unieuro and PC City stores and Dixons Travel Italy), Czech Republic (Electro World), Slovakia 
         (Electro World) and Turkey (Electro World).  
(11) Pure play e-commerce division comprises Dixons.co.uk and PIXmania.
(12)  Unless otherwise noted, throughout this statement figures relate to continuing operations, excluding the results of the business to be closed / closed businesses. Total revenue including 
discontinued operations and business to be closed / closed businesses was £8,341.8 million (2009/10 £8,543.4 million).
Business performance
Underlying Group sales (excluding discontinued operations and the business to be closed / closed businesses) were down 2% to 
£8,154.4 million (2009/10 £8,320.0 million) and down 2% on a like for like basis. Underlying Group sales were down 1% at constant 
exchange rates. Total Group sales (including the business to be closed / closed businesses) were down 2% to £8,341.8 million 
(2009/10 £8,532.5 million). Group gross margins were up 0.1% across the year.
Group EBIT (underlying profit before interest and tax) was £127.6 million (2009/10 £133.2 million). Group underlying profit before tax 
was £85.3 million (2009/10 £90.9 million). Total loss before tax, after deducting non-underlying items of £309.4 million, was £(224.1) 
million (2009/10 profit before tax £112.7 million).
Overview 
continued  Dixons Retail plc 
25
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Underlying sales
(£million)
2010/11 3,816.1
4,013.5 2009/10
Underlying operating proﬁt
(£million)
2010/11 71.3
71.1 2009/10
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Dixons Travel continues to go from strength to strength with all 
stores now operating in the new format which allows for more 
customer focused ranges, with a particular focus on portable 
items and accessories. The demographic of its customer base in 
airports has meant the business has been less impacted by the 
consumer downturn. In addition to the UK, Dixons Travel now 
operates in Copenhagen, Dublin, Rome and Milan airports with 
further opportunities in other airports across Europe. 
Internet sales continue to be driven by the shift of consumers  
and manufacturers to multi-channel retail outlets with significant 
growth in reserve&collect. At the start of the financial year, the 
PIXmania e-merchant platform was implemented across the UK 
websites significantly improving the navigation, operation and 
customer experience. Further work to improve the offer and 
extended ranges online are planned for the new financial year.
Gross margins in the UK & Ireland were up throughout the year 
as a result of a number of factors:
 Improvements in stock control, enabling the business to exit 
the year with lower inventory levels than last year despite the 
very weak markets. This has included improved processes for 
exiting aged stock, limiting the need for excessive discounting;
 Introduction of better promotional planning, enabling better 
support from suppliers, particularly as they increasingly favour 
multi-channel operators; and
 Cost saving initiatives in the distribution and services infrastructure.
The division made good progress on the Renewal and 
Transformation plan through the year with 250 stores now refitted 
in the UK & Ireland, including 31 Megastores. The preferred format 
for customers and for the business is the combined 2-in-1 Currys 
and PC World format. All High Street and out of town Superstores 
will be in this format. The majority of the 70 Megastores the Group 
is targeting will also be in this format, with a small number of 
standalone Currys Megastores in larger catchments. The Group’s 
planned store base for the UK & Ireland is 450 stores, comprising 
70 High Street stores, 310 Superstores and 70 Megastores. The 
portfolio will be managed to this size as existing leases expire and 
stores in each catchment are refitted.
The Group operates the most comprehensive end to end 
service offering in electrical retailing in the UK, giving the Group 
a unique services model versus the competition. In the spring  
of 2011 the new services brand of KNOWHOW was launched. 
This follows an intensive period of investment and significant 
improvement in our service offering for customers. The new 
brand was introduced into stores in May 2011 with roll out to 
all stores being completed by the autumn. The KNOWHOW 
brand provides customers with clear easily identifiable value  
for money services under four distinct categories; Deliver & 
Install; Set up & Upgrade; Help & Support; and Repair & Protect. 
Through growth and continuous process improvements the  
unit costs can be reduced, enabling further investment in the 
services offer.
UK & Ireland
  Profit and margins maintained 
despite challenging markets.
  Performing ahead of our 
competitors.
  Launch of KNOWHOW 
services.
Total sales in the UK & Ireland were down 5% to £3,816.1 million 
(2009/10 £4,013.5 million) and like for like sales were down 3% 
across the year. Underlying operating profit for the full year was 
flat year on year at £71.3 million (2009/10 £71.1 million).
This is an encouraging performance in the context of a weak 
market. During the first half we benefitted from sales of TVs in 
the lead up to the World Cup. The ‘cash for goals’ promotion 
caught customers’ imagination and enabled the business to 
capture more than its market share of the uplift in sales of TVs. 
The work being done under the Renewal and Transformation 
plan to improve the store environment and the shopping trip for 
customers was recognised by Apple when they chose us as 
their key partner for the launch of the iPad. Trade continued  
to be robust in the lead up to Christmas and in the early sale 
period, interrupted only by very poor weather conditions in  
the two week period preceding Christmas. However, like for  
like sales in the second half were down 7% as the consumer 
environment weakened in the fourth quarter. Against this 
environment Currys and PC World traded ahead of the 
competition and gained market share. During the year, white 
goods held up well and computing has been supported by 
iPads and tablets, with the new iPad 2 selling very strongly. 
Television sales benefitted from a strong World Cup, but have 
been particularly weak since January.
Performance Review
23 - - 35 26 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Underlying sales
(£million)
2010/11 2,268.9
2,093.7 2009/10
Underlying operating proﬁt
(£million)
2010/11 105.6
97.4 2009/10
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
In the Nordic region, Elkjøp delivered another strong performance 
with sales increasing by 7% in local currency and 8% in sterling to 
£2,268.9 million (2009/10 £2,093.7 million). Like for like sales 
were up 9% in the second half and up 5% across the year. 
Underlying operating profits increased by 8% to £105.6 million 
(2009/10 £97.4 million).
Elkjøp performed strongly in all of its markets and product 
categories throughout the year. In the prior year Elkjøp took the 
opportunity to significantly grow its market share and invested in 
margins. During the reported year Elkjøp consolidated its position 
and recovered some of this gross margin investment. New stores 
and extensions to Megastores were opened towards the end of 
the first half which, together with increased marketing, added to 
cost growth in the business over the Christmas Peak period. 
Elkjøp improved its cost position towards the end of the year  
and closed the year with gross margins up 0.5% year on year.
This was an important transitional year for the Elkjøp business  
as it established clear market leadership in all its markets. The 
sales and profit performances in Finland, Denmark and Sweden 
were strong, with particularly good profit conversion in Finland 
and Denmark. There is a significant opportunity to develop the 
Elkjøp business further across all four markets through store 
refurbishments, Megastore roll outs and online.
Elkjøp operates in geographically diverse markets where scale 
across all four countries provides a strong competitive 
advantage. Elkjøp operates a centralised warehouse in Sweden 
and a low cost centralised head office operation supported by 
efficient local functions in each market. Each operation has high 
customer recognition for advice and value which enables it to 
deliver relatively high sales densities. As a result Elkjøp operates 
on a market leading cost to sales ratio of 19.5%. Competition in 
each of the markets in the Nordics is typically characterised as 
buying groups or local independent operators and a small 
number of local specialists which lack the scale efficiencies 
Elkjøp enjoys.
Approximately 11% of Elkjøp’s sales are through its successful 
franchise operation which enables the brand to operate in 
smaller and less accessible catchments across the Nordics.  
As the franchisees purchase product from Elkjøp on a wholesale 
basis, franchising enables Elkjøp to benefit from increased 
purchasing scale. 
Elkjøp has now opened 20 Megastores which have performed 
particularly well. It has also started a programme to refurbish 
existing superstores using the same format employed in the UK. 
These new format stores are delivering gross profit uplifts of 
approximately 15% versus the rest of the chain. Elkjøp expects to 
operate 60 Megastores across the Nordics in the medium term.
Elkjøp’s multi-channel offering grew by 34%, to 6% of sales 
during the year, driven by its reserve&collect service which 
continues to be well received by customers. 
On 1 June 2011, the Group announced that it had exchanged 
contracts for the sale and leaseback of the Group’s Nordic 
distribution centre in Jönköping, Sweden. The sale and 
leaseback is expected to complete in June 2011 with the  
Group receiving SEK600 million (approximately £59 million).
Nordics
  Elkjøp performed strongly in 
all its markets.
   Transitional year as Elkjøp 
established clear market 
leadership in all its markets.
  Further significant 
opportunity.  Dixons Retail plc 
27
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Underlying sales
(£million)
2010/11 1,226.7
1,291.6 2009/10
Underlying operating loss
(£million)
2010/11 (21.6)
(8.3) 2009/10
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
This division comprises operations in Italy, Greece, the Czech 
Republic, Slovakia and Turkey. Total sales were down 2% at 
constant exchange rates and by 5% in sterling to £1,226.7 million 
(2009/10 £1,291.6 million). Underlying operating losses were 
£(21.6) million (2009/10 loss of £(8.3) million). Towards the end  
of the financial year the Group announced that it was closing its 
PC City operations in Spain. The closure programme is on track, 
with all stores now closed and a net cash cost of closure of 
approximately £30 million across the 2010/11 and 2011/12 
financial years. Underlying financials are reported excluding  
these PC City operations.
Italy
This comprises Unieuro, combined 2-in-1 Unieuro and PC City 
stores and Dixons Travel Italy operating in the airports in Rome 
and Milan. The business has progressed well against the 
turnaround plan, with a positive EBITDA delivered for the first  
time in several years, ahead of plan. The turnaround plan has 
involved considerable work to improve the ranges in-store, as well 
as availability for customers. Significant progress has been made 
in improving the stock turn to improve working capital, helping 
cash generation. Using the same Six Sigma principles as have 
been employed in the UK & Ireland division, Unieuro has reduced 
costs. In addition the store network is being upgraded, including 
store reformatting, again using the work done in the UK & Ireland 
division, which provides a better, easier to navigate store 
environment for customers.
A strong first quarter driven by the World Cup was followed by  
a weaker sales environment as the business anniversaried the 
first stages of the regional digital switchover. The consumer 
environment remained subdued in the second half, but Unieuro 
continued to outperform the market as it benefitted from a further 
stage of the digital switchover. As the business becomes cash 
generative it will start to add Megastores as well as refurbish 
existing stores to the 2-in-1 Unieuro and PC City format that is 
proving to be the favoured format for customers. The business  
is well positioned to make further gains in the years ahead.
Greece
Kotsovolos is the market leading specialist electrical retailer in 
Greece. As a result of the economic situation in Greece the 
competitive environment is changing and with its strong market 
position Kotsovolos is increasingly being favoured by both customers 
and suppliers, enabling it to trade ahead of the markets, gaining two 
to three percentage points of share in the last six months of the 
financial year. However, because the market has been down 
approximately 25% across the financial year, it has impacted 
profitability. Management have partially offset this impact by reducing 
costs, enabling the business to deliver a positive EBITDA result in the 
year. The business has also focused on delivering for customers, 
improving its relative proposition in the market and expanding its 
channels in e-commerce and franchising. 
During the year Kotsovolos refurbished seven stores including 
two Megastores, with 35% of sales now being through new 
format stores.
Czech Republic and Slovakia 
Operations in the Czech Republic have performed well in their 
markets, despite the weak consumer environments. The Group 
now operates 20 stores and a multi-channel internet operation 
in the Czech Republic and three stores in Slovakia which are 
trading in line with expectations.
Turkey
We operate 19 stores in Turkey, including four franchises, under 
the Electro World brand with our local joint venture partner.  
These stores are based on the Group’s new large space format, 
providing a greater product range and exciting retail environments 
for customers. The business continues to deliver good sales 
growth as the operations there benefit from the Group’s scale, 
store formats, in-store service and operating model.
   Turnaround plan in Italy is 
improving performance.
   Kotsovolos gaining share in a 
tough market.
  Medium term opportunities in 
Czech Republic, Slovakia and 
Turkey as markets develop.
Other International
Performance Review
23 - - 35 28 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Underlying sales
(£million)
2010/11 842.7
921.2 2009/10
Underlying operating proﬁt
(£million)
2010/11 0.9
11.3 2009/10
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
  PIXmania traded well in its 
core markets.
  dixons.co.uk benefits from 
the UK & Ireland operating 
platform.
  Investments being made in 
future e-commerce operations.
Pure play e-commerce
This division comprises PIXmania and dixons.co.uk. Total sales 
were down 5% in local currency and down 9% in sterling at 
£842.7 million (2009/10 £921.2 million). Underlying operating 
profit was £0.9 million (2009/10 £11.3 million). The Pure play 
e-commerce business forms a core and integrated part of the 
Group’s overall internet strategy, alongside the multi-channel 
operations of the other main business divisions. Internet sales 
across the Group represent 16% of total sales.
Several factors have reduced the sales and profits of our Pure play 
e-commerce operations. First, we have been making significant 
investments in developing the operation. We have implemented 
a new platform in the UK to support all of our websites, which 
has caused disruption while being integrated into the UK systems 
and trading platforms. We have also been investing in e-merchant 
which supplies IT services to the Group and other retailers. 
Second, while it delivered a solid performance in France, PIXmania 
has strong market positions in Southern Europe which have been 
adversely impacted by reduced consumer demand. Third, in 
several markets we have had increased competition from store 
based brands expanding their e-commerce business. Finally there 
has been a significant shift of suppliers and customers in favouring 
multi-channel brands and away from pure play internet operators.
In the UK the Group operates the dixons.co.uk business alongside 
the multi-channel brands of currys.co.uk and pcworld.co.uk. During 
the year management directed internet sales activity through the 
more profitable multi-channel brands, particularly as these are 
becoming the favoured route for customers and suppliers. As a 
pure play business dixons.co.uk competes on price and is an 
important tool in enabling management to understand and 
compete in the pure play electricals retail section of the market.  
The implementation of the e-merchant platform and further 
improvements to the offer have incurred additional costs. However, 
as dixons.co.uk is fulfilled from the UK & Ireland’s main warehouse 
and stock files, its cost to serve is relatively low. While the 
dixons.co.uk operation is now on a much stronger footing, it has 
been impacted by the weak consumer environment, impacting 
profitability of the Pure play e-commerce division.
PIXmania now operates a total of 17 stores. These stores, with  
an average space of approximately 1,400 sq ft per store, 
combine the ease and value of the internet and the convenience 
of stores to collect products. It is expected that PIXmania will 
open further stores as they achieve high sales densities driven  
by internet pricing in high footfall shopping centre locations.
PIXmania also operates PIXplace which provides a platform for 
third party resellers under the PIXmania brand. This also enables 
PIXmania to extend its offer for customers while benefitting from 
a charge for third party transactions.
In addition, PIXmania is able to provide its proprietary and market 
leading e-merchant platform and IT services to third party operators. 
As well as dixons.co.uk, currys.co.uk and pcworld.co.uk, PIXmania 
provides these services to Bouygues Telecom. The Group considers 
that there are further opportunities in this area over the medium term.  Dixons Retail plc 
29
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Performance Review
23 - - 35
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Financial position
The year has seen very challenging markets with pressure on 
sales and margins as well as cost inflation. In spite of these 
challenges we have delivered a robust trading performance 
against the financial priorities of profitability and strengthening 
the balance sheet:
 Group Gross Margins were up 0.1% in the year, the second 
year of flat or growing gross margins in a market where 
competitors have seen gross margins erode;
 EBIT held at £127.6 million (2009/10 £133.2 million);
 Costs reduced by £50 million in the year and a further 
£50 million being targeted in each of the next three  
financial years;
 Exit of loss making operations of PC City in Spain announced;
 Completion of sale and leaseback of Swedish warehouse 
expected in June, raising £59 million;
 Rephased debt profile following issue of new 2015 Bonds and 
part repurchase of existing 2012 Bonds in July 2010;
 Significant headroom maintained on the Group’s revolving 
credit facility (the “RCF”) throughout the year, with the RCF 
extended to August 2013;
 Agreement in principle reached with the trustee of the UK defined 
benefit scheme following the triennial valuation which showed a 
shortfall of assets compared to liabilities of £239 million;
 Positive Free Cash Flow, before restructuring items, of 
£38.9 million was generated; and
 Net debt at year end of £206.8 million (2009/10 £220.6 million).
Adjustments to underlying results
The weak consumer environment impacted the financial 
performance of certain of the Group’s businesses, with the 
outlook in Southern Europe, in particular, remaining uncertain. 
This has resulted in an impairment in the value of goodwill 
acquired with PIXmania and Kotsovolos in 2006 and 2004, 
respectively. There is also a non-underlying charge relating to  
the closure of the PC City business in Spain. Under the Renewal 
and Transformation plan, a number of re-organisation charges 
continue to be incurred and as in prior years, these have  
also been treated as non-underlying charges. The total  
non-underlying charge is £309.4 million. The additional cash 
impact of this charge is estimated as £39 million, of which 
approximately £8 million was incurred in 2010/11. Further  
details of the non-underlying charges are set out below:
 52 weeks 
ended 
30 April 
2011 
£million
52 weeks 
ended 
1 May 2010 
£million
Underlying profit before tax 85.3 90.9
Non underlying (charges) / gains:
Trading results – Business to 
be closed / closed 
businesses (8.5) (0.6)
Other non-underlying items:
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles (4.5) (4.6)
Net restructuring charges:
Strategic reorganisation (17.1) (5.6)
Business impairments (251.6) –
Other items (24.9) – 
Change in pension benefits – 33.4
Financing items:     
Net fair value remeasurements (2.8) (0.8)
Accelerated amortisation of 
facility fees (7.8) –
Net 2012 Bond redemption 
gains 7.8 – 
Other non-underlying  
items – total (300.9) 22.4
Total net non-underlying 
charges to add back (309.4) 21.8
(Loss) / profit before tax (224.1) 112.7
 In April the Group announced the closure of PC City Spain, 
and in the prior year completed the closure of PC City in 
Sweden and Markantalo in Finland. Trading results from the 
business to be closed / closed businesses comprise the 
pre-tax losses from these operations, excluding closure costs 
which are provided for separately below as part of the 
business impairment.
 Amortisation of acquired intangibles of £4.5 million 
predominantly comprises brand names.
 Strategic reorganisation costs of £17.1 million relate 
predominantly to the UK business transformation and primarily 
comprise redundancy costs and additional lease liabilities on a 
vacant head office building following the UK restructuring. 
 Business impairments include: 
 – costs of £70.6 million relating to the closure of PC City 
operations in Spain. This comprises goodwill and other 
asset write offs together with provisions for onerous lease 
costs and employee severance; 
 – £106.3 million impairment of goodwill acquired with 
PIXmania in 2006. PIXmania’s profit performance is behind 
that envisaged at the time of the acquisition as a result of:
 – weakness in the Southern European economies in which 
it operates;
 – investment in the e-merchant platform; 
 – changes in the internet retailing market, with the switch 
in growth to multi-channel. 
 – £53.2 million impairment of goodwill relating to Kotsovolos, 
the Group’s Greek business. Despite gaining market share 
during the period and remaining cash generative, this 
follows a period of economic difficulty and uncertainty in 
the Greek market; and
Group Financial Summary 30 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Group Financial Summary
continued
 – £21.5 million impairment in respect of the Group’s 40% 
stake in a Danish associate, F-Group. F-Group has 
experienced a prolonged period of declining results due to 
the weak underlying Danish economic environment.
 Other items of £24.9 million mainly comprise:
 – the impairment of capitalised development costs in respect 
of the Group’s systems in the UK following the decision to 
defer the project in order to focus on existing process 
improvements; and
 – the write off in PIXmania of supplier receivables, dating 
back to 2008/09 and prior years. This write off has arisen 
due to the implementation of new systems highlighting the 
extent of the receivables outstanding and a detailed review 
of the Group’s ability to recover these balances.
 The financing charge comprises the following elements:
 – £2.8 million of net fair value remeasurement losses on 
revaluation of financial instruments as required by IAS 32 
and 39; 
 – accelerated amortisation of facility fees which relate to the 
refinancing activities and comprise the write off of fees relating 
to the now cancelled credit facility which were previously being 
amortised over the life of that facility. Equivalent fees relating to 
the current RCF are being amortised into underlying interest in 
the same manner as the historical facility fees were; and
 – net 2012 Bond redemption gains which arise on the 
notional cancellation of interest rate swaps used to hedge 
the £140 million redeemed portion of the 2012 Bonds, 
offset mainly by the redemption premium paid. 
 The 2009/10 credit of £33.4 million in respect of the change 
in pension benefits arose from the curtailment of the defined 
benefit section of the UK pension scheme whereby this 
section was closed to future accrual on 30 April 2010. 
Free Cash Flow
Free Cash Flow, before restructuring items, at £38.9 million 
(2009/10 £28.1 million) improved on the prior year despite the 
significant increase in capital invested in the Renewal and 
Transformation programme. This was driven mainly through 
improved working capital management and reduced hedge  
cash outflows. Total free cash flow after restructuring items  
was £10.0 million (2009/10 outflow of £(17.6) million).
 52 weeks ended 
30 April 2011 
£million
52 weeks  
ended 
1 May 2010 
£million
Underlying profit before tax 85.3 90.9
Business to be closed / closed 
businesses loss before tax (8.5) (0.6)
Depreciation and amortisation 139.4 128.6
Working capital 40.4 39.7
Taxation (26.2) (31.9)
Capital expenditure (223.2) (165.3)
Proceeds from sale of property
(i)
2.0 0.7
Other cash items 29.7 (34.0)
Free Cash Flow before 
restructuring items 38.9 28.1
Net restructuring and impairment
(i) (ii)
(28.9) (45.7)
Free Cash Flow 10.0 (17.6)
(i)  Proceeds from sale of property in the prior year excludes £9.0 million relating to the sale of 
the Group’s former warehouse in Stevenage. These sale proceeds are shown within net 
restructuring and impairment.
(ii)  Net restructuring and impairment includes £2.0 million of cash recoveries made in the 
current year, mainly in relation to closed businesses.
As previously announced, it should be noted that the year end 
working capital and cash position benefited due to the additional 
bank holiday at the end of the financial year and the timing of 
trading cash flows associated with the closure of operations in 
Spain. This benefit is estimated as approximately £30 million,  
of which approximately half was as a result of the timing of 
closing the operations in Spain across the year end. The Group 
continues to anticipate net closure costs of PC City Spain of 
approximately £30 million. This represents an incremental cost  
of £20 million.
Capital expenditure was £223.2 million (2009/10 £165.3 million), 
up £57.9 million reflecting the increased investment associated 
with the Renewal and Transformation plan, particularly in the UK 
and Nordics.
Other cash items of £29.7 million (2009/10 £(34.0) million) mainly 
comprise the add back of non-cash costs included in profit, such 
as pension interest, share option charges, and property loss 
provision charges, and in addition reflect other cash movements 
such as settlements of certain hedge contracts. The improvement 
year on year of £63.7 million is primarily due to the £62.2 million of 
hedge outflows reported in 2009/10.
As previously disclosed, the Group has in place certain historical 
hedging agreements. The principal outstanding agreements 
relate primarily to foreign exchange and interest hedges. The 
majority of these were put in place at the time the Group issued 
its Bonds in 2002, and in relation to overseas investments. The 
remaining hedges at year end rates would imply a net future cash 
outflow of approximately £65 million, primarily payable in 2012.
Net restructuring and impairment mainly reflects the cash outflows 
relating to the strategic reorganisation activities as announced in 
previous years. These primarily comprise lease and other property 
related payments and employee severance costs.
The Group’s priority is to ensure that cash flow is managed to meet 
the repayment of the 6.125% Bonds due in November 2012 and 
associated hedge maturities. Alongside the proceeds from the sale 
and leaseback of the warehouse in Sweden, and further cash 
generation from operations, management will retain flexibility in the 
level of capital expenditure in the 2011/12 and 2012/13 financial 
years. As previously announced, capital expenditure will be limited 
to a maximum of £160 million in the 2011/12 financial year. To date 
approximately £100 million of capital has been committed for 
2011/12, with further commitments to be reviewed against the 
economic environment and the Group’s performance.
Funding
Net debt
At 30 April 2011 the Group had net debt of £(206.8) million, 
compared with net debt of £(220.6) million at the end of the 
previous year.  Dixons Retail plc 
31
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Performance Review
23 - - 35
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
52 weeks 
ended 
30 April 
2011 
£million
52 weeks  
ended 
1 May 2010 
£million
Opening net debt (220.6) (477.5)
Free Cash Flow 10.0 (17.6)
Equity Placing and Rights 
Issue – 291.3
Acquisitions and disposals – (7.0)
Discontinued operations (0.1) (8.6)
Special pension contribution (12.0) (12.0)
Other items 15.9 10.8
Other movements in net  
debt 3.8 274.5
Closing net debt (206.8) (220.6)
Since the start of the previous financial year, the Group has 
improved its financial position significantly through refinancing 
actions. In the prior year, the proceeds received from the Placing 
and Rights Issue were used to reduce debt and finance the Renewal 
and Transformation plan. In July 2010 the Group rephased its debt 
with the issue of £150 million 8.75% Guaranteed Notes repayable  
in August 2015 (the “2015 Bonds”). The net proceeds of the 2015 
Bonds were used to repurchase £140 million of the Group’s existing 
£300 million 6.125% Bonds (the “2012 Bonds”). The transaction also 
enabled the extension of the maturity of the Group’s Revolving 
Credit Facility (RCF) to August 2013.
The rephasing of debt maturity, coupled with actions to generate 
funds to reduce net debt, ensures that the Group has an appropriate 
repayment profile on its debt facilities and has suitable working 
capital facilities with sufficient headroom to enable it to continue to 
execute the Renewal and Transformation plan.
On 1 June 2011 the Group announced the exchange of 
contracts for the sale and leaseback of its Jönköping distribution 
facility for SEK600 million (approximately £59 million). Completion 
of the transaction is expected in June 2011.
The gain on other items in the current year includes a £10.2 million 
gain arising on the notional cancellation of interest rate swaps, 
which were previously in a designated hedge relationship on the 
portion of the 2012 Bonds which has now been redeemed.
Net debt is stated inclusive of restricted funds of £120.3 million 
(Full Year 2009/10 £78.9 million, Interim 2010/11 £118.4 million), 
which predominantly comprise funds held under trust for 
potential customer support agreement liabilities. As previously 
reported in our interim results, the increase year on year is 
primarily as a result of cancellation of letter of credit facilities  
as part of the refinancing of the RCF in July 2010.
Underlying net finance costs
Underlying net finance costs were £(42.3) million (2009/10 
£(42.3) million). Although the overall cost has remained 
unchanged year on year, there have been offsetting  
impacts from the following key areas:
 Net reductions in borrowing costs, arising from lower 
borrowing levels following the Placing and Rights Issue in the 
prior year, as well as from lower borrowing and amortisation 
costs following the refinancing of the revolving credit facility, 
partly offset by increased costs resulting from the higher 
coupon on the 2015 Bonds;
 Lower net pension interest costs, set at the beginning of 
the financial year, largely as a result of higher asset values 
compared to the beginning of the previous financial year; and
 Reduced interest income, predominantly due to one-off 
interest earned in the prior year relating to overpayments  
of tax in earlier years.
Property losses
Property losses decreased to £12.8 million (2009/10 £18.8 million 
loss). They primarily relate to closure or refit of stores as part of 
the Renewal and Transformation plan in the UK and Nordics. In 
the prior year costs were also incurred in Greece through store 
closures and refits, including rebranding of the Electro World 
chain to Kotsovolos.
Dividends
The Board believes that Dixons Retail’s existing financial 
resources should be used to invest in the Renewal and 
Transformation plan, which is showing encouraging signs of 
delivering changes in the Group’s performance, as well as 
repayment of the existing 2012 Bond due in November 2012.
Subject to an assessment of whether certain conditions have been 
met, and the progress of the Renewal and Transformation plan, the 
Board aims to resume dividend payments when appropriate, 
consistent with a sustained recovery in Dixons Retail’s operational 
and financial performance.
Tax 
The Group’s tax rate on underlying profit before tax was 37% 
(2009/10: 45%). The high effective tax rate is affected by the 
proportion of loss making businesses where tax benefits are  
not fully utilised.
Pensions
At 30 April 2011, the IAS 19 accounting deficit of the defined 
benefit section of the UK pension scheme amounted to  
£244.0 million (1 May 2010 £263.5 million). The assumptions 
used for determining the accounting valuation use a consistent 
basis to that adopted in prior periods but build from the most 
recent triennial valuation as at 31 March 2010. 
The overall decrease is a result of an increase in the assets of  
the scheme which have continued to recover year on year.  
This increase has partially been offset by an overall increase in 
liabilities which are affected by a lower discount rate, reflecting 
corporate bond yields, and the fact that liabilities are one year 
closer to crystallising. 
A full triennial actuarial valuation of the UK defined benefit pension 
scheme as at 31 March 2010 was recently completed and shows 
a shortfall of assets compared with liabilities of £239.0 million. This 
shortfall and the associated recovery plan have been agreed in 
principle with the trustee, with formal agreement expected shortly. 
The proposed recovery plan based on this valuation commenced 
in 2010/11 with payments of £12 million which rise to £16 million in 
2011/12, £20 million in 2012/13 and 2013/14 and rising thereafter to 
£35 million by 2020/21. The next triennial valuation is expected to 
commence in March 2013. 32 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Corporate Responsibility  
Report 
Our business has relationships with many stakeholders and 
with society at large, and we recognise that our business 
performance could be affected if we neglected these 
relationships. Accordingly, we take our responsibilities to our 
stakeholders seriously. We aim to have policies and procedures 
in place, which balance the expectations of our customers, 
shareholders, employees and the wider community. 
Corporate responsibility management framework
The Group Finance Director, Nicholas Cadbury, is the Board 
member responsible for corporate responsibility matters at 
Dixons Retail. He is supported in this task by the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee, which comprises senior executives 
from key business areas and is chaired by Helen Grantham,  
the Company Secretary and General Counsel. The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee met four times during the period 
under review and a summary of some of the key matters 
discussed are listed below:
 Ongoing evaluation of the Group’s risks and opportunities and 
identification of areas where the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee needs to enhance reporting or control 
mechanisms already in place;
 Assessing the reporting structures in place and determining 
changes to be implemented when gathering information in 
respect of the key performance indicators;
 Reviewing the Group Health and Safety Policy;
 Reviewing the impact of the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
upon the UK business and the internal reporting mechanisms 
to ensure compliance. 
Our approach to corporate responsibility
The Group recognises that the most significant responsibility 
issues concern its core business activities and follows the 
Association of British Insurer’s guidelines in its approach to 
corporate responsibility. Accordingly, Dixons Retail seeks to 
identify the risks and opportunities which are most significant  
to its business rather than addressing a standardised agenda. 
The Corporate Responsibility Committee maps onto a matrix 
the risks and opportunities that are specific to the Dixons Retail 
business and the retail sector. This allows us to identify our 
main exposures and most significant opportunities, and 
address how to deal with these issues. During the period  
under review, our priorities included the following:
 to provide a safe and healthy environment for customers, 
colleagues and visitors to our stores and other locations;
 to engage colleagues through the provision of rewarding 
workplace environments and careers, whilst assisting in  
the ongoing improvement of customer service levels;
 to improve operational energy efficiency and forward planning;
 to reduce our impact on the environment and to reduce costs 
and raise revenue through improved waste recycling;
 the provision of safe and reliable own-brand products, 
achieved as a result of our expert technical knowledge with 
products sourced from manufacturers who are audited 
against our ethical requirements;
 to add to and promote the customer proposition in relation 
to product reuse and recycling; and
 an appropriate community giving policy, which complements 
our interaction with the communities in which we work.
A member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee has been 
identified as accountable for each of these priorities.
Dixons Retail operates in different countries, each with differing 
stakeholder needs. Accordingly, the Group’s corporate 
responsibility efforts are largely organised on a local level. The 
Corporate Responsibility Committee is aware of the good 
responsibility work carried out by the Group’s overseas 
businesses and is working towards improving reporting 
initiatives with a view to reporting its Group-wide responsibility 
efforts going forward.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee has established the 
following key performance indicators, which enables it to 
monitor performance against the priorities that it has set:
 Colleague diversity – age, gender and ethnicity of its employees
 Health and Safety – employee and customer accidents 
and injuries 
 Ethical supply chain audits
 Customer satisfaction
 Waste electrical equipment collected and recycled
 Business waste recycled
 Group carbon emissions
 Contributions to the community
Business ethics 
The way we do business at Dixons Retail is important to us and 
forms a part of our corporate responsibility objectives. Our 
shared values are to:
 operate with honesty and integrity;
 give outstanding service to our customers;
 respect our colleagues;
 continually seek ways to improve performance; and
 work together to beat our competition.
We operate an Ethical Conduct Policy, which applies to all employees.
Customer services 
At Dixons Retail, we are proud to serve thousands of customers 
every year in our stores and online. In the tough economic 
environment of the last few years, our customers have looked  
to us to provide greater value, choice and service and we have 
reinvigorated our business model accordingly. Our customers 
have told us what a great shopping experience feels like and we 
have integrated this into our Customer Plan. The Customer Plan 
(discussed in more detail in the Chief Executive’s Review on 
pages 5 to 7) is a series of programmes with the objective of 
improving the shopping and post-shopping experience of our 
customers. During the period under review, these programmes 
have involved training of our store colleagues in FIVES, Dixons 
Retail’s five point customer engagement tool, continuing to 
transform our store layouts, simplifying our shopping websites 
and increasing our product range. Great customer service is key 
to the success of our business and is measured through regular 
mystery shopping and exit surveys as well as customer feedback 
received via our call centre and service colleagues. Key 
performance indicators on customer satisfaction are combined 
on a monthly basis into a customer dashboard, which is regularly 
reviewed by the Corporate Responsibility Committee, as well as 
the Executive Committee and the Board.  Dixons Retail plc 
33
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
As part of our commitment to delivering customer service to  
the highest standards, our colleagues work to ensure that our 
communications with customers are clear and that the information 
we present them with is accurate and not misleading. We maintain 
compliance with trading standards and legal requirements.  
Our policies and procedures integrate those standards into  
our daily work. 
Supplier relationships 
Many of our electrical products are sourced through major 
international brands, which have their own strong ethical and 
environmental policies in place.
The Group operates an Ethical Sourcing Policy based on the 
Social Accountability 8000 criteria. Suppliers of our own brand 
products are audited prior to selection and rated on a traffic light 
basis. Green status on an audit indicates that a supplier meets or 
exceeds all our standards. Amber status indicates that some of 
the minimum standards required have not been met and Red 
status means that a supplier fails significantly to meet our Ethical 
Sourcing Policy standards. Our own product supplier audits are 
carried out with a view to assisting our suppliers in improving 
their working practices. Where no improvements are made, we 
will move to de-list that supplier from our supplier list. The results 
of ethical supply chain audits carried out during the period under 
review are detailed below.
Performance Indicators 2010/11 2009/10
Green 0 6
Amber 136 148
Red 75 51
Total factories audited 211 205
De-listed / Not approved 72 39
Under the Renewal and Transformation plan, we have redefined 
our own brand product range. In order to ensure value and 
choice, this year we have significantly increased the number  
of suppliers we interact with. This has presented us with the 
challenge of an increase in the number of audits we undertake 
and the consequences of this increase are reflected in the table 
above, particularly with the number of suppliers classified as 
Red. We have worked with these factories to improve their 
working practices. Where this is not possible, they have not  
been approved or have been de-listed as appropriate.
Environment
Dixons Retail recognises that it has a responsibility to manage 
the impact of its business on the environment both now and in 
the future. Key areas of focus continue to be:
 energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, 
distribution centres and offices;
 fuel emissions from the transportation of products to either 
stores or customers’ homes; and
 waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres 
and offices.
Carbon footprint management
Dixons Retail is committed to a carbon management programme,  
which aims to reduce the Group’s carbon footprint. As part of the 
mandatory Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency 
Scheme, the business has introduced programmes that have helped 
us to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment whilst 
improving efficiency and saving costs. A significant proportion of the 
cost savings made have been reinvested into the next phase of our 
energy management programme.
Dixons Retail is dedicated to reducing its carbon footprint  
by reducing energy consumption throughout its operations, 
minimising and recycling waste, cutting transport emissions  
and reducing the packaging of its products. We seek to source 
products from all our suppliers that meet all industry standards 
and are as energy efficient as practicable. We continue to 
improve the environmental performance of our own brand 
products throughout their life-cycle by systemic integration  
of environmental aspects at an early stage in product design.
Energy management 
A substantial initiative is underway to reduce energy usage in our 
UK stores through the implementation of an energy management 
programme. This initiative looks at the demand from lighting, 
heating, cooling and the display products in-store and optimises 
the building management systems, where installed, to maximise 
efficiencies. Over 80% of our total electricity consumption is 
monitored and reported on a daily basis giving us the ability to 
manage our electricity consumption, reducing our environmental 
impact as well as our costs. Dixons Retail store colleagues are 
currently undergoing energy awareness training to help them 
better control and reduce their energy usage.
Waste management 
Reducing the impact of packaging waste and increasing the 
volume of material recycled is a key opportunity for the business  
as well as good for the environment. In August 2010, we rolled out 
Dry Mixed Recyclate to all our UK stores and distribution centres. 
Our primary waste contractor now recycles the plastics and 
cardboard that we collect, which has resulted in an increase in our 
recycling rate and a corresponding reduction in our landfill waste.
At Dixons Retail, we take responsibility for the electrical products 
that we place on the market seriously, especially when those 
products become waste. In accordance with the Waste Electrical 
and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Regulations, we provide an 
in-store and home collection take-back service to customers 
enabling them to return their WEEE free of charge.
Performance Review
23 - - 35 34 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Waste recycled as a percentage of total waste*
2010/11 2009/10
UK 73% 67%
Nordics** 91% 91%
* Not including WEEE.
** Data for Denmark, Sweden and Norway only.
Transport and distribution 
Keeping our stores stocked with the thousands of products we sell 
means our fleet of commercial vehicles is constantly transporting 
products around the country. The Group seeks to reduce the 
environmental impact of delivering its products by efficient route 
planning to avoid unnecessary mileage, using rail freight where 
appropriate, increasing vehicle load and making use of empty 
vehicles on return journeys.  
Fleet carbon emissions
Tonnes of CO 2 produced 2010/11 2009/10
UK home delivery fleet 7,830 8,250
UK retail fleet 15,088 15,750
Nordics delivery fleet 11,267 8,942
Total 34,185 32,942
Workplace 
Our employees
At Dixons Retail, we recognise that our people are the key to 
delivering customer service. We value and respect them and 
endeavour to engage their talents and abilities to the fullest 
extent. We want to be recognised as a good employer aiming to 
reward people fairly, to provide equality of opportunity, personal 
development and training. Our culture supports the discovery of 
new and better ways of working, two-way communication and 
the speedy resolution of any concerns or queries.
Pay and benefits at Dixons are attractive and conducive to the 
recruitment and retention of talented people. Through a range  
of share plans, we encourage all employees to build a personal 
stake in the business. 
At Dixons Retail, we work to achieve high standards in employment 
practices. We have a comprehensive suite of employee policies and 
procedures, in which we set out our responsibilities and obligations 
to our colleagues. These policies include procedures covering 
grievance resolution, bullying and harassment, diversity and equal 
opportunities. The UK & Ireland business group’s policy on Equal 
Opportunities states that no employee should suffer discrimination 
in respect of disability, gender, sexual orientation, age, religious 
belief, race, colour, nationality, marital status or any other reason. 
These policies apply to the recruitment, training and career 
development of all colleagues. Colleague diversity in terms of age, 
gender and ethnicity remains a key performance indicator of ours 
and we report on these below.
Corporate Responsibility  
Report continued
Employee diversity
2010/11 2009/10
Female 28% 33%
Male 72% 67%
Full-time 65% 67%
Part-time 35% 33%
Ethnic minority/non national 26% 27%*
Aged over 50 11% 7%
*  Data for those countries within the Group that are either required by law or voluntarily record 
this information.
Training and development
Our personal and career development processes are designed to 
ensure all our people have the skills to meet the requirements of 
their roles and to thereby contribute to our Customer Plan. Our 
store colleagues have all been trained in FIVES, our bespoke sales 
training programme, and have received further training on service 
under our KNOWHOW brand. Each employee has a personal 
appraisal and development plan, including an assessment of their 
performance together with their line manager on at least an annual 
basis.
Employee communications
Dixons Retail uses a variety of internal communication channels 
to ensure that all colleagues are kept informed of operational 
developments. These include regular town-hall meetings, intranet 
postings, executive blogs and e-mail communications. We have a 
great way of keeping our colleagues involved in the development 
of our business by informing and consulting with them through 
our Employee Forums. Each major business unit in the UK  
has its own Employee Forum composed of independently 
elected employee representatives. The topics covered are  
wide ranging and include customer service, business efficiency 
and re-organisation, and performance improvement.
Health and Safety 
Dixons Retail maintains a strong commitment to health and 
safety. The Group’s objective is to manage all aspects of its 
business in a safe manner and take practical measures to ensure 
that its activities do not harm our customers or our colleagues. 
Dixons Retail operates a Health and Safety Policy and each area 
of the business routinely carries out risk assessments and audits 
to ensure continuous update of the Policy and adherence to it. 
During the period under review, we undertook a complete review 
of operational safety and processes with a particular emphasis 
on training and management control. Aligned with the use of 
accident data and root cause analysis, this has made a 
significant contribution towards the reduction of high risk/high 
cost accidents throughout the business and a 10% reduction in 
customer and employee accidents in stores. Plans are in place 
for further accident reduction and cost saving measures for 
2011/12.
Our key performance indicator for health and safety issues is the 
number of injuries and accidents sustained by our customers 
and colleagues, progress against which is reported to the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee on a quarterly basis.  Dixons Retail plc 
35
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Health and Safety: employee accidents and injuries
2010/11 2009/10
Number of accidents or injuries reported 985 945
Rate of accidents per 1,000 employees 46 41
Data for UK and Ireland.
Community 
Community involvement 
Given the difficult economic environment experienced across 
Europe, the charitable activities in the UK were refocused in 2009 to 
reflect lower levels of fund raising activity. The programme continues 
the theme of improving access to technology for disadvantaged and 
disabled children, while encouraging colleagues to engage with their 
local communities by supporting local charities. 
While colleagues can support a charity of their choice, the Group 
has selected two national charities that colleagues can choose to 
support, Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation, who are working 
locally with colleagues to support their fundraising efforts.
Under the new programme our colleagues have participated in 
many local and national activities, including the Phone Pledge 
Evening for Red Nose Day at our KNOWHOW Customer Contact 
Centre at Sheffield where over 100 colleagues took part in raising 
over £118,000. Colleagues are also invited to apply for a grant 
from the DSG international Foundation (the Group’s registered 
charitable trust) to support their fund raising activities, subject to 
certain criteria.
Charitable donations made by the Foundation
Amount given
2010/11 £5,000
2009/10 £12,000
Key performance indicators 
The performance criteria reported above are largely focused on 
the Group’s UK and Nordic businesses. The Committee 
recognises that it needs to work towards extending the use and 
monitoring of these performance criteria throughout the rest of 
the Group, with a view to improving the reporting of the Group’s 
corporate responsibility efforts going forward. 
Nicholas Cadbury
Executive Director with responsibility for Corporate Responsibility
Performance Review
23 - - 35 36 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
1
5
2
6
3
7
4
8
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors
1 John Allan 
Chairman (Age 62)
Appointment to the Board: 23 June 2009 and was appointed Chairman on 
2 September 2009
Committee Membership: Nominations (Chairman) and Remuneration
External Appointments: Chairman of WorldPay Limited and Care UK Health 
& Social Care Holdings Limited. Non-Executive Director of National Grid plc 
and ISS A/S. Member of the University of Edinburgh Campaign Board, 
Director of Natakate Ltd and non-executive member of the Home Office 
supervisory board.
Previous Experience: John Allan was previously Chief Executive of Exel PLC 
and following its acquisition by Deutsche Post, a member of its Management 
Board and subsequently Chief Financial Officer of Deutsche Post. Prior to 
this, he was a director of BET Plc. His early career was with Lever Brothers, 
Bristol-Myers Company Ltd and Fine Fare Ltd. John Allan has extensive 
Board experience having been Chairman of Samsonite Corporation and a 
non-executive director of PHS Group plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc, 3i plc 
and Connell plc. He has also served on the supervisory Boards of both 
Lufthansa AG and Deutsche Postbank.
2 John Browett
Chief Executive (Age 47)
Appointment to the Board: 5 December 2007
Committee Membership: Executive
External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of easyJet PLC
Previous Experience: John Browett joined the Group following a successful 
career at Tesco PLC, where he held a series of senior roles including 
Operations Development Director, Chief Executive of Tesco.com and Group 
Strategy Director. His early career was with Boston Consulting Group, where 
he advised a series of retail and consumer goods clients.
3 Nicholas Cadbury
Group Finance Director (Age 45)
Appointment to the Board: 17 July 2008
Committee Membership: Executive
External Appointments: None
Previous Experience: Nicholas Cadbury joined the Group in 1993 after 
qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with PricewaterhouseCoopers. He has 
extensive experience of the Group’s business and has held a range of senior 
positions including Group International Finance Director, Finance Director and 
Commercial Director of PC World and Managing Director of Dixons Travel.
4 Andrew Lynch
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director (Age 54)
Appointment to the Board: 20 May 2003
Committee Membership: Audit (Chairman), Nominations and Remuneration
External Appointments: Chief Executive of SSP Group
Previous Experience: Andrew Lynch is a former Director and Group Finance 
Director of Compass Group PLC. He led SSP, a food service group, through 
its divestment from Compass Group PLC and was involved in the 
management buy-out of Travellers Fare from British Rail prior to its acquisition 
by Compass Group PLC. Andrew Lynch started his career at KPMG, after 
which he joined Prudential Corporation plc, where he held a series of 
corporate finance and financial management positions.
5 Rita Clifton
Independent Non-Executive Director (Age 53)
Appointment to the Board: 1 September 2003
Committee Membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration
External Appointments: Chairman of Interbrand U.K. Limited and Populus 
Limited, Non-Executive Director of Bupa, President of the Market Research 
Society, Director of Henley Festival Limited, Visiting Professor at Henley 
Management College, Trustee of the WWF and Member of the Assurance 
and Advisory Board of BP p.l.c.’s carbon offset programme. Most recently 
she has taken up the Chairmanship of BTCV, the social enterprise group.
Previous Experience: Rita Clifton was formerly Vice Chairman and Executive 
Planning Director at Saatchi and Saatchi. She has had a successful 18 year 
advertising career with both Saatchi and Saatchi and J Walter Thompson. 
Rita Clifton was previously a Non-Executive Director of Emap plc and a 
member of the Sustainable Development Commission.
6 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen
Independent Non-Executive Director (Age 55)
Appointment to the Board: 1 February 2010
Committee Membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration
External Appointments: Owner of Positive Leadership (a management 
consultancy) and co-owner of Grid-International and Alpha tecc (the German 
consumer electronics chain), Non-Executive Director of M.Video (the leading 
Russian electronic retailer), Chairman of the Jury of the European Retail 
Institute, Vice-President of Modern Market-Methods Association in Germany, 
Advisor to Boston Consulting Group, and Honorary Professor at both 
Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster and the Catholic University, 
Eichstätt-Ingolstadt.
Previous Experience: Utho Creusen has extensive international retail 
experience. He was previously Human Resources Director of Media-Saturn 
Holding GmbH (an electronics retail chain). Utho Creusen spent 22 years with 
OBI AG, a leading European DIY retailer, where he rose to become a member 
of its Executive Board and Chairman of OBI Franchise GmbH.
7 Tim How
Independent Non-Executive Director (Age 60)
Appointment to the Board: 8 September 2009 
Committee Membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration (Chairman)
External Appointments: Chairman of Rayner and Keeler Limited and Woburn 
Enterprises Limited. Non-Executive Director of Henderson Group plc and 
Framlington AIM VCT plc, Director of Enotria Group Ltd, Wine and Spirit 
Education Trust and a Governor of the Peabody Trust.
Previous Experience: Tim How was formerly Chief Executive of Majestic Wine 
PLC, where he led the management buy-out of the business and subsequent 
Alternative Investment Market (AIM) flotation. Prior to this, Tim How was 
Managing Director of Bejam Group plc.
8 Dharmash Mistry
Independent Non-Executive Director (Age 40)
Appointment to the Board: 27 September 2010
Committee Membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration
External Appointments: Partner at Balderton Capital Management (UK) LLP, 
Investor Director and Board member of Sulake (Habbo Hotel), 
my-wardrobe.com, MOG, eWise and KupiVIP.ru.
Previous Experience: Prior to joining Balderton Capital Management (UK) LLP, 
Dharmash Mistry was part of the executive team at Emap PLC, most 
recently as Group Managing Director of Emap Consumer Media and Emap 
Performance. Prior to this, Dharmash was at Boston Consulting Group and 
started his career as a Brand Manager at Procter & Gamble.  Dixons Retail plc 
37
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
The Executive Committee comprises the senior leaders of the Company 
from various business functions and regions. It is tasked with the 
day-to-day management of the Company. 
Steve Ager
Commercial Director (Age 51)
Steve Ager joined the Group following a successful career with Tesco 
PLC, where he held several UK and international commercial and  
buying roles. His achievements include setting up Tesco’s operations  
in Asia and Central Europe, creating the Tesco Express format and 
masterminding the Tesco Finest range.
Katie Bickerstaffe
Group People, Marketing and Property Director (Age 44)
Katie Bickerstaffe has extensive retail experience, having joined the 
Group from Kwik Save where she was Managing Director. She will 
be joining the Board of Scottish and Southern Energy plc as a Non-
Executive Director on 1 July 2011. Prior to joining Dixons Retail, she was 
Group Retail Director and Group HR Director of Somerfield plc. Her early 
career was with Dyson, PepsiCo and Unilever.
John Browett
Chief Executive
See Board of Directors on opposite page for biography.
Nicholas Cadbury
Group Finance Director
See Board of Directors on opposite page for biography.
Ronny Blomseth
Managing Director, Nordic Region (Age 42)
Ronny Blomseth has had a 20 year career with Elkjøp, Dixons Retail's 
Nordics business. Following various store positions, he rose through 
the business to hold the roles of Sales Manager at Elkjøp, Norway 
and subsequently Elkjøp Group Managing Director.
Helen Grantham
Company Secretary and General Counsel (Age 46)
Helen Grantham qualified as a Solicitor with Hammonds and then 
worked as an in-house lawyer with Boots. She went on to serve as 
Company Secretary of Chubb plc and Hepworth PLC. Helen Grantham 
joined the Group from William Hill PLC, where she was both Company 
Secretary and General Counsel.
Executive Committee 
Sebastian James
Group Operations Director (Age 44)
Sebastian James joined the Group as Development Director in  
January 2010. Prior to this, he was Chief Executive of Synergy  
Insurance Services Limited and Strategy Director at Mothercare plc. 
Sebastian James started his career at Boston Consulting Group.
Mario Maiocchi
Managing Director, Southern Europe (Age 55)
Mario Maiocchi joined the Group in February 2008 as Managing Director 
of Unieuro, the Group’s Italian business. Prior to this, he held a range 
of senior leadership roles including President and General Manager 
of Metro Italia, Chief Financial Officer of Metro France and Managing 
Director of EMI Financial Services. 
Steve Rosenblum
President, PIXmania (Age 37)
Steve Rosenblum has been President of PIXmania since buying out  
the business with his brother in 2001. PIXmania became a part of the 
Dixons Retail Group in 2006.
Jean-Emile Rosenblum
Vice President, PIXmania (Age 33)
Jean-Emile Rosenblum has been Vice President of PIXmania since 
buying out the business with his brother in 2001. PIXmania became 
a part of the Dixons Retail Group in 2006.
Corporate Governance
36 - - 55 38 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Statutory Information
The directors present their report and audited financial 
statements for the 52 week period ended 30 April 2011.
The Business Review, which provides a comprehensive review 
of the development, performance and future prospects of the 
Group’s operations for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2011, 
includes the following:
 Business Overview, including principal activities
 Strategic Summary
 Performance Review, including Corporate Responsibility Report
 Corporate Governance
These sections are incorporated by reference and are deemed 
to form part of this report.
Changes in composition of the Group
After having considered the Group’s options for PC City Spain, the 
Board confirmed plans to exit operations in Spain on 14 April 2011. 
The decision was made due to the continuing weak consumer 
environment and continuing losses of the business, together with 
the Group’s plans to focus on combined electrical and computing 
stores. All 34 stores and the online operations of PC City Spain will 
be closed or transferred to third parties. 
Post balance sheet events
Particulars of any important events affecting the Group since 30 
April 2011 are described in note 33 of the Financial Statements.
Directors
The names, biographies and dates of appointment of the 
directors serving during the period under review are provided 
on page 36.
In line with best practice, all directors retired and being eligible 
offered themselves for reappointment at the 2010 AGM. The 
Board has decided to follow the same procedure at the 2011 
AGM and accordingly, all directors will retire and seek 
reappointment. The Remuneration Report on page 49 provides 
details of applicable service agreements for executive directors 
and terms of appointment for non-executive directors. The Board 
is satisfied that each director is qualified for reappointment by 
virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
During the year, no director had any material interest in any 
contract of significance to the Group’s business. Their interests, 
including those of any connected persons, in the shares of the 
Company are outlined in sections (V), (IX) and (X) of the 
Remuneration Report.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors,  
the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the 
Combined Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.  
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution 
of the shareholders. 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and 
to the extent permitted by law, the Company may indemnify its 
directors out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a 
result of their office. The Group has purchased directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance cover for any claim brought against 
directors or officers for wrongful acts in connection with their 
positions. The insurance provided does not extend to claims 
arising from fraud or dishonesty.
Subject to the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of 
Association, the Companies Acts and any directions given by the 
Company by special resolution, the business of the Company will 
be managed by the Board, who may exercise all the powers of the 
Company, whether relating to the management of the business of 
the Company or not. The powers of the Board are detailed in a 
specific schedule, details of which are provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report. 
Directors’ responsibilities
The directors’ responsibilities for the financial statements 
contained within this Annual Report and the directors’ 
confirmations required under Disclosure and Transparency  
Rule 4.1.12 are set out on page 55.
Employees and employee share schemes
A commentary on the Group’s role as an employer is included 
in the Corporate Responsibility Report and details of employee 
involvement through share participation are contained in the 
Remuneration Report.
Details of the Group’s employee share plans and long-term 
incentive plans are contained in the Remuneration Report and 
note 25 to the Financial Statements.
Share capital
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, 
together with any shares issued during the period are set out 
in note 23 to the Financial Statements. The voting rights of all 
Dixons Retail plc shares are identical, with each share carrying 
the rights to one vote. Dixons Retail plc holds no ordinary shares 
in Treasury and did not make any market purchases of its own 
shares during the period under review. The Company does not 
have any class of share other than its ordinary shares. 
Restrictions on transfer of securities of the Company
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on 
the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general 
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. 
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders 
of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Change of control – significant agreements
The Company does not have any significant agreements which 
contain change of control clauses other than for its borrowings – 
further details are disclosed in note 17 to the Financial Statements.
In addition, provisions under the rules of the Company’s share 
incentive schemes may cause options and awards granted under 
these schemes to vest and become exercisable in the event of a 
change of control.  Dixons Retail plc 
39
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Major shareholders
As at 23 June 2011, the Company has been notified in accordance with the Financial Service Authority’s Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company:
Direct/indirect No. of shares % 
Schroders Plc Indirect 400,893,720 11.1%
UBS Global Asset Management Direct and Indirect 368,082,813 10.2%
Standard Life Investments Ltd Direct and Indirect 343,988,634 9.5%
Capital Research & Management Company Indirect 227,424,267 6.3%
Tameside MBC Greater Manchester Pension Fund Direct 219,899,644 6.1%
Invesco Limited Indirect 180,788,477 5.0%
Letko, Brosseau & Associates Inc. Indirect 179,918,108 5.0%
Capital Group International, Inc. Indirect 175,204,174 4.9%
Skagen AS Direct 148,902,954 4.1%
Legal & General Group Plc Direct 115,471,857 3.2%
Issue of shares
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved a 
resolution to give the directors authority to allot shares up to an 
aggregate nominal value of £30,083,043. The directors have no 
present intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant 
to employee share schemes. This resolution remains valid until 
the conclusion of this year’s Annual General Meeting when 
a resolution will be proposed to renew these authorities.
Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions undertaken during the 
year are contained in note 32 to the Financial Statements. 
Political and charitable donations
The Group engages in various charitable activities as set out in 
the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 35. During 
the period under review, the Group made donations of £211,000 
(2009/10 £136,000) to local charities serving the communities 
in which Dixons Retail operates.
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders of the 
Company adopted a resolution authorising the Board to incur 
political expenditure up to an aggregate amount not exceeding 
£25,000 during 2010/11. Notwithstanding this, the Company 
made no political donations during the period (2009/10 £nil).
Payment of suppliers
It is the Group’s policy to agree terms of payment with its suppliers 
on a case by case basis prior to commencing trade with them. 
Payments are made in accordance with these terms provided 
the supplier has complied with relevant contractual obligations. 
Trade creditors as at 30 April 2011 represent 53 days of annual 
purchases made during the period (1 May 2010 49 days).
Audit information
So far as each person who is a director at the date of approving 
this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being 
information needed by the auditors in connection with their 
report, of which the auditors are unaware. Having made 
enquiries of fellow directors, each director has taken all the steps 
that he/she is obliged to take as a director in order to make 
himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditors are aware of that information. This 
information is given and should be interpreted in accordance  
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern 
In considering the going concern basis for preparing the financial 
statements, the directors have considered the Company’s objectives 
and strategy, risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives 
and its review of business performance which are all set out in the 
Business Overview, Strategic Summary and Performance Review 
sections of this Annual Report and Accounts. The Group’s liquidity 
and funding arrangements are described in notes 17 and 22(f) to 
the financial statements as well as in the funding section of the 
Performance Review and the directors consider that the Group has 
significant covenant and liquidity headroom in its borrowing facilities 
for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, after reviewing the Company’s expenditure 
commitments, current financial projections and expected future 
cash flows, together with the available cash resources and 
undrawn committed borrowing facilities, the directors have 
considered that adequate resources exist for the Company to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Corporate governance compliance
The statement on compliance with the Combined Code for the 
reporting period is contained on page 40 of this report.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 7 September 2011 at 
Holiday Inn London - Bloomsbury, Coram Street, Russell Square, 
London WC1N 1HT at 10.00am. The Notice of Meeting, together 
with full details of the business to be conducted, will be included 
in a separate letter accompanying this report.
Auditors
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to be reappointed 
as auditors of the Company. Upon the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditors and 
to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be 
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Helen Grantham
Company Secretary 
23 June 2011
Corporate Governance
36 - - 55 40 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report
Introduction
The Board recognises the importance of good corporate 
governance and maintains high standards of corporate 
governance for which the directors are collectively accountable 
to shareholders. The Board confirms that during the 52 weeks 
ended 30 April 2011, and as at the date of this Annual Report, 
the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions 
set out in Section 1 of the UK Financial Reporting Council’s 2008 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the “Code”), which 
continues to apply for this financial year. This report together with 
the Statutory Information on pages 38 to 39, the Audit Committee 
Report on page 44, the Nominations Committee Report on page 
45, and the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 54 provides 
details of how the Company has applied the principles and 
complied with the provisions of the Code.
The UK Corporate Governance Code was published on  
28 May 2010 (the “New Code”). The New Code applies to the 
Company for the financial year commencing 1 May 2011. The 
Board has identified two principles which it has voluntarily 
chosen to adopt in advance of the requirement to do so. All 
directors stood for re-election at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) in 2010 and will also all stand for re-election at 
the AGM in 2011. In addition, the Board has decided that the 
performance evaluation for 2011/12 will be facilitated by an 
external service provider.
The Board
As at 30 April 2011 and the date of this report, the Board of 
Directors was made up of eight members, comprising the 
Chairman, two executive directors and five non-executive 
directors. All of the non-executive directors are considered by the 
Board to be independent and each brings their own senior level  
of experience. The Chairman was deemed to be independent  
on appointment.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief 
Executive is formally defined, set out in writing and reviewed by 
the Board on a regular basis. The Chairman is responsible for the 
overall operation, leadership and governance of the Board. The 
Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management of 
the Group’s business and for implementing the Group’s strategic 
and commercial objectives. 
Andrew Lynch, as the Senior Independent Director, supports  
the Chairman and is available for approach or representation 
from shareholders who feel they are unable to raise issues with 
the Chairman. He also discusses, on an individual basis, the 
performance of the Chairman with each director and provides 
feedback on these discussions to the Chairman.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its 
decision. This schedule is reviewed periodically and includes,  
but is not limited to, the following matters:
 approval of Group strategy and the annual budget;
 oversight of the Group’s operations and review of 
its performance;
 changes relating to the Company’s share capital or 
corporate structure;
 communications with shareholders including approval of 
the Interim Statement, Annual Report and Accounts  
(including the review of critical accounting policies and 
judgements and assessment of going concern) and other 
major public announcements;
 maintaining and monitoring the Group’s system of internal 
control and risk management;
 approval of major capital expenditure, material acquisitions 
and divestments and material contracts; and
 the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors 
on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Helen Grantham, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, 
acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees. She is also 
responsible for ensuring that correct Board procedures are followed 
and advises the Board on legal and corporate governance matters. 
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and may also take independent professional advice at the 
expense of the Company in the furtherance of their duties. The 
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the 
matters reserved for the Board. 
The Board meets regularly during the year and during the  
52 weeks ended 30 April 2011, 13 meetings were held including nine 
scheduled meetings and four ad-hoc meetings convened to deal 
with specific matters requiring Board consideration or approval.  
Due to the ad-hoc meetings being called at short notice, not all the 
directors were available to attend due to other commitments. The 
Board also held a Strategy Day during the period.  Dixons Retail plc 
41
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Board and committee attendance
The table below shows attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2011, 
expressed as the number of meetings attended compared to the number entitled to attend.
Board
Audit 
 Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
John Allan 9 of 9 – 4 of 4 4 of 4
John Browett 9 of 9 – – –
Nicholas Cadbury 9 of 9 – – –
Rita Clifton 9 of 9 4 of 4 4 of 4 4 of 4
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 8 of 9 3 of 4 4 of 4 3 of 4
Tim How 8 of 9 4 of 4 4 of 4 4 of 4
Andrew Lynch 9 of 9 4 of 4 4 of 4 4 of 4
Dharmash Mistry* 5 of 5 2 of 2 1 of 1 3 of 3
*appointed on 27 September 2010
Committees of the Board
The Board has four main Committees; the Executive, Audit, 
Nominations and Remuneration Committees. Individual reports 
on the work of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees and their membership are set out on pages  
44 to 54. 
Dixons Retail is dependent on its senior management to 
operate its business and execute its strategies. Dixons Retail 
has a decentralised management structure with many  
high-level management decisions delegated to regional or 
country management.
The Executive Committee is the key management committee and 
is chaired by the Chief Executive. In addition it comprises the 
Group Finance Director, the Commercial Director, the Group 
People, Marketing and Property Director, the Group Operations 
Director, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, the 
Managing Directors of the Nordics and Southern Europe and the 
President and Vice-President of PIXmania. Biographical details of 
the Executive Committee are provided on page 37 . The Committee 
meets on a four to six weekly basis and is responsible for reviewing 
and making recommendations to the Board on:
 formulation and implementation of the Group’s strategy;
 capital expenditure and investment budgets; 
 delivery of financial results and other business performance 
objectives;
 optimal utilisation of business opportunities; and
 risks arising from competitive and economic changes.
Board information and development
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors are 
properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they 
have full and timely access to relevant information. The quality and 
supply of information provided to the Board is reviewed as part of 
the Board evaluation exercise. The Chairman also holds occasional 
meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive 
directors being present to discuss, amongst other matters, 
corporate strategy and performance and the performance of the 
executive team. There is frequent contact between directors outside 
formal meetings to progress the Group’s business and to promote 
open communication and team working.
The Board holds meetings at a variety of Group business locations 
to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the 
business. This also provides senior managers from across the 
Group with the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to 
meet the directors on more informal occasions. All directors are 
encouraged to attend external seminars relevant to the retail 
industry and corporate governance matters in order to refresh  
and update their knowledge. The Board also receives bi-monthly 
updates on legal and corporate governance matters.
New directors appointed to the Board receive a tailored induction 
programme into the Group together with guidance and training 
appropriate to their level of previous experience. Each director is 
given the opportunity to meet with the Executive Committee, other 
members of senior management and store colleagues, and to visit 
the Group’s sites both in the UK and overseas in order to familiarise 
themselves with the Group’s businesses and the markets in which 
they operate. New directors are also encouraged to meet with the 
Group’s auditors and other advisors.
Board evaluation
During the year the Board undertook a formal evaluation of the 
performance of the Board, its committees and of individual director 
performance. The evaluation was conducted internally by the 
Chairman with the assistance of the Company Secretary. Each 
director held a one-to-one meeting with the Company Secretary 
who summarised the discussions on an anonymous basis for the 
Chairman who then held a further one-to-one meeting with each 
director to review the feedback, individual director performance 
and any necessary training and development needs. Key issues 
and action areas are then reported to and monitored by the Board. 
Each Committee also considered a detailed questionnaire relating 
to the areas of responsibility for that particular Committee and 
feedback provided. Following the review in 2010/11, the Board 
agreed that the balance of skills and experience was felt to be 
appropriate. The Board also agreed that the evaluation process  
in 2011/12 would be conducted with the assistance of an external 
service provider.
Corporate Governance
36 - - 55 42 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Authorisation of conflicts of interest
The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise and 
manage conflicts of interest and these procedures have operated 
effectively during the year. Authorisation of conflicts is handled by 
the Board and the Audit Committee reviews them on an annual 
basis. A register of directors’ conflicts is maintained. 
Internal control 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst senior 
management is responsible and accountable for internal control 
and effective risk management at an operational level. 
The Board confirms that the Group has established and 
maintained a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
significant risks faced by the Group and this has been in place 
throughout the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2011, up to the date of 
approval of the financial statements, and accords with the Turnbull 
guidance and the Code. This process is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Company’s 
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Certain of the Board’s responsibilities have been delegated to the 
Audit Committee, which has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control (including financial, operational and 
compliance controls) and risk management. The Audit Committee 
has ensured that any required remedial action has or is being 
taken. This has included a review of the proposed actions and 
revised processes to address historical weaknesses in controls 
over supplier receivables in PIXmania, which gave rise to a 
significant write-off during the period. 
The system of internal control and the process for managing risk 
include the following elements:
 discussion and approval by the Board of the Group’s strategic 
direction, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them;
 the Board and management committees meet regularly to 
monitor progress against the targets set out in the Group’s 
budget and strategic five year plan;
 the defined levels of authority established by the Board ensure 
that significant decisions are taken at an appropriate level;
 each business function has established procedures and 
controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the 
Group’s assets; 
 appropriate controls and procedures have been established 
over the security of data held on, and functionality provided 
by, the Group’s business systems. These include disaster 
recovery arrangements;
 the Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to enable 
them to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the roles 
assigned to them;
 the Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal 
with each significant risk that has been identified. These 
strategies include insurance, treasury statements and 
common standards of internal control; 
Corporate Governance Report
continued
 local management at each business unit and in those functions 
of the Group requiring greater overview has responsibility for 
identification and evaluation of significant risks to their business 
areas together with design of mitigating controls; and 
 post completion assessments are carried out following 
major acquisitions.
The Group’s approach to managing risk is reviewed regularly to 
identify ways in which it can be improved.
There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal 
control and reporting any significant corrective control weaknesses, 
together with corrective action. These include reports to the Audit 
Committee from assurance providers, periodic certification from 
business units, reviews by Group and regional management, 
whistleblowing facilities and independent assurance from both 
internal and external audit. Some of these are described in more 
detail below.
Internal audit
The Internal Audit department is fully independent of business 
operations and has a Group-wide mandate. Its work is driven by 
a risk-based methodology ensuring that the controls to mitigate 
the Group’s key risks are audited on a regular basis. Its plans are 
approved by the Audit Committee, which also receives regular 
reports on its findings and progress of related actions. The 
department also works with the businesses to promote and 
further develop effective risk management within their 
operations. The Group Director for Internal Audit and Risk 
Management attends all Audit Committee meetings.
External auditors
The external auditors provide further independent observations 
of certain elements of the internal financial controls as part of 
their audit of the financial statements. Their findings are 
presented to the Audit Committee with updates on progress 
against the recommendations being made throughout the year. 
Whistleblowing policy
The Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a 
confidential helpline operated by a third party. This can be used 
to report, anonymously if so wished, on matters of concern to 
employees. This can range from unethical behaviour, such as 
fraud, to practices that might endanger the health of customers 
and employees.
Bribery Act
The Bribery Act is due to come into force on 1 July 2011. The 
Group has taken steps to enhance policies and procedures that 
it deems will be adequate to meet the requirements of the Act 
and will help to prevent individuals associated with the Group 
from committing acts of bribery.  Dixons Retail plc 
43
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Relations with shareholders
The Company is committed to effective communication with  
all shareholders, whether institutional investors, private or 
employee shareholders. The Company reports formally to 
shareholders when its full year and half year results are published. 
These results are posted on the Company’s corporate website 
www.dixonsretail.com. Regular trading updates are also posted on 
the Company’s website. Formal notification of the Company’s 
AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance 
of the meeting. The directors, including the respective Chairmen  
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, are 
available for questions formally during the AGM and informally 
afterwards. Details of the 2011 AGM are set out in the Notice of 
Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
Effective two-way communication with institutional investors, brokers 
and analysts is established through regular presentations and 
meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director and Group Communications Director. The 
Chairman holds occasional meetings with major shareholders to 
discuss matters of mutual interest including corporate strategy and 
governance. Where appropriate, the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee communicates with major shareholders to canvass 
opinion when deciding remuneration policy. The Senior Independent 
Director and other non-executive directors are also available to 
attend meetings with major shareholders if requested. Matters 
arising from these presentations and meetings are communicated to 
the Board. The Board receives an Investor Relations report at each 
of its scheduled meetings. 
Corporate Governance
36 - - 55 44 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Membership and process
The Committee comprises Andrew Lynch (as Chairman), Rita 
Clifton, Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen, Tim How and Dharmash Mistry, 
all of whom are independent non-executive directors. Dharmash 
Mistry was appointed to the Committee on 27 September 2010.
The biographical details of the members of the Committee are  
set out on page 36. The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of 
the Committee meets the requirement for recent and relevant 
financial experience. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary 
to the Committee.
The Committee met on four occasions during the period under 
review, and the members’ attendance record is set out on page 
41. The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committee’s 
deliberations to the following Board meeting and the minutes 
of each meeting of the Committee are circulated to all members 
of the Board.
Role
The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight 
responsibilities. Its primary functions are to:
 monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance;
 review critical accounting policies and financial reporting 
judgements;
 review the integrity of the Group’s system of internal control 
and risk management;
 monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit function;
 review and approve the annual audit plan of both the internal 
and external audit functions including principal areas of focus;
 review the Group’s risk and insurance programmes;
 carry out an annual assessment of the external auditors, 
review and monitor their independence and objectivity taking 
into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements, assess the effectiveness of the external audit 
process, approve the external auditors’ remuneration and 
terms of engagement and make recommendations in respect 
of their reappointment or removal;
 review the directors’ conflicts of interest register and to agree 
any amendments to previously approved conflicts;
 review regularly the Group’s policy on the supply of non-audit 
services by the external auditors, such that relevant ethical 
guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services, when 
taken as a proportion of the audit fee, is considered in addition 
to the nature of such services in order to preserve the external 
auditors’ independence and objectivity; and
 monitor the results and effectiveness of arrangements under 
which employees can raise in confidence issues of concern 
relating to financial matters and internal controls.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually 
by the Committee and then by the Board. A copy of the terms 
of reference is available on the Group’s corporate website.
Audit Committee Report
Attendance at meetings
The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive, Group Finance 
Director, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief Accountant, 
Director of Internal Audit and Risk, Deputy Company Secretary 
and external auditors were invited by the Chairman of the 
Committee to attend all meetings of the Committee. The Group 
Treasurer and Group Tax Director also attended meetings at the 
Committee’s request. Each time the Committee convenes, it also 
meets with external auditors without the presence of management. 
In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the 
services of the Group Finance Director and the Company 
Secretary, as well as access to external professional advice.
Key matters considered
During the period, the Committee reviewed the following:
 significant issues arising from reports of both the internal and 
external audits;
 measures adopted to ensure compliance with the Group’s 
credit facilities;
 systems and controls in place at PIXmania following the 
identification of historical under-estimated purchase accruals;
 the working capital position of the Group and the 
management of its cash flow;
 the carrying value of certain assets in the Group;
 tax matters;
 recommendations from the Nominations Committee 
concerning the composition of the Committee;
 a review of the Committee’s performance and terms of reference;
 the role and resources of Internal Audit;
 a review of the Group’s Delegation of Authority Policy;
 developments in corporate governance; and
 the annual audit fee, which is set out in note 3 to the Financial 
Statements, with due regard to the balance between audit 
and non-audit fees and the policy for approval of non-audit 
fees paid to the Group’s auditors.
External auditors
The Committee, having considered the policies and  
procedures applied by the Group and the internal policies and 
representations of Deloitte LLP, including the regular rotation 
of audit partner, remains satisfied with the auditors’ objectivity 
and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process. 
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that 
a resolution for their reappointment be proposed at the AGM. 
Andrew Lynch
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
23 June 2011  Dixons Retail plc 
45
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Membership and process
The Committee comprises John Allan (as Chairman), Rita Clifton, 
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen, Tim How, Andrew Lynch and Dharmash 
Mistry, all of whom are non-executive directors. Dharmash Mistry 
was appointed to the Committee on 27 September 2010. 
The biographical details of the members of the Committee are  
set out on page 36. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary  
to the Committee.
The Committee met on four occasions during the period under 
review, and the members’ attendance record is set out on page 
41. The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committee’s 
deliberations to the following Board meeting and the minutes  
of each meeting of the Committee are circulated to all members 
of the Board.
Role
The principal duties of the Committee are to:
 keep under review the structure, size and composition of 
the Board and its principal committees and to recommend 
changes deemed necessary;
 to be responsible for the succession planning for Board 
members, in particular, the Chairman and Chief Executive;
 to identify, evaluate and nominate candidates to fill vacancies 
on the Board; and
 to make recommendations to the Board regarding the 
continuation in office of a director upon the expiry of any 
specified terms of appointment.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually 
by the Committee. A copy of the terms of reference is available 
on the Group’s corporate website. 
Key matters considered
During the year, the principal matters considered by the Committee 
were as follows:
 consideration of the succession planning process for 
the directors;
 an evaluation of the size, composition and structure of the 
Board and its Committees;
 the appointment of Dharmash Mistry to the Board and its 
Committees; and
 a review of the Committee’s performance and terms of reference.
Nominations Committee Report
The Nominations Committee keeps itself abreast of best practice 
through a combination of private research and briefing by internal and 
external advisors on key developments relevant to the Company.
In considering the appointment of Dharmash Mistry as a 
non-executive director, the Committee engaged the services 
of The Zygos Partnership, an external agency, to assist with 
the search process. The search process involved meeting with 
potential candidates, taking up references and assessing their 
skills, experience and suitable fit with the Board.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee were 
updated during the year in line with guidance issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. In doing so, it was 
resolved that succession planning for senior executives (other than 
Board members) continue to be dealt with by the full Board.
The Board and the Nominations Committee are mindful of the 
fact that the Company has a number of long-serving directors 
and is looking at succession and refreshment in this context. 
In line with Lord Davis’ recent Report on Women on Boards, 
the diversity of our Board will also be reviewed.
In line with best practice, each director will retire this year and 
offer themselves for re-election by shareholders at the 2011 
AGM. The Committee considers it appropriate that each of  
them be re-elected because of their individual experience 
and knowledge within the retail sector and wider management  
and industry experience. After performance evaluation, it was 
concluded that each director continues to be effective and 
committed to their role. 
The executive directors’ service contracts and non-executive 
directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection  
by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the 
Company’s registered office. They will also be available for 
inspection at the venue, prior to the AGM, details of which 
are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
John Allan
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
23 June 2011
Corporate Governance
36 - - 55 46 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report
This report, approved by the Board, has been prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the 
Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008 (“Schedule 8”) and the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority. This report is divided into  
two sections:
 remuneration policy (not subject to audit and as set out in 
sections (I) to (VI)) which details the role of the Committee, 
the principles of remuneration and other matters; and
 remuneration review (audited and as set out in sections (VII) to 
(XI)) which details directors’ and former directors’ emoluments, 
share awards, share options and pension arrangements.
The purpose of this report is to inform shareholders of the 
Company’s policies on directors’ remuneration for the financial 
period ended 30 April 2011 and, so far as practicable, for 
subsequent years as well; and to provide details of the 
remuneration of individual directors as determined by the 
Remuneration Committee. Shareholders will be asked to 
approve the report at the AGM on 7 September 2011.
 Remuneration policy (not subject to audit)
(I) Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee 
responsibility for determining policy in relation to, and approval of, 
remuneration packages for senior management. This includes 
the terms and conditions of employment of each of the executive 
directors of the Company and for other senior management of 
the Group; and policy in relation to the operation of the Group’s 
share-based employee incentive schemes. 
The membership of the Committee currently comprises the 
five independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of 
the Company. Their biographies and qualifications are set out 
on page 36. Dharmash Mistry joined the Committee upon his 
appointment to the Board on 27 September 2010. The Chairman 
has joined the Committee in accordance with the provision of 
the Combined Code permitting a company Chairman to be a 
member, but not Chairman, of the Remuneration Committee. 
The remaining members of the Committee served throughout 
the period under review. The Committee’s terms of reference are 
shown on the corporate responsibility section of the corporate 
website. The Committee met four times during the period, and 
the members’ attendance record is set out on page 41.
The Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Group 
People, Marketing and Property Director attended meetings of 
the Committee by invitation in an advisory capacity. Meetings are 
also attended by the Company Secretary (who acts as secretary 
to the Committee) and by the Group Reward Director. 
Nobody attends any part of a meeting at which their own 
remuneration is discussed. During the period under review the 
Committee obtained advice from Hewitt New Bridge Street 
(a subsidiary of Aon Hewitt Limited) (HNBS) for which they 
received fees of £60,000. HNBS provided no other services  
to the Company.
(II) Remuneration principles
In setting its policies, the Committee has regard to several factors 
including the benefits arrangements which apply below senior 
management level and competitor benchmarking.
In implementing this policy, the Remuneration Committee takes 
account of information and surveys from internal and independent 
sources and the remuneration paid for comparable positions  
in other companies. It reviews data and surveys provided by 
remuneration consultants and market research companies with 
particular reference to the scale and composition of the total 
remuneration packages payable to people with like responsibilities, 
qualifications, skills and experience in businesses of similar size 
and structure.
In setting the remuneration of the directors and senior management, 
the Committee takes into account the economic environment and 
financial performance of the Group, along with pay and employment 
conditions of employees elsewhere in the Group.
Executive directors
The objectives of the remuneration policy are to: 
 ensure that the remuneration structure motivates the directors 
and senior management to succeed and appropriately 
rewards them for their contribution to the attainment of the 
Group’s short and long term results;
 maintain, particularly through reward schemes based on 
performance, a competitive package of pay and benefits 
which provides the motivation for future achievement;
 facilitate the building and retention of a high calibre and 
focused team which will work effectively to achieve the 
Group’s longer term strategic objectives;
 align the directors’ interests with those of shareholders by 
offering participation in schemes which provide opportunities 
to build shareholdings in the Company; and
 facilitate effective succession planning.
The Committee is satisfied that the incentive structure for senior 
management does not raise governance risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible or reckless behaviour. 
In deciding the appropriate remuneration strategy for 2011/12 the 
Remuneration Committee has taken into account the Company’s 
performance over the last year which despite the continued 
delivery of the Renewal and Transformation plan has been affected 
by a marked deterioration in consumer confidence across a 
number of the Group’s markets, particularly in the UK & Ireland.
For 2011/12 the Committee has reviewed its long term remuneration 
arrangements in light of the fall in the Company’s share price.  
In doing so it has also taken into account heightened external 
interest in the senior management population and the need to 
ensure they are appropriately incentivised and ‘locked in’ to the 
Company to deliver the Renewal and Transformation plan.
As a result for 2011/12 the Committee has decided to simplify its 
previous approach of granting share options under the Executive 
Share Option Plan (ESOP) and awards under the Performance 
Share Plan (PSP). Therefore, for 2011/12 the Remuneration 
Committee proposes to deliver long-term incentive awards via 
the less dilutive PSP awards only. 
It is proposed that 50% of the PSP awards to executive directors 
will be based on relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and the 
remaining 50% of the award on achieving earnings per share 
targets. This is to address concerns that the change in award 
mechanism de-emphasises earnings per share as, to date, 
the primary performance condition for PSP awards has been 
a relative total shareholder return condition.   Dixons Retail plc 
47
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
In determining the quantum of awards for 2011, the Committee 
has also taken into account falls in the Company’s share price 
to ensure awards remain appropriate and proportionate.
These changes have been made to ensure that the remuneration 
structure motivates and rewards the directors for their contribution 
to the attainment of the Group’s long term results as well as 
ensuring that the long-term incentive provision is appropriate in 
terms of share dilution and cost. PSP awards were felt to better 
achieve this as they instil a greater sense of longer term ownership 
compared to share options. During 2011/12, the Committee  
will consider whether this approach should be adopted for  
future years.
(a) Base salaries
As a general policy, base salaries reflect the Committee’s 
assessment of the mid-market rate for relevant positions and 
levels of responsibility and the individual executive’s experience, 
performance and value to the business. The Committee also 
assesses pay and employment conditions of employees of the 
Group when determining the executive directors’ remuneration.
For the period under review, an increase to base salaries across 
the whole UK work force of 1.5% was applied. This policy was also 
applied to the executive directors. For 2011/12 the Committee has 
approved an overall increase to base salaries across the whole UK 
work force of 2% with individual increases varying between 0% 
and 4% based on individual performance. This policy will also be 
applied to both the executive directors.
Accordingly, the Chief Executive’s salary will be increased by 
2.75% to £698,750 and the Group Finance Director’s salary 
by 2.75% to £417,200 for 2011/12. 
(b) Performance-related remuneration
The performance based elements of remuneration are designed 
to drive performance and to strengthen the alignment between 
the interests of the Company’s shareholders and its senior 
management, whilst encouraging management retention. The 
components of performance-related remuneration are as follows:
(i) Annual cash bonus
During 2010/11, performance based remuneration for the executive 
directors comprised an annual cash bonus plan based on the 
achievement of the Group’s targets and personal objectives.
For 2010/11 the maximum potential bonus for the Chief Executive 
was 100% of basic salary and for the Group Finance Director was 
85% of basic salary. Payment was dependent on underlying Group 
operating profit (55% of bonus), Group Free Cash Flow (25% of 
bonus) and achievement of personal objectives (20% of bonus), 
which included an element related to non-financial objectives. 
For 2010/11, no bonus was payable in respect of performance 
against the Group operating profit or Group Free Cash Flow 
targets. In respect of their performance against personal 
objectives, bonuses of £122,409 and £62,118 were awarded to 
the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, respectively.
For 2011/12 there will be no change in the existing bonus 
potential for the executive directors; 100% of salary for the Chief 
Executive and 85% of salary for the Group Finance Director. The 
bonus paid will be dependent on underlying Group operating 
profit (55% of bonus), Group Free Cash Flow (25% of bonus) and 
achievement of personal objectives (20% of bonus). When setting 
the objectives of the executive directors, the Committee has 
considered corporate performance on environmental and 
social governance matters; the Committee is satisfied that the 
remuneration structure put in place for the executive directors 
does not raise environmental and social governance risks by 
inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Bonus targets for 2011/12 have been set at levels using 
benchmarks that reflect both internal business objectives and 
external expectations and the Committee is satisfied that the 
targets are sufficiently challenging relative to underlying Group 
operating profit performance in 2010/11. 
(ii) Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and Performance 
Share Plan (PSP)
Starting in 2009/10, the Company awarded incentives under a 
new plan (the PSP), which replaced the Long Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP). The rules of the PSP permit awards to be made over 
shares worth up to 100% of salary per annum (200% of salary 
in exceptional circumstances).
As explained earlier in this report, for 2011/12 it is intended that 
executive directors only receive PSP awards. These will have 
a face value of 100% of salary determined by reference to the 
share price averaged over the period 1 April 2011 to 30 June 
2011. This compares to PSP awards in 2010/11 with a face value 
of 87% of salary and share option grants with a face value of 
174% of salary.
In determining the level of award the Remuneration Committee 
was conscious that awarding the executive directors the same 
value of shares as in 2010/11 might result in a significant increase 
in the number of shares awarded. Accordingly, the Committee 
determined that the number of shares awarded should be based 
on awarding the same number of shares as in 2010/11, but with 
an appropriate reduction to recognise the award of full value 
shares compared to share options.
Corporate Governance
36 - - 55 48 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
It is proposed that for awards to be made to the executive 
directors in 2011/12, vesting of 50% of the awards will be subject 
to relative TSR performance and 50% of the awards will be 
subject to achieving specified levels of EPS for the year ending  
3 May 2014. 
For 2011/12 TSR performance will continue to be measured 
relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (comprising 
FTSE 101-350 companies), excluding investment trusts, at the 
start of the performance period. Full vesting will occur for upper 
quartile performance reducing on a straight-line basis to 25% 
of the award at median. No award will vest for below median 
performance. Additionally, prior to vesting the Remuneration 
Committee will satisfy itself that the TSR performance achieved 
reasonably reflects the underlying financial performance of the 
Group and reserves the right to vary awards accordingly. 
The 2011/12 EPS targets will be set at the time of grant and 
will incorporate the same vesting schedule as for share option 
grants in prior years for equivalent levels of performance, which 
are shown on page 54 of this report. 
Details of awards made in 2009/10 and 2010/11 to Nicholas 
Cadbury and John Browett are contained in section (IX) of  
this report.
(iii) Share option plans
The Remuneration Committee approves the basis on which 
options are granted to executive directors and other employees 
under the Company’s discretionary share option schemes and 
other performance plans. Options have normally been granted 
annually to the executive directors under the Group’s ESOP . The 
plan permits making an award with a market value on the date of 
grant of not more than twice the recipient’s basic salary. However, 
in exceptional circumstances (for instance to facilitate recruitment 
or to retain key executives) this limit can be exceeded. As in 
previous years, executive directors were granted share options 
during the year, details of which are shown in section (X) of this 
report. The Remuneration Committee does not intend to grant 
share options under the ESOP in 2011/12.
Executive directors and senior management are also entitled 
to participate in the Sharesave plan on the same conditions as 
other employees. The Company will be inviting UK employees 
to participate in a Sharesave plan in July 2011.
All share options, other than those under the Sharesave scheme, 
are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of 
grant and for those options subject to a performance target, only 
if the Committee determines that the performance conditions 
have been met. Such determination is made once EPS figures 
are known for the relevant financial year. Since 2004, targets 
are tested only once. All share options lapse on the earlier of ten 
years from the date of grant or, where performance conditions 
apply, on the date on which the Remuneration Committee 
determines that the performance conditions have not been met.
(iv) Dilution
A combination of both newly issued shares and shares bought in 
the market are to be used to satisfy awards under the Group’s 
employee share incentive arrangements. 
The Remuneration Committee is aware of, and supports, the ABI 
guidelines regarding dilution and regularly monitors compliance 
with these requirements. The Remuneration Committee included 
provisions in the scheme rules adopted at the 2008 AGM which 
limit the number of newly issued shares which can be granted to 
10% of the issued share capital in 10 years under all employee 
share schemes and 5% for the executive directors and senior 
management under the discretionary share plans.
As at the date of this report, the Company’s usage of shares 
against the limits detailed above in respect of all employees in 
the all employee schemes was 6.64% of the issued capital and in 
respect of grants to executive directors and senior management 
under the discretionary plans was 1.82% of issued capital. Shares 
relating to a portion of the potential obligations are held in a trust 
(the Trust) and if required, it is the Committee’s intention to make 
purchases of shares, taking into account the number of awards 
vesting and those options to be satisfied either from the Trust or by 
new issue together with the likelihood of any performance targets 
being met and also potential lapsing of awards when employees 
leave the Group. 
(c) Taxable benefits
Each of the executive directors receives a cash payment in lieu of 
a company car and is a member of the non-contributory Dixons 
medical expenses plan which provides benefits similar to those 
applicable in comparable companies. 
Further information on employee costs and those relating to 
senior management is given in notes 6 and 32, respectively, 
to the Financial Statements.
(d) Pensions and related benefits
Until 30 April 2010 Nicholas Cadbury accrued benefits under the 
defined benefit section of the Dixons Retirement & Employee 
Security Scheme (DRESS). This is a funded, HMRC registered 
contributory pension scheme which provides a pension at 
a normal retirement age of 65 accrued at a rate of 1/60th 
of pensionable salary per annum up to a maximum of  
40 years. Part of this pension may be exchanged for cash at  
the date of retirement. Following a consultation with affected 
employees across the UK, the Group closed the defined benefit 
section of DRESS to future accrual for all active members effective 
30 April 2010. As a result, since that date Nicholas Cadbury has 
accrued pension benefits within the defined contribution section 
of DRESS (pensionbuilder) with a Company contribution of 20% of 
salary. Membership of the defined benefit section of DRESS 
provides the option for the provision of dependants’ pensions and 
also an insured lump sum on death in service. The insured lump 
sum is four times basic salary, however, for a period of two years 
commencing on 1 May 2010 this was increased to six times in 
recognition of the fact that members’ individual defined benefit 
accounts under the defined contribution section of DRESS will be 
relatively small during this period. This two year provision applies 
equally to all members of the defined benefit section of DRESS 
who were transferred to the defined contribution section. 
Notwithstanding the abolition of the statutory earnings cap for 
pension purposes on 6 April 2006, an equivalent cap, adjusted 
annually for inflation, was introduced for the purposes of 
Remuneration Report
continued  Dixons Retail plc 
49
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
DRESS. From 2 May 2010 the cap was £123,600 and from  
1 May 2011 it will be £129,600. Nicholas Cadbury is also 
provided with a salary supplement at the annual rate of 30%  
of the difference between his basic salary and the scheme 
earnings cap as set by the Company from time to time.
John Browett has chosen not to become a member of any 
Dixons Retail pension plan. However, he receives a contribution 
of 32.1% of basic salary to fund his own retirement arrangements. 
John Browett is also entitled to receive life assurance cover equal 
to four times basic salary and personal accident cover at the level 
of £2,000,000.
New externally recruited executive directors will be offered 
membership of pensionbuilder and the Remuneration Committee 
may exercise its discretion regarding the level of award of any 
salary supplement or enhanced contributions.
(e) Service agreements
John Browett and Nicholas Cadbury have service agreements 
with Dixons Retail plc which may be terminated at any time by 
12 months’ notice. Service agreements contain neither a liquidated 
damages nor a change of control clause. It is the Company’s 
policy to ensure that any payments made to a director in the 
event of the early termination of a service agreement reflect the 
circumstances giving rise to termination and, where considered 
appropriate, the obligation of the outgoing director to mitigate his 
loss. Accordingly, consideration is given to making compensation 
payments in instalments and is conditional on the leaver’s 
employment and earnings status.
The service agreements of the executive directors who served 
during the financial period were entered into on the following dates:
Date
John Browett 6 Jun 2007
Nicholas Cadbury 13 Apr 2009
The service agreements of the directors are available for 
inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal 
business hours on each business day.
(f) External directorships
Executive directors are permitted to accept non-executive 
directorships in external companies and to retain the fees which 
they receive in such roles. Normally only one such appointment 
will be authorised for each director. John Browett is a non-
executive director of easyJet plc and was paid a fee at the rate 
of £55,000 per annum.
(III) Wider senior executive remuneration policy
All senior executives participate in an annual cash bonus plan 
which rewards executives for the delivery of operating profit 
and Free Cash Flow targets and the achievement of personal 
objectives. The top 90 executives plus other eligible employees 
including Regional and Store Managers are also conditionally 
awarded shares. This helps to retain key executives and ensure 
that there is alignment with shareholders’ interests. The 
Company also offers all UK & Ireland employees (including 
executive directors and senior management) the opportunity to 
participate in the Sharesave plan. The Company will be inviting 
employees to participate in a Sharesave plan in July 2011.
(IV) Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for three year 
terms, although appointments vary depending on length of 
service and succession planning considerations. 
Their current terms expire as follows:
Date
John Allan 1 Jul 2012
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 1 Feb 2013
Rita Clifton 1 Sep 2012
Tim How 7 Sep 2012
Andrew Lynch 24 May 2012
Dharmash Mistry 26 Sep 2013
The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by 
the Board upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive and 
the Group Finance Director. 
John Allan’s fee is £254,000 per annum. The other non-executive 
directors receive a fee of £49,000 per annum or euro equivalent. 
The fee is reviewed annually and is due to be reviewed later in 2011.
The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees receive 
an additional fee of £10,000 per annum. Andrew Lynch has been 
designated Senior Independent Director for which he receives a 
further fee of £5,000 per annum. Non-executive directors derive 
no other benefits from their office and are not eligible to participate 
in the Group’s pension scheme. It is Company policy not to grant 
share options to non-executive directors or to require part of their 
fees to be paid in the form of shares. 
Letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are 
available on application to the Company Secretary.
(V) Directors’ share interests 
The Committee implemented a policy in the 2008/09 financial 
year of encouraging executive directors to build shareholdings in 
the Company. The policy is that executive directors are required 
to retain 50% of the net of tax out-turn from the vesting of future 
awards or share options under the Company’s share plans until 
a shareholding with a minimum value equivalent to their basic 
salary is achieved.
Unrestricted beneficial and  
family interests 30 April 2011 1 May 2010*
Executive directors
John Browett 737,519 214,285
Nicholas Cadbury 40,625 40,625
Non-executive directors
John Allan 271,428 271,428
Rita Clifton 24,903 24,903
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 97,071 –
Tim How 80,000 80,000
Andrew Lynch 181,428 81,428
Dharmash Mistry – –
* or date of appointment if later.
In addition to the share interests disclosed above, John Allan holds 
£479,000 6.125% 2012 Guaranteed Bonds (the 2012 Bonds) and 
£502,000 8.75% 2015 Guaranteed Notes (the 2015 Notes) issued 
by the Company. Andrew Lynch also holds £50,000 of the 2015 
Notes. Full details of the 2012 Bonds and the 2015 Notes are 
shown in note 17 to the Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance
36 - - 55 50 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
29 April 
2006
 28 April 
2007
 3 May 
2008
 2 May
2009
 1 May 
2010
 30 April 
2011
Dixons Retail plc FTSE 350
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
£
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report
continued
There were no changes in the Directors’ restricted or unrestricted 
share interests between 30 April 2011 and the date of this report.
(VI) Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
The graph set out on this page shows the Company’s 
performance measured by TSR on a holding of £100 in the 
Company’s shares over the five years since 30 April 2006 
measured against the same amount invested in the FTSE 350 
Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening 
financial year ends.
This index has been selected as the Company has been a 
constituent of it throughout the five year period shown.
Remuneration review (audited) 
(VII) Directors’ remuneration 
The following table shows an analysis of the emoluments of individual directors:
Basic salary 
and fees 
£’000
Pension  
contributions 
£’000
Cash  
bonus  
£’000
Taxable 
benefits 
£’000
52 weeks 
ended 
 30 April 2011 
 Total  
£’000
Basic salary 
and fees 
£’000
Pension 
contributions 
£’000
Cash  
bonus  
£’000
Taxable 
benefits  
£’000
52 weeks 
ended  
1 May 2010 
 Total  
£’000
Executive
John Browett
(1)
676 217
(2)
122 15 1,030 670
(1)
215
(2)
670 15 1,570
Nicholas Cadbury
(1)
 404 84
(3)
62 14 564 400
(1)
83
(3)
340 16 839
1,080 301 184 29 1,594 1,070 298 1,010 31 2,409
Non-executive
Current directors
John Allan 253 – – – 253 184
(4)
– – – 184
Rita Clifton 49 – – – 49 48 – – – 48
Prof. Dr. Utho 
Creusen 49 – – – 49 12
(5)
– – – 12
Tim How 59 – – – 59 31
(6)
– – – 31
Andrew Lynch 64 – – – 64 63 – – – 63
Dharmash Mistry
(7)
29 – – – 29 – – – – –
Former directors
Sir John Collins
(8)
– – – – – 125 – – – 125
Count Emmanuel 
d’André
(9)
– – – – – 16 – – – 16
John Whybrow
(10)
– – – – – 53 – – – 53
503 – – – 503 532 – – – 532
1,583 301 184 29 2,097 1,602 298 1,010 31 2,941
(1)  John Browett and Nicholas Cadbury elected to take up the opportunity to sacrifice a portion of their salaries under the Reward Sacrifice Scheme. Amounts sacrificed were £116,000 (2009/10 
£52,000) for John Browett and £nil (2009/10 £40,000) for Nicholas Cadbury making their basic salaries after the sacrificed amounts £560,000 and £404,000, respectively (2009/10 £618,000 
and £360,000, respectively).
(2) John Browett’s pension contribution payable to him represented an amount calculated as a percentage of basic salary to fund his own retirement arrangements.
(3) Nicholas Cadbury’s pension contributions represent 30% of the difference between his basic salary and the scheme earnings cap set by the Company.
(4) Amounts shown relate to John Allan’s period in office as a director (23 June 2009 to 1 May 2010).
(5) Amounts shown relate to Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen’s period in office as a director (1 February 2010 to 1 May 2010).
(6) Amounts shown relate to Tim How’s period in office as a director (9 September 2009 to 1 May 2010).
(7) Amounts shown relate to Dharmash Mistry’s period in office as a director (27 September 2010 to 30 April 2011).
(8) Sir John Collins retired as a director with effect from 2 September 2009.
(9) Count Emmanuel d’André retired as a director with effect from 2 September 2009.
(10) John Whybrow retired as a director with effect from 31 March 2010.   Dixons Retail plc 
51
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
(VIII) Directors’ pensions 
Accrued  
pension as at  
30 April 2011  
£’000
 Accrued  
pension as at  
1 May 2010  
£’000
 Gross  
increase in 
accrued  
pension during 
the period  
£’000
Transfer  
value of  
accrued  
benefits as at  
30 April 2011 
£’000
Transfer  
value of  
accrued  
benefits as at  
1 May 2010  
£’000
Change in 
transfer  
value  
£’000
Nicholas Cadbury 37 37 – 312 284 28
Accrued pension shown is that payable at normal retirement age (65). As described above, on 30 April 2010 the defined benefit section 
of the pension scheme, of which Nicholas Cadbury is a member, was closed to future accrual. Accordingly, no further contributions have 
been made to this section of the scheme and no further increases in accrued pension have occurred since this date.
The transfer value as at 30 April 2011 has been calculated in accordance with the Government regulations on the calculation of 
transfer values, ‘Occupational Pensions Schemes (Transfer Values) (Amendment) Regulations 2008’.
(IX) Directors’ LTIP, PSP and Reward Share awards 
The directors’ restricted beneficial interests shown in the table below represent the maximum number of shares which may vest 
under the LTIP, PSP or Retention and Recruitment plan. Details of the LTIP and PSP, including performance conditions, are 
described in section (II)(b)(ii), above. 
In 2008 under the Retention and Recruitment plan a limited number of senior executives below Board level received an award of 
Reward Shares whereby no performance conditions applied, but, other than in the event of death or change of control, shares will 
only be released in the event that the relevant individuals remain with the Group for a three year period. The Reward Shares were 
considered necessary to ensure that those executives key to delivering the targets were appropriately incentivised and ‘locked in’ 
to the Company for three years. The vesting date for the 2008 award of Reward Shares is 4 July 2011.
Market price  
on award At 2 May 2010
Awarded in  
the period
Vested in 
 the period
Lapsed in 
 the period At 30 April 2011
End of 
performance 
period Vesting date
John Browett
LTIP
2007/08
(1)
115.50p 1,068,870 – (1,068,870) – – N/A Dec 2010
2007/08
(2)
115.50p 1,525,108 – – (1,525,108) – Apr 2010 Dec 2010
2008/09 38.50p 761,236 – – – 761,236
(3)
Apr 2011 Jul 2011
PSP
2009/10 25.22p 664,155 – – – 664,155 May 2012 Jul 2012
2010/11 27.59p – 1,914,286 – – 1,914,286 May 2013 Jul 2013
4,019,369 1,914,286 (1,068,870) (1,525,108) 3,339,677
Nicholas Cadbury 
LTIP
2007/08 163.70p 59,595 – – (59,595) – Apr 2010 Jun 2010
2008/09 38.50p 204,511 – – – 204,511
(3)
Apr 2011 Jul 2011
PSP
2009/10 25.22p 396,511 – – – 396,511 May 2012 Jul 2012
2010/11 27.59p – 1,142,857 – – 1,142,857 May 2013 Jul 2013
Reward Shares
(4)
2008/09 38.50p 153,383 – – – 153,383 N/A Jul 2011
814,000 1,142,857 – (59,595) 1,897,262
(1)  The award of these shares was made on 6 December 2007. The quantum of shares awarded was calculated using the mid-market value of the shares on 6 June 2007, the date on which John 
Browett accepted the offer of employment with the Group. This one off award of shares was made in compensation of the significant value of share awards and bonus entitlement John 
Browett was forfeiting upon joining the Company and was not subject to any performance conditions. The release of these shares was dependent on John Browett remaining in employment 
until the vesting date, 6 December 2010. The share price on the date of vesting was 25.55p and the number of shares actually released was calculated net of any applicable tax deductions.
(2)  The standard LTIP made to John Browett on 6 December 2007 failed to meet its performance condition and therefore lapsed.
(3)  Vesting of the 2008/09 LTIP award was dependent on the Company’s TSR performance as outlined below over the three financial periods ended 2 May 2009, 1 May 2010 and 30 April 2011. 
Since 30 April 2011, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed this performance condition and has determined that it has not been met. Accordingly, these awards have now lapsed.
(4)  The award was made prior to Nicholas Cadbury joining the Board.
Corporate Governance
36 - - 55 52 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
For 2008/09 LTIP awards and 2009/10 PSP awards TSR performance is compared to that of a bespoke weighted index comprising 
UK and European retailers. This group comprised:
Brown (N) Group
(1)
HMV Group
(1)
Kesa Electricals Praktiker
Carphone Warehouse Group
(1)
Home Retail Group Kingfisher PPR
Debenhams Inchcape Marks and Spencer Group Sports Direct International
Game Group
(1)
Signet Group Metro Group Tesco
Halfords Jelmoli
(2)
Next WH Smith Group
(1)
(1) 2009/10 award only.
(2) 2008/09 award only.
All companies have equal weighting within the group other than Kesa Electricals and Metro Group, who have greater competitive 
relevance and therefore have double weighting. Under this condition full vesting occurs for performance equivalent to the upper 
quartile over the three year performance period, reducing to 25% of an award vesting for performance equivalent to median (with no 
vesting below this level). Vesting between these targets will occur on a straight-line basis. 
PSP awards made in 2010/11 are subject to TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (comprising FTSE 
101-350 companies), excluding investment trusts, at the start of the performance period. Full vesting will occur for upper quartile 
performance reducing on a straight-line basis to 25% of the award at median. No award vests for below median performance. 
Additionally, awards made to the executive directors contain an EPS (defined on page 19) underpin requiring total EPS growth of RPI 
plus 2% per annum for the performance period.
The status of the provisional awards under the LTIP and PSP are reviewed regularly and as at the last review in May 2011, the status 
of the awards as at 30 April 2011 is as follows:
Period in which provisional award made Status Award if status maintained
2008/09 TSR below index – lapsed* No award
2009/10 TSR below index No award
2010/11 TSR below median No award
* lapsing occurred subsequent to the period end following review by the Remuneration Committee.
It is intended that any releases of shares under the LTIP will be satisfied by shares held in trust by Halifax EES Trustees International 
Limited, the trustee of the employee share ownership trust. 
Remuneration Report
continued  Dixons Retail plc 
53
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
(X) Directors’ share options 
Date of Grant Exercise Price At 2 May 2010
Awarded in  
the period
Lapsed in  
the period At 30 April 2011
Date from which 
first exercisable
Expiry of the 
Exercise Period
John Browett
Discretionary
(1)
6 Dec 2007 83.26p 1,561,372 – – 1,561,372
(2)
6 Dec 2010 5 Dec 2017
11 Jul 2008 27.63p 3,045,866 – – 3,045,866
(2)
11 Jul 2011 11 Jul 2018
23 Jul 2009 23.95p 2,656,622 – – 2,656,622 23 Jul 2012 23 Jul 2019
3 Aug 2010 27.59p – 3,828,571 – 3,828,571 3 Aug 2013 3 Aug 2020
Reward Sacrifice
(3)
28 Sep 2009 28.43p 1,992,466 – – 1,992,466 28 Sep 2012 27 Sep 2019
Sharesave
(1), (4)
24 Jul 2009 18.32p 24,768 – – 24,768 1 Oct 2012 31 Mar 2013
3 Aug 2010 20.23p – 12,100 – 12,100 1 Oct 2013 31 Mar 2014
9,281,094 3,840,671 – 13,121,765
Nicholas Cadbury
Discretionary
(1)
17 Jul 2000 201.44p 22,339 – (22,339) – 17 Jul 2003 17 Jul 2010
23 Jul 2001 170.45p 35,200 – – 35,200 23 Jul 2004 23 Jul 2011
22 Jul 2002 118.80p 60,605 – – 60,605 22 Jul 2005 22 Jul 2012
2 Jul 2007 118.40p 114,020 – (114,020) – 2 Jul 2010 2 Jul 2017
11 Jul 2008 27.63p 767,148 – – 767,148 11 Jul 2011 11 Jul 2018
14 Aug 2008 41.84p 1,066,599 – – 1,066,599
(2)
14 Aug 2011 14 Aug 2018
23 Jul 2009 23.95p 1,586,043 – – 1,586,043 23 Jul 2012 23 Jul 2019
3 Aug 2010 27.59p – 2,285,714 – 2,285,714 3 Aug 2013 3 Aug 2020
Reward Sacrifice
(3)
28 Sep 2009 28.43p 475,813 – – 475,813 28 Sep 2012 27 Sep 2019
Sharesave
(1), (4)
24 Jul 2009 18.32p 24,768 – – 24,768 1 Oct 2012 31 Mar 2013
3 Aug 2010 20.23p – 12,100 – 12,100 1 Oct 2013 31 Mar 2014
4,152,535 2,297,814 (136,359) 6,313,990
(1) Discretionary and Sharesave options are granted for nil consideration. 
(2)  Options granted on 6 December 2007 and 11 July 2008 for John Browett and 14 August 2008 for Nicholas Cadbury have EPS performance conditions for which the performance period 
ended on 30 April 2011. Since that date, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed this performance condition and has determined that it has not been met. Accordingly, these options have 
now lapsed. 
(3)  The Reward Sacrifice Scheme was approved by shareholders at the 2009 AGM. Under this scheme the executive directors sacrificed a portion of their salary in return for receiving 
non-performance related market value share options of an ‘equivalent’ fair value to the sacrificed salary. 
(4) Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in the six month period following the date of maturity of a three year or five year savings contract.
The share price on 30 April 2011 was 14.41p and closing prices ranged between 11.80p and 31.70p during the year. 
Corporate Governance
36 - - 55 54 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Options are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant, subject to the performance conditions being met. The 
following table summarises the performance conditions applicable to the executive directors’ and senior management’s discretionary 
options (excluding Reward Sacrifice Options which do not have a performance condition) outstanding as at 30 April 2011.
Performance conditions Re-testing
Grants made before 1 Jul 2003 The market price on the date of exercise is at least 20% higher than the 
option price, assuming exercise takes place between three and four  
years after the date of grant. For later exercises, the rate of share growth 
is adjusted in line with the Retail Price Index (RPI). 
 
Exercise is also conditional upon EPS having increased by not less than 
3% above the annual RPI over any consecutive period of three years 
during the life of the option.
During the life  
of the option
Grants made between  
11 Oct 2004 and 11 Jul 2008
Over the three year performance period, EPS growth is equal to or greater 
than annual RPI plus 5% per annum. Where EPS growth is between 
annual RPI plus 3% and RPI plus 5%, options will vest on a straight-line 
basis between 50% and 100% of the award.
No re-testing
Grants made between  
12 Jul 2008 and 23 Jul 2009
Over the three year performance period, EPS growth is equal to or  
greater than annual RPI plus 4% per annum. For an award of 200% of 
salary where EPS growth is between annual RPI plus 4% and RPI plus  
7% per annum, options will vest on a straight-line basis between 50% and 
100% of the award. For an award of 300% of salary where EPS growth is 
between annual RPI plus 4% and RPI plus 10% per annum, options will 
vest on a straight-line basis between 33% and 100% of the award.
No re-testing
Grants made between  
23 Jul 2009 and 7 Dec 2009 
25% of the options vest for an EPS in 2011/12 of 2p. 100% of the options 
vest for an EPS in 2011/12 of 4p, options will vest on a straight-line basis 
between 25% and 100% of the award.
No re-testing
Grants made between 
3 Aug 2010 and 10 Dec 2010
25% of the options vest for an EPS in 2012/13 of 4p. 100% of the options 
vest for an EPS in 2012/13 of 6p, options will vest on a straight-line basis 
between 25% and 100% of the award. 
No re-testing
Prior to 2005/06, share options were granted to other employees in the UK and overseas on the basis of management grade and  
to employees with more than three years’ service. Since 2005/06 and until 2007/08, employees below executive level have either 
participated in cash settled performance share plans or in a few selected cases have been granted share options, both of which 
were linked in most cases to the attainment of three year EPS targets. In 2008/09, share options were granted to other employees  
in the UK and overseas on the basis of management grade; these options were granted with no performance conditions for those 
employees below the top three management grades at the date of grant. In 2009/10 and 2010/11 share options were granted to 
other employees in the UK and overseas including all store managers on the basis of management grade; these options were 
granted with the same performance conditions as the executive directors. 
(XI) Former executive director
Pursuant to an agreement dated 1 October 2002, Lord Kalms, the former Chairman, was appointed President of the Company for 
an initial period ending on 16 September 2012. He received £31,564 for his services as President during the year. His remuneration  
is subject to annual review in line with RPI. He was provided with benefits amounting to £29,699 comprising membership of the 
Group’s medical expenses plan and a car in addition to office facilities. He is not eligible to participate in discretionary share schemes 
or in any bonus arrangements. 
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by 
Tim How
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
23 June 2011
Remuneration Report
continued  Dixons Retail plc 
55
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations. English company law requires the directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year and under that law, the 
directors have prepared the Group and the Company financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company 
and of the profit or loss of the Group for the period. In preparing 
the financial statements, the directors are also required to:
 properly select and apply accounting policies;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; and
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the financial position and financial performance.
In preparing both the Group and the Company financial 
statements, suitable accounting policies have been used and 
applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and 
estimates have been made. Applicable accounting standards have 
been followed. The financial statements have been prepared on 
the going concern basis as disclosed in the Statutory Information 
section of the Directors’ Report and Business Review.
Directors’ Responsibilities
The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting 
records and sufficient internal controls to safeguard the assets of 
the Company and to take reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud or any other irregularities and for the preparation 
of a directors’ report and directors’ remuneration report which 
comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
 the Group and Company financial statements give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit / 
(loss) of the Group and Company, respectively; and
 the business and financial review contained in this Annual 
Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group 
and Company together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties they face.
By Order of the Board 
 
John Browett Nicholas Cadbury
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
23 June 2011 23 June 2011
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance
36 - - 55 56 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s 
Report 
We have audited the consolidated and the company financial 
statements of Dixons Retail plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 
2011 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense, 
the consolidated and company balance sheets, the consolidated 
and company cash flow statements, the consolidated and 
company statement of changes in equity and the related notes 1 
to 33 and C1 to C16. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union and as regards the Company financial 
statements as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, 
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s and the Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read 
all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report 
and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Opinions
Financial statements 
In our opinion the financial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Company’s affairs as at 30 April 2011 and of the Group’s loss 
for the 52 weeks then ended;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
IFRSs issued by the IASB
As explained in note 1.1 to the Group financial statements, the 
Group and Company in addition to complying with its legal 
obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union,  
has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB). In our opinion the financial statements 
comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
 the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report upon in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches visited by us; or 
 the Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; and
 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ Report 
and Business Review in relation to going concern;
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 
the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and
 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on directors’ remuneration.
Nicola Mitchell FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom
23 June 2011  Dixons Retail plc 
57
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
Consolidated 
Income Statement
  52 weeks ended 30 April 2011 52 weeks ended 1 May 2010
Non-underlying * Non-underlying *
Note
 Underlying* 
 £million
 Business 
  to be 
 closed** 
  £million
Other 
 £million
Total  
£million
 Underlying*
 £million
 Business to 
 be closed / 
 closed 
 businesses**  
 £million
 Other 
 £million
Total  
£million
Continuing operations
Revenue 2,3 8,154.4 187.4 – 8,341.8 8,320.0 212.5 – 8,532.5
Profit / (loss) from operations 
before associates 128.0 (7.7) (298.1) (177.8) 131.6 (0.2) 23.2 154.6
Share of post-tax results of  
associates  12 (0.4) – – (0.4) 1.6 – – 1.6
Operating profit / (loss) 2,3 127.6 (7.7) (298.1) (178.2) 133.2 (0.2) 23.2 156.2
Finance income 58.9 – 12.5 71.4 58.2 – 1.1 59.3
Finance costs (101.2) (0.8) (15.3) (117.3) (100.5) (0.4) (1.9) (102.8)
Net finance costs 5 (42.3) (0.8) (2.8) (45.9) (42.3) (0.4) (0.8) (43.5)
 Profit / (loss) before tax 85.3 (8.5) (300.9) (224.1) 90.9 (0.6) 22.4 112.7
Income tax (expense) / credit 7 (31.4) – 12.3 (19.1) (40.7) 0.1 (6.1) (46.7)
Profit / (loss) after tax – 
continuing operations 53.9 (8.5) (288.6) (243.2) 50.2 (0.5) 16.3 66.0
Loss after tax – discontinued 
operations 28 – – (2.1) (2.1) – – (8.7) (8.7)
 Profit / (loss) for the period 53.9 (8.5) (290.7) (245.3) 50.2 (0.5) 7.6 57.3
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent 
company 58.8 (8.5) (289.3) (239.0) 52.7 (0.5) 7.6 59.8 
Non-controlling interests (4.9) – (1.4) (6.3) (2.5) – – (2.5)
53.9 (8.5) (290.7) (245.3) 50.2 (0.5) 7.6 57.3
(Loss) / earnings per share 
(pence) 8
Basic  – total (6.6)p 1.7p
Diluted  – total (6.6)p 1.7p
Basic  – continuing operations (6.6)p 2.0p
Diluted  – continuing operations (6.6)p 1.9p
Underlying earnings per share 
(pence) 1,8
Basic  – continuing operations 1.6p 1.5p
Diluted  – continuing operations 1.6p 1.5p
*
  Underlying profit and earnings per share measures exclude the trading results of business to be closed / closed businesses, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and 
business impairment charges and other one off, non-recurring items, profit on sale of investments, fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued 
operations. Such excluded items are described as ‘Non-underlying’. Further information on these items is shown in notes 1, 4, 5, 7 and 28.
**
  Business to be closed / closed businesses comprise PC City Spain for which plans for its closure were announced on 14 April 2011 and Markantalo and PC City Sweden whereby these store 
based businesses were closed on 10 May 2009 and 20 May 2009, respectively. These operations do not meet the definition of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5 and 
accordingly the disclosures within non-underlying items differ from those for applicable discontinued operations. 
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 58 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Note
52 weeks 
ended  
30 April 2011 
 £million
52 weeks  
ended 
 1 May 2010 
£million
(Loss) / profit for the period (245.3) 57.3
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes  – UK 21 13.1 (156.0)
    – Nordics (0.3) 1.5
Cash flow hedges 22
 Fair value remeasurement losses (8.0) (18.4)
 Losses transferred to carrying amount of inventories 7.4 15.1
 Losses / (gains) transferred to income statement (within cost of sales) 6.7 (3.8)
Net investment hedges 22
 Fair value remeasurement (losses) / gains (4.9) 2.7
Investments 
 Fair value remeasurement gains 0.2 0.8
Tax on items taken directly to equity (8.5) 44.2
Currency translation movements 31.7 45.3
Net income / (expense) recognised directly in equity 37.4 (68.6)
Total comprehensive expense for the period (207.9) (11.3)
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent company (201.2) (8.9)
Non-controlling interests (6.7) (2.4)
(207.9) (11.3)
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income  
and Expense  Dixons Retail plc 
59
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
Consolidated  
Balance Sheet
Note
30 April 2011 
£million
1 May 2010 
£million
Non-current assets
Goodwill 9 970.8 1,116.5
Intangible assets 10 113.1 130.7
Property, plant & equipment 11 583.7 541.0
Investments in associates 12 3.4 26.4
Trade and other receivables 14 49.6 58.0
Deferred tax assets 7 163.4 169.4
1,884.0 2,042.0
Current assets
Inventories 13 960.9 972.6
Trade and other receivables 14 383.2 395.1
Income tax receivable 4.1 1.9
Short term investments 15 10.5 8.5
Cash and cash equivalents 16 334.7 295.7
1,693.4 1,673.8
Total assets 3,577.4 3,715.8
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 17 (5.6) (4.9)
Borrowings 17 (130.0) (98.5)
Obligations under finance leases 18 (3.1) (2.4)
Trade and other payables 19 (1,644.2) (1,605.9)
Income tax payable (48.5) (47.0)
Provisions 20 (44.4) (22.3)
(1,875.8) (1,781.0)
Net current liabilities (182.4) (107.2)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 17 (315.3) (321.4)
Obligations under finance leases 18 (98.0) (97.6)
Retirement benefit obligations 21 (247.3) (266.8)
Other payables 19 (331.0) (325.7)
Deferred tax liabilities 7 (17.6) (18.7)
Provisions 20 (15.9) (29.5)
(1,025.1) (1,059.7)
Total liabilities (2,900.9) (2,840.7)
Net assets 676.5 875.1
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 90.3 90.2
Share premium account 169.5 169.4
Other reserves 23 (537.7) (537.5)
Retained earnings 931.4 1,124.4
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 653.5 846.5
Equity non-controlling interests 23.0 28.6
Total equity 676.5 875.1
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 23 June 2011 and signed on their behalf by: 
 
John Browett Nicholas Cadbury
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 60 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Consolidated  
Cash Flow Statement
Note
52 weeks 
ended 
30 April 2011 
£million
52 weeks  
ended  
1 May 2010 
£million
Operating activities – continuing operations
Cash generated from operations
*
26 292.8 270.3
Special contributions to defined benefit pension scheme 21 (12.0) (12.0)
Income tax paid
*
(26.2) (31.9)
Net cash flows from operating activities 254.6 226.4
Investing activities – continuing operations
Purchase of property, plant & equipment and other intangibles
*
(223.2) (165.3)
Purchase of subsidiaries 27 – (7.0)
Interest received
*
17.9 25.5
(Increase) / decrease in short term investments (1.8) 1.3
Disposals of property, plant & equipment and other intangibles
*
2.0 9.7
Dividend received from associate 1.1 4.0
Net cash flows from investing activities (204.0) (131.8)
Financing activities – continuing operations
Issue of ordinary share capital 0.2 291.3
Additions to finance leases   2.4 –
Capital element of finance lease payments (1.5) (1.7)
Interest element of finance lease payments 
*
(7.0) (7.1)
Increase / (decrease) in borrowings due within one year 31.8 (151.6)
Increase in borrowings due after more than one year 5.4 –
Interest paid
*
(46.3) (118.8)
Investment from minority shareholder 1.1 5.0
Net cash flows from financing activities (13.9) 17.1
Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (i)
Continuing operations 36.7 111.7
Discontinued operations 28 (0.1) (8.6)
36.6 103.1
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period (i) 26 290.8 187.8
Currency translation differences 1.7 (0.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (i) 26 329.1 290.8
Free Cash Flow (ii) 10.0 (17.6)
(i)  For the purposes of this cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise those items disclosed as ‘cash and cash equivalents’ on the face of the balance sheet, less overdrafts, 
which are classified within current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet. A reconciliation to the balance sheet amounts is shown in note 26.
(ii)  Free Cash Flow comprises those items marked 
*
 and comprises cash generated from / (utilised by) continuing operations before special pension contributions, less net finance expense, less 
income tax paid and net capital expenditure. The directors consider that ‘Free Cash Flow’ provides additional useful information to shareholders in respect of cash generation and is consistent 
with how business performance is measured internally.  Dixons Retail plc 
61
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity
Share  
capital 
 £million
Share  
premium 
£million
Other 
 reserves 
£million
Retained 
earnings 
£million
Sub-total 
£million
Non-controlling 
interests 
£million
Total equity 
£million
At 3 May 2009 44.3 169.4 (534.9) 880.1 558.9 26.0 584.9
Profit for the period – – – 57.3 57.3 – 57.3
Other comprehensive income and expense  
recognised directly in equity – – (2.6) (63.6) (66.2) (2.4) (68.6)
Total comprehensive income and expense  
for the period – – (2.6) (6.3) (8.9) (2.4) (11.3)
Non-controlling interests – increase in capital – – – – – 5.0 5.0
Placing and Rights Issue 45.9 – 245.4 – 291.3 – 291.3
Transfers – – (245.4) 245.4 – – –
Share-based payments – – – 4.9 4.9 – 4.9
Tax on share-based payments – – – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
At 1 May 2010 90.2 169.4 (537.5) 1,124.4 846.5 28.6 875.1
Loss for the period – – – (245.3) (245.3) – (245.3)
Other comprehensive income and expense  
recognised directly in equity – – (0.2) 44.3 44.1 (6.7) 37.4
Total comprehensive income and expense  
for the period – – (0.2) (201.0) (201.2) (6.7) (207.9)
Non-controlling interests – increase in capital – – – – – 1.1 1.1
Ordinary shares issued 0.1 0.1 – – 0.2 – 0.2
Share-based payments – – – 8.6 8.6 – 8.6
Tax on share-based payments – – – (0.6) (0.6) – (0.6)
At 30 April 2011 90.3 169.5 (537.7) 931.4 653.5 23.0 676.5
Non-controlling interests (minority interests) comprise shareholdings in Pixmania S.A.S. (PIXmania), Electro World Iç ve Dis Ticaret AS 
(Electro World Turkey) and Dixons South-East Europe A.E.V.E. (Kotsovolos).
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 62 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
1 Accounting policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the EU, IFRS issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies 
Act 2006 applicable to those companies reporting under IFRS, 
and have been prepared on a going concern basis as disclosed 
in the going concern statement in the Statutory Information 
section of the Directors’ Report on page 39. 
The Group’s income statement and segmental analysis identify 
separately underlying performance measures and non-underlying 
items. Underlying performance measures reflect an adjustment to 
total performance measures to exclude the impact of business to 
be closed / closed businesses and other non-underlying items. 
Underlying performance measures comprise profits and losses 
incurred as part of the day-to-day ongoing retail activities of the 
Company and include profits and losses incurred on the disposal 
and closure of owned or leased properties that occur as part of 
the Group’s annual retail churn. The profits or losses incurred on 
disposal or closure of owned or leased properties as part of a one 
off restructuring programme are excluded from underlying 
performance measures and are therefore included, among other 
items, within non-underlying items as described below. The 
directors consider ‘underlying’ performance measures to be a 
more accurate reflection of the ongoing trading performance of the 
Group and believe that these measures provide additional useful 
information for shareholders on the Group’s performance and are 
consistent with how business performance is measured internally.
Non-underlying items comprise trading results of business to be 
closed / closed businesses, amortisation of acquired intangibles, 
net restructuring and business impairment charges and other 
one off, non-recurring items, profit on sale of investments, fair 
value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where 
applicable, discontinued operations. Business to be closed / 
closed businesses are those which do not meet the definition of 
discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5. Items excluded 
from underlying results can evolve from one financial year to the 
next depending on the nature of re-organisation or one-off type 
activities described above. 
Underlying performance measures may not be directly 
comparable with other similarly titled measures or ‘adjusted’ 
revenue or profit measures used by other companies.
The following new accounting pronouncements became 
applicable during the period: 
 IFRS 3 Revised – Business Combinations 
 IAS 27 – Revised Consolidated and Separate 
Financial Statements 
Neither has had an impact on either the net results or net assets  
of the Group for the current or preceding periods, however, may 
impact acquisitions in the future. Other new standards, amendments 
to standards and IFRIC interpretations are effective for the Group 
during the current financial period but are either not relevant or have 
had no impact on the Group’s results or net assets. 
The principal accounting policies are set out below:
1.2 Accounting convention and basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company. Control is achieved where the Company has the power 
to control the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to 
obtain benefits from its activities. The results of subsidiaries 
acquired are included from the date on which power to control 
passes. The net assets of subsidiaries acquired are recorded at 
their fair values. The results of subsidiaries disposed of are 
included up to the effective date of disposal. 
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of 
accounting from the date on which the power to exercise 
significant influence passes. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation.
1.3 Revenue 
Revenue comprises sales of goods and services excluding sales 
taxes. Revenue from sales of goods is recognised at the point of 
sale or, where later, upon delivery to the customer and is stated net 
of returns. Revenue earned from customer support agreements  
is recognised as such over the life of the agreement by reference  
to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance  
sheet date. 
1.4 Other income, including non-operating income 
Other income, which is incidental to the Group’s principal activities 
of selling goods and services and accordingly is not recorded as 
part of revenue, is recognised when the Group obtains the right  
to consideration by performance of its contractual obligations. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the right to 
receive payment has been established.  Dixons Retail plc 
63
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
1.5 Discontinued operations 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group which 
represents a significant separate line of business which has been 
sold. Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon 
disposal or earlier if beneficial title and risk has transferred to the 
purchaser and in the case of a business acquired exclusively with 
a view to subsequent disposal, on the date of acquisition. 
Where the sale of a component of the Group is considered highly 
probable and the business is available for immediate sale in its 
present condition, it is classified as held for sale. Assets and 
liabilities held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
1.6 Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of 
the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee. The determination of the classification of 
property leases is made by reference to the land and buildings 
elements separately. All leases not classified as finance leases 
are operating leases.
Finance leases
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at their fair value 
on acquisition or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum 
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease and 
depreciated over their estimated useful lives or the lease term if 
shorter. The corresponding obligation to the lessor is included in 
the balance sheet as a liability. Lease payments are apportioned 
between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation. 
Finance charges are charged to the income statement over the 
period of the lease in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating property leases are charged to 
the income statement on a straight-line basis over the fixed term of 
the lease. At the end of the fixed term of leases, rental payments 
are reset to market rates, typically on an upwards only basis. 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an 
operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
Where a lease forms part of a separate cash generating unit 
(CGU), such as a store or group of stores, and business 
indicators exist which could lead to the conclusion that the 
carrying value of the CGU is not supportable, the recoverable 
amount of the CGU is determined by calculating its value in use. 
The value in use is calculated by applying discounted cash flow 
modelling to management’s projection of future profitability. If an 
impairment of a CGU has been identified such that the value in 
use is negative and a lease exists in that CGU, a provision for the 
onerous portion of the lease is made equal to the lower of the 
outstanding lease commitment and the negative present value  
of the CGU.
1.7 Translation of foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rate 
of exchange prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at 
the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange 
gains and losses arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary 
assets and liabilities are included in the income statement. 
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the 
rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results of 
overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the 
average rates of exchange during the period. Exchange differences 
resulting from the translation of the results and balance sheets of 
overseas subsidiary undertakings are charged or credited directly 
to retained earnings. Such translation differences become 
recognised in the income statement in the period in which the 
subsidiary undertaking is disposed.
As the cumulative translation differences for all foreign subsidiaries 
were deemed to be zero at the transition date to IFRS on 2 May 
2004, upon disposal of a foreign subsidiary, any gain or loss arising 
will include only those foreign exchange gains or losses attributable 
to periods after that date.
1.8 Goodwill
On acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, the fair value of the 
consideration is allocated between the identifiable net tangible 
and intangible assets / liabilities on a fair value basis, with any 
excess consideration representing goodwill. Goodwill in respect 
of subsidiaries is capitalised as goodwill on the balance sheet; 
goodwill relating to associates is capitalised in investments in 
associates as part of the carrying value of the associate.
Goodwill is not amortised, but instead is reviewed annually for 
impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the 
income statement and is not subsequently reversed. 
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate the attributable amount 
of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss  
on disposal.
1.9 Intangible assets 
Acquired intangibles
Acquired intangibles comprise brands and customer lists 
purchased as part of acquisitions of businesses and are 
capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives on a 
straight-line basis. Acquired intangibles are stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and, where appropriate, provision for 
impairment in value or estimated loss on disposal. Amortisation 
is provided to write off the cost of assets on a straight-line basis 
between three and 30 years.
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 64 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
1 Accounting policies continued 
Other intangible assets: computer software
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs 
incurred both to acquire and bring into use the specific software. 
Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of assets on a 
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of between 
three and seven years. Costs associated with developing or 
maintaining computer software are recognised as an expense as 
incurred unless they increase the future economic benefits of the 
asset, in which case they are capitalised.
Internally generated computer software is capitalised at cost if the 
project is technically and commercially feasible and the economic 
benefits which are expected to be generated exceed one year.  
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct 
labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Subsequent 
expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future 
economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it 
relates. Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of assets  
on a straight-line basis between three and seven years.
Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in value or 
estimated loss on disposal.
1.10 Property, plant & equipment
Property, plant & equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in 
value or estimated loss on disposal. Depreciation is provided to 
write off the cost of the assets by equal instalments over their 
estimated useful lives. The rates used are:
Short leasehold property  – over the term of the lease
Freehold and long  
  leasehold buildings  – between 1
2
/3% and 2½% per annum
Fixtures, fittings  
  and equipment  – between 10% and 33
1
/3% per annum
No depreciation is provided on freehold and long leasehold land 
or on assets in the course of construction.
Property, plant & equipment are assessed on an ongoing basis 
to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead to the 
conclusion that the net book value is not supportable. Where 
assets are to be taken out of use, an impairment charge is levied. 
Where assets useful lives are shortened, an estimate is made of 
their new lives and an accelerated depreciation charge is levied. 
Where the property, plant & equipment form part of a separate 
cash generating unit (CGU), such as a store or group of stores, 
and business indicators exist which could lead to the conclusions 
that the net book value is not supportable, the recoverable 
amount of the CGU is determined by calculating its value in use. 
The value in use is calculated by applying discounted cash flow 
modelling to management’s projection of future profitability and 
any impairment is determined by comparing the net book value 
with the value in use. 
1.11 Investments and other financial assets
The Group’s financial assets comprise cash and cash 
equivalents, short term investments and those receivables which 
involve a contractual right to receive cash from external parties. 
Financial assets comprise all items shown in notes 14, 15 and 16 
with the exception of prepayments and derivatives. Under the 
classifications stipulated by IAS 39, short term investments and 
trade and other receivables (excluding derivative financial assets) 
are classified as ‘available for sale’ and ‘loans and receivables’, 
respectively. Cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial 
instruments, which are further described in notes 1.14 and 1.16, 
are classified as ‘loans and receivables’ and ‘held for trading 
unless designated in a hedge relationship’, respectively.
All purchases and sales of investments and other financial assets 
are recognised on the date that the Group becomes committed 
to make such purchase or sale (‘the trade date’). 
Investment in associates
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting 
from the date on which the power to exercise significant influence 
passes and are stated net of any impairment charges. 
Short term investments
Investments are initially measured at fair value and then 
subsequently remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet 
date owing to occasional sales of such investments. The fair 
value of unlisted investments is estimated either by comparing 
recent arm’s length transactions or by using discounted cash 
flow analysis or other modelling techniques. Gains and losses 
arising from revaluation at the balance sheet date are recognised 
directly in equity. For unlisted investments a significant or 
prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its 
cost is considered evidence of impairment.
To the extent that any fair value losses are deemed permanent, 
such impairment is recognised in the income statement. Upon 
sale or impairment of the investments, any cumulative gains or 
losses held in equity are transferred to the income statement. 
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables (excluding derivative financial  
assets) are recorded at cost less an allowance for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts and any other adjustments required to 
align cost to fair value. The carrying amount of trade receivables 
is reduced through the use of a provision account. A provision for 
bad and doubtful debts is made for specific receivables when 
there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to 
collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the 
invoice. Receivables that are not assessed individually for 
impairment are assessed for impairment on a collective basis 
using ageing analysis to determine the required provision. Bad 
debts are written off when identified.  Dixons Retail plc 
65
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
1.12 Taxation 
Current taxation
Current taxation is the expected tax payable on the taxable 
income for the period, using prevailing tax rates and adjusted  
for any tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against 
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such 
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition 
(other than in a business combination) of other assets and 
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor  
the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where 
the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. No provision is made for tax which would 
have been payable on the distribution of retained profits of 
overseas subsidiaries or associated undertakings where it has 
been determined that these profits will not be distributed in the 
foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other 
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax 
jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, 
except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to 
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences 
are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have 
been enacted, or substantially enacted by the balance sheet 
date. Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
1.13 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost and net 
realisable value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to 
their present location and condition, both types of cost being 
measured using a weighted average cost formula. Net realisable 
value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated and 
directly attributable costs of completion and costs to be incurred 
in marketing, selling and distribution. 
1.14 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, 
bank overdrafts and short term highly liquid deposits with a 
maturity of three months or less and which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts, which form 
part of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash 
flow statement, are shown under current liabilities.
1.15 Borrowings and other financial liabilities
The Group’s financial liabilities are those which involve a 
contractual obligation to deliver cash to external parties at a 
future date. Financial liabilities comprise all items shown in notes 
17, 18 and 19 with the exception of other taxation and social 
security, deferred income from customer support agreements, 
other deferred income and other non-financial creditors. Under 
the classifications stipulated by IAS 39, borrowings, finance lease 
obligations and trade and other payables (excluding derivative 
financial liabilities) are classified as ‘financial liabilities measured 
at amortised cost’. Derivative financial instruments, which are 
described further in note 1.16 below, are classified as ‘held for 
trading unless designated in a hedge relationship’. 
Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recorded at the consideration received 
less directly attributable transaction costs. Transaction costs are 
amortised through the income statement using the effective 
interest method and the unamortised balance is included as part 
of the related borrowing at the balance sheet date. A fair value 
adjustment is made to the borrowing where hedge accounting, 
as described in note 1.16 below, has been applied. 
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables (excluding derivative financial liabilities) 
are recorded at cost. Derivative financial instruments, which 
includes put options over equity held by minority shareholders, 
are initially recorded at fair value and then subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date and are held 
within assets or liabilities as appropriate. Gains and losses arising 
from revaluation at the balance sheet date are recognised in the 
income statement unless the derivatives are designated as 
hedges and such hedges are proved to be effective.
1. 16 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivative financial instruments held by the Group are initially 
recognised in the balance sheet at fair value within assets or 
liabilities as appropriate and then subsequently remeasured to 
fair value at each balance sheet date. Gains and losses arising 
from revaluation at the balance sheet date are recognised in the 
income statement unless the derivatives are designated as 
hedges and such hedges are proved to be effective. 
Derivatives are classified as non-current assets or liabilities where 
a hedge relationship is identified and the remaining maturity of 
the hedged item is greater than 12 months from the balance 
sheet date. Derivatives are classified as current assets or 
liabilities in all other circumstances.
Fair values are derived from market values. The fair value of 
financial instruments traded in active markets is based on  
quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. 
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 66 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
1 Accounting policies continued 
Hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks 
associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency 
exchange rates. The Group uses derivative financial instruments 
such as interest rate swaps, options, cross currency swaps and 
forward currency contracts to hedge these risks. The Group does 
not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Where hedge accounting is to be applied, the Group formally 
designates and documents the hedge relationship to which  
the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk 
management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer meets 
the criteria for hedge accounting.
The accounting treatment of derivatives that qualify for hedge 
accounting is dependent on how they are designated. The different 
designations and accounting treatments are explained below:
Fair value hedges
The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge the exposure to 
changes in the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments that meet the ‘fair value’ hedging 
requirements are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value with 
corresponding fair value movements recognised within finance 
income / costs in the income statement. For an effective fair value 
hedge, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value 
attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry 
in the income statement. To the extent that the designated hedge 
relationship is effective, such amounts in the income statement 
offset each other. As a result, only the ineffective element of any 
designated hedging relationship impacts the income statement. If 
the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the 
adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item for which 
the effective interest method is used, is amortised to the income 
statement over the period to maturity.
Cash flow hedges
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge 
the foreign currency exposure on inventory ordered and 
purchased and certain sales of inventory. It is Group policy to 
hedge between 80% and 100% of committed purchase orders 
and sales. At any point in time the Group also hedges up to 80% 
of its estimated foreign currency exposure in respect of forecast 
purchases and sales for the subsequent 12 months. Orders and 
purchases as well as sales are each considered to be separately 
hedged transactions. 
Derivative financial instruments that qualify for such cash flow 
hedging are initially recognised on the balance sheet with gains 
and losses relating to the remeasurement of the effective portion 
of the hedge being deferred in equity. To the extent that such 
items are ineffectively hedged, gains or losses relating to the 
ineffective portion are recognised in the income statement. 
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement 
when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss (i.e. when a 
purchase or sale is made). For inventory purchases, the 
associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously 
been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement 
of inventory. For sales, the gains or losses on the derivative that 
had previously been recognised in equity are included in the 
income statement in the period in which the sale is made. 
Net investment hedges
The Group uses currency forward contracts and currency swaps 
to hedge its currency risk on the translation of net investments in 
foreign entities. Gains and losses arising on the retranslation of the 
investments and the related derivatives are recognised in equity. 
However, this is on the basis that the hedging requirements of IAS 
39 are met and the hedging relationship is effective. To the extent 
that such items are ineffectively hedged, gains or losses relating to 
the ineffective portion are recognised within the income statement. 
1.17 Retirement benefit obligations
Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 
and contributions made to state pension schemes for certain 
overseas employees are charged to the income statement on an 
accruals basis as contributions become payable.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the regular service cost of 
providing retirement benefits to employees during the period, 
together with the cost of any benefits relating to past service is 
charged to operating results in the period. A credit representing 
the expected return on assets of the retirement benefit schemes 
during the period is included within other finance income. This is 
based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the 
start of the financial period. A charge is included within other 
finance costs, representing the expected increase in the liabilities 
of the retirement benefit schemes during the period. The 
difference between the market value of the assets and the 
present value of the accrued pension liabilities is shown as an 
asset or liability in the balance sheet. Differences between the 
actual and expected returns on assets during the period are 
recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income and expense, together with differences arising from 
changes in actuarial assumptions.   Dixons Retail plc 
67
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
1.18 Share-based payments 
The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to 
certain employees which are measured at fair value at the date of 
grant. This fair value is expensed in the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate 
of the number of shares that will eventually vest as adjusted for 
any non-market conditions.
A liability equal to the portion of services received from 
employees is recognised at the current fair value determined at 
each balance sheet date for cash settled share-based payments.
1. 19 Estimates, judgements and critical accounting policies
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles requires management 
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent 
assets and liabilities. Significant items subject to such 
assumptions and estimates include the useful lives of assets; the 
measurement and recognition of provisions; the recognition of 
deferred tax assets; and liabilities for potential corporation tax. 
Actual results could differ from these estimates and any 
subsequent changes are accounted for with an effect on income 
at the time such updated information becomes available. The 
most critical accounting policies in determining the financial 
condition and results of the Group are those requiring the 
greatest degree of subjective or complex judgements. These 
relate to revenue recognition, inventory valuation, onerous lease 
costs, the valuation of goodwill, acquired intangible assets and 
property, plant & equipment, share-based payments, post-
retirement benefits and taxation, and are set out below.
Revenue recognition
Revenue earned from the sale of customer support agreements 
is recognised over the term of the contracts when the Group 
obtains the right to consideration as a result of performance of  
its contractual obligations. Revenue in any one year is therefore 
recognised to match the proportion of the expected costs of 
fulfilling the Group’s total obligations under the agreements. An 
estimate of the degree of performance of these contractual 
obligations is determined by reference to extensive historical 
claims data. Reliance on historical data assumes that current 
and future experience will follow past trends. The directors 
consider that the quantity and quality of data available provides 
an appropriate proxy for current trends.
Inventory valuation
Inventories are valued at the lower of average cost and net 
realisable value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to 
their present location and condition, both types of cost being 
measures using a weighted average cost formula. Net realisable 
value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated and 
directly attributable costs of completion and costs to be incurred 
in the marketing, selling and distribution. Net realisable value 
includes, where necessary, provisions for slow moving and 
damaged inventory. The provision represents the difference 
between the cost of stock and its estimated net realisable value, 
based on ageing. Calculation of these provisions requires 
judgements to be made which include forecast consumer 
demand, the promotional, competitive and economic 
environment and inventory loss trends.
Provisions and accruals for onerous leases 
If the Group vacates a store or other property prior to the expiry 
of the related lease, or a lease forms part of a separate CGU 
whereby the carrying value of that CGU is not considered 
supportable, it records a provision or accrual for the expected 
lease payments that the Group will incur prior to assignment or 
sublease of the property. Such a calculation requires a 
judgement as to the timing and duration of the expected vacant 
periods and the amount and timing of future potential sublease 
income. When making these judgements, the directors consider 
a number of factors, including the landlord, the location and 
condition of the property, the terms of the lease, the specific 
marketplace demand and the economic environment.
Goodwill, property, plant & equipment and associate 
impairment reviews
Goodwill is required to be valued annually to assess the 
requirement for potential impairment. Other assets are assessed 
on an ongoing basis to determine whether circumstances exist 
that could lead to the conclusion that the net book value of such 
assets is not supportable. Impairment testing on goodwill and 
associates is carried out in accordance with the methodology 
described in note 9. Such calculations require judgement relating 
to the appropriate discount factors and long term growth 
prevalent in a particular market as well as short and medium term 
business plans. The directors draw upon experience as well as 
external resources in making these judgements.
In assessing impairment of property, plant and equipment, 
discounted cash flow methods are used as described in note 
1.10. Judgement is required in determining the appropriate 
discount factors as well as the short and medium term business 
plans. As for goodwill, the directors draw upon experience and 
external resources in making these judgements. 
Share-based payments
The charge for share-based payments is calculated by estimating 
the fair value of the award at the date of grant using either the 
Binomial or Black-Scholes option pricing model or the Monte 
Carlo simulation. The option valuation models used require highly 
subjective assumptions to be made including the future volatility 
of the Company’s share price, expected dividend yields, risk-free 
interest rates and expected staff turnover. The directors draw 
upon a variety of external sources to aid in the determination of 
the appropriate data to use in such calculations.
Defined benefit pension schemes
The surplus or deficit in the UK defined benefit scheme that is 
recognised through the statement of recognised income and 
expense is subject to a number of assumptions and uncertainties. 
The calculated liabilities of the scheme are based on assumptions 
regarding salary increases, inflation rates, discount rates, the 
long term expected return on the scheme’s assets and member 
longevity. Such assumptions are based on actuarial advice and  
are benchmarked against similar pension schemes.
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 68 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
1 Accounting policies continued 
Taxation
Tax laws that apply to the Group’s businesses may be amended 
by the relevant authorities, for example as a result of changes in 
fiscal circumstances or priorities. Such potential amendments 
and their application to the Group are monitored regularly and 
the requirement for recognition of any liabilities assessed where 
necessary. The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of 
different jurisdictions and judgement is required in determining 
the appropriate provision for transactions where the ultimate tax 
determination is uncertain. In such circumstances, the Group 
recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes due based on best 
information available and where the anticipated liability is 
probable and estimable. Where the final outcome of such 
matters differs from the amounts initially recorded, any 
differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax 
provisions in the period to which such determination is made. 
Where the potential liabilities are not considered probable, the 
amount at risk is disclosed unless an adverse outcome is 
considered remote. 
Deferred tax is recognised on taxable losses based on the 
expected ability to utilise such losses. This ability takes account 
of the business plans for the relevant companies, potential 
uncertainties around the longer term aspects of these business 
plans, any expiry of taxable benefits and potential future volatility 
in the local tax regimes. 
1.20 New accounting standards and interpretations
During the period, the following new standards, and 
amendments to existing standards, which are applicable to the 
Group were published, but do not become effective until future 
accounting periods:
The following will become effective for 2011/12:
 IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. IAS 24 Revised clarifies 
and simplifies the definition of a related party and also 
requires disclosure of any transactions between subsidiaries 
and associates. 
The following will become effective for 2013/14: 
 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. This standard is the first step
in the process to replace IAS 39, ‘Financial instruments: 
recognition and measurement’. IFRS 9 introduces new 
requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and 
is likely to affect the Group’s accounting for its financial assets. 
Certain other amendments to existing standards and 
interpretations were issued during the period which either  
do not apply to the Group or are not expected to have any 
material effect.
2 Segmental analysis 
The Group’s operating segments have been determined based 
on the information reported to the Board. This information is 
predominantly based on geographical areas which are either 
managed separately or have similar trading characteristics such 
that they can be aggregated together into one segment and in 
the case of e-commerce, as a business area with geographical 
territories aggregated. Accounting policies for each operating 
segment are the same as those for the Group as described in 
note 1. The Group evaluates each operating segment based on 
underlying operating profits which excludes those items 
described in note 1.1. 
All segments are involved in the multi-channel sale of high 
technology consumer electronics, personal computers, domestic 
appliances, photographic equipment, communication products 
and related financial and after-sales services. The principal 
categories of customer are retail, business to business and online. 
During 2009/10, the Group disposed of its operations in Hungary 
and Poland, both of which have been classified as discontinued 
operations. Further information is provided in note 28.
The Group’s reportable segments have been identified as follows: 
 UK & Ireland comprises electrical and computing retail chains 
as well as business to business (B2B) activities. The division is 
engaged predominantly in multi-channel retail sales, 
associated peripherals and services and related financial and 
after sales services and also in business to business sales of 
computer hardware and software. 
 Nordics operates in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, 
Iceland, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The division 
engages in multi-channel retail sales and provided related 
product support services to its customers. It also engages in 
B2B sales of computer hardware, software and services. 
Across the region, the division operates a successful franchise 
business, typically in smaller markets. 
 Other International comprises operations in Italy, Greece, the 
Czech Republic, Slovakia, Turkey and the business to be 
closed in Spain which is excluded from underlying results. The 
Other International division engages in retail sales (including 
multi-channel sales in some countries) and provides related 
product support services to its customers in all of its markets. 
It also engages in B2B sales of computer hardware, software 
and services in Italy, Spain and Greece and has franchise 
operations in Italy, Greece, the Czech Republic and Turkey. 
 Pure play e-commerce comprises pure play online retailers 
and operates in all of the countries in which the other divisions 
operate and across Europe. 
Business to be closed / closed businesses comprise PC City 
Spain whereby its closure was announced on 14 April 2011 and 
Markantalo and PC City Sweden whereby these store operations 
were closed on 10 May 2009 and 20 May 2009, respectively. 
Owing to their closure rather than disposal, these operations do 
not meet the definition of discontinued operations as stipulated 
by IFRS 5.   Dixons Retail plc 
69
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
(a)  Income statement 
2010/11
 
External 
revenue 
£million
Inter-
segmental 
revenue  
£million
 Revenue 
£million
Underlying 
profit / (loss) 
£million
Total  
profit / (loss) 
£million 
UK & Ireland 3,816.1 57.8 3,873.9 71.3 50.4
Nordics 2,268.9 3.8 2,272.7 106.0 85.3
Other International 1,414.1 0.6 1,414.7 (21.6) (153.8)
Pure play e-commerce 842.7 5.0 847.7 0.9 (120.8)
Eliminations – (67.2) (67.2) – –
8,341.8 – 8,341.8 156.6 (138.9)
Share of post-tax results of associates (0.4) (0.4)
Operating profit / (loss) before central costs and property losses 156.2 (139.3)
Central costs (15.8) (26.1)
Property losses (12.8) (12.8)
Operating profit / (loss) 127.6 (178.2)
Finance income 58.9 71.4
Finance costs (101.2) (117.3)
Profit / (loss) before tax for the period 85.3 (224.1)
External revenue for Other International includes £187.4 million relating to business to be closed.
Reconciliation of underlying profit / (loss) to total profit / (loss)
2010/11
Underlying 
profit / (loss) 
£million
Business  
to be closed 
£million
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles 
£million
Net 
restructuring 
charges 
£million
 Business 
impairment 
charges 
£million
Other items 
£million
Other 
non-
underlying 
financing 
items 
 £million
 Total  
 profit / (loss) 
£million
UK & Ireland 71.3 – (0.4) (5.6) – (14.9) – 50.4
Nordics 106.0 – – – (21.5) 0.8 – 85.3
Other International (21.6) (7.7) (0.7) – (123.8) – – (153.8)
Pure play e-commerce 0.9 – (3.4) – (106.3) (12.0) – (120.8)
156.6 (7.7) (4.5) (5.6) (251.6) (26.1) – (138.9)
Share of post-tax results of associates (0.4) – – – – – – (0.4)
Operating profit / (loss) before 
central costs and property losses 156.2 (7.7) (4.5) (5.6) (251.6) (26.1) – (139.3)
Central costs (15.8) – – (11.5) – 1.2 – (26.1)
Property losses (12.8) – – – – – – (12.8)
Operating profit / (loss) 127.6 (7.7) (4.5) (17.1) (251.6) (24.9) – (178.2)
Finance income 58.9 – – – – – 12.5 71.4
Finance costs (101.2) (0.8) – – – – (15.3) (117.3)
Profit / (loss) before tax for the 
period 85.3 (8.5) (4.5) (17.1) (251.6) (24.9) (2.8) (224.1)
Share of post-tax results of associates relates to the Nordics.
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 70 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
2 Segmental analysis continued
2009/10
 
External  
revenue
 £million
Inter-segmental 
revenue  
£million
 Revenue 
£million
Underlying 
 profit / (loss) 
 £million
Total  
profit / (loss) 
£million 
UK & Ireland 4,013.5 101.7 4,115.2 71.1 93.7
Nordics 2,094.6 1.7 2,096.3 95.8 95.6
Other International 1,503.2 1.5 1,504.7 (8.3) (9.0)
Pure play e-commerce 921.2 3.8 925.0 11.3 7.9
Eliminations – (108.7) (108.7) – –
8,532.5 – 8,532.5 169.9 188.2
Share of post-tax results of associates 1.6 1.6
Operating profit before central costs and property losses 171.5 189.8
Central costs (19.5) (14.8)
Property losses (18.8) (18.8)
Operating profit 133.2 156.2
Finance income 58.2 59.3
Finance costs (100.5) (102.8)
Profit before tax for the period 90.9 112.7
External revenue for the Nordics and Other International includes £0.9 million and £211.6 million relating to closed businesses and 
the business to be closed, respectively.
Reconciliation of underlying profit / (loss) to total profit / (loss)
2009/10
Underlying  
profit / (loss)  
£million
Business  
to be closed / 
closed 
businesses 
£million
Amortisation  
of acquired 
intangibles 
£million
Net  
restructuring 
charges  
£million
Change in 
pension 
 benefits  
£million
Net fair value 
remeasure- 
ments  
£million
 Total 
profit / (loss) 
£million
UK & Ireland 71.1 – (0.5) (5.6) 28.7 – 93.7
Nordics 95.8 (0.2) – – – – 95.6
Other International (8.3) – (0.7) – – – (9.0)
Pure play e-commerce 11.3 – (3.4) – – – 7.9
 169.9 (0.2) (4.6) (5.6) 28.7 – 188.2
Share of post-tax results of associates 1.6 – – – – – 1.6
Operating profit / (loss) before central costs 
and property losses 171.5 (0.2) (4.6) (5.6) 28.7 – 189.8
Central costs (19.5) – – – 4.7 – (14.8)
Property losses (18.8) – – – – – (18.8)
Operating profit / (loss) 133.2 (0.2) (4.6) (5.6) 33.4 – 156.2
Finance income 58.2 – – – – 1.1 59.3
Finance costs (100.5) (0.4) – – – (1.9) (102.8)
Profit / (loss) before tax for the period 90.9 (0.6) (4.6) (5.6) 33.4 (0.8) 112.7
Share of post-tax results of associates relates to the Nordics.  Dixons Retail plc 
71
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
(b) Geographical analysis 
Revenues are allocated to countries according to the entity’s country of domicile. Revenue generated by the UK business was 
£3,800.9 million (2009/10 £4,028.2 million). Revenue by destination is not materially different to that shown by domicile. Revenue 
from discontinued operations is shown in note 28. 
Non-current assets comprise property, plant & equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, investments in associates and non-current 
trade and other receivables. Non-current assets held by the UK, Italy and PIXmania were £402.0 million (2010 £327.4 million),  
£185.3 million (2010 £180.8 million), and £135.5 million (2010 £236.7 million), respectively. Non-current assets held by the Nordics 
were £814.4 million (2010 £799.3 million) and predominantly comprised goodwill (as disclosed in note 9) which has not been 
allocated to individual countries. 
(c) Balance sheet 
2010/11
Segment 
assets  
£million
Investment 
 in associates 
£million
Total  
segment assets 
 £million
Segment 
liabilities 
£million
 Net assets 
£million
UK & Ireland 1,989.3 – 1,989.3 (1,227.3) 762.0
Nordics 1,132.2 3.4 1,135.6 (502.6) 633.0
Other International 563.5 – 563.5 (1,402.2) (838.7)
Pure play e-commerce 278.3 – 278.3 (358.3) (80.0)
Central 1,861.0 – 1,861.0 (1,657.8) 203.2
Eliminations (2,250.3) – (2,250.3) 2,250.3 –
Continuing operations 3,574.0 3.4 3,577.4 (2,897.9) 679.5
Discontinued operations – – – (3.0) (3.0)
3,574.0 3.4 3,577.4 (2,900.9) 676.5
2009/10
Segment  
assets  
£million
Investment 
 in associates 
£million
Total  
segment  
assets  
£million
Segment 
liabilities  
£million
 Net assets 
£million
UK & Ireland 1,543.1 – 1,543.1 (1,087.4) 455.7
Nordics 1,054.3 26.4 1,080.7 (467.2) 613.5
Other International 696.8 – 696.8 (1,351.6) (654.8)
Pure play e-commerce 373.3 – 373.3 (335.3) 38.0
Central 1,411.3 – 1,411.3 (987.5) 423.8
Eliminations (1,389.4) – (1,389.4) 1,389.4 –
Continuing operations 3,689.4 26.4 3,715.8 (2,839.6) 876.2
Discontinued operations – – – (1.1) (1.1)
3,689.4 26.4 3,715.8 (2,840.7) 875.1
Central assets and liabilities predominantly comprise intersegment balances, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, net retirement 
benefit obligations, derivative financial instruments and tax assets and liabilities. 
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 72 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
2 Segmental analysis continued
(d) Other information
2010/11
Capital expenditure
Intangible 
assets  
£million
Property,
 plant & 
equipment 
£million
Depreciation 
£million
Amortisation 
£million
Share-based 
payments 
£million
UK & Ireland 14.1 118.9 65.2 13.8 3.9
Nordics 4.6 40.5 24.8 4.5 0.9
Other International 2.8 28.7 24.0 2.9 1.3
Pure play e-commerce 2.9 6.0 4.5 6.1 0.1
Central – – 0.2 – 1.8
Continuing operations 24.4 194.1 118.7 27.3 8.0
Discontinued operations – – – – –
24.4 194.1 118.7 27.3 8.0
2009/10
Capital expenditure
Intangible  
assets  
£million
Property,  
plant & 
equipment 
£million
 Depreciation 
£million
Amortisation 
£million
 Share-based 
payments 
£million
UK & Ireland 7.3 95.8 58.7 15.5 3.2
Nordics 2.6 29.9 21.1 4.7 0.6
Other International 2.8 26.6 21.4 3.8 0.6
Pure play e-commerce 1.4 2.4 3.0 6.1 0.1
Central – 5.4 1.6 0.6 1.2
Continuing operations 14.1 160.1 105.8 30.7 5.7
Discontinued operations – – 0.1 – –
14.1 160.1 105.9 30.7 5.7
3 Revenue and operating profit / (loss) 
2010/11 2009/10
Non-underlying Non-underlying
Underlying 
£million
Business  
to be closed 
£million
Other  
£million
Total  
£million
Underlying 
£million
Business to be 
closed / closed 
businesses 
£million
Other  
£million
Total  
£million
Revenue 8,154.4 187.4 – 8,341.8 8,320.0 212.5 – 8,532.5
Cost of sales (7,579.4) (185.3) (83.8) (7,848.5) (7,682.1) (202.9) (5.6) (7,890.6)
Gross profit / (loss) 575.0 2.1 (83.8) 493.3 637.9 9.6 (5.6) 641.9
Distribution costs (186.2) (3.6) (2.1) (191.9) (182.8) (3.9) – (186.7)
Administrative expenses (247.2) (6.2) (212.2) (465.6) (303.9) (5.9) 28.8 (281.0)
Other operating charge (13.6) – – (13.6) (19.6) – – (19.6)
Profit / (loss) from operations 
before associates 128.0 (7.7) (298.1) (177.8) 131.6 (0.2) 23.2 154.6
Share of post-tax results of 
associates (0.4) – – (0.4) 1.6 – – 1.6
Total operating profit / (loss) 127.6 (7.7) (298.1) (178.2) 133.2 (0.2) 23.2 156.2
Non-underlying items comprise amortisation of acquired intangibles of £4.5 million (2009/10 £4.6 million), included within 
administrative expenses, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one off items. Such items are described 
further in note 4. Included within underlying cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses is amortisation of other 
intangibles of £12.5 million, £2.4 million and £7.5 million, respectively (2009/10 £14.2 million, £2.8 million and £8.6 million, respectively).  Dixons Retail plc 
73
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
2010/11 2009/10
Underlying 
£million
Business  
to be closed 
 £million
 Total  
£million
 Underlying  
£million
Business to be 
closed / closed 
businesses 
£million
 Total  
£million
Sale of goods 7,689.7 172.9 7,862.6 7,815.1 196.5 8,011.6
Revenue from services 464.7 14.5 479.2 504.9 16.0 520.9
8,154.4 187.4 8,341.8 8,320.0 212.5 8,532.5
Revenue from services predominantly comprises those relating to customer support agreements, delivery and installation, product 
repairs and product support. 
2010/11 2009/10
Underlying 
£million
Business
 to be closed
 £million
Total
 £million
Underlying 
£million
Business
 to be closed / 
closed 
businesses
 £million
Total
 £million
Inventories recognised as an expense 6,204.1 153.0 6,357.1 6,039.8 157.6 6,197.4
Cost of inventory write-down 25.4 0.4 25.8 35.2 0.5 35.7
Rentals paid under operating leases:
 Plant and machinery 8.5 – 8.5 5.5 – 5.5
 Property – non-contingent rent 359.4 10.1 369.5 357.8 7.9 365.7
 Property – contingent rent 5.4 – 5.4 13.4 0.1 13.5
Rentals received under operating leases:
 Property – subleases (7.3) – (7.3) (5.5) – (5.5)
2010/11
 £million
2009/10  
£million
Auditors’ remuneration 
 Audit services – Group financial statements 0.5 0.5
  – Subsidiary financial statements 0.6 0.7
Total audit fees 1.1 1.2
 Non audit services pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2
 Corporate finance services – 0.1
 Other – 0.1
Total fees paid to the auditors 1.3 1.6
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 74 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
4 Non-underlying items 
2010/11 2009/10
Note
Business  
to be closed 
£million
 Other 
 £million
 Total 
 £million
Business to be 
closed / closed 
businesses 
£million
 Other  
£million
 Total 
 £million
Included in operating profit / (loss):     
 Business to be closed / closed businesses (i) (7.7) – (7.7) (0.2) – (0.2)
 Amortisation of acquired intangibles – (4.5) (4.5) – (4.6) (4.6)
 Net restructuring charges (ii) – (17.1) (17.1) – (5.6) (5.6)
 Business impairment charges (iii) – (251.6) (251.6) – – –
 Change in pension benefits (iv) – – – – 33.4 33.4
 Other items (v) – (24.9) (24.9) – – –
  (7.7) (298.1) (305.8) (0.2) 23.2 23.0
Included in net finance costs:
 Business to be closed (i) (0.8) – (0.8) (0.4) – (0.4)
 Net fair value remeasurements of financial  
 instruments (vi) – (2.8) (2.8) – (0.8) (0.8)
 Accelerated amortisation of facility fees (vii) – (7.8) (7.8) – – –
 Net 2012 Bond redemption gains (viii) – 7.8 7.8 – – –
(0.8) (2.8) (3.6) (0.4) (0.8) (1.2)
Total impact on profit / (loss) before tax (8.5) (300.9) (309.4) (0.6) 22.4 21.8
Included in income tax expense:
 Business to be closed / closed businesses – – – 0.1 – 0.1
 Other non-underlying items – 12.3 12.3 – (6.1) (6.1)
 – 12.3 12.3 0.1 (6.1) (6.0)
Total impact on profit / (loss) after tax (8.5) (288.6) (297.1) (0.5) 16.3 15.8
(i)  Business to be closed / closed businesses: comprises the operating activities of PC City Spain whereby its closure was 
announced on 14 April 2011 and Markantalo and PC City Sweden which were closed on 10 May 2009 and 20 May 2009, 
respectively.
(ii) Net restructuring charges – strategic reorganisation:
2010/11
 £million
2009/10  
£million
Asset impairments (1.6) (3.3)
Property charges (7.4) (2.3)
Other charges (8.1) –
(17.1) (5.6)
Net restructuring charges relate predominantly to the renewal and transformation of the UK & Ireland business which has  
been focused mainly on the reformatting and re-organisation of the UK & Ireland store portfolio and the reorganisation of the 
service offering.
Asset impairments relate to intangible assets and items of property, plant & equipment which are to be eliminated from the 
business over a shorter period than their current useful expected lives and arise from restructuring initiatives which commenced 
in 2007/08. Such impairments comprise incremental accelerated depreciation charges associated with the economic useful life 
of these assets being shortened. Property charges comprise onerous lease costs and charges related to vacating properties. 
Other charges predominantly comprise employee severance.
(iii) Net business impairment charges:
Goodwill  
impairment  
£million
Other assets  
impairment 
£milion
Property 
charges  
£million
Other  
 charges 
 £million
 Total  
£million
Business to be closed (15.1) (31.8) (6.1) (17.6) (70.6)
PIXmania (106.3) – – – (106.3)
Greek business (53.2) – – – (53.2)
Associate – (21.5) – – (21.5)
(174.6) (53.3) (6.1) (17.6) (251.6)  Dixons Retail plc 
75
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
  Business to be closed relates to PC City Spain following the announcement of the closure of the store operations of this 
business and comprises the full impairment of goodwill as well as other asset impairments which include other intangible assets, 
property, plant & equipment and inventory. Property charges comprise onerous lease costs and charges related to vacating 
properties. Other charges relate predominantly to employee severance.
PIXmania: Weakness in the Southern European economies, investment in developing new web platforms and changes in the 
internet retailing market have caused profit performance to be behind that envisaged at the time of the acquisition of the 
business and this has therefore led to an impairment to the goodwill being charged as described further in note 9.
 Greek business: Following an extended period of economic difficulty and the expectation that a full recovery will be prolonged,  
 an impairment to the goodwill has been charged as described further in note 9.
 Associate: Relates to a long period of decline in the results of F-Group leading to the conclusion that the carrying value of the   
 investment (which incorporates prior year dividends received) is impaired. Further information is provided in note 12.
(iv)  The change in pension benefits in 2009/10 arose from the closure to future accrual of the defined benefit section of the UK 
pension scheme which occurred on 30 April 2010.
(v) Other items comprise the following:
2010/11  
£million
2009/10  
£million
Impairment of other intangibles work in progress (14.9) –
Exceptional supplier balance write offs (12.0) –
Credits in respect of prior restructurings 2.0 –
(24.9) –
  Write off of other intangibles work in progress relates to capitalised system costs in the UK from 2008 following the decision to 
defer the project in order to focus on existing process improvements. This has caused the conclusion that the as yet 
unamortised work in progress is impaired. 
The exceptional supplier balance write offs relate to supplier receivables in PIXmania, dating back to 2008/09 and prior years. 
This write off has arisen due to the culmination of a reconciliation process following the implementation of new systems 
highlighting the extent of the receivables outstanding and a detailed review of the Group’s ability to recover these balances. 
Owing to historical nature of the origin of the amounts, coupled with their only recent quantification, the write off has been 
treated as a non-underlying item.
Credits relate mainly to closed businesses and represent cash recoveries from third parties which due to their contingent nature 
had not previously been recognised.
(vi)  Net fair value remeasurement gains and losses on revaluation of financial instruments: Items excluded from underlying finance 
income and expense represent the gains and losses arising from the revaluation of derivative financial instruments under 
methodologies stipulated by IAS 39 compared with those on an accruals basis (the basis upon which all other items in the 
financial statements are prepared). Such a treatment is a form of revaluation gain or loss created by an assumption that the 
derivatives will be settled before their maturity.
  Such gains and losses are unrealised and in the directors’ view also conflict with both the commercial reasons for entering into 
such arrangements as well as Group Treasury policy whereby early settlement in the majority of cases would amount to 
speculative use of derivatives.
(vii)  On 12 May 2010, the Group signed a new £360 million Revolving Credit Facility (the £360 million Facility) which came into effect 
on 9 July 2010 when the Group’s pre-existing £400 million Sterling Committed Facility (the £400 million Facility) was cancelled. 
This cancellation triggered the acceleration of the amortisation of fees from the £400 million Facility which would otherwise have 
been charged evenly over the period to the pre-existing facility’s maturity in October 2011.
(viii)  On 23 July 2010, the Group conditionally accepted tenders to repurchase £140 million in nominal amount of its £300 million 
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds due November 2012 (the 2012 Bonds), subject to the successful completion of appropriate financing 
to fund the repurchase. This repurchase was financed by a new issue of £150 million 8.75% Guaranteed Notes due 3 August 
2015 and for which proceeds were received on 30 July 2010. As a result of the repurchase, charges relating to the acceleration 
of the amortisation of fees from the 2012 Bonds which would otherwise have been charged evenly over the period to the 2012 
Bonds’ maturity in November 2012 has occurred together with a redemption premium. These have been more than offset by 
gains arising on the notional cancellation of interest rate swaps which were in place on the portion of the 2012 Bonds which 
have now been redeemed.
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 76 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
5 Net finance costs
Note 
2010/11
 £million
2009/10  
£million
Bank and other interest receivable (ii) 14.2 20.6
Expected return on pension scheme assets 44.7 37.6
Fair value remeasurement gains on financial instruments
*
(iv) 2.3 1.1
2012 Bond redemption gains
*
10.2 –
Finance income 71.4 59.3
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 interest and related charges (12.0) (18.3)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 interest and related charges (9.8) –
Bank loans, overdrafts and other interest payable:
 Non-underlying: business to be closed
*
(0.8) (0.4)
 Underlying (iii) (22.0) (29.5)
Finance lease interest payable (7.1) (7.1)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (50.3) (45.6)
Fair value remeasurement losses on financial instruments
*
 (iv) (5.1) (1.9)
Accelerated amortisation of facility fees
*
(7.8) –
2012 Bond redemption costs
*
(2.4) –
Finance costs (117.3) (102.8)
Total net finance costs – continuing operations (45.9) (43.5)
 
Underlying total net finance costs – continuing operations (i) (42.3) (42.3)
(i)  Underlying total net finance costs exclude items marked 
*
. See note 4 for a description of such items. Net finance costs for 
closed businesses comprise interest on bank loans and overdrafts. 
(ii) Bank and other interest receivable comprise:
2010/11
 £million
2009/10  
£million
Interest on cash and cash equivalents and short term investments 2.1 2.6
Interest on overpayments of tax in prior periods – 6.2
Remeasurement of financial instruments on an accruals basis 12.1 11.8
14.2 20.6
(iii) Bank loans, overdrafts and other interest payable comprise:
2010/11
 £million
2009/10  
million
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (14.8) (21.8)
Exchange losses (3.8) (4.6)
Remeasurement of financial instruments on an accruals basis (3.4) (3.1)
(22.0) (29.5)
  Included within remeasurement of financial instruments on an accruals basis are exchange losses of £1.2 million (2009/10 gains 
of £16.9 million) which is a natural offset for a £1.2 million gain (2009/10 £16.9 million charge) arising from financial instruments 
not in a formal designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
  Included within the remeasurement of financial instruments is a £3.4 million charge (2009/10 £3.1 million charge) which is not in 
a designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
(iv)  Fair value remeasurement gains and losses include losses of £3.4 million (2009/10 £0.7 million) which are not in a designated 
hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
(v)   Interest income of £2.1 million (2009/10 £2.6 million) and expense of £58.5 million (2009/10 £52.2 million) is included within net 
finance costs relating to financial assets and liabilities, respectively not held at fair value through the Income Statement.  Dixons Retail plc 
77
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
6 Employees
Staff costs for the period were:
2010/11 
 £million
2009/10  
£million
Wages and salaries 745.1 724.9
Social security costs 113.2 109.3
Other pension costs 17.4 15.4
875.7 849.6
In addition to the above other pension costs, a non-underlying curtailment gain of £nil (2009/10 £33.4 million) was incurred as 
described in note 4.
The average number of employees, including part time employees, was:
2010/11 
Number
2009/10 
 Number
Re-presented
UK & Ireland 23,091 23,885
Nordics 7,343 7,296
Other International 7,569 7,573
Pure play e-commerce 1,398 1,413
Corporate centre and shared services 332 251
Continuing operations 39,733 40,418
Discontinued operations – 170
39,733 40,588
7 Tax 
(a) Income tax expense 
2010/11  
£million
2009/10 
 £million
Current tax 
UK corporation tax at 27.83%
 (ii) 
(2009/10 28%) 0.1 0.4
Double tax relief (0.1) (0.4)
 – –
Overseas taxation – underlying 22.7 25.0
Adjustment in respect of earlier periods: 
 UK corporation tax  – underlying – (1.8)
 Overseas taxation  – underlying (0.2) 1.3
22.5 24.5
Deferred tax 
Current period – underlying 18.9 18.0
  – non-underlying: business to be closed / closed businesses
*
– (0.1)
  – non-underlying items: other
*
(12.3) 6.1
Adjustment in respect of earlier periods:  
 UK corporation tax  – underlying (2.0) (6.0)
 Overseas taxation  – underlying (8.0) 4.2
(3.4) 22.2
Income tax expense – continuing operations 19.1 46.7
Underlying income tax expense – continuing operations (i) 31.4 40.7
(i)  Underlying income tax expense excludes those items marked 
*
. Tax relating to discontinued operations is included in note 28. 
(ii) The UK corporation tax rate for the period was 28% for the period up to 31 March 2011 and 26% thereafter.
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 78 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
7 Tax continued
A reconciliation of the notional to the actual income tax expense is set out below:
Note
2010/11
 £million
2009/10  
£million
(Loss) / profit before tax – continuing operations (224.1) 112.7
Loss before tax – discontinued operations 28 (2.1) (8.7)
(226.2) 104.0
Tax on (loss) / profit at UK statutory rate of 27.83% (2009/10 28%) (63.0) 29.1
Non-qualifying depreciation 3.3 1.9
Differences in effective overseas taxation rates (1.0) 3.5
Non deductible charges 1.9 1.6
Non taxable losses on property disposals 1.1 1.2
Non taxable other gains – underlying – (0.2)
Non deductible losses – non-underlying 71.4 (0.1)
Overseas deferred tax not recognised – continuing operations 3.7 5.3
    – discontinued operations – 0.8
Adjustment in respect of earlier periods – underlying (10.2) (2.3)
Non deductible loss on discontinued operations 1.0 1.6
Effect of change in UK statutory tax rate 6.0 –
Other differences 4.9 4.3
Income tax expense – total 19.1 46.7
Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 28 – –
Income tax expense – continuing operations 19.1 46.7
The effective tax rate on underlying earnings of 37% (2009/10 45%) has fallen due to decreases in effective UK and overseas tax rates, 
and unrecognised losses starting to form a lower proportion of net profits. The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating 
to tax losses of £126.1 million (2009/10 £105.8 million) of which £0.9 million (2009/10 £0.9 million) have no time restriction over when  
they can be utilised. The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to time restricted tax losses of £125.2 million (2009/10 
£104.5 million) for which the weighted average period over which they can be utilised is five years (2009/10 five years). 
(b) Deferred tax 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£million
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£million
Losses  
carried  
forward 
£million
Other 
 timing 
differences 
£million
 Total  
£million
At 3 May 2009 18.4 45.2 29.9 34.1 127.6
Credited / (charged) to income statement 14.6 (13.5) (2.1) (21.2) (22.2)
Acquisitions 0.2 – – 0.1 0.3
Credited directly to equity – 43.2 – 1.3 44.5
Currency retranslation (0.2) 0.1 (0.3) 0.9 0.5
At 1 May 2010 33.0 75.0 27.5 15.2 150.7
Credited / (charged) to income statement 14.0 (3.2) (3.6) (3.8) 3.4
Charged directly to equity – (7.0) – (2.1) (9.1)
Currency retranslation 0.2 – 0.4 0.2 0.8
At 30 April 2011 47.2 64.8 24.3 9.5 145.8  Dixons Retail plc 
79
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
Summary of assets and liabilities as disclosed:
2011  
£million
2010  
£million
Deferred tax assets 163.4 169.4
Deferred tax liabilities (17.6) (18.7)
145.8 150.7
Analysis of deferred tax relating to items credited / (charged) directly to equity in the period:
2010/11
 £million
2009/10  
£million
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes (7.0) 43.2
Net losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges (1.9) 2.0
Net gains on hedges of net investments 0.4 (0.8)
Unrealised gains on investments – (0.2)
(Charged) / credited to comprehensive expense (8.5) 44.2
Share-based payments (0.6) 0.3
(9.1) 44.5
The recognition of trading losses carried forward is considered supportable due to the ability to offset losses against future profits. 
As a result of share disposals, allowable losses have been incurred which are available for offset against certain future chargeable 
gains. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as it is considered that there is insufficient evidence 
that chargeable gains will arise. The deferred tax asset not recognised, measured at the standard rate of 26%, is not less than 
£327.0 million (2009/10 £352.0 million). Where permitted, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset for financial 
reporting purposes.
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 80 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
8 Earnings per share 
Note 
2010/11
 £million
2009/10  
£million
Basic and diluted earnings 
Total (continuing and discontinued operations) (239.0) 59.8
Discontinued operations – loss after tax 28 2.1 8.7
Continuing operations (236.9) 68.5
Adjustments 
Business to be closed / closed businesses 8.5 0.6
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4.5 4.6
Net restructuring charges 17.1 5.6
Business impairment charges 251.6 –
Other items 24.9 –
Change in pension benefits – (33.4)
Net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments 2.8 0.8
Accelerated amortisation of facility fees 7.8 –
2012 Bond redemption gains (7.8) –
309.4 (21.8)
Attributable to non-controlling interests (3.6) –
Attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 305.8 (21.8)
Tax on adjustments (12.3) 6.0
Attributable to non-controlling interests 2.2 –
Tax on adjustments attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company (10.1) 6.0
Total adjustments (net of taxation) 295.7 (15.8)
 
Underlying basic and diluted earnings 58.8 52.7
 Million Million
Basic weighted average number of shares 3,606.6 3,495.6
Employee share option and ownership schemes 12.3 23.9
Diluted weighted average number of shares 3,618.9 3,519.5
 Pence Pence
Basic (loss) / earnings per share  
Total (continuing and discontinued operations) (6.6) 1.7
Discontinued operations – 0.3
Continuing operations (6.6) 2.0
Adjustments (net of taxation) 8.2 (0.5)
Underlying basic earnings per share 1.6 1.5
Diluted (loss) / earnings per share
Total (continuing and discontinued operations) (6.6) 1.7
Discontinued operations – 0.2
Continuing operations (6.6) 1.9
Adjustments (net of taxation) 8.2 (0.4)
Underlying diluted earnings per share 1.6 1.5
The weighted average number of shares used in the calculation for earnings per share information for the periods prior to the rights 
issue, which completed on 9 June 2009, has been multiplied by an adjustment factor to reflect the bonus element in the shares 
issued under the terms of the rights issue. The adjustment factor used was 1.2138. 
Basic and diluted earnings per share are based on the profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders. Underlying earnings 
per share are presented in order to show the underlying performance of the Group. Adjustments used to determine underlying 
earnings are described further in note 4.  Dixons Retail plc 
81
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
9 Goodwill
2011 
£million
2010  
£million
Cost 
At beginning of period 1,516.5 1,502.7
Additions 2.6 7.3
Disposals (15.1) (28.7)
Currency retranslation 34.1 35.2
At end of period 1,538.1 1,516.5
Impairment 
At beginning of period 400.0 433.6
Non-underlying impairment 174.6 –
Disposals (15.1) (28.1)
Currency retranslation 7.8 (5.5)
At end of period 567.3 400.0
Net book value at the end of period 970.8 1,116.5
(a) Carrying value
The carrying value of goodwill is made up of the following businesses: 
2011 
£million
2010  
£million
Elkjøp Nordic AS (Elkjøp) 686.6 667.4
Unieuro S.p.A. (Unieuro) 146.9 144.3
PIXmania S.A.S. (PIXmania) 80.8 181.7
Dixons South East Europe A.E.V.E (Kotsovolos) 39.4 91.2
Others 17.1 31.9
970.8 1,116.5
The non-underlying impairment charges which form part of non-underlying operating profit comprise:
 PIXmania: £106.3 million – For PIXmania, weakness in the European economy combined with lower than anticipated profitability in 
2010/11 has caused the directors to revise their five year projections; 
 Kotsovolos in Greece: £53.2 million – In the case of Kotsovolos, weakness in the Greek economy highlighted by poor trading in 
the current period, coupled with management’s expectations that economic recovery may be prolonged, has caused the 
directors to revise projections for the five year period referred to below significantly downwards when compared to prior periods 
thereby giving rise to an impairment charge; and
 the business to be closed (PC City Spain): £15.1 million – In the case of PC City Spain, the impairment arises as a result of the 
closure of the store operations of this business which was announced on 14 April 2011 with the amount representing the entire 
goodwill attributable to this business.
Further details of these charges is shown in note 4 and the methodology used in their calculation is set out below.
Disposals relate to the business to be closed (2009/10 mainly related to closed businesses) resulting from there being no ongoing 
business attaching to the goodwill.
(b) Impairment testing
As required by IAS 36, goodwill is subject to annual impairment reviews. These reviews are carried out using the following criteria:
 business acquisitions generate an attributed amount of goodwill; 
 the manner in which these businesses are run and managed is used to determine the ‘Cash Generating Unit’ (CGU) grouping as 
defined in IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’;
 the recoverable amount of each CGU group is determined based on calculating its value in use (VIU);
 the VIU is calculated by applying discounted cash flow modelling to management’s own projections covering a five year period;
 cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated using a long term growth rate equivalent to the relevant market’s Gross 
Domestic Product (GDP); and
 the VIU is then compared to the carrying amount in order to determine whether impairment has occurred. 
The key assumptions used in calculating value in use are:
 management’s five year projections;
 the growth rate beyond five years; and 
 the pre-tax adjusted discount rate. 
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 82 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
9 Goodwill continued
The five year projections, which have been approved by management, have been prepared using risk adjusted strategic plans which 
have regard to the relative performance of competitors and knowledge of the current market together with management’s views on the 
future achievable growth in market share and impact of the committed initiatives under the Renewal and Transformation plan (which 
includes upgrade of the store network). The cash flows which derive from these five year projections include ongoing capital expenditure 
required to develop and upgrade the store network in order to maintain and operate the businesses and to compete in their markets. In 
forming the five year projections, management draws on past experience as a measure to forecast future performance.
Key assumptions used in determining the five year projections comprise the growth in sales and costs over this period. These, when 
combined, accordingly drive the resulting profit margins and the profit in year five of the projections which is in turn used to calculate 
the terminal value in the VIU calculation. Historical amounts for both the businesses under impairment review as well as from other 
parts of the Group are used to generate the values attributed to these assumptions.
The growth rate beyond five years is based on the GDP for the territories in which these businesses operate. The discount rates 
applied to cash flows are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital having regard to the strategic five year plans 
themselves already being risk adjusted to take account of specific risks in the relevant market or region. 
The values attributed to these assumptions is as follows:
2011 2010
Compound 
annual growth 
in sales
Compound 
annual growth 
in costs
Growth rate 
beyond five 
years
Pre-tax 
discount rate
Compound 
 annual growth  
in sales
Compound 
annual growth 
in costs
Growth rate 
beyond five 
years
Pre-tax  
discount rate
Elkjøp 4.3% 4.4% 2.6% 11.7% 6.4% 6.3% 3.0% 10.9%
Unieuro 11.8% 11.1% 0.9% 12.5% 9.8% 8.7% 1.0% 12.3%
PIXmania 8.7% 8.3% 1.8% 12.7% 14.2% 13.5% 1.8% 13.0%
Kotsovolos 1.8% 0.9% 2.0% 11.7% 1.9% 1.6% 2.1% 12.1%
(c) Sensitivities
A sensitivity analysis had been performed on each of the base case assumptions used for assessing the goodwill with other 
variables held constant. Consideration of sensitivities to key assumptions can evolve from one financial year to the next. For 2010/11, 
the presentation of sensitivities to the compound annual growth rate in sales and costs represents such a change from the sensitivity 
to the operating profit in year five of the five year projections which was presented in 2009/10.
The directors have concluded that in the case of Elkjøp there are no reasonably possible changes in any key assumption which 
would cause the carrying amount of goodwill to exceed its value in use. In the case of Unieuro, despite the continuing success of the 
turnaround referred to in the Performance Review section of the Directors’ Report, it is reasonably possible that a change in a key 
assumption could occur. Similarly, in the case of PIXmania and Kotsovolos, it is also reasonably possible that a change in a key 
assumption could occur and because the value in use equals the respective carrying value after impairment, any adverse change in 
a key assumption would, in isolation, cause a further impairment loss to be recognised. The following sensitivities are therefore 
presented, which are calculated leaving all other variables constant:
 decrease in the compound annual growth rate in sales; 
 increase in the compound annual growth rate in costs; 
 decrease in the growth rate beyond five years; and 
 increase in the pre-tax discount rate.
In addition to the above, a further sensitivity is presented which shows the effect of a decrease in the compound annual growth rate 
in sales combined with an equivalent reduction in the compound annual growth rate in costs in order to reflect how sales and costs 
are interconnected. 
2011
Change required for surplus of value in use over carrying value to erode to £nil
Surplus of value 
in use over 
carrying value
£million
Decrease in 
compound 
annual growth 
in sales
Increase in 
compound 
annual growth 
in costs
Decrease in 
compound 
annual growth 
in sales and 
costs
Decrease in 
growth rate 
beyond five 
years
Increase in 
post-tax 
discount rate
Unieuro 20.5 (0.05)% 0.05% (2.8)% (1.7)% 1.1%  Dixons Retail plc 
83
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
2011
Amount of further impairment determined by further changes in key assumptions
Surplus of value 
in use over 
carrying value
Decrease in 
compound  
annual growth  
in sales
Increase in 
compound 
annual growth  
in costs
Decrease in 
compound 
annual growth 
in sales and 
costs
Decrease in 
growth rate 
beyond five 
years
Increase in 
post-tax 
discount rate
Percentage change (0.05)% 0.05% (1.0)% (0.1)% 0.5%
£million £million £million £million £million £million
PIXmania – 17.7 17.7 6.7 1.0 7.1
Kotsovolos – 8.3 8.2 4.0 0.8 5.5
2010
Change required for surplus of value in use over carrying value to erode to £nil
Surplus of value 
in use over 
carrying value
£million
Decrease in 
compound 
 annual growth 
 in sales
Increase in 
compound 
annual growth 
 in costs
Decrease in 
compound 
annual growth in 
sales and costs
Decrease in 
growth rate 
beyond five 
years
Increase in 
post-tax 
discount rate
Unieuro 13.1 (0.03)% 0.03% (1.9)% (1.0)%
†             
0.6%
PIXmania 30.0 (0.08)% 0.08% (2.4)% (1.8)% 1.1%
Kotsovolos 16.9 (0.09)% 0.09% (2.2)% (1.7)% 1.1%
†  The sensitivity to a decrease in the growth rate beyond five years of (1.0)% for 2009/10 represents a correction from the figure of (1.9)% which was previously disclosed in the 2009/10 financial statements.
10 Intangible assets
Other intangibles
Acquired 
intangibles 
£million
Software 
(externally 
acquired) 
£million
Software 
(internally 
generated) 
£million
Sub-total 
£million
Total 
£million
Cost
At 3 May 2009 88.1 133.4 67.1 200.5 288.6
Additions – – 14.1 14.1 14.1
Disposals – (14.0) (11.3) (25.3) (25.3)
Currency retranslation (0.8) 1.6 (0.2) 1.4 0.6
At 1 May 2010 87.3 121.0 69.7 190.7 278.0
Additions – 19.2 5.2 24.4 24.4
Disposals – (2.0) (0.7) (2.7) (2.7)
Currency retranslation 1.5 1.2 0.4 1.6 3.1
At 30 April 2011 88.8 139.4 74.6 214.0 302.8
Amortisation
At 3 May 2009 26.1 69.5 44.6 114.1 140.2
Charge for the period – regular 4.6 15.1 10.7 25.8 30.4
  – accelerated – 0.3 – 0.3 0.3
Disposals – (13.6) (11.2) (24.8) (24.8)
Currency retranslation 0.4 0.9 (0.1) 0.8 1.2
At 1 May 2010 31.1 72.2 44.0 116.2 147.3
Charge for the period – regular 4.5 12.6 10.1 22.7 27.2
  – accelerated – 0.1 – 0.1 0.1
Non-underlying impairment – 15.6 – 15.6 15.6
Disposals – (1.7) (0.7) (2.4) (2.4)
Currency retranslation 0.7 1.0 0.2 1.2 1.9
At 30 April 2011 36.3 99.8 53.6 153.4 189.7
Net book value
At 30 April 2011 52.5 39.6 21.0 60.6 113.1
At 1 May 2010 56.2 48.8 25.7 74.5 130.7
Acquired intangibles predominantly comprise brand names. Amortisation of intangibles relates to continuing operations. 
Included within the carrying amount of brand names are £32.8 million and £16.5 million (2009 £35.4 million and £17.0 million)  
relating to the euro denominated PIXmania and Kotsovolos brand names, respectively and for which the remaining life of these 
assets is 10 years and 23 years, respectively. Included in net book value of other intangibles are assets under construction of  
£18.6 million (2009/10 £26.8 million).
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
84 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
11 Property, plant & equipment
2011 2010
Land and 
buildings 
£million
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£million
Total 
 £million
Land and 
buildings
 £million
Fixtures,  
fittings and 
equipment 
£million
 Total  
£million
Cost
At beginning of period 205.8 1,250.0 1,455.8 205.0 1,207.0 1,412.0
Additions 4.9 189.2 194.1 0.3 159.8 160.1
Acquisitions – – – – 0.8 0.8
Disposals (4.8) (127.8) (132.6) (1.3) (124.8) (126.1)
Currency retranslation 3.7 16.5 20.2 1.8 7.2 9.0
At end of period 209.6 1,327.9 1,537.5 205.8 1,250.0 1,455.8
Depreciation
At beginning of period 57.8 857.0 914.8 49.4 873.0 922.4
Charge for the period – regular 7.7 109.0 116.7 8.2 94.7 102.9
   – accelerated – 2.0 2.0 – 3.0 3.0
Non-underlying impairment – 25.0 25.0 – – –
Disposals (2.3) (115.6) (117.9) (0.4) (119.0) (119.4)
Currency retranslation 1.2 12.0 13.2 0.6 5.3 5.9
At end of period 64.4 889.4 953.8 57.8 857.0 914.8
Net book value at end of period 145.2 438.5 583.7 148.0 393.0 541.0
Included in net book value
Land not depreciated 19.7 – 19.7 16.2 – 16.2
Assets in the course of construction 0.1 9.7 9.8 0.5 5.9 6.4
Assets held under finance leases 67.9 3.3 71.2 71.4 1.9 73.3
2009/10 depreciation comprised £105.8 million and £0.1 million relating to continuing and discontinued operations, respectively. 
£2.4 million of additions related to finance leases (2009/10 £nil). The leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance 
lease liabilities. 
In 2009/10 £1.3 million of disposals of fixtures and fittings related to the disposal of Poland as described in note 28. 
12 Investments in associates
2011 
£million
2010 
 £million
At beginning of period 26.4 29.8
Share of (loss) / profit after tax (0.4) 1.6
Acquisitions – 0.6
Disposals – (1.9)
Non-underlying impairment (21.5) –
Dividends (1.1) (4.2)
Currency retranslation – 0.5
At end of period 3.4 26.4
Comprising:
F-Group (40%) 2.9 25.8
Other 0.5 0.6
3.4 26.4 Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
85
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
The Group’s share of post-tax results of associates is recorded as a single line in the income statement within operating results. 
Additional information for selected income statement and balance sheet headings for F-Group, which is incorporated in Denmark, 
and to which the Group’s share of 40% is applied are as follows:
2010/11
 £million
2009/10 
 £million
Income statement
Revenue 227.7 227.6
(Loss) / profit after tax (1.7) 5.9
 2011 
 £million
2010  
£million
Balance sheet
Assets 68.1 61.4
Liabilities (35.9) (25.2)
Net assets 32.2 36.2
The non-underlying impairment relates to continued weakness in the results of F-Group which have given rise to a revision in 
expectations of future profitability such that the directors have concluded that an impairment charge is required. The impairment  
has been calculated by comparing the carrying value of the investment with the Group’s share of the value in use, which has been 
calculated using principles described in note 9 and using a pre-tax discount rate of 12.2%.
Investments in other associates comprise shareholdings in several different enterprises in the Nordic region, none of which are significant.
13 Inventories
2011  
£million
2010  
£million
Finished goods and goods for resale 1,002.5 1,017.5
Provision for obsolete and slow moving goods (41.6) (44.9)
960.9 972.6
14 Trade and other receivables
 2011 2010
Note
Current  
£million
Non-current 
£million
Current 
 £million
Non-current 
£million
Trade debtors 243.7 9.4 259.6 7.2
Provision for bad and doubtful debts (24.2) (1.7) (28.0) (0.2)
219.5 7.7 231.6 7.0
Derivative financial instruments 22 3.5 18.3 3.0 25.0
Other debtors 68.3 12.7 61.1 9.9
Prepayments 60.6 2.8 57.7 5.0
Accrued income 31.3 8.1 41.7 11.1
383.2 49.6 395.1 58.0
The majority of trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 day terms. The balance comprises 
both business to business receivables and consumer credit receivables with no material individual balances. The total financial 
assets included within trade and other receivables are £347.6 million (2010 £362.4 million). The carrying amount of trade and other 
receivables approximates fair value with no concentration of credit risk. 
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
86 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
14 Trade and other receivables continued
The Group’s trade debtors included the following amounts which are past due at the end of the period and for which the Group has 
not provided for owing to the amounts being considered recoverable:
2011 
 £million
2010  
£million
Up to six months past due 42.9 42.4
Six to 12 months past due 0.8 5.0
Over 12 months past due 1.7 5.9
45.4 53.3
Movements on the provision for bad and doubtful debts are as follows:
2011  
£million
2010  
£million
At beginning of period 28.2 26.1
Charge for the year 9.4 17.8
Utilisation of provision (11.8) (16.1)
Currency retranslation 0.1 0.4
At end of period 25.9 28.2
The Group does not hold any collateral as security over receivables balances. 
15 Short term investments
2011  
£million
2010  
£million
Floating rate notes 2.6 3.2
Money market deposits 7.9 5.3
10.5 8.5
Floating rate notes have a nominal value of £3.1 million (2010 £3.8 million) and have an average expected maturity of 9.5 years (2010  
2.6 years). Money market deposits are made for varying periods of 90 to 180 days with an average maturity of 90 days (2010 104 days). 
The carrying amount of money market deposits approximates their fair value.
Short term investments include £7.4 million (2010 £nil) which, together with certain cash and cash equivalents, are held under trust to 
fund customer support agreement liabilities as disclosed in note 26.
16 Cash and cash equivalents
2011  
£million
2010 
 £million
Cash at bank 195.3 161.3
Money market deposits 139.4 134.4
334.7 295.7
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. Money market 
deposits are made for varying periods of up to 90 days with an average maturity of 31 days (2010 18 days). The carrying amount  
of money market deposits approximates their fair value. Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
87
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
17 Borrowings
2011 
 £million
2010 
 £million
Current 
Bank overdrafts 5.6 4.9
Other borrowing 130.0 98.5
135.6 103.4
Non-current 
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 168.2 321.4
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 147.1 –
315.3 321.4
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. 
On 12 May 2010, the Group signed a new revolving credit facility agreement (the New Facility) for £360 million. The £360 million 
Facility came into effect on 9 July 2010 at which time it replaced the previous £400 million Sterling Committed Facility (the Old Facility) 
which was cancelled. The terms and covenants attaching to the New Facility are substantially the same as that for the Old Facility 
except that the guarantee structure comprises UK and Irish companies only, thereby aligning it more closely to the arrangements 
under the 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (the 2012 Bonds). In the event of a change of control, the syndicated banks have the 
option to terminate the £360 million Facility.
Current borrowings include £130.0 million which was drawn down under the New Facility (2010 £95.0 million under the Old Facility)  
at a weighted average effective yield of 4.35% (2010 4.30%). These borrowings have an average maturity of five days (2010 nine days) 
and are eligible for renewal under the terms of the £360 million Facility. The New Facility has a maturity date of August 2013.
At 30 April 2011, the available undrawn amount of the New Facility was £230 million (2010 £305 million under the Old Facility).  
The carrying amount of current borrowings and overdrafts approximates their fair value.
On 23 July 2010, the Group conditionally accepted tenders to repurchase £140 million in nominal amount of the £300 million 2012 
Bonds, subject to the successful completion of appropriate financing to fund the repurchase. This repurchase was financed by a 
new issue of £150 million 8.75% Guaranteed Notes due 3 August 2015 (the 2015 Notes) and for which proceeds were received on 
30 July 2010. 
The remaining 2012 Bonds are denominated in sterling with a nominal value of £160 million, paying interest annually, are unsecured, 
are guaranteed by DSG Retail Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, and are listed on the London Stock Exchange. Unless previously 
redeemed or purchased and cancelled they will be redeemed at par on 15 November 2012. The 2012 Bonds may be redeemed in 
whole or in part at their principal amount plus accrued interest by providing 30 to 60 days’ notice to the bondholder. The 2012 Bonds 
may also be purchased in the open market by any company within the Group. In either circumstance, the 2012 Bonds and any 
unmatured coupons will be cancelled and may not be re-issued or re-sold. In the event of a change of control, if the rating of the 
Bonds were to have fallen below a specified level, bondholders would have the right to redemption. The value of the 2012 Bonds 
excludes accrued interest of £4.5 million (2010 £8.4 million), included in trade and other payables. 
The 2015 Notes are denominated in sterling with a nominal value of £150 million, paying interest semi-annually, and are guaranteed 
by a number of UK and Irish subsidiary undertakings of the Group, including DSG Retail Limited. The 2015 Notes are listed on the 
London Stock Exchange. Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled the Notes will be redeemed at par on 3 August 
2015. The 2015 Notes may be redeemed in whole or in part at their principal amount plus accrued interest by providing 30 to 60 
days’ notice to the Noteholders. The 2015 Notes may also be purchased in the open market by any company within the Group. In 
either circumstance, the 2015 Notes and any unmatured coupons will be cancelled and may not be re-issued or re-sold. In the event 
of a specific change of control event, each Noteholder has an option to require Dixons Retail plc to redeem or, at the option of Dixons 
Retail plc, purchase (or procure the purchase of) any of the Notes held by such Noteholder at a cash price equal to 101% of their 
principal amount together with interest accrued. The value of the Notes excludes accrued interest of £3.2 million included in trade 
and other payables. 
Further information concerning fair value, hedging and ensuing interest rate and currency profiles relating to the 2012 Bonds and the 
2015 Notes is included in note 22.
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
88 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
18 Obligations under finance leases
2011 2010
Minimum lease 
payments 
£million
Present value 
of minimum 
lease  
payments 
£million
 Minimum 
 lease  
payments 
£million
Present value  
of minimum 
lease 
 payments 
£million
Amounts due:
 Within one year 9.4 8.5 8.3 7.1
 In more than one year and not more than five years 33.7 28.5 33.8 26.1
 In more than five years 132.9 64.1 139.7 66.8
176.0 101.1 181.8 100.0
Less future finance charges (74.9) – (81.8) –
Present value of lease obligations 101.1 101.1 100.0 100.0
Less amounts due within one year (3.1) (3.1) (2.4) (2.4)
Amounts due after more than one year 98.0 98.0 97.6 97.6
The majority of finance leases relate to properties in the UK where obligations are denominated in sterling and lease terms vary 
between 14 and 25 years. The effective borrowing rate on individual leases ranged between 4.57% and 8.15% (2010 between 4.57% 
and 8.15%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been 
entered into for contingent rental payments.
The total value of minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases was £2.7 million (2010 £nil).
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
19 Trade and other payables
2011 2010
Note
Current 
 £million
Non-current 
£million
Current  
£million
Non-current 
£million
Trade creditors 1,055.3 5.2 1,001.4 6.5
Other taxation and social security 132.6 – 103.2 –
Derivative financial instruments 22 6.5 78.9 9.6 74.8
Other creditors 61.1 16.0 53.8 15.8
Accruals 236.4 81.5 293.7 73.1
Deferred income – customer support agreements 122.3 148.6 133.2 153.5
Deferred income – other 30.0 0.8 11.0 2.0
1,644.2 331.0 1,605.9 325.7
Included in other creditors and accruals is £61.0 million (2010 £66.1 million) relating to other non-financial liabilities. The total financial 
liabilities included in trade and other payables are £1,394.5 million (2010 £1,378.2 million). The carrying amount of trade and other 
payables approximates their fair value.  Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
89
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
20 Provisions 
2011 2010
Property 
related  
£million
Severance  
and other 
£million
 Total  
£million
Property
 related 
 £million
Severance 
 and other  
£million
 Total  
£million
At beginning of period 45.8 6.0 51.8 91.9 20.6 112.5
Additions 13.5 25.7 39.2 2.3 – 2.3
Utilisation (21.0) (9.9) (30.9) (41.3) (14.2) (55.5)
Disposals – – – (6.1) – (6.1)
Currency retranslation 0.1 0.1 0.2 (1.0) (0.4) (1.4)
At end of period 38.4 21.9 60.3 45.8 6.0 51.8
Analysed as:
Current 22.5 21.9 44.4 16.3 6.0 22.3
Non-current 15.9 – 15.9 29.5 – 29.5
38.4 21.9 60.3 45.8 6.0 51.8
Additions during the period relate to restructuring charges which are described further in note 4. Property related provisions mainly 
comprise onerous lease contracts. In 2009/10 disposals and £0.8 million of utilisation related to the Group’s Polish operations which 
were disposed of in that period. 
Of the amounts included within non-current liabilities remaining at 30 April 2011, the majority are expected to be utilised within the 
next four years. 
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations
Note
2011 
 £million
2010 
 £million
Retirement benefit obligations  – UK 21 (b) – (d) (244.0) (263.5)
     – Nordics (3.3) (3.3)
(247.3) (266.8)
The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes. 
The principal scheme which operates in the UK includes a funded defined benefit section whose assets are held in a separate 
trustee administered fund. The scheme is valued by a qualified actuary at least every three years and contributions are assessed in 
accordance with the actuary’s advice so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members. Since 
1 September 2002, the defined benefit section of the scheme has been closed to new entrants and on 30 April 2010 was closed to 
future accrual with automatic entry into the defined contribution section being offered to those active members of the defined benefit 
section at that time. Membership of the defined contribution section is offered to eligible employees. 
In the Nordic region, the Group operates two funded secured defined benefit pension schemes with assets held by a life insurance 
company as well as an unsecured pension arrangement. In addition, contributions are made to a state pension scheme. The net 
movement in the obligation comprises a charge to operating profit of £0.8 million (2009/10 £1.0 million) with the remaining 
movements relating to the benefits paid in the period, actuarial gains / (losses) and currency retranslation. 
In other territories, the Group also provides other post-employment benefits which are largely governed by statute, in particular in 
Italy and Greece. These benefits are unfunded.
(a) Defined contribution pension schemes
The pension charge in respect of defined contribution schemes was £12.3 million (2009/10 £5.5 million). 
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
90 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations continued
(b) UK Defined benefit pension scheme – actuarial valuation and assumptions
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was last carried out as at 31 March 2010 and showed a shortfall of assets compared with 
liabilities of £239.0 million. This shortfall and the associated ‘recovery plan’ have been agreed in principle with the trustee of the scheme 
with formal agreement expected shortly. The proposed recovery plan based on this valuation commenced in 2010/11 with special 
contributions of £12.0 million which rise to £16.0 million in 2011/12, £20.0 million for 2012/13 and 2013/14 and rising approximately 
annually thereafter to £35.0 million by 2020/21. The next triennial valuation will be as at 31 March 2013. The Group’s regular contribution 
rate for 2009/10 was 12.4%, which ceased on 30 April 2010 following the closure of the scheme to future accrual as described above.
The principal actuarial assumptions as at 31 March 2010 were:
Rate per annum
Discount rate for accrued benefits – Pre retirement 6.4% 
– Post-retirement 5.1% – 5.3% 
Rate of increase to pensions – Guaranteed Minimum Pension 0% – 2.8% 
– Pension in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pension 2.4% – 4.1% 
Inflation 3.7% 
Expected return on assets 6.6%
At 31 March 2010, the market value of the scheme’s investments was £672.0 million and, based on the above assumptions, the 
value of the assets was sufficient to cover 74% of the benefits accrued to members with the liabilities amounting to £911.0 million. 
(c) UK Defined benefit pension scheme – IAS 19 
The following summarises the components of net benefit expense recognised in the consolidated income statement, the funded 
status and amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. The methodologies set out in IAS 19 are different from those 
used by the scheme actuaries in determining funding arrangements.
(i) Principal assumptions adopted
The assumptions used in calculating the expenses and obligations are set by the directors after consultation with the independent 
actuaries. 
Rates per annum 2011 2010
Discount rate 5.4% 5.5%
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries n/a 3.6%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment / deferred pensions (pre / post April 2006 accrual) 3.3% / 2.2% 3.5% / 2.3%
Inflation 3.4% 3.6%
The Group uses certain demographic assumptions when calculating scheme obligations which are those underlying the last formal 
actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 31 March 2010. In particular, post-retirement mortality has been assumed to follow the 
standard mortality tables “S1” All Pensioners tables, based on the experience of Self-Administered Pension Schemes (SAPS) from 
2000 to 2006 with medium cohort improvements up to 2009 and multipliers of 105% for males and 110% for females. In addition, an 
allowance has been made for future improvements in longevity by using the new CMI 2009 Core projections with a long term rate of 
improvement of 1.5% per annum for men and 1.0% per annum for women. Applying such tables results in an average expected 
longevity of between 87.2 years and 89.5 years for men and between 88.6 years and 90.2 years for women (2010 between  
87.1 years and 87.9 years for men and between 90 years and 90.7 years for women) for those becoming 65 at the measurement 
date.
(ii) Amounts recognised in consolidated income statement
2010/11
 £million
2009/10  
£million
Current service cost (charged to underlying operating profit) – (4.7)
Non-underlying curtailment – 33.4
Total operating credit – 28.7
Expected return on plan assets 44.7 37.6
Interest cost on benefit obligations (50.3) (45.6)
Net other finance costs (5.6) (8.0)
Total (charged) / credited to profit before tax (5.6) 20.7 Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
91
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Other than the payments under the recovery plan, the Group does not expect to make any further contributions to its UK defined 
benefit pension scheme in 2011/12.
The curtailment in 2009/10 arose from the closure to future accrual of the scheme which occurred on 30 April 2010. The effect of the 
closure meant that all active members of the scheme became treated as if they were deferred members. The effect of the closure is 
that these members are no longer entitled to future salary increases other than in line with inflation. This amounted to a change in 
benefits accruing to these members and resulted in a one off reduction in the ultimate liabilities in respect of these individuals.
(iii) Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet
2011  
£million
2010 
 £million
2009  
£million
2008 
 £million
2007  
£million 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (949.7) (929.4) (693.3) (740.7) (726.7)
Fair value of plan assets 705.7 665.9 544.5 689.7 688.3
Net obligation (244.0) (263.5) (148.8) (51.0) (38.4)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation:
2011  
£million
2010  
£million
Opening obligation 929.4 693.3
Current service cost – 4.7
Employee contributions – 4.8
Interest cost 50.3 45.6
Actuarial (gains) / losses (3.7) 241.4
Benefits paid (26.3) (27.0)
Curtailment gain – (33.4)
Closing obligation 949.7 929.4
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets:
 
2011 
 £million
2010 
 £million
Opening fair value 665.9 544.5
Expected return 44.7 37.6
Employer contributions – regular – 8.6
   – special 12.0 12.0
Employee contributions – 4.8
Actuarial gain 9.4 85.4
Benefits paid (26.3) (27.0)
Closing fair value 705.7 665.9
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
92 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations continued
Analysis of scheme assets:
2011 2010
Long term 
expected rate 
of return £million
% of fair value 
of total  
scheme 
 assets
Long term 
expected rate 
 of return £million
% of fair value  
of total  
scheme 
 assets
Equities 7.3% 471.8 67% 8.1% 400.2 60%
Property 5.8% 33.3 5% 6.4% 30.6 5%
Bonds / gilts 4.3% 185.7 26% 4.6% 222.4 33%
Cash 3.4% 14.9 2% 4.0% 12.7 2%
705.7 665.9
The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, 
applicable to the period over which the obligation is to be settled. Actual return on the scheme assets was a gain of £54.1 million 
(2009/10 gain of £123.0 million). The actual return on other post-employment benefit scheme assets was not significant.
(iv) Experience adjustments recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense:
2011 
 £million
2010 
 £million
2009 
 £million
2008 
 £million
2007  
£million 
Gain / (loss) on scheme liabilities 3.7 (241.4) 81.8 17.0 25.0
Effect of change in valuation methodology – – – – 18.8
Gain / (loss) from actual less expected return on assets 9.4 85.4 (196.1) (41.7) 1.9
Actuarial gains / (losses) 13.1 (156.0) (114.3) (24.7) 45.7
Cumulative actuarial (loss) / gain (248.4) (261.5) (105.5) 8.8 33.5
(d) Sensitivities 
The value of the UK defined benefit pension scheme assets is sensitive to market conditions, particularly equity values. Changes in 
assumptions used for determining retirement benefit costs and liabilities may have a material impact on the 2011/12 income statement 
and the balance sheet. The main assumptions are the discount rate, the rate of inflation and the assumed mortality rate. The following 
table provides an estimate of the potential impacts of each of these variables if applied to the current period consolidated income 
statement and balance sheet. 
Net finance costs Net deficit
Positive / (negative) effect:
2010/11
 £million
2009/10 
 £million
2011  
£million
2010  
£million
Discount rate: 0.25% increase 0.3 0.5 49.6 52.5
Inflation rate: 0.25% increase* (2.4) (2.5) (42.9) (45.3)
Mortality rate: 1 year increase (1.4) (1.9) (25.4) (33.4)
*
 The increase in scheme benefits provided to members on retirement is subject to an inflation cap. 
(e) Other post-employment benefits – IAS 19
The Group offers other post-employment benefits to employees in overseas locations. At 30 April 2011 the net obligation in relation 
to these benefits was £11.6 million (2010 £11.5 million). The net movement in the obligation comprises a charge to operating profit of 
£4.3 million (2009/10 £4.2 million) with the remaining movements relating to the benefits paid in the period and currency retranslation. Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
93
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
22 Financial instruments
(a) Financial risk management objectives and policies 
Treasury operations are managed centrally within policies approved by the Board and are subject to periodic independent internal 
and external reviews. Group Treasury reports regularly to the Audit Committee and the Tax & Treasury Committee. The major 
treasury risks to which the Group is exposed relate to market risks (movements in foreign exchange and interest rates), liquidity  
risk and credit risk. Areas where risks are most likely to occur are evaluated regularly. The Group uses financial instruments and 
derivatives to manage these risks in accordance with defined policies. Throughout the period under review, in accordance with 
Group policy, no speculative use of derivatives, foreign exchange or other instruments was permitted.
The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in note 1.16.
Exchange rate risk
The Group is exposed to exchange movements on recognised assets and liabilities, overseas earnings and translated values of 
foreign currency assets and liabilities. The Group’s principal translation currency exposures are the euro and Norwegian krone. 
Taking into account the cost of hedging, the Group’s policy is to match, in whole or in part, currency earnings with related currency 
costs and currency assets with currency liabilities through the use of appropriate hedging instruments. 
The Group is also exposed to certain transactional currency exposures. Such exposures arise from purchases in currencies other 
than in the functional currency of the entity. The Group’s principal transactional currency exposures are the US dollar and euro.  
It is Group policy to minimise the currency exposures on such purchases through the use of appropriate hedging instruments  
such as forward exchange contracts. Such contracts are designed to cover exposures ranging from one month to one year.
Interest rate risk
The principal interest rate risks of the Group arise in respect of sterling cash, investments and euro and sterling borrowings.  
Potential exposure to interest rate movements is mitigated by the Group’s policy to match to the extent possible the profile of interest 
payments with that of its interest receipts. Taking into account the cost of hedging, further mitigation is achieved with interest based 
credit commissions received and through the use of interest based hedging instruments. Such matching is evaluated regularly to 
ensure that risks are minimised. 
Liquidity risk
It is Group policy to maintain a balance of funds, borrowings, committed bank and other facilities sufficient to meet anticipated short 
term and long term financial requirements. In applying this policy the Group continuously monitors forecast and actual cash flows 
against the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Uncommitted facilities are used if available on advantageous terms.  
It is Group treasury policy to ensure that a specific level of committed facilities is always available based on forecast working capital 
requirements. 
Cash forecasts identifying the Group’s liquidity requirements are produced and are stress tested for different scenarios including, but 
not limited to, reasonably possible decreases in profit margins and increases in interest rates on the Group’s borrowing facilities and 
the weakening of sterling against other functional currencies within the Group.
Credit risk
The Group’s exposure to credit risk on liquid funds, investments (mainly bank deposits and floating rate notes) and derivative financial 
instruments arises from the risk of non-performance of counterparties, with a maximum exposure equal to the book value of these 
assets. The Group limits its exposure to credit risk through application of Group treasury policy which restricts counterparties to 
those with a minimum Moody’s long term credit rating of A1, bank financial strength rating of C and short term credit rating of P1. 
The Group also has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any single financial institution. The Group continuously 
reviews the credit quality of counterparties, the limits placed on individual credit exposures and categories of investments. The 
Group does not anticipate non-performance of counterparties and believes it is not subject to material concentration of credit risk 
given the policies in place. 
The Group’s receivable balances comprise a large number of individually small amounts from unrelated customers, spread across 
diverse industries and geographical areas. Concentration of risk is therefore limited and maximum exposure is equal to the book 
value of receivables. Sales to retail customers are made predominantly in cash or via major credit cards. It is Group policy that all 
customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. New credit customers are assessed using 
an external rating report which is used to establish a credit limit. Such limits are reviewed periodically on both a proactive and 
reactive basis, for example, when a customer wishes to place an order in excess of their existing credit limit. Receivable balances are 
monitored regularly with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. Management therefore believe that there 
is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for doubtful receivables.
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
94 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
22 Financial instruments continued
Capital risk management
It is the Group’s policy to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the 
future development of the business. The Group is subject to certain externally imposed capital requirements in the form of banking 
covenants involving borrowing ratios which it met throughout the period.
The Board has delegated responsibility for routine capital expenditure to a Capital Committee, which has approval responsibility for: 
Group long term and budgeted capital spend, setting capital assessment criteria, new store capital approval, subsidiary company 
funding, business acquisitions, business disposals and contingent liabilities such as guarantees. The Committee also approves 
routine statutory and internal delegated powers of authority in relation to capital expenditure.
The Group considers the manner in which funds are distributed to shareholders by assessing the performance of the business, the 
level of available net funds and the short to medium term strategic plans concerning future capital spend as well as the need to meet 
banking covenants and borrowing ratios. Such assessment will influence the level of dividends payable as well as consideration from 
time to time of market purchases of the Group’s own shares.
The Group monitors available net funds on a regular basis and this is affected by Free Cash Flow, one of the Group’s key 
performance indicators as defined further in the Strategic Summary section of the Directors’ Report.
(b) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
For receivables and payables classified as financial assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 32, fair value is estimated to be 
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in notes 14 and 19, respectively. The categories of financial assets and liabilities 
and their related accounting policy are set out in notes 1.11 and 1.15. 
For those financial assets and liabilities which bear either a floating rate of interest or no interest, fair value is estimated to be 
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in note 22(d). 
The fair value of the 2012 Bonds is £154.4 million (2010 £297.0 million). The 2012 Bonds are carried at amortised cost, plus a fair 
value adjustment, as a result of the fair value hedge discussed below. Excluded from the fair value is £4.5 million (2010 £8.4 million)  
of accrued interest which is included in trade and other payables.
The fair value of the 2015 notes is £129.8 million. The 2015 Notes are carried at amortised cost. Excluded from the fair value is  
£3.2 million of accrued interest which is included in trade and other payables. 
Fair value of derivatives is predominantly determined using observable market data such as interest rates and foreign exchange 
rates. As such, derivatives are classified as ‘Level 2’ under the requirements of IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. 
Fair values of derivatives by designation 
2011
Trade and other receivables Trade and other payables
Derivatives held to:
Current  
£million
Non-current 
£million
Current  
£million 
Non-current 
£million
Total  
 £million
Hedge interest rate risk – 18.3 – – 18.3
Manage the currency exposure of:
 Financial assets and liabilities 0.6 – (2.4) – (1.8)
 Net investments in overseas subsidiaries – – – (78.9) (78.9)
 Future transactions occurring within one year 2.9 – (4.1) – (1.2)
Total derivatives 3.5 18.3 (6.5) (78.9) (63.6)
2010
Trade and other receivables Trade and other payables
Derivatives held to:
Current  
£million
Non-current 
£million
Current  
£million 
Non-current 
£million
Total  
 £million
Hedge fair value interest rate risk – 25.0 – – 25.0
Manage the currency exposure of:
 Financial assets and liabilities 1.6 – (1.2) – 0.4
 Net investments in overseas subsidiaries – – – (74.8) (74.8)
 Future transactions occurring within one year 1.4 – (8.4) – (7.0)
Total derivatives 3.0 25.0 (9.6) (74.8) (56.4)
Included in derivative financial instruments are forward foreign currency contracts, options, interest rate swaps and currency swaps.  Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
95
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
(c) Hedging activities
The Group manages exposures that arise on purchases and sales denominated in foreign currencies predominantly by entering into 
forward foreign exchange currency contracts. It also uses swaps and options to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange 
translation exposure. 
At 30 April 2011 the Group had interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges for the 2012 Bonds with a notional amount of 
£125 million (2010 £250 million) whereby it receives a fixed interest rate of 6.125% and pays a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR. 
At 30 April 2011 the Group also had interest rate swaps in place with a notional amount of £125 million (2010 £nil) whereby the Group 
receives a fixed interest rate of 6.125% and pays a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR, and which act as a hedge for the 2015 
Notes until August 2012. These swaps are not designated as hedges under IAS 39.
In order to provide a hedge against certain euro denominated fixed asset investments and to finance working capital £200 million 
(2010 £200 million) has been swapped into floating rate euro borrowings bearing interest based on EURIBOR.
The Group designates financial instruments as hedges under IAS 39 as follows:
Cash flow hedges
At 30 April 2011 the Group had forward foreign exchange contracts in place with a notional value of £415.5 million (2010 £435.6 million) 
that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges. These contracts are expected to cover exposures ranging from one month to 
one year. The fair value of these currency derivatives which have been deferred in equity amounts to a £0.9 million loss  
(2009/10 £7 .0 million loss). In respect of contracts which matured during the period, losses of £7 .4 million and losses of £6.7 million have 
been transferred out of equity into inventory and out of equity into operating profit, respectively (2009/10 losses of £15.1 million and gains 
of £3.8 million). 
Hedge ineffectiveness of £0.2 million loss was recorded in the income statement (2009/10 £0.9 million loss).
Fair value hedges
As mentioned above the Group had interest rate swaps in place for the 2012 Bonds whereby it receives a fixed interest rate of 
6.125% and pays a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR. The interest rate swaps are used to hedge the exposure to changes in 
the fair value of £125 million (2010 £250 million) of the 2012 Bonds and have the same critical terms. The fair value of interest rate 
swaps entered into as fair value hedges is an asset of £9.9 million (2010 an asset of £25.0 million). 
A fair value loss on the interest rate swaps of £1.3 million (2009/10 loss of £1.2 million) has been recognised in the income statement 
and offset by an equivalent fair value gain on the 2012 Bonds. Hedge ineffectiveness of £0.4 million loss was recorded in the income 
statement (2010 £nil).
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations
At 30 April 2011 the Group had forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps in place with a notional value of £200 
million (2010 £200 million) which have been designated as a hedge of the net investments in foreign operations. Gains and losses on the 
retranslation of these derivatives are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the foreign 
operations. The fair value of currency derivatives entered into as net investment hedges is a £78.9 million loss (2009/10 £74.8 million loss). 
No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in the income statement (2009/10 £nil).
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
96 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
22 Financial instruments continued
(d) Interest rate profile of financial assets and financial liabilities by currency
The following table sets out the interest rate exposure of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group. The financial instruments not 
included in the table are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
2011
Sterling  
£million
 Euro  
£million
Other 
currencies 
£million
 Total  
£million
Cash and cash equivalents and short term investments:
 Floating rate 59.5 126.4 29.9 215.8
 Fixed rate 121.5 3.9 4.0 129.4
181.0 130.3 33.9 345.2
Borrowings:
 Floating rate (180.9) (209.0) – (389.9)
 Fixed rate (61.0) – – (61.0)
Obligations under finance leases:
 Fixed rate (97.6) (2.2) (1.3) (101.1)
(339.5) (211.2) (1.3) (552.0)
Net borrowings (158.5) (80.9) 32.6 (206.8)
2010
Sterling 
 £million
 Euro  
£million
Other  
currencies 
£million
 Total  
£million
Cash and cash equivalents and short term investments:
 Floating rate 83.7 117.9 25.0 226.6
 Fixed rate 67.4 2.6 7.6 77.6
151.1 120.5 32.6 304.2
Borrowings:
 Floating rate (148.6) (219.1) – (367.7)
 Fixed rate (53.6) – (3.5) (57.1)
Obligations under finance leases:
 Fixed rate (98.0) (2.0) – (100.0)
(300.2) (221.1) (3.5) (524.8)
Net borrowings (149.1) (100.6) 29.1 (220.6)
Floating rate cash and cash equivalents and short term investments relates to cash at bank and floating rate notes. Cash at bank 
earns interest at floating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. Floating rate notes have an 
effective yield of 1.07% (2010 1.00%). 
Fixed rate cash and cash equivalents, and, short term investments are predominantly money market deposits (as shown in note 16) 
and earn interest at an average effective rate of 0.64% (2010 0.54%). 
Floating rate borrowings include bank overdrafts and fixed rate bonds after taking into account the effect of interest rates swaps 
entered into by the Group. The weighted average effective interest rate on bank overdrafts approximates 1.5% (2010 1.5%). The 
Group’s interest rate swaps (which relate to the 2012 Bonds and the 2015 Notes) have a nominal value of £250 million (2010 £250 
million), receive fixed interest rates of 6.125% (2009/10 6.125%) and pay floating rates of LIBOR plus margins which range from 1.59% 
to 2.03% (2009/10 1.59% to 3.35%). Currency swaps with a nominal value of £200 million (2010 £200 million) receive LIBOR plus a 
margin and pay EURIBOR plus a margin. The sterling floating rates ranged from 1.59% to 2.03% in the year (2009/10 1.59% to 
3.04%) and the euro floating rates ranged from 1.74% to 2.14% (2009/10 1.73% to 3.04%). Other swaps which matured in the prior 
period exchanged Norwegian krone and sterling at fixed interest rates of 5.06% and 5.67%. 
The other major component of floating rate borrowings is drawings under the New Facility (2009/10 the Old Facility). Interest on 
drawn amounts on the New Facility is payable at LIBOR plus a margin of 3.75%. The commitment fee on undrawn amounts is 
1.875%. A utilisation fee of 0.25% is payable on drawings greater than £120 million but less than £240 million and a rate of 0.5% on 
drawings greater than £240 million. The terms of the Old Facility were similar, but with a utilisation fee of 0.5% payable on drawings 
greater than £200 million but less than £300 million and 1.5% payable on drawings greater than £300 million. Both the New Facility 
and the Old Facility are described further in note 17.  Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
97
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Sterling fixed rate borrowings relate to £50 million of the Bonds whereby the remainder have been swapped into floating rate 
borrowings as described in note 22(c). 
Amounts in respect of other currencies relate to funds held within subsidiary companies, operating in the Nordic region and Central Europe. 
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial 
instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
(e) Sensitivity analysis
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, shows the sensitivity of profit before tax and total equity to changes in specified market 
variables on monetary assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments as listed below. As a consequence, the sensitivity 
reflects the position as at 30 April 2011 and 1 May 2010, and is not necessarily representative of actual or future outcomes. 
Changes in exchange rates affect the Group’s profit before tax due to changes in the value of monetary assets and liabilities and 
derivative financial instruments. Changes in exchange rates affect the Group’s total equity due to changes in the fair value of 
derivatives designated as cashflow hedges and net investment hedges. The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to a 
reasonably possible change in the Group’s key currencies of US dollar, euro and Norwegian krone with other variables held 
constant. A 10% decrease would have an equal and opposite effect. 
2011 2010
Effect on 
underlying 
profit before 
tax increase /
(decrease) 
£million
 Effect on  
total equity 
increase / 
(decrease) 
£million
Effect on 
underlying 
 profit before  
tax increase /
(decrease) 
£million
 Effect on 
 total equity  
Increase /
(decrease) 
£million
Change in exchange rates:
US dollar + 10% (0.1) 2.1 (1.2) 2.1
Euro + 10% (9.5) (7.9) (2.5) (1.0)
Norwegian krone + 10% (4.9) (25.6) (0.8) (24.0)
Changes in interest rates affect the Group’s profit before tax, mainly due to the impact of floating rate borrowings, cash and 
derivative financial instruments. The Group’s principal floating rate interest rate exposures are based on LIBOR and EURIBOR. The 
numbers below shows the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates (uniform across all currencies), with other 
variables held constant. A 1% decrease would have an equal and opposite effect. A 1% increase in interest rates would decrease 
profit before tax and equity by £4.1 million (2009/10 a £4.3 million decrease in profit before tax and equity). 
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis:
 the balance of borrowings, investments and the derivative portfolio are all held constant for the whole year.
 all net investment, fair value and cash flow hedges are assumed to be highly effective.
 the effect of changes in interest rates on fixed rate bonds is calculated after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps. In 
combination these financial instruments are floating in nature. 
 changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges arising from movements in 
interest rates are recorded in the income statement. The impact of movements in exchange rates is recorded directly in equity.
 changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments that are not in hedging relationships arising from movements in 
interest rates and exchange rates only affect the income statement to the extent that they are not offset by changes in an 
underlying transaction.
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
98 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
22 Financial instruments continued
(f) Liquidity risk
The table below analyses the Group’s contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities (excluding finance lease 
liabilities, which are shown in note 18) and derivative assets and liabilities into their maturity groupings. The table includes both 
principal and interest flows.
2011
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
Within  
one year 
£million
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million
 In more than 
five years 
£million
 Total 
 £million
 Carrying  
value  
£million
Non derivative financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (5.6) – – (5.6) (5.6)
Other borrowings (131.6) – – (131.6) (130.0)
Trade and other payables (1,327.4) (37.0) (20.7) (1,385.1) (1,394.5)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (9.8) (169.8) – (179.6) (168.2)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (13.1) (195.9) – (209.0) (147.1)
(1,487.5) (402.7) (20.7) (1,910.9) (1,845.4)
Derivative contracts
 Inflows 1,072.0 464.6 – 1,536.6 1,532.4
 Outflows (1,068.4) (535.5) – (1,603.9) (1,596.0)
3.6 (70.9) – (67.3) (63.6)
2010
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
Within  
one year  
£million
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million
 In more than 
five years
 £million
 Total  
£million
 Carrying 
 value  
£million
Non derivative financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (4.9) – – (4.9) (4.9)
Other borrowings (98.6) – – (98.6) (98.5)
Trade and other payables (1,317.5) (30.1) (22.1) (1,369.7) (1,378.2)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (18.4) (337.0) – (355.4) (321.4)
(1,439.4) (367.1) (22.1) (1,828.6) (1,803.0)
Derivative contracts
 Inflows 892.0 242.7 – 1,134.7 1,135.9
 Outflows (889.5) (301.9) – (1,191.4) (1,192.3)
2.5 (59.2) – (56.7) (56.4)
The carrying value of trade and other payables includes accrued interest on the 2012 Bonds of £4.5 million (2010 £8.4 million), 
interest on the 2015 Notes of £3.2 million (2010 £nil) and interest on other borrowings of £0.1 million (2010 £0.4 million). 
The Group reviews regularly its available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing facilities required to fulfil its objectives 
and strategy. Cash flow forecasts are prepared covering a five year period and these are updated annually. Shorter term forecasts 
are reviewed and monitored on a regular basis in varying degrees of granularity including, in some cases, daily review. These 
forecasts are used in determining both the level of borrowings required for funding purposes as well as planning for repayments of 
borrowings either at their maturity or sooner where practical. An appropriate level of headroom is maintained to provide against 
unexpected outflows or an unforeseen downturn in trading.  
Further details of committed borrowing facilities are shown in note 17. Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
99
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
23 Share capital and reserves
(a) Called up share capital
 
2011  
£million
2010  
£million
Authorised   
4,980,252,496 (2010 4,980,252,496) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 124.5 124.5 
Allotted and fully paid  
3,610,350,075 (2010 3,609,937,433) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 90.3 90.2
During the period 412,642 shares (2009/10 36,403) were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share option and 
ownership schemes. 
On 9 June 2009 the Group completed a Placing and Rights Issue which raised gross proceeds of £310.6 million, of which £100 million 
was raised by the Placing. The Placing comprised in aggregate 333,333,333 Placing Shares available for subscription at an issue price 
of 30 pence per Placing Share. The Rights Issue was made on the basis of 5 new shares for each 7 eligible shares at 14 pence per new 
share and comprised 1,504,125,429 shares. Aggregate issue costs of the Placing and Rights Issue were £19.3 million. 
(b) Other reserves
Merger 
 reserve  
£million
Capital  
redemption  
reserve 
 £million
Investment  
in own shares  
£million
 Hedging 
 reserve  
£million
Revaluation  
reserve 
 £million
Total  
£million
At 3 May 2009 (386.1) 5.0 (2.3) (148.5) (3.0) (534.9)
Other comprehensive income and expense  
recognised directly in equity – – – (3.2) 0.6 (2.6)
Placing and Rights Issue 245.4 – – – – 245.4
Transfer (245.4) – – – – (245.4)
At 1 May 2010 (386.1) 5.0 (2.3) (151.7) (2.4) (537.5)
Other comprehensive income and expense recognised 
directly in equity – – – (0.3) 0.1 (0.2)
At 30 April 2011 (386.1) 5.0 (2.3) (152.0) (2.3) (537.7)
The balance shown on the merger reserve arose on the group reconstruction which occurred during 1999/00. The group reconstruction 
took the form of introducing a new parent company above the existing group and the merger reserve represents the difference 
between the capital structure of the new parent company and that of the former parent company.
The Placing and Rights Issue was effected through a structure which resulted in a merger reserve arising under section 612 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Following receipt of the cash proceeds through the structure, the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal 
value of the share capital issued was transferred from the merger reserve to retained earnings. 
Own shares held by the Group represent shares in the Company held by Halifax EES Trustees International Limited, further details of 
which are given in note 24. The 2,948,718 shares held at 30 April 2011 had a market value of £0.4 million (2010 3,579,476 shares held 
had a market value of £1.2 million) and their nominal value was £0.1 million (2010 £0.1 million).
(c) Cumulative foreign exchange reserves within retained earnings
Included within retained earnings are exchange differences resulting from the translation of the results and balance sheets of 
overseas subsidiary undertakings, which have been charged or credited directly to equity. The following table shows a reconciliation 
of such amounts.
2011  
£million
2010 
 £million
At beginning of period 333.9 288.7
Currency translation movements 32.1 43.4
Cumulative foreign exchange differences transferred to income statement on disposals – 1.8
At end of period 366.0 333.9
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
100 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
24 Employee share ownership trusts
Halifax EES Trustees International Limited is the trustee of an employee share ownership trust (the Trust). At 30 April 2011, the Trust 
held shares in the Company for the purposes of satisfying potential awards to specified executive directors and senior employees 
under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), Performance Share Plan (PSP) and Retention and Recruitment Plan (Reward Shares) 
share schemes. Details of the LTIP, PSP and Reward Shares are given in the Remuneration Report in section (II) (b) (ii) of the 
Remuneration Report. The number of shares held by the Trust is shown in the table below.
The Company’s aim is to hedge in part its obligations under the LTIP, PSP and Reward Shares by buying shares through the Trust  
to meet the anticipated future liability. The anticipated liability is regularly re-assessed during the relevant performance period and 
additional shares are purchased when required to meet an increase in this liability. The costs of funding and administering the Trust 
are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate. Shareholders’ funds are reduced by the net book value of 
shares held in the Trust which have not vested unconditionally.
2011  
Number
2010  
Number
Investment in own shares 2,948,718 3,579,476
Halifax EES Trustees International Limited has waived all dividends except for a total payment of 1 penny at the time each dividend is 
paid. The mid-market price of a share as at 30 April 2011 was 14.4 pence (2010 33.1 pence). 
25 Share-based payments
Note
2010/11
 £million
2009/10  
£million
Amounts charged / (credited) to operating profit
Share-based payments – equity settled (a) 8.6 4.8
  – cash settled (b) (0.6) 0.9
8.0 5.7
(a) Equity settled
Following the Placing and Rights Issue, the exercise price and the number of outstanding equity settled share-based payments were 
adjusted to reflect the dilutive effect of the Rights Issue. 
Share option plans
Employee Share Option Scheme (ESOS) and Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP)
Options are normally granted annually to executive directors and other senior executives. In September 2008, the Group adopted a  
new share option plan (ESOP) which replaced the existing ESOS. Options granted after this date have only been granted under the  
new ESOP . The ESOS and ESOP permit making awards with a market value on the date of grant of not more than twice the recipients’ 
salary. Options are also granted to other employees in the UK and overseas on the basis of management grade. Vesting of options  
is based upon remaining in service with the Group over a three year period, unless specific circumstances apply to a participant as 
determined by the Remuneration Committee. Depending on grade, vesting is also dependent on the level of growth in underlying  
diluted earnings per share (EPS) over a three year period. Options may be exercised up to seven years after the vesting date.
Save As You Earn (SAYE)
The Group offers to all of its UK and Irish employees having completed the relevant period of service, share-based savings plans 
whereby amounts may be contributed up to a specified limit per plan and per employee. Three year and five year plans have been 
offered annually, with exercise prices set at a 20% discount to the market share price on the date of grant. Exercise is conditional 
upon employees remaining employed by the Group for the full term of the plan unless specific circumstances apply to a participant 
as determined by the Remuneration Committee. Employees can choose to withdraw their contributions in full from the plan at any 
time, together with any interest earned. Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
101
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Details of equity settled share option plans outstanding during the year are as follows:
2010/11 2009/10
Note Number
Weighted average 
exercise price Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
At beginning of period 236,377,764 £0.31 100,219,236 £0.70
Adjustment for Placing & Rights Issue – – 34,516,309 –
Granted during the period (i) 106,073,741 £0.25 137,783,431 £0.22
Forfeited during the period (32,658,128) £0.35 (33,028,107) £0.49
Exercised during the period (ii) (412,642) £0.18 (37,385) £0.18
Expired during the period (2,467,718) £2.01 (3,075,720) £3.35
At end of period (iii),(iv) 306,913,017 £0.28 236,377,764 £0.31
No options were exercisable at 30 April 2011 (2010 none). 
2011 2010
(i) weighted average fair value of options granted during the period £0.16 £0.13
(ii) weighted average share price at the date of exercise £0.24 £0.36
(iii) weighted average remaining contractual life for options outstanding 6.4 years 5.8 years
(iv) range of exercise prices for options outstanding £0.09 – £1.70 £0.09 – £2.01
The fair value of equity settled share option plans granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Binomial or Black-Scholes option 
pricing models taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The following table lists the 
inputs to the models used for the periods ended 30 April 2011 and 1 May 2010 based on information prevailing at the date of grant.
2011 2010
Dividend yield 0% 0%
Historical and expected volatility 86.2% – 87.5% 78.3% – 81.2%
Risk-free interest rate 1.5% – 1.6% 2.6% – 2.7%
Expected remaining life of options 3.0 – 3.25 years 3.0 years
Weighted average share price £0.28 £0.25
The expected remaining life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of the actual exercise patterns 
that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends. Actual 
outcome may differ from this assumption. 
Other equity settled share plans
Executive directors’ and senior executives’ LTIP, PSP, Reward Sacrifice and Reward Shares 
LTIP and PSP shares are provisionally awarded to executive directors, members of the Executive Committee and other participating 
senior executives and are based upon performance measured in terms of the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) achieved by the 
Company. Prior to 2008/09 TSR performance was based on performance over a three year period relative to the companies 
comprising the FTSE 100 Index. For 2008/09 and 2009/10 TSR performance has been based on a bespoke weighted index 
comprising UK and European retailers. For 2010/11 onwards, TSR performance has been based on constituents of the FTSE 250 
Index (comprising FTSE 101-350 companies) excluding investment trusts. 
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
102 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
25 Share-based payments continued
Details of LTIP and PSP equity settled share-based payments outstanding during the year are as follows:
Note
2011 
 Number
2010  
Number
At beginning of period 13,662,455 9,133,540
Adjustment for Placing and Rights Issue – 3,219,430
Provisionally awarded during the period (i) 6,798,796 3,290,663
Forfeited during the period (1,409,300) (1,981,178)
Vested during the period (1,068,870) –
Expired during the period (2,394,926) –
At end of period (ii) 15,588,155 13,662,455
Outstanding awards vested at end of period 99,344 99,344
2011 2010
(i) weighted average fair value of awards awarded during the period £0.20 £0.12
(ii) weighted average remaining contractual life for awards outstanding 1.3 years 1.3 years
Reward Sacrifice options were offered to the senior executives in September 2009 and do not have any performance conditions. 
11,902,442 options were granted at a fair value of £0.15. During the year, 529,259 (2009/10 737,432) options lapsed. The number 
outstanding at the end of the period is 10,635,751 (2009/10 11,165,010).
Reward Shares were granted to a limited number of executives in July 2008 and do not have any performance conditions. During 
2009/10 an adjustment of 1,709,273 was made to the number of Reward Shares outstanding as a result of the Placing and Rights 
Issue. During the current period 451,194 (2009/10 821,108) Reward Shares lapsed. The number outstanding at the end of the period 
is 5,251,898 (2009/10 5,703,092).
The fair value of such other equity settled share-based payments granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the option  
pricing models listed below as well as taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted.  
The following table lists the inputs to the models used for the periods ended 30 April 2011 and 1 May 2010 based on information 
prevailing at the date of grant.
2010/11 2009/10
Plan PSP PSP
Reward  
Sacrifice 
Option pricing model Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Binomial
Dividend yield 0% 0% 0%
Historical and expected volatility 87.5% 81.2% 76.3%
Risk-free interest rate 1.5% 2.6% 2.2%
Expected life of awards 3.0 years 3.0 years 3.0 years 
Weighted average share price £0.28 £0.25 £0.27
Further information concerning share-based incentive plans specific to directors is included in the Remuneration Report in sections 
(II) (b) (ii) and (iii).
(b) Cash settled 
Historical awards have been granted to employees on the basis of a monetary amount determined by grade and length of service. 
Employees must remain in employment until the vesting date which occurs on the third anniversary of the date of grant unless 
specific circumstances apply to a participant as determined by the Remuneration Committee. The vesting of such share-based 
payments for employees above a certain grade is determined based on the level of growth in EPS over a three year period. Such 
awards are settled in cash which is calculated based on the share price at the exercise date. The fair value of cash settled share-
based payment plans is estimated as at the date of grant using the Binomial option pricing model taking into account the terms and 
conditions upon which the instruments were granted. No outstanding cash settled awards had vested at 30 April 2011 (2010 none). 
2011 
 £million
2010  
£million
Amount included within trade and other payables relating to cash settled share-based payments 0.2 1.0 Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
103
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
(c) Additional SAYE, ESOS and ESOP information
During the period the 106,073,741 options under the employee share option scheme were granted to 4,794 employees at exercise 
prices ranging between £0.20 and £0.28. At 30 April 2011 options outstanding for accounting purposes amounted to 306,913,017 
shares (2010 236,377,764) analysed as follows:
SAYE ESOS & ESOP
Date of grant
Exercise price  
Pence Number Date of grant
Exercise price  
Pence Number
27 Feb 2006 103.54 169,717 23 Jul 2001 170.45 2,992,310
26 Feb 2007 99.52 229,280 15 Feb 2002 168.23 18,494
26 Feb 2008 44.54 5,273,045 22 Jul 2002 118.80 3,146,477
23 Jul 2009 18.32 38,561,829 7 Feb 2003 75.59 40,660
3 Aug 2010 20.23 25,898,414 11 Jul 2008 27.63 73,573,135
14 Aug 2008 41.84 1,066,599
16 Dec 2008 9.20 – 10.85 6,792,000
23 Jul 2009 23.95 58,929,520
28 Sep 2009 28.43 11,902,439
07 Dec 2009 36.88 3,908,333
3 Aug 2010 27.59 70,590,765
8 Dec 2010 25.51 3,820,000
70,132,285 236,780,732
Options granted under the ESOS and ESOP can vest between three to ten years subject to performance conditions, where 
applicable, being met. The performance conditions applicable to these schemes are set out in section (II)(b) (iii) of the unaudited 
section of the Remuneration Report. 
26 Notes to the cash flow statement 
(a) Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities 
 
2010/11  
£million
2009/10 
 £million
Operating (loss) / profit (180.3) 153.2
Operating loss – discontinued operations 2.1 3.0
Operating (loss) / profit – continuing operations (178.2) 156.2
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4.5 4.6
Amortisation of other intangibles 22.7 25.8
Depreciation 116.7 102.8
Share-based payment charge 8.0 5.7
Share of post-tax results of associates 0.4 (1.6)
Loss on disposal of property, plant & equipment 13.6 19.6
Increase in non-underlying provisions 39.2 2.3
Impairment and accelerated depreciation / amortisation 238.8 3.3
Other non-underlying impairments and charges 17.6 –
Change in pension benefits – (33.4)
Utilisation of non-underlying provisions (30.9) (54.7)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 252.4 230.6
 
Movements in working capital:
 Decrease in inventories 16.2 14.1
 Decrease in trade and other receivables 9.1 117.6
 Increase / (decrease) in trade and other payables 15.1 (92.0)
40.4 39.7
Cash generated from operations – continuing operations 292.8 270.3
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
104 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued
26 Notes to the cash flow statement continued
(b) Analysis of net debt 
 2 May 2010 
£million
 Cash flow 
£million
Other non-cash 
movements 
£million 
Currency 
translation 
£million
30 April 2011 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents
†
295.7 37.3 – 1.7 334.7
Bank overdrafts (4.9) (0.7) – – (5.6)
  290.8 36.6 – 1.7 329.1
Short term investments 8.5 1.8 0.2 – 10.5
Borrowings due within one year (98.5) (31.8) – 0.3 (130.0)
Borrowings due after more than one year (321.4) (5.4) 11.5 – (315.3)
Obligations under finance leases  (100.0) 1.5 (2.4) (0.2) (101.1)
 (519.9) (35.7) 9.1 0.1 (546.4)
Net debt (220.6) 2.7 9.3 1.8 (206.8)
3 May 2009 
£million
 Cash flow 
£million
Other  
non-cash 
movements 
£million 
Currency 
translation 
£million
 1 May 2010 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents
†
192.6 102.8 – 0.3 295.7
Bank overdrafts (4.8) 0.3 – (0.4) (4.9)
  187.8 103.1 – (0.1) 290.8
     
Short term investments 9.0 (1.3) 0.8 – 8.5
Borrowings due within one year  (250.1) 151.6 – – (98.5)
Borrowings due after more than one year (322.5) – 1.1 – (321.4)
Obligations under finance leases  (101.7) 1.7 – – (100.0)
 (674.3) 153.3 1.1 – (519.9)
Net debt (477.5) 255.1 1.9 (0.1) (220.6)
Restricted funds, which predominantly comprise funds held under trust to fund potential customer support agreement liabilities were 
£120.3 million (2010 £78.9 million). Net debt excluding restricted funds totalled £327.1 million (2010 £299.5 million).
†  Cash and cash equivalents are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the consolidated balance sheet. For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow, cash and cash equivalents 
comprise those amounts presented on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts (which are disclosed separately on the consolidated balance sheet 
and as disclosed in note 17). Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
105
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
27 Acquisitions
No significant acquisitions were made during the period. The acquisition in 2009/10 related to the exercise of a put option by a 
majority shareholder in an associated undertaking. 
2009/10  
£million
Total consideration paid for prior period acquisitions 10.6
Less: cash acquired (3.6)
Total consideration, net of cash acquired 7.0
28 Discontinued operations
On 19 May 2009 the Group disposed of its operations in Hungary to EW Electro Retail Limited for consideration of €1. 
On 1 September 2009 the Group disposed of its operations in Poland to IDMSA Brokerage House, working with Mix Electronics 
S.A., for consideration of €1.
Loss after tax and cash flows from discontinued operations related to Hungary and Poland.
(a) Net loss on disposals
The total net assets disposed were as follows: 
Hungary  
£million
Poland  
£million
2009/10
Total  
£million
Inventories 6.9 8.0 14.9
Cash and cash equivalents 5.0 1.2 6.2
Other assets 1.3 2.4 3.7
Current trade and other payables (3.2) (3.5) (6.7)
Provisions (11.2) (6.1) (17.3)
Net assets disposed (1.2) 2.0 0.8
Loss on disposals (1.0) (4.7) (5.7)
(2.2) (2.7) (4.9)
Consideration – – –
Disposal fees and exit costs (1.2) (1.9) (3.1)
Cumulative foreign exchange differences transferred from equity (1.0) (0.8) (1.8)
Consideration and costs (2.2) (2.7) (4.9)
Disposal fees mainly comprised fees payables to advisors. Exit costs mainly comprised asset write downs and impairments, 
together with associated termination costs. 
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
106 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
28 Discontinued operations continued
(b) Loss after tax – discontinued operations 
2010/11  
£million
2009/10  
£million
Loss after tax from discontinued operations (2.1) (3.0)
Net loss on disposals – (5.7)
Loss after tax – discontinued operations (2.1) (8.7)
The loss after tax from discontinued operations relates to Hungary (2009/10 Hungary and Poland). 
2010/11 2009/10
Hungary  
£million
Hungary  
£million
Poland 
 £million
Total 
 £million
Revenue – – 10.9 10.9
Expenses (2.1) – (13.9) (13.9)
Operating loss (2.1) – (3.0) (3.0)
Finance costs – – – –
Loss before tax (2.1) – (3.0) (3.0)
Income tax expense – – – –
Loss after tax from discontinued operations (2.1) – (3.0) (3.0)
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations – (1.0) (4.7) (5.7)
Tax on loss on disposal – – – –
Loss for the period (2.1) (1.0) (7.7) (8.7)
All losses were attributable to the equity shareholders of the Company. 
(c) Cash flows from discontinued operations 
2010/11
 £million
2009/10  
£million
Operating activities (0.1) (8.6)
29 Capital commitments
2011 
 £million
2010  
£million
Contracted for but not provided for in the accounts 28.9 21.1
30 Contingent liabilities
2011 
 £million
2010  
£million
Guarantees – 54.5
Other 4.0 8.1
4.0 62.6
Guarantees in 2009/10 comprised potential obligations to financial institutions in respect of activities undertaken in the normal 
course of business and related to amounts utilised under letter of credit facilities. In addition to the figures shown in the table above, 
contingent liabilities also exist in respect of lease covenants relating to premises assigned to third parties.
Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements 
continued Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
107
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
31 Operating lease commitments
2011 2010
 
Land and 
buildings 
£million
Other  
assets  
£million
Land and 
buildings  
£million
Other 
 assets  
£million
Total undiscounted future committed payments due:
 Within one year 379.0 8.9 381.7 8.7
 Between two and five years 1,286.3 8.9 1,314.3 8.3
 After five years 1,479.4 – 1,636.7 –
3,144.7 17.8 3,332.7 17.0
Operating lease commitments represent rentals payable for retail, distribution and office properties, as well as vehicles, equipment 
and office equipment. Contingent rentals are payable on certain retail store leases based on store revenues. 
The above figures include committed payments under onerous lease contracts for which provisions or accruals exist on the balance 
sheet including those for closed businesses. 
Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases was £34.5 million (2010 £32.5 million).
32 Related party transactions
Transactions between Group undertakings, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and accordingly are  
not disclosed.
The Group via its registered charitable trust, the DSG international Foundation (the Foundation) made charitable donations of £5,000 
(2009/10 £12,000). The Company made no charitable donations to the Foundation during the period (2009/10 £nil). The Company is 
the sole benefactor of the Foundation, the principal beneficiaries of which are concerned with education, community affairs, health 
and disabilities, heritage and the environment.
Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum, members of the Executive Committee, together with close family members and 
companies controlled by them, own 21.9% of PIXmania, a company controlled by the Group. In connection with their management 
roles with respect to PIXmania, Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum received management fees of €260,000 (£221,000) 
(2009/10 €258,000 (£228,000)). Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum together hold call options over additional shares in 
PIXmania representing 16.8% of the share capital held by the Group. The options can be exercised from 30 April 2011 and are 
subject to certain conditions including the achievement of targets related to earnings and certain capitalisation values of the 
PIXmania business. In addition to the call options, Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum have certain exit rights exercisable 
between July 2011 and July 2013 in relation to their holdings in PIXmania.
Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum own a building which is occupied and leased by PIXmania. During 2010/11 total rental 
payments of €653,000 (£553,000) (2009/10 €645,000 (£570,000)) were charged in relation to this property. 
Remuneration of directors and key management personnel
The remuneration of non-executive directors, executive directors, and members of the Executive Committee, who are the key 
management personnel of the Group, is set out below. Further information about individual directors’ remuneration, share interests, 
share options, pensions and other entitlements, which form part of these financial statements, is given in sections (VI) to (X) of the 
directors’ Remuneration Report which are described as having been audited.
2011 
 £million
2010  
£million
Short term employee benefits 5.1 7.9
Termination benefits 0.2 –
Share-based payment 2.2 0.9
33 Post balance sheet event
On 1 June 2011, the Group announced that it had exchanged contracts with a syndicate of investors advised by Ness, Risan and 
Partners AS for the sale and leaseback of the Group’s Nordic distribution centre in Jönköping, Sweden. The sale and leaseback  
is expected to complete in June 2011 and the total cash consideration receivable on completion is expected to be approximately 
SEK600 million (£59 million). The estimated book value of the property as at 30 May 2011 was SEK214.5 million (approximately  
£21 million). The proceeds of the sale will be used for general corporate purposes, including offsetting drawings on the Group’s  
New Facility and for repayment of the 2012 Bonds.
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
108 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Company Balance Sheet
Note
30 April 2011 
£million
1 May 2010 
£million
2 May 2009 
£million
Non-current assets 
Investments C3 1,732.3 1,723.7 1,718.8
Property, plant & equipment C4 – – –
1,732.3 1,723.7 1,718.8
Current assets
Trade and other receivables C5 36.5 53.0 53.9
Cash and cash equivalents C6 10.3 80.7 –
46.8 133.7 53.9
Total assets 1,779.1 1,857.4 1,772.7
Current liabilities 
Bank overdrafts C7 (78.4) – (359.9)
Borrowings C7 (130.0) (95.0) (250.0)
Trade and other payables C8 (264.5) (462.9) (216.9)
(472.9) (557.9) (826.8)
Net current liabilities (426.1) (424.2) (772.9)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings C7 (314.3) (319.7) (320.1)
(314.3) (319.7) (320.1)
Total liabilities (787.2) (877.6) (1,146.9)
Net assets 991.9 979.8 625.8
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital C9 90.3 90.2 44.3
Share premium account 169.5 169.4 169.4
Investment in own shares (2.3) (2.3) (2.3)
Capital reserves 5.0 5.0 5.0
Profit and loss account 729.4 717.5 409.4
Equity shareholders’ funds 991.9 979.8 625.8
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 23 June 2011 and signed on their behalf by:
 
John Browett Nicholas Cadbury
Chief Executive Group Finance Director Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
109
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Note
52 weeks 
ended  
30 April 2011 
£million
52 weeks  
ended 
1 May 2010 
£million
Operating activities 
Cash (utilised by) / generated from operations C10 (195.4) 243.3
Income tax received – 1.2
Net cash flows from operating activities (195.4) 244.5
Investing activities 
Dividend received 50.0 100.0
Interest received 16.0 20.4
Net cash flows from investing activities 66.0 120.4
Financing activities 
Issue of ordinary share capital 0.2 291.3
Increase / (decrease) in borrowings due within one year 35.0 (155.0)
Increase in borrowings due after more than one year 5.4 –
Interest paid (60.0) (60.6)
Net cash flows from financing activities (19.4) 75.7
(Decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents
†
C10 (148.8) 440.6
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
†
C10 80.7 (359.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
†
C10 (68.1) 80.7
†  For the purposes of this cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise those items disclosed as “cash and cash equivalents” on the face of the balance sheet, less overdrafts, 
which are classified within current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet. A reconciliation to the balance sheet amounts is shown in note C10.
Company Cash Flow  
Statement
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
110 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Share 
capital 
£million
Share 
premium 
£million
Merger  
reserve 
£million
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£million
Investment in 
own shares 
£million
Retained 
earnings 
£million
Total equity 
£million
At 3 May 2009 44.3 169.4 – 5.0 (2.3) 409.4 625.8
Profit for the period – – – – – 57.8 57.8
Placing and Rights Issue 45.9 – 245.4 – – – 291.3
Transfer – – (245.4) – – 245.4 –
Share-based payments – – – – – 4.9 4.9
At 1 May 2010 90.2 169.4 – 5.0 (2.3) 717.5 979.8
Profit for the period – – – – – 3.3 3.3
Ordinary shares issued 0.1 0.1 – – – – 0.2
Share-based payments – – – – – 8.6 8.6
At 30 April 2011 90.3 169.5 – 5.0 (2.3) 729.4 991.9
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement for the Company is included in these financial statements. 
On 9 June 2009, the Company completed a Placing and Rights Issue, further details of which are shown in note C9. The Placing 
and Rights Issue was effected through a structure which resulted in a merger reserve arising under section 612 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Following receipt of the cash proceeds through the structure, the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of the 
share capital issued was transferred from the merger reserve to retained earnings. 
Own shares held by the Company represent shares in the Company held by Halifax EES Trustees International Limited, further 
details of which are given in notes 23(b) and 24 to the Group financial statements.
Company Statement  
of Changes in Equity Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
111
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
C1 Accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
EU, IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to those 
companies reporting under IFRS. Accounting policies have been consistently applied throughout the current and preceding periods. 
After making due enquiry, on the basis of current financial projections, the directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements. 
The Company’s accounting policies in relation to operating leases, share-based payments, translation of foreign currencies, 
property, plant and equipment, taxation and derivative financial instruments are set out in note 1 to the Group financial statements. 
Other accounting policies which are specific to the Company are set out below. 
(a) Share-based payments 
Where the Company has granted rights to its equity to employees of subsidiary undertakings in relation to equity settled share-
based payment arrangements the contribution to the subsidiary undertakings is recognised as an additional investment.
(b) Investments
Investments are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value.
(c) Post-retirement benefits 
It is not practical to allocate the underlying assets and liabilities of the defined benefit section of the pension scheme to the Company 
on a consistent and reasonable basis. The Company has therefore accounted for its contributions to the defined benefit section of 
the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. 
The Company’s contributions to the defined contribution section of the pension scheme are charged to the income statement on an 
accruals basis as they become payable.
C2 Directors’ and auditors’ remuneration
Details of directors’ remuneration, share interests, share options, pensions and other entitlements, which form part of these financial 
statements, are given in the parts of the directors’ Remuneration Report which are described as having been audited. Fees paid to 
the auditors in respect of their audit of the Company were £0.1 million (2009/10 £0.1 million).
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
112 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements  
continued
C3 Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
Cost
At beginning of period 1,723.7 1,718.8
Movement in the period 8.6 4.9
At end of period 1,732.3 1,723.7
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are set out in note C15.
C4 Property, plant & equipment 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
Cost
At beginning and end of period 0.5 0.5
Depreciation
At beginning and end of period 0.5 0.5
Net book value
At beginning and end of period – –
C5 Trade and other receivables 
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
2009 
£million
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 11.8 15.7 13.9
Derivative financial instruments 18.3 25.0 30.3
Other debtors 0.1 0.1 0.6
Prepayments 6.3 9.1 9.1
Accrued income – 3.1 –
36.5 53.0 53.9
Further information on derivative financial instruments is provided in note C12.
The majority of other receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 60 day terms. The total financial assets included within 
trade and other receivables are £11.9 million (2010 £18.9 million and 2009 £14.5 million). The carrying amount of trade and other 
receivables approximates fair value. There were no past due or impaired balances at the end of the period (2010 and 2009 £nil). 
C6 Cash and cash equivalents 
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
2009 
£million
Cash at bank – 80.7 –
Money market deposits 10.3 – –
10.3 80.7 –
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates.  Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
113
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
C7 Borrowings and overdrafts
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
2009 
£million
Current 
Bank overdrafts 78.4 – 359.9
Borrowings 130.0 95.0 250.0
208.4 95.0 609.9
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
2009 
£million
Non-current 
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 167.2 319.7 320.1
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 147.1 – –
314.3 319.7 320.1
Bank overdrafts are subject to a pooling arrangement with other group companies and are repayable on demand. 
Current borrowings represent amounts which have been drawn down under the £360 million sterling committed facility (the £360 million 
Facility) (2010 and 2009 the £400 million sterling committed facility). 
On 23 July 2010, tenders were conditionally accepted to repurchase £140 million in nominal amount of the £300 million 6.125% 
Guaranteed Bonds due November 2012 (the 2012 Bonds), subject to the successful completion of appropriate financing to fund the 
repurchase. This repurchase was financed by a new issue of £150 million 8.75% Guaranteed Notes due 3 August 2015 (the 2015 
Notes) and for which proceeds were received on 30 July 2010. 
Further details on the £360 million Facility, the 2012 Bonds and the 2015 Notes are provided in notes 17 and 22 of the Group 
financial statements. 
C8 Trade and other payables
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
2009 
£million
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 250.5 446.6 202.3
Accruals 14.0 16.3 14.6
264.5 462.9 216.9
The total shown equals the total financial liabilities. The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value. 
C9 Share capital
Called up share capital
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
2009 
£million
Authorised
4,980,252,496 (2010 and 2009 4,980,252,496) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 124.5 124.5 124.5
Allotted and fully paid
3,610,350,075 (2010 3,609,937,433, 2009 1,772,442,268) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 90.3 90.2 44.3
During the period 412,642 shares (2009/10 36,403) were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share option schemes. 
On 9 June 2009 the Group completed a Placing and Rights Issue which raised gross proceeds of £310.6 million and for which 
further details are provided in note 23(a) of the Group financial statements. 
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
114 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements  
continued
C10 Notes to the cash flow statement 
(a) Reconciliation of operating loss to net cash (outflow) / inflow from operating activities
2010/11 
£million
2009/10 
£million
Operating loss (3.2) (7.6)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (3.2) (7.6)
Movements in working capital:
Decrease in trade and other receivables 6.7 2.3
(Decrease) / increase in trade and other payables (198.9) 248.6
(192.2) 250.9
Cash generated from operations (195.4) 243.3
(b) Analysis of net debt
2 May 2010 
£million
Cash flow 
£million
Other non-cash 
movements 
£million 
30 April 2011 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents
†
 80.7 (70.4) – 10.3
Bank overdrafts – (78.4) – (78.4)
80.7 (148.8) – (68.1)
Borrowings due within one year (95.0) (35.0) – (130.0)
Borrowings due after more than one year (319.7) (5.4) 10.8 (314.3)
(414.7) (40.4) 10.8 (444.3)
Net debt (334.0) (189.2) 10.8 (512.4)
 3 May 2009 
£million
 Cash flow 
£million
Other non-cash 
movements 
£million 
 1 May 2010 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents
†
 – 80.7 – 80.7
Bank overdrafts (359.9) 359.9 – –
 (359.9) 440.6 – 80.7
Borrowings due within one year (250.0) 155.0 – (95.0)
Borrowings due after more than one year (320.1) – 0.4 (319.7)
 (570.1) 155.0 0.4 (414.7)
Net debt (930.0) 595.6 0.4 (334.0)
†    Cash and cash equivalents are represented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet. For the purposes of the cash flow, cash and cash equivalents comprise those amounts 
represented on the balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts (which are disclosed separately on the balance sheet and as disclosed in note C7). Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
115
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
C11 Post-retirement benefits
The Company maintains a pension scheme for eligible employees in the UK comprising both a defined benefit and defined contribution 
section. The defined benefit section is a funded scheme with assets held in a separate trustee administered fund. The scheme is valued 
by a qualified actuary at least every three years and contributions are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified 
actuaries so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members. Since 1 September 2002, the defined 
benefit section of the scheme has been closed to new entrants and on 30 April 2010 was closed to future accrual with automatic entry 
into the defined contribution section being offered to those active members of the defined benefit section at that time. Membership of 
the defined contribution section is offered to all eligible employees. 
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was last carried out as at 31 March 2010 and showed a shortfall of assets compared with 
liabilities of £239.0 million. This shortfall and the associated ‘recovery plan’ have been agreed in principle with the trustee of the 
scheme with formal agreement expected shortly. The proposed recovery plan based on this valuation commenced in 2010/11  
with special contributions of £12.0 million which rise to £16.0 million in 2011/12, £20.0 million for 2012/13 and 2013/14 and rising 
approximately annually thereafter to £35.0 million by 2020/21. The next triennial valuation will be as at 31 March 2013. 
At 31 March 2010, the market value of the scheme’s investments was £672.0 million and, based on the above assumptions, the value of 
the assets was sufficient to cover 74% of the benefits accrued to members with the liabilities amounting to £911.0 million. The valuation 
of the defined benefit section for the purposes of IAS 19 showed a gross pension deficit (before deferred tax) of £244.0 million (2010 
£263.5 million and 2009 £148.8 million). Further particulars of the scheme are disclosed in note 21 to the Group financial statements.
C12 Financial instruments 
(a) Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Company is exposed to liquidity, interest rate, exchange, credit and capital risks and adopts the same approach to the 
management of these risks as the Group as set out in the Directors’ Report and in note 22 to the Group financial statements. 
(b) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
For receivables and payables classified as financial assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 32, fair value is estimated to be 
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in notes C5 and C8, respectively. The categories of financial assets and liabilities 
and their related accounting policy are set out in notes 1.11 and 1.15 to the Group financial statements. 
For those financial assets and liabilities which bear either a floating rate of interest or no interest, fair value is estimated to be 
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in note C12 (d). 
Included in trade and other receivables is £18.3 million (2010 £25.0 million and 2009 £30.3 million) relating to interest rate swaps held 
to hedge fair value interest rate risk. See note C12 (c) for further details. 
The Company uses swaps to manage its interest rate exposure. Further details on the Company’s interest rate swaps are included  
in note 22(d) to the Group financial statements. 
(c) Hedging activities
The Company manages exposures that arise on interest rates by entering into interest rate swaps. Further information on fair value 
hedging is set out in note 22(c) to the Group financial statements. 
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
116 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements  
continued
C12 Financial instruments continued
(d) Interest rate profile of financial assets and financial liabilities by currency
The following table sets out the interest rate exposure of the financial assets and liabilities of the Company.
2011
Sterling 
£million
Other 
£million
Total 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents:
 Floating rate 10.3 – 10.3
Borrowings:
 Fixed rate (60.9) – (60.9)
 Floating rate (461.8) – (461.8)
(522.7) – (522.7)
Net borrowings (512.4) – (512.4)
2010
Sterling 
£million
Other 
£million
Total 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents:
 Floating rate 80.3 0.4 80.7
Borrowings:
 Fixed rate (53.3) – (53.3)
 Floating rate (361.4) – (361.4)
(414.7) – (414.7)
Net borrowings (334.4) 0.4 (334.0)
2009
Sterling 
£million
Other 
£million
Total 
£million
Borrowings:
 Floating rate (930.0) – (930.0)
Net borrowings (930.0) – (930.0)
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments 
classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Floating rate cash and cash equivalents relate to money market deposits (as shown in note C6). 
Fixed rate borrowings comprise the unhedged part of the 2012 Bonds and the 2015 Notes. Floating rate borrowings include bank 
overdrafts and fixed rate bonds after taking into account the effect of interest rates swaps entered into by the Company and 
drawings under the £360 million Facility (2010 and 2009 the Old Facility). The weighted average effective interest rate on bank 
overdrafts approximated 1.5% (2009/10 1.5%). Further details on fixed and floating rate borrowings are shown in notes 17 and 22 
to the Group financial statements.  Financial Statements
 Dixons Retail plc 
117
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
(e) Sensitivity analysis
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, shows the sensitivity of profit before tax and total equity to changes in interest rates  
on derivative financial instruments and certain monetary items. The sensitivity analysis reflects the position as at 30 April 2011  
and 1 May 2010 respectively, and is not necessarily representative of actual or future outcomes. 
Changes in interest rates affect the Company’s loss before tax, mainly due to the impact of floating rate borrowings, cash and 
derivative financial instruments. The Company’s principal floating rate interest rate exposures are based on LIBOR. The following 
sensitivity analysis shows a reasonably possible change in interest rates (uniform across all currencies), with other variables held 
constant and the corresponding decrease would have an equal and opposite effect. A 1% increase in interest rates would have a 
negative effect on profit before tax and equity of £5.9 million (2009/10 a £6.7 million negative effect on profit before tax and equity). 
Assumptions used in calculating the sensitivity analysis are set out in note 22(e) to the Group financial statements. 
(f) Liquidity Risk
The table below analyses the Company’s contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivative assets 
into their maturity groupings. The table includes both principal and interest flows.
2011
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
Within  
one year 
£million
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million
Total 
£million
Carrying 
value 
£million
Non derivative financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (78.4) – (78.4) (78.4)
Borrowings (131.6) – (131.6) (130.0)
Trade and other payables (255.2) – (255.2) (264.5)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (9.8) (169.8) (179.6) (167.2)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (13.1) (195.9) (209.0) (147.1)
(488.1) (365.7) (853.8) (787.2)
Derivative contracts
 Inflows 16.1 262.6 278.7 278.4
 Outflows (5.8) (254.4) (260.2) (260.1)
10.3 8.2 18.5 18.3
2010
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
Within  
one year 
£million
In more than
 one year but
 not more than 
five years 
£million
Total 
£million
Carrying 
value 
£million
Non derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings (95.0) – (95.0) (95.0)
Trade and other payables (454.0) – (454.0) (462.9)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (18.4) (337.1) (355.5) (319.7)
(567.4) (337.1) (904.5) (877.6)
Derivative contracts
 Inflows 15.3 30.6 45.9 44.8
 Outflows (5.0) (15.4) (20.4) (19.8)
10.3 15.2 25.5 25.0
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 Financial Statements
118 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
C12 Financial instruments continued
2009
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
Within  
one year 
£million
In more than
 one year but
 not more than  
five years 
£million
Total 
£million
Carrying 
value 
£million
Non derivative financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (359.9) – (359.9) (359.9)
Borrowings (252.1) – (252.1) (250.0)
Trade and other payables (206.4) – (206.4) (216.9)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (18.4) (355.5) (373.9) (320.1)
(836.8) (355.5) (1,192.3) (1,146.9)
Derivative contracts
 Inflows 15.3 45.9 61.2 70.1
 Outflows (9.3) (27.8) (37.1) (39.8)
6.0 18.1 24.1 30.3
The carrying value of trade and other payables includes accrued interest on the 2012 Bonds of £4.5 million (2010 £8.4 million and 
2009 £8.4 million), accrued interest of £3.2 million on the 2015 Notes (2010 £nil and 2009 £nil) and accrued interest on other 
borrowings of £0.1 million (2010 £0.4 million and 2009 £1.5 million). 
(g) Credit risk
The Company’s exposure to credit risk is discussed in note 22 (a) to the Group financial statements. The Company’s receivable 
balances mainly consist of amounts due from subsidiary undertakings. Further information on the Company’s exposure to significant 
concentration of credit risk on receivables from subsidiary undertakings is set out in note C14. 
C13 Contingent liabilities
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
2009 
£million
Guarantees – 54.5 75.0
Other 3.1 2.8 1.8
3.1 57.3 76.8
Guarantees comprise potential obligations to financial institutions in respect of activities undertaken in the normal course of business.
C14 Related parties
During the period the Company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties as follows: 
2010/11 
£million
2009/10 
£million
Subsidiary undertakings: 
 Recharge of costs 12.9 10.1
 Interest paid (6.9) (2.1)
 Dividends received 50.0 100.0
Recharge of costs relates to management charges for services provided to other Group companies.
Included within amounts repayable to subsidiaries are loans of £234.2 million (2010 £431.3 million and 2009 £177 .7 million) with maturity 
of one month but renewable on a rolling basis and bear interest at 4.25% (2009/10 rates between 1.5% and 4.25%). The Company also 
has fixed loans of £14.2 million (2010 £14.2 million and 2009 £20.8 million) which have no maturity date and bear no interest.
Notes to the Company  
Financial Statements  
continued  Dixons Retail plc 
119
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Financial Statements
C15 Principal subsidiary undertakings 
The directors consider that to give full particulars of all group undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. A full list of 
group undertakings is attached to the latest annual return. The following information relates to those subsidiary undertakings, all of 
which are engaged in retail activities, whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affect the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group at 30 April 2011:
DSG international Holdings Limited – UK* El-Giganten AS – Denmark 
DSG Retail Ireland Limited – Ireland  Elkjøp Nordic AS – Norway 
DSG Retail Limited – UK  Gigantti OY – Finland 
Dixons South-East Europe A.E.V.E. – Greece (99.2%) PIXmania S.A.S. – France (77.1%) 
Electro World s.r.o. – Czech Republic PC City Spain S.A.U. – Spain 
Electro World lç ve Dıs ¸ Ticaret A.S ¸   – Turkey (60%) Unieuro S.p.A. – Italy 
El-Giganten AB – Sweden 
*
 A direct subsidiary undertaking of Dixons Retail plc and a holding company 
Unless otherwise indicated, principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly-owned. All Group undertakings operate in their country  
of incorporation.
C16 Post balance sheet event 
On 1 June 2011, the Company announced that the Group had exchanged contracts with a syndicate of investors advised by Ness, 
Risan and Partners AS for the sale and leaseback of the Group’s Nordic distribution centre in Jönköping, Sweden. The sale and 
leaseback is expected to complete in June 2011 and the total cash consideration receivable on completion is expected to be 
approximately SEK600 million (£59 million). The estimated book value of the property as at 30 May 2011 was SEK214.5 million 
(approximately £21 million). The proceeds of the sale will be used for general corporate purposes, including offsetting drawings  
on the Company’s New Facility and for repayment of the 2012 Bonds.
Financial Statements
56 - - 119 120 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Shareholder Information
Consolidated income statement
2010/11 
£million
2009/10 
£million
2008/09 
£million
2007/08 
£million
2006/07 
£million
Underlying revenue
(1)
8,154.4 8,320.0 7,955.8 8,074.8 7,531.7
Percentage change (2.0)% 4.6% (1.5)% 7.2%
Underlying operating profit / EBIT
(2)
127.6 133.2 95.3 214.3 279.2
Underlying net finance (costs) / income
(1)
(42.3) (42.3) (24.7) 14.1 25.0
Underlying profit before tax
(1)
85.3 90.9 70.6 228.4 304.2
Percentage change (6.2)% 28.8% (69.1)% (24.9)%
Business to be closed / closed businesses (8.5) (0.6) (28.6) (13.8) 2.9
Acquired intangible amortisation (4.5) (4.6) (4.9) (4.4) (4.7)
Net restructuring charges (17.1) (5.6) (59.1) (20.7) (55.4)
Business impairment charges (251.6) – (96.1) (364.2) (115.1)
Other items (24.9) – 1.9 – –
Changes in pension benefits – 33.4 – – 4.7
Profit on sale of investment – – – 1.7 –
Net fair value remeasurements (2.8) (0.8) (7.4) (6.2) (10.5)
(Loss) / profit before tax – continuing operations (224.1) 112.7 (123.6) (179.2) 126.1
Income tax expense (19.1) (46.7) (56.8) (66.0) (77.3)
(Loss) / profit after tax – continuing operations (243.2) 66.0 (180.4) (245.2) 48.8
(Loss) / profit after tax – discontinued operations (2.1) (8.7) (38.9) (14.5) (46.4)
(Loss) / profit for the period (245.3) 57.3 (219.3) (259.7) 2.4
Underlying diluted earnings per share (pence)
(1)
1.6p 1.5p 1.3p 7.0p 9.4pp
Percentage change 6.7% 15.4% (81.4)% (25.5)% 
Dividends per ordinary share (pence) – – – 5.45p 8.87p
Consolidated cash flow
2010/11 
£million
2009/10 
£million
2008/09 
£million
2007/08 
£million
2006/07 
£million
Underlying profit before tax
(1)
85.3 90.9 70.6 228.4 304.2
Business to be closed / closed businesses (loss) / 
profit before tax (8.5) (0.6) (28.6) (13.8) 2.9
Depreciation and amortisation 139.4 128.6 134.7 136.2 136.8
Working capital movements 40.4 39.7 (285.4) 8.1 (15.1)
Taxation (26.2) (31.9) (35.7) (53.1) (100.8)
Net capital expenditure (221.2) (164.6) (129.9) (123.6) (108.0)
Other 29.7 (34.0) (65.7) (48.9) 15.8
Free Cash Flow before restructuring items
(3)
38.9 28.1 (340.0) 133.3 235.8
Net restructuring and other one-off items (28.9) (45.7) (64.2) (37.6) (63.6)
Free Cash Flow
(4)
10.0 (17.6) (404.2) 95.7 172.2
Closing net (debt) / funds (206.8) (220.6) (477.5) 50.1 224.9
Less restricted funds
(5)
(120.3) (78.9) (67.6) (66.5) (111.2)
Unrestricted net (debt) / funds
(5)
(327.1) (299.5) (545.1) (16.4) 113.7
Five Year Record  Dixons Retail plc 
121
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Shareholder Information
Consolidated balance sheet 
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
2009 
£million
2008 
£million
2007 
£million
Non-current assets
Goodwill 970.8 1,116.5 1,069.1 984.3 1,057.1
Intangible assets 113.1 130.7 148.4 143.9 127.7
Tangible assets 583.7 541.0 489.6 531.3 580.6
Other non-current assets 216.4 253.8 248.6 154.7 144.2
1,884.0 2,042.0 1,955.7 1,814.2 1,909.6
Current assets
Inventories 960.9 972.6 971.9 1,093.1 1,030.6
Other current assets 387.3 397.0 516.5 501.7 409.9
Short term investments 10.5 8.5 9.0 82.0 185.9
Cash and cash equivalents 334.7 295.7 192.6 365.8 440.5
1,693.4 1,673.8 1,690.0 2,042.6 2,066.9
Assets held for sale – – 13.2 – –
Total assets 3,577.4 3,715.8 3,658.9 3,856.8 3,976.5
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts (5.6) (4.9) (4.8) (2.1) (5.7)
Other borrowings (130.0) (98.5) (250.1) (0.2) (2.9)
Obligations under finance leases (3.1) (2.4) (2.8) (1.5) (1.0)
Other current liabilities (1,692.7) (1,652.9) (1,722.5) (2,070.1) (1,827.1)
Provisions (44.4) (22.3) (72.1) (46.2) (32.7)
(1,875.8) (1,781.0) (2,052.3) (2,120.1) (1,869.4)
Net current (liabilities) / assets (182.4) (107.2) (362.3) (77.5) 197.5
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (315.3) (321.4) (322.5) (294.6) (290.4)
Obligations under finance leases (98.0) (97.6) (98.9) (99.3) (101.5)
Retirement benefit obligations (247.3) (266.8) (153.0) (54.0) (38.4)
Other non-current liabilities (348.6) (344.4) (392.5) (384.2) (354.1)
Provisions (15.9) (29.5) (40.4) (51.1) (18.4)
(1,025.1) (1,059.7) (1,007.3) (883.2) (802.8)
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale – – (14.4) – –
Total liabilities (2,900.9) (2,840.7) (3,074.0) (3,003.3) (2,672.2)
Net assets 676.5 875.1 584.9 853.5 1,304.3
Equity shareholders’ funds 653.5 846.5 558.9 826.7 1,281.7
Equity non-controlling interests 23.0 28.6 26.0 26.8 22.6
Total equity 676.5 875.1 584.9 853.5 1,304.3
Notes:
(1)  Underlying figures exclude the effects of trading results of business to be closed / closed businesses, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges 
and other one off non-recurring items, profits on sale of investments and net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments, and where applicable, discontinued operations.
(2) EBIT equates to underlying operating profit.
(3)  Free Cash Flow before restructuring items includes dividend payments to non-controlling interests (minority shareholders).
(4)  Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash flow generated from operations before special pension contributions, net finance income / costs, less income tax and 
net capital expenditure.
(5)  Unrestricted net (debt) / funds comprise cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and borrowings and exclude restricted funds which predominantly comprise funds held under trust 
to fund customer support agreement liabilities.
Shareholder Information
120 - - 123 122 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Shareholder Information
Shareholder Information
Registered office
Maylands Avenue, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire HP2 7TG. 
Registered No. 3847921. www.dixonsretail.com
Registrars and transfer office
Capita IRG plc, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, 
Kent BR3 4TU. Tel: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p per minute 
plus network extras; lines are open 8.30am – 5.30pm Monday to 
Friday). If calling from abroad the number is +44 20 8639 3399. 
The website address is www.capitaregistrars.com
Joint brokers
Citigroup Global Markets, JP Morgan Cazenove.
Shareholder enquiries
Shareholders can access shareholding details over the internet 
via our Registrar’s secure portal at www.capitashareportal.com 
As well as checking name, address and shareholding details in 
the Shareholder Help section, you can download change of 
address, dividend mandate and stock transfer forms. This is 
 a secure site and you will need to register first. Please follow 
the simple instructions on the website. So that the system  
can validate your enquiries an Investor Code is required. This  
is a numerical account number and can be found on your  
share certificate. 
Share dealing service
Online and telephone share dealing services are available 
through our Registrars, providing easy access and simple  
to use services. There is no need to pre-register and the facilities 
allow you to trade in ‘real time’ and at a known price which will 
be given to you at the time you give your instruction. In order  
to deal via these facilities you will need your Investor Code  
(see above) as well as stating your surname, full post code and 
date of birth. Details of the online dealing service are available  
on www.capitadeal.com and the telephone dealing service is  
on 0871 664 0454 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network 
extras). Lines are open Monday to Friday 8am to 4.30pm. 
JP Morgan Cazenove operates a postal share dealing service  
for private investors who wish to buy or sell the Company’s 
shares. Details are available from JP Morgan Cazenove.  
Tel: 020 7155 5328.
Unsolicited mail
The Company is obliged to make its share register available to 
third parties on payment of a prescribed fee. This may result in 
shareholders receiving unsolicited mail. If you wish to limit the 
receipt of unsolicited mail you should write to: The Mailing 
Preference Service, FREEPOST 22, London W1E 7ER or register 
on their website at www.mpsonline.org.uk
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share 
donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of  
shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them. Details  
of the scheme are available on the ShareGift internet site,  
www.sharegift.org
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting 7 September 2011
2011/12 Interim results announcement 24 November 2011
2011/12 Interim statement publication January 2012
Alternative Format
If you would like this Annual  
Report and Accounts or any  
other shareholder documentation  
in an alternative format,  
please send a request to  
corporate.affairs@dixonsretail.com  
or telephone 00 44 (0)844 800 2030  Dixons Retail plc 
123
 Annual Report and Accounts  
 2010/11
 
Shareholder Information
Index
Page
A  
Accounting policies  62-68
Accounting estimates & 
  judgements 67-68
Acquired intangibles 83
Acquisitions 105
Amortisation 72, 83
Associates 84-85
Audit Committee Report 44
Auditors’ Remuneration  73
Auditors’ Report 56
B 
Balance Sheet (Consolidated) 59
Board of directors 36
Borrowings and borrowing facilities  87
Brands  02-03, 83
Business Model  16-17
C 
Capital commitments  106
Capital expenditure  72, 83-84
Cash and cash equivalents 60, 86, 104
Cash flow statement (Consolidated) 60
Charitable donations 39
Community 35
Contingent liabilities 106
Corporate Governance Report  40-43
Customer Plan 05-07
D 
Deferred tax  78-79
Depreciation  72, 84
Directors’ remuneration  50
Directors’ interests  49-51, 53
Discontinued operations 105-106
E 
Earnings / loss per share  80
Employee numbers 02-03, 77
Employees  34
Environment  33-34
Executive Committee  37
Page
F  
Finance costs / income  76
Finance leases  88
Financial instruments  93-98
Five Year Record 120-121
Free Cash Flow 30-31, 60
Funding  30-31, 87
G 
Going concern  39
Goodwill  81, 83
H 
Health and Safety 34-35
I 
Impairment 74-75, 81-82
Income statement (Consolidated) 57
Intangible assets  83
Inventories  85
K 
Key Performance Indicators  19
L 
LTIP / Long term incentive plan 47-48
N  
Nominations Committee Report 45
Non-underlying items 62, 74-75
O 
Operating lease charges  73
Operating lease commitments 107
Outlook  07, 18
P 
Pensions 31, 89-92
PSP / Performance share plan 47-48
Placing and Rights Issue 99
Post balance sheet events 107
Property losses 31, 69-70
Property, plant & equipment 84
Provisions 89
Page
R 
Related party transactions 107
Remuneration Report 46-54
Reward Shares 51, 101-102
Reward Sacrifice 101-102
Risk factors 20-22
S 
Segmental analysis 68-72
Selling space 02-03
Share based payments 100-103
Share capital  99
Shareholder information 120-122
Short term investments 86
Statement of comprehensive income  
 and expense 58
Store numbers 02-03
Subsidiary undertakings  119
T 
Tax 77-79
TSR (Total Shareholder Return) 19, 50
Trade & other payables  88
Trade & other receivables  85-86
Treasury policy 93-94
U 
Underlying definition 62
Shareholder Information
120 - - 123 124 
 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Shareholder Information
Notes Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Dixons Retail plc is a specialist electrical 
retailer and services company which  
sells consumer electronics, personal 
computers, domestic appliances, 
photographic equipment, communication 
products and related services.
We are one of Europe’s leading  
specialist electrical retailing groups.  
We trade through over 1,200 stores and 
online, spanning 28 countries and we 
employ 38,000 people.
www.dixonsretail.com
Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.merchantcantos.com
Photography by Dennis Davis: Dennis Davis Photography and Dixons Retail plc Digital Studio. 
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO9001, ISO14001, FSC certified and CarbonNeutral 
The papers used in this report are Revive 50:50 Silk and Revive 50:50 Offset. They are produced from 50% recycled fibre from both pre- and post-consumer waste 
sources, together with 50% Elemental Chlorine Free fibre from well-managed forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship 
Council. The inks used are all vegetable oil based. Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2010/11
Dixons Retail plc 
Maylands Avenue
Hemel Hempstead
Hertfordshire
HP2 7TG
T el 0844 800 2030
www.dixonsretail.com
Dixons Retail plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 
2010/11
Bringing 
life to 
technology
