 Dixons Retail plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Read the Annual Report and much more at
www.dixonsretail.com
Cautionary statement 
Certain statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are 
forward looking statements. Such statements are based on 
current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and 
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially 
from any expected future events or results referred to in these 
forward looking statements. Unless otherwise required by 
applicable laws, regulations or accounting standards, we do 
not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward 
looking statements, whether as a result of new information, 
future developments or otherwise. Nothing in this Annual 
Report and Accounts should be regarded as a proﬁt forecast.
About us
Dixons Retail plc is a specialist electrical  
retailer and services company which  
sells consumer electronics, personal  
computers, domestic appliances,  
photographic equipment, communication 
products and related services.
We are one of Europe’s leading specialist 
electrical retailing groups. We trade through 
over 1,200 stores and online, spanning 28 
countries and we employ 36,500 people.
Scan here to download  
our Investor Relations app 
onto your iPad or iPhone 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Contents
 EXPERTISE
 CHOICE
 RELIABILITY
 FOCUS
12
16 18
14
Financial Statements
68 Independent Auditor’s Report
69 Consolidated Income Statement
70  Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income and Expense
71 Consolidated Balance Sheet
72 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
73  Consolidated Statement of Changes  
in Equity
74  Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements
120 Company Balance Sheet
121 Company Cash Flow Statement
122  Company Statement of Changes in 
Equity
123  Notes to the Company Financial 
Statements
Shareholder Information
132 Five Year Record
134 Shareholder Information
135 Index
Business Overview
02 Delivering transformation and renewal
04 Group at a Glance
06  Chairman’s Statement and  
Financial Highlights
08 Interview with the Group Chief Executive
Strategic Summary
11 The customer experience
12 FOCUS
14 CHOICE
16 EXPERTISE
18 RELIABILITY
20 Our Markets
21 Business Model and Strategy
24 Resources
26 Looking Forward
27 Key Performance Indicators
28  Principal Risks to Achieving the  
Group’s Objectives
Performance Review
31 Overview
33 UK & Ireland
34 Northern Europe
35 Southern Europe
36 PIXmania
37 Group Financial Summary
40 Corporate Responsibility Report
Corporate Governance
44 Board of Directors
46 Chairman’s Introduction
47 Statutory Information
49 Corporate Governance Report
52  Audit Committee Report 
54 Nominations Committee Report
56  Remuneration Report
67  Directors’ Responsibilities
Directors’ report and business review  Directors’ Report 
Business Overview
36,500
colleagues employed across the Group
No.1
selling product of the year  
in the UK was the iPad2
Delivering  
 transformation  
 and renewal
£8.2bn
total Group sales
 97m
GB of data equating to 155,000 Knowhow™ 
Clouds have been purchased by customers to 
protect their photos, music and documents
 128,252
tonnes of WEEE collected and recycled  
in UK & Ireland and Nordics Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc 03
 1,2 1 1
stores and online operations 
spanning 28 countries
Business Overview
 97 %
right ﬁrst time deliveries increased from 88% to 97%
7
own brands: Currys and PC World essentials, 
Logik, Goji, Advent, Sandstrøm and iWantit 04 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview
UK & Ireland
For more information  
please turn to page: 
Northern Europe
For more information  
please turn to page: 
Highlights
We are well positioned to continue to deliver world-class value, choice 
and service to our customers as we execute the Customer Plan. Stores 
are being reﬁtted so customers can enjoy the best of both Currys and 
PC World formats under one roof.
We are improving the Customer Journey for each category to help  
customers purchase the right product with the right solution for their needs.
Our multi-channel offering provides customers with the convenience of 
online together with the accessibility of stores, particularly through the 
reserve&collect facility, and grew 28% during the year. 
Under the Knowhow™ brand, we offer the most comprehensive range  
of services to customers such as delivery and installation, set-up, Cloud 
back-up and Knowhow™ Movies. 
Dixons Travel stores deliver a wide range of products aimed at the 
travelling customer.
An agreement was signed with Harrods to sell leading edge electrical 
products as well as Knowhow™ services from their iconic London store.
Highlights
The Nordic management team continues to drive the Elkjøp business 
forward, retaining market leader status and growing share across the 
Nordics. The division continues to perform well as more stores are 
extended or reﬁtted and Superstores are refurbished to the new 
Group format. 
First class customer service, a cost effective supply chain structure, strong 
retail sites in all countries and great relationships with suppliers delivers an 
excellent shopping trip for Elkjøp customers. 
During the year, Elkjøp delivered a strong performance across all four 
countries with total sales up 10% with a particularly strong performance  
in Denmark.
The Electroworld operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia are now 
managed alongside the Nordic operations to beneﬁt from the successful 
Nordic business model. 
Group at a Glance
Our brands
Currys and PC World are the largest specialist 
electrical retailing and services operators in the  
UK and Ireland.
Knowhow™ is our market leading services brand 
which puts customers at the heart of everything we do.
Dixons Travel operates in all major UK airports as  
well as Dublin, Copenhagen, Rome and Milan.
DSGi Business provides computing products 
and services to business to business customers.
Our brands
Elkjøp is the leading specialist electrical retailer 
across the Nordics. 
Elkjøp and Lefdal stores operate in Norway,  
El Giganten in Sweden and Denmark and Gigantti 
in Finland.
In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, we operate 
under the Electroworld brand.
Underlying sales
(£million)
3,834
Underlying sales
(£million)
2,628
Average selling 
area per store (sq ft)
13,591
Average selling 
area per store (sq ft)
15,994
Number of stores
587
Number of stores
315
Average employees
20,851
Average employees
8,748
Selling space
(‘000 sq ft)
7,978
Selling space
(‘000 sq ft)
5,038
We are a leading 
European electrical 
retailing and 
services company
www.currys.co.uk 
www.pcworld.co.uk 
www.dixons.co.uk 
www.knowhow.co.uk 
www.equanet.co.uk
www.currys.ie 
www.pcworld.ie
www.elkjøp.no 
www.elgiganten.se 
www.elgiganten.dk 
www.gigantti.ﬁ 
www.lefdal.com 
www.electroworld.cz
33 34 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Business Overview
Southern 
Europe
For more information  
please turn to page: 
Highlights
Despite the economic instability across Southern Europe, Unieuro’s  
customer offer has improved and the turnaround of the business has enabled 
Unieuro to trade ahead of its competitors. In the difﬁcult trading environment, 
further cost reduction has been identiﬁed to strengthen the business. 
A difﬁcult trading environment in Greece remains challenging for Kotsovolos. 
The business, however, remains the market leader and further actions  
to reduce costs in the business have limited the impact of the weak  
sales environment. 
Electroworld in Turkey continues to expand in an exciting growth market.
Highlights
PIXmania has experienced a difﬁcult year with a number of factors impacting 
performance, some of which could not have been foreseen. The natural 
disasters in Japan and Thailand severely limited the supply of key product 
lines in photography and digital storage.
PIXmania has been transforming its operating model and widening its 
product categories. PIXplace, its market place, continues to grow strongly 
with over 1,500 active third party resellers offering over 1.5 million products  
in 26 countries. PIXmania now operates 27 stores giving customers more 
ﬂexibility for reserve&collect. Further investments in E-merchant, its market 
leading e-commerce platform for third party customers, has seen it win the 
Carrefour account, launched in November 2011 and more recently Celio,  
one of France’s largest menswear brands with a launch planned for summer 
2012. It has also been streamlining processes and reducing costs.
PIXmania
For more information  
please turn to page: 
Our brands
Kotsovolos is Greece’s leading specialist  
electrical retailer. 
In Italy, we operate Unieuro electrical stores  
with some as combined 2-in-1 Unieuro and  
PC City stores. 
In Turkey, we operate the Electroworld brand  
with a local joint venture partner. 
Our brands
PIXmania is one of the largest pure play electrical 
retailers in Europe operating in 26 countries.
Underlying sales 
(£million)
1,060
Underlying sales
(£million)
665
Average selling area 
per store (sq ft)
13,699
Average selling area 
per store (sq ft)
1,592
Number of stores
282
Number of stores
27
Average employees
5,075
Average employees
1,402
Selling space
(‘000 sq ft)
3,863
Selling space
(‘000 sq ft)
43 
www.pixmania.com
www.kotsovolos.gr 
www.unieuro.it 
www.electroworld.gr 
www.electroworld.com.tr
1.
2.
3.
4.
Underlying sales by division 
1. UK & Ireland   £3,834m
2. Northern Europe £2,628m
3. Southern Europe  £1,060m
4. PIXmania   £665m
35
36 06 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview
Chairman’s Statement
John Allan
Dixons Retail has continued to make signiﬁcant progress since I  
last reported to you. We remain relentlessly focused on two goals – 
continuously improving our offer to customers while at the same time 
strengthening our business in the long term interests of shareholders.
A key component to both is to develop and engage our people.
During the course of the year both John Browett, our Chief 
Executive, and Nicholas Cadbury, our Group Finance Director,  
chose to leave to join Apple and Premier Farnell, respectively.  
We are grateful to them for the contribution they made and were 
sorry to see them go, but one of our areas of focus has been on 
ensuring we were well placed in terms of senior management 
succession. As a result we were pleased to be able to appoint  
strong successors from within the Group in Sebastian James and 
Humphrey Singer and also to be able to appoint Katie Bickerstaffe  
to the Board in the new role of Chief Executive UK & Ireland.
Sebastian and Katie have led much of the successful change in  
the UK & Ireland business over the last four years. We are quietly 
conﬁdent that Sebastian’s strong management team will build on the 
foundations that have been laid and take the Group to sustainable 
success over the next few years.
The economic environment has remained challenging in all of our 
markets and this has held back our overall proﬁt progress. In the  
UK & Ireland, Nordics and Greece where we are market leaders we 
have continued to gain market share. We delivered another strong 
performance in the Nordics while in the UK & Ireland, despite  
a declining market, we managed to grow proﬁtability through a 
strengthened customer offer, tight management of costs and careful 
margin management. The Italian and Greek economies have been 
particularly difﬁcult and PIXmania has had to adapt its business 
model signiﬁcantly in a rapidly changing multi-channel environment. 
Recognising the continuing challenges in these markets, we have 
impaired the goodwill of these businesses which, together with other 
non-underlying charges, totalled £189.6 million, therefore resulting  
in a pre-tax loss of £118.8 million. 
Our Southern European business units and PIXmania are receiving 
particular focus at present and we are determined to reduce the 
proﬁt drag they represent as quickly as possible.
In spite of the continuing economic and performance challenges we 
feel we can now look to the future with real conﬁdence, particularly  
in the UK & Ireland and Northern European divisions. Having ﬁxed 
many of the issues in the Group we will now ensure we complete  
the job and deliver a competitively superior offering. The interview 
“Dixons Retail has continued  
to make signiﬁcant progress.  
We can now look to the future 
with real conﬁdence.” 2010/11 8,154.4
2011/12 8,186.7
2009/10 8,320.0
2008/09 7,955.8
Underlying Group sales*
(£million)
(£million)
2010/11 127.6
2011/12 115.1 
2009/10 133.2
2008/09 95.3 214.3
EBIT*
2010/11 85.3 
2011/12 70.8 
2009/10 90.9 
2008/09 70.6 
Underlying proﬁt before tax*
(£million)
2010/11 1.6 
2011/12 1.1 
2009/10 1.5 
2008/09 1.3 
Underlying diluted earnings per share*
(pence)
*Underlying performance measures are as deﬁned in the Performance Review.
07
Business Overview
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
with Sebastian on the following page and which is available to view 
on our corporate website, sets out some of the opportunities ahead.
We are delighted with the successful launch of our Knowhow™ 
brand in the UK which encompasses all of our service offerings.  
All of our colleagues, whether in stores, or in our service and logistic 
centres, have worked hard to deliver great service and to give real 
meaning to the brand and we have begun to broaden our offering 
through the launch of new services.
During the year the Group continued its modest support for two 
national charities – Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation, which 
help provide access to technology for children with disabilities or 
who are disadvantaged. Our colleagues have organised some great 
events to raise money for these charities and I would like to thank 
them for their efforts. In the year ahead we will review whether and 
how we can provide greater support and access to technology for 
disadvantaged children and their families.
Andrew Lynch retired from the Board after nine years as a non-
executive director. I would like to thank him for his considerable 
contribution as both Senior Independent Director and as Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. Tim How has taken on the role of Senior 
Independent Director and Jock Lennox, who joined the Board in 
January, has taken on the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee. 
Jock has a wealth of experience from a long and distinguished 
career at Ernst & Young and I am sure will add real value both  
to the Audit Committee and the Board.
I would particularly like to thank my non-executive colleagues for  
their tireless efforts throughout the year. The executive director 
changes led to a number of meetings and calls to which all the 
non-executives committed and contributed wholeheartedly.
In the year ahead it is likely that the economic challenges will remain 
and possibly in some markets intensify. However we are conﬁdent 
that our single-minded focus on getting the customer offer right  
while continuing to improve our efﬁciency will position us to make  
the maximum possible progress.
I would like to thank all our colleagues for their successful efforts  
over the last year and I am sure they will work equally hard to achieve 
further success in the year ahead.
John Allan 
Chairman 08 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview
Interview with the  
Group Chief Executive
Sebastian James
The following is taken from a video of an interview with  
Sebastian James that is available on our corporate website,  
www.dixonsretail.com.
Dixons and the sector have faced some  
well-documented challenges in recent 
years. How do you see the business now?
We think we are in pretty good shape. If we think about the last year 
we’ve halved our net debt. We have put in place a new revolving 
credit facility that will give us bank support for the next three years. 
And we’ve got a terriﬁc plan to drive the business forward and 
improve its performance and proﬁtability in the coming years. 
If we consider where we were three or four years ago we had a 
business where we had really lost sight of the customer in what we 
were trying to do. At the same time, the market was getting much 
more competitive. Of course, we didn’t know it then, but we were 
also heading into a powerful economic storm. It’s been very exciting 
and made me very proud to be part of a team that really faced those 
challenges and began to make proper differences, particularly for 
our customers.
What are your priorities for the Group?
There are three things that emerge for me as the priorities for the 
Group, having visited all our businesses and understood what their 
issues are. 
1.   In every market the ﬁrst and most important thing we need to do 
is build a sustainable position for the business, to really establish 
our place in the world in that market, to build this position as the 
place that a customer would rationally choose all the time to buy 
electrical goods.
2. The second thing is we have a number of businesses that are 
performing extremely well, and that are generating good returns.  
I need to tackle very hard those areas of the business which 
perhaps are not generating as good returns. I need to make sure 
that we take those businesses and ﬁnd solutions that notably give 
them the right strategic position but also return them to proﬁtability.
“Above all, we need to be the  
best electrical retailer who helps 
customers make great choices.” 09
Business Overview
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
3. Thirdly, we’ve only just scratched the surface of the potential that 
we have in learning from one another and in leveraging our scale 
across our Group. One example would be that we have several 
suppliers with whom we have signiﬁcant relationships. We will look 
at how we can make these work better for the Group as a whole.
If we do these three things we can improve returns for our 
shareholders. We need to focus very explicitly as a whole business 
right down the organisation on doing this. I am very committed that 
the whole business begins to think about how it makes sure that 
everyone is doing a great job for our customers, and that generates  
a return for our shareholders. 
What do you really mean by doing a great 
job for customers?
If I use the UK, as an interesting example, and this holds true also 
in Italy and Greece and in a number of the territories in which we 
operate, we have moved from being a business that was all about 
pile it high, sell it cheap in stores into a business that really takes 
seriously the question of ‘how do I make my customers happy?’.  
Our job is to take customers’ fears and anxieties and use technology 
to make their lives better. I genuinely believe that most of my 
colleagues in all of our stores and all of our home delivery vans,  
are thinking how do I make people happier today. After all the most 
expensive thing a customer can do is choose the wrong product.
We, of course, need to be very competitive on price. But above all 
we need to be the people who help customers make great choices. 
That means taking the time, the effort to demonstrate, to display  
and to understand what customers are trying to achieve when they 
come into our stores looking for electrical goods.
How do you make sure your colleagues 
can deliver this?
We have retrained all of our colleagues right the way through the 
cycle at least three times in the UK. If you took all of our colleagues  
a year ago and you take all our staff today 85% of the people who  
are here today in the UK were also here a year ago. And in retail 
that’s quite a high number. We are equipping our colleagues every 
day to do a better job for customers. 
How do you measure this?
Over the last year and half we have moved our customer advocacy  
in the UK, and we use a very tough measure of strong advocacy  
of ‘very likely to recommend us’, from 43% to 75%. If we use the 
measure that a lot of people use in the market which is ‘likely to 
recommend us’ we reach 92%. 
While these numbers are comparable with the very best retailers in 
the UK, I will never be satisﬁed until we hit 100%. But this shift is a 
profound change in the way customers who shop with us are talking 
about us, thinking about us and referring to us. We are not nearly 
there yet. We have much more to do, but I think it’s a very powerful 
signal that we have changed our approach to the world.
We also reward our colleagues in the UK on these metrics and so 
are explicitly rewarding them for doing a better job for customers.
Isn’t the internet a threat to your 
business model?
We must be price competitive with the internet and we must be price 
competitive with supermarkets, and increasingly we are, very. In fact 
we are quite often cheaper than the internet.
We can differentiate on service, but it does of course cost more to 
provide the convenience of stores as well as service. We can afford  
to do it because we think we’ve solved a number of very important 
problems about how we bridge the gap in our cost between our  
cost structure and that of a single channel internet operator.
The internet is a friend to us. We have a very large multi-channel 
business in the UK, and it’s growing incredibly fast. We need to think 
about a world where a customer starts their journey online, goes to 
store to look at the product and to make a good choice and might 
end up ordering it back at home for pick up in-store. This is a quite 
normal transaction now.
So increasingly I’m not thinking is this an online or ofﬂine transaction, 
but did the customer end up buying from me or did they end up 
buying from somebody else? And that I think is the critical question. 10 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview
Interview with the  
Group Chief Executive
Sebastian James
So what makes your model sustainable?
There are four activities we can do that are key strengths of our 
multi-channel service-led business model.
The ﬁrst very important thing that we need to do is work with 
suppliers to understand which products they would like customers  
to choose. Generally speaking there is a combination of things.  
The customers that are happiest are the ones that buy the products 
that are best for them, and the products that are best for them are 
usually the newest ones with the best technology. 
Suppliers also make more money out of the products that are newer, 
because they invest a lot of money in research and then they are able 
to charge a premium for those products because they have genuine 
differentiating beneﬁts for the customer.
With the 40 million conversations a year that we have with customers,  
we can talk to them to explain the beneﬁts, demonstrate the newer 
and better products that make customers happy and which 
suppliers want to sell. Our suppliers support us for this work  
in a number of ways.
The second very important thing we need to do is that when 
customers come in and they say they want a piece of hardware  
such as a television what they mean is they want to do something. 
They want to watch the game, they want to entertain the children. 
That’s also true for a computer, say, if they want to start a business. 
It’s the doing that they want to do. To do so they actually need  
a whole variety of other things as well as just the box.
Where customers might be able to go to the internet and choose a 
box and get it delivered, we will provide the installation, the teaching 
that helps them to learn how to use it, all the bits and pieces they 
need as well as the peace of mind that if anything goes wrong they 
know where we are. So these things are very important sources  
of revenue for us. 
Thirdly, we believe that customers will reward us with a small 
premium for providing excellent service, for being there, for giving 
them peace of mind if they trust us. 
The ﬁnal thing we need to be is very efﬁcient. We’ve taken a huge 
amount of cost out of our business over the last four years, while 
improving customer service, and we need to go on doing that.  
We need to be really smart about every penny that we spend and 
about ﬁxing our processes, improving our systems, improving the 
way we think about our business so that we can be efﬁcient.
With those things together we think we more than bridge the gap 
between our cost structure and the single channel internet operators.
We think we now have a business in which nearly all of the time, in 
nearly all of the markets, in nearly all of our stores we are providing 
the sort of service that customers want, and are telling us they want. 
And we are doing that efﬁciently and well. I believe that’s a great 
springboard and I believe that we are the best and the only show in 
town if you want to come and buy electrical goods and have a really 
good experience doing so.
Sebastian James
Group Chief Executive 11
Strategic Summary
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
EXPERTISE
CHOICE
RELIABILITY
FOCUS
“Our role is shoulder to shoulder 
with our customers as we help  
them navigate the increasingly 
complex world of technology.”
Sebastian James, Group Chief Executive
We listen to our customers 
through feedback and 
surveys. This enables us 
to focus our business on 
delivering an unbeatable 
combination of value, 
choice and service.
Turn to page: 12
Through our own training 
programmes and by working 
with suppliers, we ensure our 
colleagues understand the 
latest technology to help 
customers choose the right 
solution and get the most 
out of it.
Turn to page: 16
Knowhow
™
 offers customers 
a fantastic range of services 
including in-store help, 
home delivery and set-up, 
after-sales advice and support 
as well as repair services.
Turn to page: 18
With wide ranges and  
an improved multi-channel 
offering, customers can buy 
the products and services 
they want, how they want, 
when they want. 
Turn to page: 14
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary  They’re interested
in working out
what’s right for me
Customer feedback
& surveys
Customer journeys help
explain technology
They deal with 
queries brilliantly
Buy the right
solution first time
SERVICE
Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Strategic Summary
75%
Our focus on the customer is driving 
higher advocacy levels with 75% of 
those leaving our stores very likely to 
recommend us in the UK. This is a  
32 percentage point increase versus  
last year.
41 1
Since we began the Renewal and 
Transformation plan in May 2008, 
we have transformed or re-ﬁtted 
411 stores across the Group. This 
year alone, we transformed 49 stores 
across the Group which included 
19 Megastores.
 FOCUS
12 Delivery, recycling &
installation options
Multi-channel
gives more choice
7,500
products in
a Megastore
The prices
are great
Peace of mind with
whateverhappens
CHOICE
VALUE
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc 13
Strategic Summary Play tables to try
before buying
Delivery
choices to suit
Easy to
find what
I’m after
Online or
in-store...
it’s easy
ONLINE STORES
123
14 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
 CHOICE
Strategic Summary
 1 0,000
We offer our customers over 10,000 
products to choose from online across 
our UK websites and our Megastores 
stock over 7,500 different products. 
 76
Knowhow
™
 is the new face of 
technology and support in the UK.  
We offer 76 different Knowhow
™
services to suit our customers’  
individual needs. Good, better, best
product choices
The right product
for you
Major brands
& own brands
RANGE
15
Strategic Summary
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc PRODUCTS
EXPERTS
Demos help to 
compare choices
Accessories to 
make it work better
Knowhow
™
 expertise
Informed advice in-store, 
online or over the telephone 
They helped me choose
the right solution
16 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Strategic Summary
EXPERT 
321,000
Knowhow
™
 colleagues set up 321,000 
products for our customers in-store in  
the UK. Customers left with their product 
ready to use and knew how to get the  
most of it.
17,883
So far, 17,883 colleagues have  
received training in the UK to help  
our customers buy the right solution  
for their needs and give them the  
proper advice they want. SOLUTIONS
They help me get 
my products up 
& running
They make things work 
& keep them working
Walk out working
Guidance & support
17
Strategic Summary
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
ISE We’ll get you up and running 
and show you how it works
SERVICE
INSTALL
Deliver at a
time to suit
We’ll call you when 
we’re on our way
Next day delivery & 3-4 hour 
time slots across the Group
Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
RELIABI 
Strategic Summary
70,000
We made over 70,000 big box product 
deliveries a week over Peak in the UK, with 
close to 35% of these being installations  
at a time to suit our customers.
7 days
Our average repair turnaround time  
for laptops and TVs has decreased  
and is down from 10 days to 7 days  
in the UK.
18 Remove and recycle 
old products for free
FIX
We repair 
over 800,000 
laptops, 
desktop 
PCs and TVs 
every year
No lemons 
guarantee
Faster repair 
times
Strategic Summary
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
LITY
19 Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary
20 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Our Markets
Specialist electrical retailers are the predominant destination  
for customers in the European market. Buying groups, general 
merchants and independents also have a retail presence in most 
European markets. The market is served by a relatively small number 
of global manufacturers supplying goods to local, regional, national 
and international electrical retailers.
The electrical retail market can be split between specialist electrical 
retailers, such as Dixons Retail, and general retailers which sell 
certain electrical goods as part of a wider offering, such as 
catalogue retailers, department stores, large supermarket chains 
and single channel internet retailers. The market can also be broken 
down into two distinct distribution channels: ‘assisted’ and 
‘unassisted’. In the assisted channel, specialist retailers such as us, 
help customers through the buying process in the form of product 
advice, add-on services, delivery and installation. The unassisted 
channel, which includes single channel internet retailers as well  
as general retailers, tend not to offer all of these services.
We are one of the largest specialist electrical retailing and services 
companies in Europe and with leading market shares in the UK, 
Ireland, the Nordic region and Greece we beneﬁt from long-
established and widely recognised brands. In each of our markets 
there are varying numbers of specialist retailers who compete in  
the assisted market. While we do compete against general retailers, 
this is generally limited to certain lower unit price product categories 
as these operators do not offer the full range of products, assisted 
sale or associated ancillary services we are able to provide.
We do maintain a presence in the unassisted channel through  
our pure play internet businesses of PIXmania and Dixons.co.uk.  
This enables us to compete directly with a large number of internet 
retailers across Europe, it also provides useful insight into the 
dynamics of this part of the market.
The internet delivers enhanced product information and facilitates 
price comparability for consumers. Whilst this creates new 
challenges, it also provides a signiﬁcant opportunity. We believe that, 
over time, internet demand will polarise towards the larger retailers 
with scalable distribution and systems, together with proven after 
sales service and support. In particular customers are showing an 
increasing propensity to combine the internet with stores as they 
consider their purchase with, for example, collect@store proving to 
be increasingly popular where customers can order on the internet 
and collect from a convenient store at a time to suit them.
Innovation brings new products and products with improved 
functionality, such as 3D and Smart TVs, Ultrabooks and Apple’s 
iPad, in turn driving sales growth. New content, such as social 
media, apps, digital media and cloud computing, also help to  
drive hardware innovation and replacement. Product sales are also 
driven by structural shifts such as analogue to digital and standard 
format to HD television. In addition, innovation drives new service 
requirements such as TV installation and data backup. In this 
increasingly complex world we believe our assisted sales model is 
best placed to help customers navigate the products available and  
to help them choose a complete solution that best meets their needs.
Electrical products, and in particular brown goods, are predominantly 
discretionary purchases. However, increasing penetration of digital 
technology in the home drives replacement cycles as these products 
become less discretionary. The economic backdrop also determines 
whether customers buy up or down price points. Accordingly,  
the electrical market tends to grow at a rate which is at or exceeding 
the economy during boom years. While the opposite can be true 
during a downturn, this may be inﬂuenced by new innovation  
and products.
The current economic backdrop has led to a number of electrical 
retail operations, both store and internet based, exiting the market, 
helping us gain market shares. This underpins our view that a strong 
service led multi-channel operation satisﬁes both customer and 
supplier needs while delivering a sustainable business as customer 
shopping habits continue to evolve.
The rapid innovation cycle leads to price deﬂation in brown goods 
and computing but also drives volume as products become more 
affordable and replacement cycles accelerate. For larger ticket items, 
the low frequency of purchases limits the impact of price deﬂation  
on total market sales as consumers typically trade up.
The sale of white goods is underpinned by the replacement cycle. 
Due to higher costs of repair, it often makes better economic  
sense for consumers to replace white goods outright rather than to 
arrange for their repair. The sale of white goods is also driven by the 
dynamics of the housing market, as new construction, house sales 
and refurbishment trigger new purchases. 
The UK and Nordic markets have high broadband penetration and  
a maturing online sales platform. The increase in online penetration 
provides us with the opportunity to increase both the range of goods 
on offer and the availability of product information. Our multi-channel 
approach is well placed to exploit synergies between our internet 
sites and stores. 21
Strategic Summary
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Business Model and Strategy 
Technology and the digitised world increasingly embed themselves into 
our customers’ lives, whether it be keeping up with friends and family 
through social media, online gaming, watching movies on the move, 
sharing pictures with others or across different technologies in the 
home, backing up precious memories in the cloud or through energy 
efﬁciency. The latest technology allows our customers to do all this  
and more with tablets, Smart TVs and apps. The ecosystems behind 
the current digital revolution, are simplifying our customers’ lives. 
Customers come to us not just for the enabling technology, but to  
ﬁnd a solution. 
Strategy
The Renewal and Transformation plan continues to make signiﬁcant 
improvements to our business. We have set out three strategic 
priorities that will build on that work and improve our business  
for customers. This will, we believe, deliver improving returns for 
shareholders through a focus on improving Free Cash Flow 
generation and EBIT margins of the Group:
1 . Drive a successful and sustainable business model 
in a multi-channel world
2. Be a leader in each of the markets 
in which the Group operates
3. Align the Group to leverage consistently
pan-European scale and knowhow
1. Drive a successful and sustainable business model 
in a multi-channel world
The way in which a customer shops is fundamentally changing. 
Our customers tell us that they want advice, to experience 
products and to ensure they are making the right choices, 
particularly as these are often major purchases that they will own 
for several years. The internet empowers customers with lots of 
information including product knowledge and price transparency. 
Single channel internet operators have structurally lower costs  
to sell products and have historically been able to offer highly 
competitive prices versus store based operators. We have closed 
the price and cost gap dramatically in recent years and we will 
now increase our focus on four distinct activities that we believe 
are the key strengths of our multi-channel service based model 
and will support our competitive advantage going forward:
i. Work closely with suppliers to harness beneﬁts available to 
our business model: Suppliers want to ensure that customers 
not only choose their brands, but also experience the beneﬁts of 
the latest products they have developed to meet customers’ 
needs. As a multi-channel operator we work with our suppliers  
to ensure we can explain the beneﬁts of these products and 
demonstrate them to customers in our stores and our suppliers 
support us in this work in a number of ways.
ii. Focus on complete solutions for customers: Customers buy 
products in order to achieve something, such as watching movies, 
or to entertain the children. This does not just mean buying the 
hardware, but increasingly includes delivery, explanation and 
Building a sustainable 
business in an ever 
changing world
peace of mind through product support and after sales services, 
as well as accessories and recycling. The conversations our 
colleagues have in store with customers gives us an opportunity  
to explain the beneﬁts of these solutions. Our Knowhow
TM
 brand 
in the UK offers customers one cohesive services brand. We are 
conﬁdent that there are increasing opportunities emerging in the 
added value services market as customers become more reliant 
on content, Cloud, services and technical support that enable 
them to get the most out of the products they buy. 
iii. Drive our service proposition: We need to ensure that 
customers recognise Dixons Retail for great service. We need to 
be able to stand shoulder to shoulder with our customers and they 
need to know they can come to our stores and get knowledgeable 
advice to help them buy the right product. They need to be 
conﬁdent that we will solve their problem for them quickly and 
efﬁciently. If we get this right we believe that customers will be 
prepared to pay us for this service.
iv. Reduce costs: The scale of our operations across stores, ranges, 
logistics, distribution, repairs and services means that we can 
continually improve processes to reduce costs. Over the last ﬁve 
ﬁnancial years the Group has removed a total of £285 million of 
costs and we are targeting a further £90 million of costs to be 
removed over the next two ﬁnancial years. 
2. Be a leader in each of the markets in which 
the Group operates
We have strong market positions in the UK & Ireland, Northern 
Europe and in Greece. In each of these markets we have seen 
consolidation amongst competitors and we see opportunities to 
improve these positions further as we implement the initiatives 
discussed above. Across the Southern European division and  
in PIXmania we need to set these businesses on paths that will 
make them strategically strong and proﬁtable, and drive solutions 
that will put them on ﬁrmer footings.
While the economic environment in Greece is very tough, 
Kotsovolos is a strong brand and has a leading market share.  
We believe that this business will be able to continue to leverage 
its position to grow its share and manage costs aggressively.  
Our Italian business has continued to make progress against 
economic headwinds and in the short term we will continue to 
take aggressive action on costs as well as improve the stock  
and cash position.
PIXmania has one of the largest non-food pure play platforms  
in Europe and represents a valuable source of insight and 
information on this segment of the market. It has expanded its 
ranges, offering both directly and through PIXplace and it has 
exploited its E-merchant platform by offering hosting services  
to third parties, most notably Carrefour. However, its recent 
performance has been disappointing. In the light of the changing 
business model facing internet operators we are reviewing much 
of PIXmania’s activities to focus on those that deliver a competitive 
advantage going forward, such as product diversiﬁcation, 
multi-channel offering as an e-commerce provider for third 
parties. Together with cost reductions we are conﬁdent that we 
can reduce the losses experienced in the year just ﬁnished.  Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary
22 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
3. Align the Group to leverage consistently pan-European 
scale and knowhow
The Group has many best practices in each of its business 
divisions. Some work has taken place to align these and share 
them across the Group, such as the new store formats, supplier 
relationships and to a limited degree own brands. However, there 
remain many opportunities to share knowledge, expertise and best 
practice across the Group. Some of these will take time, but we 
must exploit further the beneﬁts of being a pan-European operator.
Delivering on these priorities will build on the improvements already 
delivered by the Renewal and Transformation plan and enable the 
Group to improve its EBIT margin going forward as well as 
strengthen our focus on cash generation.
Our UK & Ireland and Northern Europe divisions together delivered  
a 2.7% EBIT return after associated central costs in the 2011/12 
ﬁnancial year. We believe that a 3-4% EBIT return for these 
businesses, is certainly achievable. In the other businesses, returns 
have been disappointing and we need to focus on reducing the 
losses to support an improvement in the Group’s EBIT return.
Cash is an important part of this and the Group has been cash 
generative in each of the last two ﬁnancial years which has enabled 
us to more than halve our net debt position to £104 million. As a 
Group we need to make the right choices as to how each of our 
divisions utilise or preserve cash, whether it be determining ranges 
and stock held in store, managing returns and related processes, 
improving working capital and stock turn. 
Business Model
Our business model enables us to offer our customers a truly 
multi-channel integrated service based electrical retailing experience 
that delivers a sustainable business. Taking each of the component 
parts in turn, it can be described as follows:
Customer Insight
In order to ensure we understand what products and services our 
customers want, how they use the products they buy from us, and 
what they think of the service they get from us we use extensive 
customer insight. This includes discussions at customer panels, 
interviews, home visits and detailed surveys. We use this information  
to build our ranges, improve our stores and services and other 
business decisions. This is supported by mystery shops in our  
own and competitor stores, exit surveys and customer feedback. 
During the year our UK businesses made considerable progress in 
customer satisfaction metrics as we continue to improve the business.
Multi-channel
The shopping trip for customers is constantly evolving. Our objective 
is to provide our customers with a seamless experience where 
convenience, ease of navigation and simplicity are key in attracting 
customers to shop with us whether it is online, in-store or a 
combination of both. We are improving our stores making them 
easier to shop with, for example, improved navigation, better 
signage, playtables to allow customers to interact with products 
before they buy, as well as good advice on features and beneﬁts 
from our colleagues. We are also combining our PC World and 
Business Model and Strategy 
(continued)
MULTI-CHANNEL
Sales advice
Easy to shop
Playtables
2-in-1 store offering
reserve&collect and collect@store
Seamless online / in-store experience
Specialist
PRODUCTS
Great brands 
Wide range
Exclusivity
Own brand product
AFTER SALES  
SERVICE & SUPPORT
Delivery & installation
Set up & upgrade
Help & support
Repair & protect
LOW COST OPERATING MODEL
VALUE CHOICE SERVICE
CUSTOMER INSIGHT 23
Strategic Summary
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Currys stores into 2-in-1 stores, which often feature a mezzanine 
level, give our customers greater access to our specialist computing 
offer, combined with our market leading mixed electrical offering. 
This enables us to improve our sales densities and rent to space 
mix. As mentioned above our websites are an integral part of the 
way in which customers choose products and we have carried out a 
wide range of improvements to them during the year. In recognition 
of how customer trends are evolving we have made it easier for our 
colleagues to access products and extended ranges in store. For 
example, our store colleagues are rewarded for all sales in their 
catchment, whether it be online or in store. We are also introducing 
pay&collect, alongside our existing collect@store service, where 
customers can buy products not immediately available in their local 
store for collection later.
Our training programmes combined with our Product Learning 
Centres provide our colleagues with the right tools to really 
understand customers’ needs and to provide them with the 
complete solution to properly meet those needs. We will continue  
to improve the training of our colleagues and the ways in which  
we can really make them experts in the products we sell.
Products
Combining our customer insight with our market strength across 
Europe we can make sure we have the right range of products in  
our stores to suit customers’ needs. Our scale and relationships with 
suppliers means that we can work with them to showcase the latest 
technology and products in our stores with areas dedicated to key 
suppliers’ products.
Own brand products enable us to offer customers greater choice 
and access to a range of products at competitive prices. We have 
deﬁned a clear ‘good, better, best’ brand range of: Currys and  
PC World Essentials; Logik; iWantit, Advent; Goji; and Sandstrøm 
brands. We see particular opportunities in the area of accessories 
and essentials and during the year launched our very successful 
Sandstrøm cable range and Goji headphones.
After-Sales Services and Support
Our customers need help with their products, whether it be delivery 
and installation, help keeping their products up and running or  
repair when things go wrong. Our business in the UK & Ireland sets  
the benchmark for our services infrastructure. In May 2012 our 
Knowhow™ services brand celebrated a very successful ﬁrst year. 
We operate the largest network of two man deliveries in the  
UK with an average of 50,000 deliveries per week enabling us  
to provide customers with the convenience of next day delivery  
in a three hour time slot or the value of a free delivery later. 
Our Knowhow™ teams in stores, in our call centre and ﬁeld 
technicians can provide set up and upgrade services as well  
as online ﬁx and back up services. Our market leading range of  
help and support services ensure a customer has the backing of 
expertise and support that keeps their technology up and running. 
In the event that a customer has a problem with their product we 
can ﬁx it. For example, our state of the art repair facility in Newark, 
now repairs 800,000 televisions, desktop PCs and laptops each 
year and is able to repair and return a laptop in seven days. We 
provide customers with a choice of support agreements such as 
‘Premier’ services which provide customers with a loan TV, for 
example, if theirs needs to be taken away for repair.
Through ownership of the service infrastructure we can ensure the 
quality of service delivered to customers. This, we believe, provides  
us with a signiﬁcant competitive advantage in meeting the needs of 
our customers, as well as a revenue stream not readily available to 
single channel online and mass market competitors.
While much of the improvement work has been focused on the  
UK, core elements of the business model exist in our businesses  
in the Northern and Southern European divisions and we see more 
potential to develop this area.
These factors combined ensure that we can offer our customers 
value, choice and service.
Market leading delivery 
& installation
Flexible, reliable and 
unbeatable value
Choices to suit the customer
Personalised hassle 
free set up
Make it easy for 
the customer
Range of upgrades 
designed to maximise  
the performance of the 
products for customers
“Help me understand it”
Remove the frustration 
of technology
Telephone, online and 
in-home support
Peace of mind if 
something goes wrong
Always there to help get 
it ﬁxed Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary
24 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Resources
Our resources
 Customers
 People
 Suppliers
 Distribution and Logistics
 Store Portfolio
 Intellectual Property
 Cash
 Energy
Customers
To deliver on our strategies and to evolve them according to  
current requirements, we must listen effectively to customers and 
understand their needs. As a company, since 2008 we have invested 
in comprehensive customer research programmes spanning a 
variety of tools including exit surveys, mystery shops, focus groups 
and effective data gathering.
Through this research, managed by our in-house Customer Insight 
team, we have developed a clear and detailed understanding of what 
we are doing well and more importantly of where we can target further 
improvements. Customers tell us that they need us to deliver a strong 
combination of Value, Choice and Service across all our shopping 
channels, and it is clear from their feedback that more and more they 
recognise that we are doing this consistently, and moreover that we  
are outperforming our competitors. We will continue to deliver easier, 
more exciting places to shop for customers whether that be in-store, 
online or a multi-channel combination of both. 
Listening to customers extends into how we approach the sales 
process in-store. Our ‘FIVES’ training programme, designed to 
ensure customers leave our stores with a complete solution that  
is right for them, is now embedded in our colleagues’ training 
programme, and this year was adapted to support the launch of our 
end-to-end service brand Knowhow™ and its 4,000 team members.
By maintaining our absolute focus on the customer and delivering 
what they want in a retail environment that is constantly evolving,  
we will continue to attract new customers and retain existing ones.
People
Dixons Retail is an organisation spanning most of Europe, with nearly 
37 ,000 colleagues in over 1,200 stores, ofﬁces, call centres and 
distribution centres. For our colleagues, we believe there are four 
core values that constitute who we are, as individuals and as a team:
 We love to make our customers happy
 We know our stuff
 We love to work here
 We deliver
In 2009, in the UK, we launched a comprehensive Customer Plan  
in collaboration with our colleagues. The Customer Plan involves 
improving every possible aspect of the shopping trip for customers, 
whether that be in our exciting new stores, better ranges at great 
value, untangling the shopping trip for customers, helping them  
get their products up and working, or keeping them working as 
technology gets more and more embedded into daily lives.
We made huge progress last year across every aspect that  
we measured in the Shopping Trip. However, we must never be  
satisﬁed and we can and must make further improvements to delight 
customers and to outpace the competition. This year, the Customer 
Plan will remain our vehicle for demonstrating to the team what 
needs to be delivered, building on last year’s successes, introducing 
new work-streams and sharing our practices across Europe. 
We are focusing on building a career development framework that 
rewards customer centric behaviour and instils a sense of pride  
in our colleagues. We now provide tailor-made development 
programmes and support further education qualiﬁcations for our 
colleagues throughout the business. Our development programmes 
use modules, training workshops and a dedicated e-learning intranet 
service that helps provide the skills colleagues need to succeed at 
every level and career stage.
We operate sophisticated tracking and measuring processes, 
including regular mystery shops and exit surveys, to measure 
individual’s and store’s performance, and to ensure we reward 
appropriate behaviours. Each region within the Group deﬁnes its own 
reward system as is appropriate to local customers’ expectations 
and colleague behaviours. However, all these systems incentivise  
a combination of good customer service and contribution to a store 
or team’s performance. 
Suppliers
As we build our market-leading reputation and become known not 
just for Value, Choice and Service, but also as the ‘go to’ location  
for all the latest technology, our relationship with suppliers becomes 
ever more important. Product sourcing ofﬁces for each of the UK & 
Ireland division, Northern Europe, Italy, Greece, Turkey and PIXmania 
continually monitor current and future product cycles with existing 
and potential suppliers.
In a complex multi-channel environment, suppliers trust us with their 
new product releases and stock allocations, as they appreciate the 
superior service and advice offered by our stores and indeed our 
websites, as well as the exciting environments offered by our 
transformed stores.
We work closely with suppliers of all sizes to help them deliver the 
right product for customers, through the forecasting and planning 
stages to ensure we deliver the right levels of stock for customers at 
the right time. The electrical and computing industry is characterised 
by a number of large global manufacturers, who account for a large 
proportion of our sales. However, we also source product from  
a large number of smaller suppliers. We seek to maintain strong 
relationships with all of these suppliers, not just to source the right 
product for customers, but also to ensure the Group can purchase 
the appropriate level of stock on favourable terms. While we leverage 
the Group’s scale and buying power through an International Buying 
team, we also maintain strong relationships at a local level.
Our in-house design team continues to work closely with  
suppliers to develop exciting environments in-store for colleagues  
to demonstrate brands and products and ensure customers leave 
with the right products for them. 25
Strategic Summary
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Alongside this, we continue to reﬁne our own-brand ranges to suit  
all budgets and taste. Our most notable successes this year have 
been the launch of our own Sandstrøm cables brand and the 
unveiling of a Goji headphone range fronted by Tinchy Stryder.  
We also continue to embed our Currys and PC World Essentials 
ranges as key entry level products in our ‘good, better, best’ line-up. 
These products are designed and sourced by the Group’s teams 
based in the UK and Hong Kong in collaboration with manufacturers 
in, for example, Asia.
Distribution and Logistics
The Group sees distribution as one of the keys to the success of  
the Group in maintaining highly competitive margins and delivering 
outstanding, market-beating service to customers. We operate  
a centralised system of distribution centres in all the countries in 
which we operate. This delivers signiﬁcant competitive advantages, 
including reduced operating costs, reduced supplier delivery costs, 
reduced stock volumes in store, increased ﬂexibility as to where to 
deliver and when, and easier home deliveries.
While continuing to reduce costs, we are also constantly raising  
the bar, both in terms of successful delivery and installation rates,  
but also the range and quality of services we offer customers 
nationwide. The launch of our Knowhow™ brand was in part 
recognition of the huge strides we have made in this area.
In our Nordic operations, (Jönköping, Sweden) and the UK, (Newark), 
we operate two of the largest distribution centres of their kind in 
Europe. In the UK alone we now make some 2.5 million deliveries, 
including some 500,000 installations per year.
Store portfolio
We operate a wide variety of stores to suit the local customer 
demographics. We operate small, very popular outlets in airport 
locations up to ‘Megastores’ in out-of-town locations, up to 70,000 
square feet.
We constantly review our store portfolio to ensure we have the right 
store for customers in the most competitive location. As part of this 
ongoing review in the UK, we are currently reducing our exposure to 
the High Street, only maintaining a presence in the most proﬁtable 
locations. We are also transitioning a number of stores, where 
appropriate to a 2-in-1 format. These stores allow us to offer the best 
of both worlds to customers, attracting new footfall and often at  
a lower cost.
Throughout Europe, we have replicated the success of the store 
reﬁts ﬁrst trialled in the UK and Nordics, delivering exciting, easy to 
shop stores offering the latest technology to customers. We also 
reﬁne our Group portfolio strategy to suit local market conditions.  
In the Nordics for example, we have opened a number of Elkjøp 
Express High Street shops, clearly establishing ourselves as the 
Norwegian market leader in mobile communication sales.
In the Nordic region, Italy, Greece and Turkey we also operate a 
number of franchise agreement stores. This arrangement allows  
our brands to be present in a wider range of catchments, while 
increasing the volume of purchases and therefore buying power  
of the Group. 
Intellectual Property
Dixons Retail is one of the largest electrical and computing  
specialist groups in Europe, and leads the market in a number of  
its operations, in the UK and Ireland through Currys and PC World,  
in the Nordics through its Elkjøp brands, in Greece through 
Kotsovolos, and in a number of countries online through PIXmania. 
These and its other brands such as Unieuro in Italy, Electroworld  
in Turkey and Central Europe are extremely well-established and 
respected in their markets. The Group is also building a strong 
service business (branded Knowhow™) in the UK, aiming to delight 
customers while generating signiﬁcant new business opportunities 
and outpacing the competition.
As well as our retail and service brands outlined above, we also  
sell a range of own brand products such as Sandstrøm, Goji, 
Essentials and Advent. Each of these brands have speciﬁc target 
markets deﬁned in conjunction with our customer research ﬁndings. 
Previously, Dixons Retail had operated a much wider range of ‘own 
brands’ but many of these had become irrelevant to  
modern customer needs or to business requirements. 
Cash
It remains the Group’s policy to maintain a strong capital base so as  
to maintain investor, creditor and market conﬁdence and to sustain the 
future development of the business. This approach has never been 
more important than during the current downturn, with ‘reducing 
costs’ having been one of the ﬁve key corporate priorities highlighted 
at the launch of the Renewal & Transformation plan in 2008.
As we move forward under a new Group Chief Executive, our targets 
in the short term for the Group have been clearly laid out: we will be 
focusing on delivering a suitable and sustainable return on EBIT 
as well as generating cash.
The Group has been cash generative in each of the last two  
ﬁnancial years. As a Group we need to make the right choices  
as to how each division utilises or preserves cash whether it  
be in determining ranges and stock held in store or managing  
returns and related processes. 
Over the last ﬁve ﬁnancial years the Group has removed a total  
of £285 million of costs. The company is also targeting a further 
further £90 million to be removed over the next two ﬁnancial years 
and we have a cautious programme to reduce costs every year.
Energy
Saving energy is good for the business, good for customers and  
of course good for the environment. We take energy efﬁciency 
extremely seriously and whilst we have already made progress in  
a number of areas, we are investing in a wider range of initiatives  
to signiﬁcantly reduce our consumption going forward.
Over the past two years we have developed an ongoing programme  
to reduce energy consumption throughout our estate. To give some 
simple examples, in the last two years in the UK alone we have:
 Established a dedicated energy function within the company to 
deliver our energy programme;
 Installed low-energy lighting at nearly 200 stores within our portfolio;
 Installed energy-efﬁcient building controls at a similar number  
of stores; and
 Trained over 11,000 colleagues in good energy saving practice.
As a result of our various efﬁciency works last year we saved over 
6% in the UK on our electricity consumption, with the expectation  
we can make further improvements this year. Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary
26 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Looking Forward
Outpacing the competition
The Group has made signiﬁcant changes over the last four years. 
Fundamental to this has been the absolute focus on doing what is 
right for the customer. During this time the basics have been ﬁxed, 
the rubble has been cleared and the business streamlined, making 
the business better for our customers, easier to operate for our 
colleagues and cheaper to run. Decision making – driven by rigorous 
use of customer insight – is becoming easier and quicker to execute. 
The Group can look forward with conﬁdence. However, we cannot 
sit still and our offer for customers must continually improve. 
Innovations within the business will enable us to remain one step 
ahead of the competition and ﬁrmly focused on customer needs 
in every market in which we operate.
Across Europe, we will continue to roll out our Megastore, 
Superstore and High Street transformation programme, which 
is continuing to delight customers and deliver signiﬁcantly higher 
average gross proﬁts.
We have developed our award-winning ‘Black’ concept store further 
with the opening of CurrysPCWorld Stratford next to the Olympic 
Park in London. Building on the ‘Black’ concept, ﬁrst opened in 
Birmingham last year, this store puts more products on playtables, 
further improves accessory ranges, with easier navigation and high 
levels of service – all within an appealing environment. The success 
of this store demonstrates that an exciting retail environment that is 
easy to shop with great customer service is exactly what customers 
are looking for when buying technology. We are continuing to apply 
our learnings from ‘Black’ to our mainstream stores. During the year 
ahead we will be rolling this format out to other High Street locations 
and trialling a Megastore using the same principles. Our unique 
in-house award winning design team will continue to innovate  
this format for customers including how we showcase the latest 
technology with major manufacturers.
We have opened a new technology department with Harrods in their 
iconic ﬂagship store in London. Our in-house design team delivered 
a high quality retail space in keeping with the Harrods’ ethos and 
demonstrating how we are able to push the boundaries for electrical 
retailing. The new department required us to explore merchandising 
of very high value product and Knowhow™ service offerings to meet 
the requirements of the Harrods customer demographic. These are 
useful learnings we can apply to our remaining stores and as we 
develop Knowhow™ further.
Knowhow™ has had a fantastic ﬁrst year as our new customer-focused 
services brand in the UK. It has helped drive customer satisfaction and 
advocacy scores considerably. New products such as Cloud back-up 
and share, Movies and Fault & Fix for laptops have resonated well  
with customers as we deliver the sort of services and support they 
have been looking for. We believe this provides us with a differentiated 
nationwide advantage over our competitors. In the year ahead 
Knowhow™ will continue to improve its current offering and the 
standards to which it delivers as well as innovate its product range.
As part of our programme of improvements and streamlining of our 
own brand ranges, we launched Sandstrøm cables during the year. 
These enable us to deliver a clear ‘good, better, best’ range of high 
quality cables at good value for money for customers. Our Goji brand 
has teamed up with British pop rapper, Tinchy Stryder, to launch a 
range of headphones and other audio products. We now have a strong 
range of own brands – Currys & PCWorld Essentials, Logik, Advent, 
iWantit, Goji and Sandstrøm – each with a clear brand identity coupled 
with dedicated design, sourcing and commercial teams. We will 
develop these brands and ranges for our business outside the UK & 
Ireland as we build the Group’s overall share in own brand products.
Our customers do not distinguish between our stores and our 
websites when choosing to shop with us and we are becoming  
a truly multi-channel retailer. We led the way with reserve&collect
options many years ago and we are now innovating in the ways our 
store colleagues can help customers utilise the power of our online 
offering in store, for example accessing our wider product offering 
in any store for delivery to home or collection later. This year we will 
launch a pay&collect option for customers to buy whatever they 
see in our online range and collect it instore.
These are just some of the examples of how we are improving 
our business for customers and shareholders. By innovating and 
leading in our markets we will remain ahead of our competitors  
and deliver a sustainable business in a world where consumer 
shopping behaviours are constantly evolving.
“The Group can look forward with 
confidence and continues to 
innovate the offer for customers.” 
Sebastian James, Group Chief Executive 27
Strategic Summary
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Key Performance Indicators
Financial and operational
For more information on our Corporate 
Responsibility KPI’s see pages 40 to 43.
Shareholder
Underlying 
diluted 
earnings per 
share* (EPS)
The level of growth in EPS provides a suitable measure of the  
ﬁnancial health of the Group and its ability to deliver returns to  
shareholders each year. The Group targets growth in EPS  
commensurate with growth in earnings.
2011/12: 2010/11:
1.1p 1.6p
Total 
shareholder  
return (TSR)
This metric provides a relative performance measure over the  
longer term of the Group’s ability to deliver returns for shareholders.  
From 2010/11, the base which the Group used was to measure against  
the FTSE 250 Index (comprising FTSE 101-350 companies), excluding 
investment trusts, over a three year period.
See graph on page 61
*Underlying performance measures are as deﬁned in the Performance Review.
Deﬁnition Performance
T otal  
underlying  
sales*
Growth in total underlying sales. The ability to grow sales is an important 
measure of a brand’s appeal to customers and its competitive position. 
Like for  
like sales
The Board measures like for like sales as sales in stores that have  
been open for a full ﬁnancial year both at the beginning and end of the 
ﬁnancial period and are calculated using constant exchange rates. 
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like 
calculations. Operations that are subject to closure have sales excluded 
as of the announcement date. Stores subject to closure due to a 
refurbishment are excluded during the period of closure. All PIXmania 
pick-up store sales are included in like for like sales. Sales targets and 
growth are set relative to the market and expected economic conditions.
2011/12: 2010/11:
(3)% (2)%
Market  
position
In line with the Group’s strategy to be the leading specialist  
electrical retailer in Europe, this is an important measure of how well 
customers are being engaged by the Group’s brands in each market. 
Retailing operations should be, or be capable of becoming, the number 
one or number two specialist electrical retailer in their market, measured 
by market share.
No.1 market positions in:
 UK & Ireland
 Nordics
 Greece
 Czech Republic
Underlying  
operating  
proﬁt*
Continued growth of underlying operating proﬁt enables the  
Group to invest in its future and provide a return for shareholders.  
Targets are set relative to expected market performance.
Underlying  
proﬁt before  
tax*
Continued growth of underlying proﬁt before tax represents  
a measure of Group performance to external investors and shareholders. 
Targets are set relative to expected market performance.
Free Cash  
Flow
The Group deﬁnes Free Cash Flow as net cash generated from 
operations, less net ﬁnance costs, taxation and net capital expenditure 
and excluding certain discrete items such as special pension 
contributions. The management of cash usage, in particular working 
capital employed in the business, optimises resources available for the 
Group to invest in its future growth and to generate shareholder value.
2011/12: 2010/11:
£1 30.3m £10.0m
(£million)
2011/12 115.1 
2010/11 127.6 
(£million)
2011/12 70.8 
2010/11 85.3 
(£million)
2011/12 8,186.7 
2010/11 8,154.4 Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary
28 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Principal Risks to Achieving  
the Group’s Objectives
The Group recognises that taking risks is an inherent part of doing business and that competitive advantage can be gained through 
effectively managing risk. We continue to develop our risk management processes, integrating risk management into business decision 
making. In addition, the Board and Senior Executives have invested time to identify and assess the key risks facing the business and 
actively manage the risks to achieving Group strategic objectives. Risk management is performed from both a top-down and a bottom-up 
perspective, ensuring that strategic and operational risks are appropriately addressed and mitigating activities aligned. The principal risks 
and uncertainties are set out below along with an illustration of what is being done to mitigate them.
Examples of mitigating action
1. Economic environment
The economic downturn is prolonged and volatile through 2012 and 
beyond, which could inhibit our performance and create uncertainty, 
particularly in the eurozone
Greece exits from the euro, leading to a step change deterioration of 
the Greek economy and challenging the sustainability of our business
Strategy and business planning which takes into account 
varying economic scenarios 
Ongoing monitoring by Finance and Senior Executives
Renewal and Transformation plan to improve our business 
performance irrespective of macro economic factors
Contingency management planning for economies most at risk
  
Preparing for a further, more signiﬁcant reduction in market size 
through additional cost reduction initiatives
Post event crisis management planning ongoing
Proﬁt and cash ﬂow scenario planning to help the Group to 
manage the impact of a range of possible scenarios
Reducing exposure to currency devaluation
2. Multi-channel business model
We fail to deliver our business model through a seamless  
multi-channel strategy that leverages the Group’s strengths
Bring store and online formats together by further developing 
our websites
Introducing pay&collect and rolling out online in-store to 
offer customers the full range of products regardless of their 
preferred location
FIVES customer service training for all colleagues and product 
workshops to improve product knowledge
Successful marketing campaigns to raise the proﬁle of 
multi-channel brands
Development of best practice processes to support the 
multi-channel, which are rolled out across the Group 
3. Changing technology / consumer preferences
We do not respond quickly enough to capitalise on changes in 
customer demand for technology, content and service delivery
Ongoing investment in service offerings with roll out, through 
the Customer Plan, of customer journeys to help demonstrate 
winning solutions
Increasing investment in digital content services, 
e.g. Knowhow™ Movies
Improvements in our range planning capability 
Exciting product launches to make our stores the destination 
for the latest technology, e.g. 3D TVs, new iPad
Continued focus on ensuring we have an excellent range 
across all price points, including own label brands
Risk 29
Strategic Summary
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Examples of mitigating action
4. Competition 
Competitors reduce the Group’s market share and / or drive down 
margins in speciﬁc markets
Renewal and Transformation plan is improving our stores, 
cost structure and service proposition
Continuing development of strong multi-channel propositions 
and brands 
Ensuring our prices offer good value, including use of a 
customer price index
Continuing to take money out of our cost base and leveraging 
Group-wide beneﬁts where opportunities arise
Building ever stronger relationships with suppliers 
5. Employees
We fail to attract, develop and retain the necessary talent for 
our business
Group-wide standardised performance management
Talent reviews across the business
Store structures which provide a clear career path for all employees
Continued improvements in the quality of training courses and 
development programmes with specialist focus on service, product, 
commercial and technical
Bonus plans, which include a component relating to individual 
performance and business performance
Reward strategy aligned to retain the best talent
6. Finance and treasury
Our trading position suffers from a lack of availability of funding, 
ﬂuctuations in exchange rates and interest rates and reduction in 
availability of credit funding
Implementation of extended revolving credit facility 
Tight balance sheet management with independent reviews by 
Group Finance
Strong cash management and monitoring
Rigorous pre and post-investment appraisal processes 
Ongoing engagement with suppliers and credit insurers
Innovations in, and close scrutiny of, working capital together 
with regular monitoring and review
Detailed Group hedging policies, managed centrally and reviewed 
through a Group Tax and Treasury Committee
Close scrutiny and management of the business portfolio 
  Ongoing review and optimisation of store footprint, with closures 
or relocations as appropriate 
Risk Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary
Principal Risks to Achieving  
the Group’s Objectives 
(continued)
30 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Examples of mitigating action
7. Technology infrastructure support
A key system becomes unavailable for a period of time, or our 
IT systems do not support changing business needs and prevent 
us from leveraging business opportunities
Contingency plans are in place and are tested regularly
Evaluation, planning and implementation analysis carried out 
before updating or introducing new systems that have an  
impact on critical functions
Investment in site functionality and user friendliness
Development and implementation of IT strategy to further embed 
CRM in the business, enabling customer information to ﬂow  
across all customer touchpoints
Implementation of appropriate measures to secure key systems 
and data against malicious attack 
8. Legislative, contractual, reputational and regulatory risks
As a result of a change in legislation, a decision by a regulatory 
authority, exposure in our compliance activities or disputes with third 
parties and business partners, the Group’s business is impacted  
by reputational or ﬁnancial damage or a need to adapt the Group’s 
business and processes (relevant areas include competition, 
consumer rights, intellectual property, contractual obligations,  
health and safety or compromise of conﬁdential customer data)
In-house legal teams communicate on a frequent basis and 
legal reports are submitted to the Board
Legal teams manage issues which arise and there is Group 
oversight of signiﬁcant matters
Group Ethical Conduct policy supported by annual declaration 
of compliance by colleagues
Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to discuss 
reputational and regulatory risks and monitor mitigating action
Quality checks and factory audits for own-branded product assembly
Compliance Committee approves activity that may impact the 
terms of Group credit facilities
Contact with regulatory authorities 
Monitoring changes in legislation / regulation
Risk 31
Performance Review
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Key highlights
 Group underlying total sales
(1), (2)
 ﬂat in the full year with 
strong momentum in the ﬁnal quarter.
– Group like for like sales
(3)
 down 3% in the full year, up 5% 
in the ﬁnal quarter.
– Like for like sales in the ﬁnal quarter up 8% in the UK & Ireland  
and up 10% in the Nordics.
 Growing share across most markets, particularly in the UK  
and Northern Europe.
 Underlying pre-tax proﬁt 
(1)
 of £70.8 million (2010/11 proﬁt of 
£85.3 million).
– Good progress in UK & Ireland and Northern Europe with  
proﬁts up 15% and 12% respectively.
– Offset by weaker performances in Southern Europe and PIXmania.
 Strong growth in multi-channel with sales up 30% in the  
second half.
 Net debt reduced to £104.0 million from £206.8 million year 
on year.
 £300 million revolving credit facility signed, extending the maturity 
date to June 2015.
 On target to repay £160 million 6.125% Bonds due 15 November 
2012 and associated hedge cost of approximately £65 million.
 Customer satisfaction and advocacy measures continue  
to show good progress, particularly in the UK.
Financial highlights
 Total Underlying Group sales ﬂat at £8.19 billion  
(2010/11 £8.15 billion).
 Group gross margins down 0.3% in the full year.
– Gross margins ﬂat in the UK in the full year.
– Northern Europe gross margins down 0.5% in the full year  
but recovering to ﬂat in the second half.
 Total loss before tax of £118.8 million (2010/11 loss of 
£224.1 million), after non-underlying items
(1)
 of £189.6 million, 
which are predominantly non-cash and comprise the write 
off of goodwill relating to Unieuro, Kotsovolos and PIXmania.
 Underlying diluted earnings per share
(1) 
1.1 pence (2010/11 
earnings of 1.6 pence). Basic loss per share for continuing 
operations 4.3 pence (2010/11 loss per share of 6.6 pence).
 £60 million of cost reductions delivered in the year with  
£90 million targeted over the next two years.
Overview
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 32 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review
Underlying sales and proﬁt analysis
Underlying sales Underlying proﬁt/(loss)
52 weeks  
ended  
28 April 2012  
£million
52 weeks  
ended  
30 April 2011  
£million % change
Like for like
(3)
% change
52 weeks  
ended 
28 April 2012 
£million
52 weeks  
ended  
30 April 2011 
£million
UK & Ireland
(4)
3,833.9 3,925.3 (2)% (4)% 78.8 68.7
Northern Europe
(5)
2,628.0 2,375.6 +11% +6% 113.9 102.1
Southern Europe
(6)
1,059.8 1,120.0 (5)% (8)% (30.4) (18.1)
PIXmania 665.0 733.5 (9)% (10)% (19.8) 3.5
Central costs (13.8) (15.8)
Total Group Retail 8,186.7 8,154.4 Flat (3)% 128.7 140.4
Property losses (13.6) (12.8)
EBIT
(7)
115.1 127 .6
Underlying net ﬁnance costs (44.3) (42.3)
Group underlying proﬁt before tax 70.8 85.3
Notes
(1)  Throughout this report, references are made to ‘underlying’ performance measures. Underlying results are deﬁned as excluding trading results from closed businesses, amortisation of acquired 
intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one off non-recurring items, net fair value remeasurements of ﬁnancial instruments and, where applicable, 
discontinued operations. These excluded items are described as ‘non-underlying’. The ﬁnancial effect of these items is shown in the analyses on the face of the income statement and in note 4 
to the ﬁnancial statements.
(2) Closed business comprises the operations of PC City Spain. 
(3)  Like for like sales are calculated based on stores that have been open for a full ﬁnancial year both at the beginning and end of the ﬁnancial period and are calculated using constant exchange 
rates. Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations. Operations that are subject to closure have sales excluded as of the announcement date. Stores 
closed for refurbishment are excluded during the period of closure. All PIXmania store sales are included in like for like sales.
(4)  UK & Ireland comprises Currys, CurrysDigital, Dixons Travel, PC World, combined 2-in-1 Currys and PC World, Harrods concession, operations in Ireland, DSGi Business, Dixons.co.uk and 
Knowhow
TM
. Like for like sales exclude DSGi Business.
(5) Northern Europe comprises the Elkjøp group, Dixons Travel Denmark and Electroworld in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. 
(6)  Southern Europe comprises Greece (Kotsovolos), Italy (Unieuro, combined 2-in-1 Unieuro and PC City stores and Dixons Travel Italy), and Turkey (Electroworld).
(7) Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) equates to underlying operating proﬁt and is deﬁned as underlying earnings from retail operations, after property losses, before deduction of net ﬁnance 
costs and tax.
(8) Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash ﬂow from operating activities before special pension contributions, less net ﬁnance costs, less income tax paid and net 
capital expenditure.
Business performance
Underlying Group sales were ﬂat at £8,186.7 million (2010/11 £8,154.4 million) and down 3% on a like for like basis, outperforming local 
markets in general. Underlying Group sales were also ﬂat at constant exchange rates. Underlying proﬁt before interest and tax was 
£115.1 million (2010/11 proﬁt of £127 .6 million). Underlying proﬁt before tax was £70.8 million (2010/11 proﬁt of £85.3 million). Group 
gross margins were down 0.3% across the full year and down 0.1% in the second half.
Overview
(continued) Underlying sales
(£million)
Underlying operating proﬁt
(£million)
2010/11 3,925.3 
2011/12 3,833.9 
2010/11 68.7 
2011/12 78.8 
33
Performance Review
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
UK & Ireland
— Profit growth of 15%
— Significant progress made in  
multi-channel business
— Opened Harrods technology store
Total sales in the UK & Ireland division were down 2% to £3,833.9 
million (2010/11 £3,925.3 million) and like for like sales were down 4%. 
Like for like sales in the second half were ﬂat, showing an improving 
trend with the ﬁnal quarter up 8%. Underlying operating proﬁts 
increased to £78.8 million (2010/11 £68.7 million). 
The UK & Ireland division has performed strongly against a 
tough market. The beneﬁts of the work under the Renewal and 
Transformation plan increasingly beneﬁtted the business through 
the year with a particularly strong performance in the ﬁnal quarter. 
This enabled the division to grow operating proﬁts by 15% in the 
year putting the business on track towards a sustainable return. 
We have made signiﬁcant progress with our multi-channel business 
during the year, particularly in the second half which saw growth of 
48%. Improvements to availability and processes have improved the 
experience for customers. We are planning further improvements in  
the year ahead as we deliver a seamless experience for our customers.
We now have 269 refurbished stores which continue to deliver 
average gross proﬁt uplifts of over 20% in the ﬁrst year and 
maintained in the second and third years. A further 63 stores 
are expected to be reformatted in the year ahead, predominantly  
in the 2-in-1 CurrysPCWorld format, resulting in three quarters of 
sales going through new format stores by Christmas Peak this year. 
We have analysed the store estate as we increasingly integrate  
online and stores and currently believe that in the UK we need 400  
to 420 stores to provide the right level of service and convenience for 
customers. This includes approximately 40 High Street stores similar 
to our CurrysPCWorld Black store in the Westﬁeld centre, Stratford 
with the remainder large out of town stores (Megastores and 
Superstores), predominantly in the 2-in-1 format.
In May this year Knowhow
TM
 celebrated its ﬁrst anniversary after 
a successful ﬁrst year growing by 40%. The added value services 
market is very fragmented and we are conﬁdent that we can continue 
to grow in this market. During the year Knowhow
TM
 launched a 
number of new services including Fault & Fix, Cloud back up &  
share and Movies. 
In March we opened a store in Harrods which has had an 
encouraging ﬁrst three months. This is an exciting opportunity  
which provides us with some useful learnings for store design, 
product display, high end-high value ranges as well as extending  
our Knowhow
TM
 services.
The launch of the new iPad helped grow the overall computing 
market. With Ultrabooks now being released into the market and 
further developments in operating systems, in particular the launch  
of Windows 8 later in the year, there is the potential for this category  
to continue to grow. White goods showed modest growth, but are 
predominantly driven by the housing cycle. Technical innovation and 
energy efﬁciency is increasingly giving customers reasons to replace  
or upgrade. The consumer electronics market was weak through 
the year, however in televisions we believe we traded ahead of the 
market, particularly in the fourth quarter with sales of large ﬂat TVs  
up 25% in value. 
Dixons Travel continues to perform well. The new format now rolled 
out across all of Dixons Travel’s stores delivers a better range and  
store experience for customers, including a focus on portable items 
and accessories. Underlying sales
(£million)
Underlying operating proﬁt
(£million)
2010/11 2,375.6 
2011/12 2,628.0 
2010/11 102.1 
2011/12 113.9 
34 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review
Northern Europe
Northern Europe, which comprises the Elkjøp group, the 
Electroworld operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia  
and Dixons Travel in Denmark continues to perform well. Sales  
grew by 8% at constant exchange rates, while in sterling, underlying 
sales grew by 11% to £2,628.0 million (2010/11 £2,375.6 million).  
Like for like sales were up 6%. Underlying operating proﬁts were 
£113.9 million (2010/11 £102.1 million).
Overall, Elkjøp had a very strong year, particularly in Denmark. 
Disruptive activity from businesses exiting the markets in Sweden, 
Norway and Denmark, as well as competitor activity, impacted 
gross margins in the ﬁrst half. However, as some of these factors 
abated the business delivered strong gross margin growth in the 
ﬁnal quarter, resulting in full year operating proﬁts being up 12%  
year on year.
Elkjøp’s highly efﬁcient central operating model continues to lead  
the way in simplicity and cost management and we are starting  
to adapt the model to other markets across the Group, particularly  
as we deliver on our three key priorities.
Elkjøp now operates 28 Megastores which continue to perform 
particularly well. It also has 42 reformatted Superstores.
The operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia are now 
managed out of the Nordics. As a result costs have been 
streamlined and by investing in the customer offer Electroworld 
has grown strongly through the year with like for like sales up 
13% and ahead of their markets.
—Elkjøp is market leader in the Nordics
— 12% profit growth
— Highly efficient operating model Underlying sales
(£million)
Underlying operating loss
(£million)
2010/11 1,120.0 
2011/12 1,059.8 
(18.1) 2010/11
(30.4) 2011/12
Southern Europe
35
Performance Review
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
This division comprises operations in Italy, Greece and Turkey.  
Total sales were down 3% at constant exchange rates and down  
by 5% in sterling to £1,059.8 million (2010/11 £1,120.0 million), with 
like for like sales down 8%, largely as a result of the weak economic 
environments being experienced in Greece and Italy. Underlying 
operating loss was £30.4 million (2010/11 loss of £18.1 million).
Greece
The economic environment in Greece remained difﬁcult through the 
year. Kotsovolos remains the market leader and is able to leverage its 
market position and strong supplier relationships to grow its market 
share. Despite further pressure on gross margins Kotsovolos again 
showed robust cost management to keep losses to a minimum.  
The outlook remains uncertain, but with a focus on customer service 
and cost management we believe Kotsovolos will continue to 
out-perform its competitors. 
Italy
The economic crisis deepened during the year and as a result 
management took action on costs, however the impact on mitigating 
the losses in the year was limited as the beneﬁts of these actions 
began to come through later in the year. We are taking further 
actions on costs and working hard to improve the estate and 
competitiveness in the market. Encouraging progress was made 
in speciﬁc product segments towards the end of the year. Unieuro 
now operates 148 stores, with 26 in the new format and 54 
being franchise operations. 
Turkey
The Group now operates 15 stores in Turkey, as well as 15 
franchise stores. Strong growth in the ﬁrst half moderated as the 
year progressed, but total sales grew by 41% in local currency 
across the year while like for like sales were up 14% in a growing 
market. Franchising continues to offer an opportunity to roll out  
the Electroworld brand across Turkey, particularly in towns that are 
geographically spread across the country, for relatively little cost.
— Challenging economic backdrop
— Focus on customer service
— Cost reductions Underlying sales
(£million)
Underlying operating (loss) / proﬁt
(£million)
2010/11 733.5
2011/12 665.0
3.5 2010/11
(19.8) 2011/12
PIXmania
Total sales were £665.0 million (2010/11 £733.5 million) with like for 
like sales down 10%. Underlying operating loss was £19.8 million 
(2010/11 proﬁt of £3.5 million).
PIXmania experienced a very difﬁcult year with a number of 
factors impacting performance, some of which could not have 
been foreseen. The photography, camcorder and hard disc drive 
categories have been a signiﬁcant proportion of the sales mix and 
higher margin categories for the business. The natural disasters in 
Japan and Thailand severely limited the supply of these products 
and as a result sales and proﬁtability were impacted. Its core 
Southern European markets have been weak and PIXmania has 
experienced the negative impact of the shift towards multi-channel 
operators in our markets.
PIXmania has been evolving its business model through:
 Steady growth in new categories underpinning its multi-specialist 
positioning, expanding into toys, sports goods, home furniture, 
beds and mattresses as well as jewellery;
 PIXmania’s market place, PIXplace, continues to grow strongly  
with over 1,500 active third party resellers offering over 1.5 million 
products in 26 countries;
 Extending its store network to 20 PIXmania branded stores which 
provide customers in major cities with a multi-channel offering;
 Further investments in E-merchant, its market leading e-commerce 
platform for third party customers. Most notable of which has been 
for Carrefour which successfully launched in November 2011. More 
recently PIXmania won the Celio contract, one of France’s largest 
menswear brands with a launch planned for the summer 2012; and
 Streamlining processes and reducing costs.
— Key product markets impacted  
by natural disasters
— Evolving business model
36 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 37
Performance Review
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Group Financial Summary
Financial position
Many of the markets in which the Group operates remain challenging. 
In spite of this the Group has delivered a robust performance  
against the ﬁnancial priorities of proﬁtability and strengthening the 
balance sheet:
  Costs reduced by £60 million in the year, as part of the three year 
£150 million cost reduction programme;
   Completion of sale and leaseback of Swedish warehouse in June, 
raising £58.1 million;
  Signiﬁcant headroom maintained on the Group’s revolving credit 
facility (the RCF) throughout the year, with the facility unused 
throughout the second half and extended to June 2015;
   Positive Free Cash Flow before restructuring items of £174.1 million 
was generated;
 Net debt was reduced to £104.0 million compared to £206.8 million 
at the end of the 2010/11 ﬁnancial year; and 
  Agreement reached with the trustee of the UK deﬁned beneﬁt 
scheme following the triennial valuation with an 11 year deﬁcit 
reduction plan, with payments of £16 million made in 2011/12  
and £20 million to be made in 2012/13.
Free Cash Flow
 52 weeks  
ended 
28 April 2012 
£million
52 weeks  
ended 
30 April 2011 
£million
Underlying proﬁt before tax 70.8 85.3
Closed business loss before tax (2.9) (8.5)
Depreciation and amortisation 138.8 139.4
Working capital 15.8 40.4
Taxation (26.8) (26.2)
Capital expenditure (101.5) (223.2)
Proceeds from sale of property 70.2 2.0
Other items 9.7 29.7
Free Cash Flow before restructuring 
items 174.1 38.9
Net restructuring (43.8) (28.9)
Free Cash Flow 130.3 10.0
Free Cash Flow was £130.3 million (2010/11 Free Cash Flow of  
£10.0 million). The improved cash result arose partially from the  
sale and leaseback of the Jönköping warehouse in Sweden, and  
we have continued our transformation of stores with lower levels  
of capital expenditure as the Group conserved cash to improve 
liquidity in advance of the 2012 Bond repayment due on  
15 November 2012.
Working capital inﬂow was £15.8 million (2010/11 £40.4 million).  
This positive inﬂow was despite an adverse reversal of a £30 million 
timing beneﬁt experienced at the end of the prior year relating to the 
exit from Spain and the additional UK bank holiday. The continued 
strong performance largely reﬂects further improvements to stock 
management, while continuing to improve availability, range and 
promotion management. Overall Group stock levels year on year 
were down 9% (5% excluding the impact of currency changes).
Net restructuring reﬂects the cash outﬂows relating to the strategic 
reorganisation activities as announced in this and previous years. 
This year these include costs of £24.3 million associated with the 
closure of operations in Spain.
Funding
At 28 April 2012 the Group had net debt of £104.0 million, compared 
with net debt of £206.8 million at 30 April 201 1.
52 weeks 
ended 
28 April 2012 
£million
52 weeks  
ended 
30 April 2011 
£million
Opening net debt (206.8) (220.6)
Free Cash Flow 130.3 10.0
Acquisitions (1.2) –
Special pension  
  contributions (16.0) (12.0)
Other items (10.3) 15.8
Other movements  
in net debt (27.5) 3.8
Closing net debt (104.0) (206.8)
Net debt is stated inclusive of restricted funds of £114.0 million 
(2010/11 £120.3 million), which predominantly comprise funds held 
under trust for potential customer support agreement liabilities.
The improvement in net debt was due to the Free Cash Flow 
generated, partly offset by £16.0 million paid to the UK deﬁned 
beneﬁt pension scheme under the terms of the deﬁcit reduction plan 
(2010/11 £12.0 million). Other items predominantly comprise the 
impact of foreign exchange currency movements on cash balances 
held in foreign subsidiaries. The gain on other items in the prior year 
included a £10.2 million gain arising on the notional cancellation of 
interest rate swaps which were previously in a designated hedge 
relationship on the portion of the 2012 Bonds redeemed last year.
The Group’s RCF was unutilised at 28 April 2012, and throughout the 
second half of the ﬁnancial year. Directors’ Report 
Performance Review
38 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Group Financial Summary 
(continued)
Adjustments to underlying results
Underlying proﬁt before tax is reported before net non-underlying 
charges before tax of £189.6 million. The continuing weak consumer 
environment, in particular in Southern Europe, impacted the ﬁnancial 
performance of certain of the Group’s businesses with the outlook 
remaining uncertain. This has resulted in the value of the goodwill 
acquired with Unieuro, PIXmania and Kotsovolos being further 
impaired. A further explanation of these and other items comprising 
the non-underlying items is set out below:
 52 weeks 
ended 
28 April 2012 
£million
52 weeks 
ended 
30 April 2011 
£million
Underlying proﬁt  
before tax 70.8 85.3
Add / (deduct) non- 
underlying items:
Trading results – Closed 
business (2.8) (7.7)
Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles (4.5) (4.5)
Net restructuring 
charges (16.3) (17 .1)
Business impairments (196.0) (251.6) 
Proﬁt on sale of 
Swedish warehouse 37.2 –
Other items (1.6) (24.9) 
Financing items:   
Closed business (0.1) (0.8) 
Net fair value 
remeasurements (2.8) (2.8) 
Accelerated 
amortisation of 
facility fees (2.7) (7.8)
Net 2012 Bond 
redemption gains – 7.8 
 Total net non- 
underlying charges (189.6) (309.4)
Loss before tax (118.8) (224.1)
  Trading results from closed business relate to the former PC City
operations in Spain.
  Amortisation of acquired intangibles of £4.5 million predominantly 
comprises brand names.
Net restructuring charges relate to the exceptional elements of the 
UK business transformation (£9.7 million) and the reorganisation of 
the photo processing businesses in PIXmania (£6.6 million). In the 
UK, the costs comprise mainly accelerated depreciation charges 
associated with the reformat of the UK & Ireland store portfolio, 
onerous lease charges and redundancies. In PIXmania, charges 
comprise mainly onerous lease charges, redundancies and 
contract termination costs.
  Business impairments of £196.0 million relate to Unieuro, 
Kotsovolos and PIXmania, and arise following consideration of the 
ongoing difﬁcult economic environments in which these businesses 
operate, and the behind expectation results seen in 2011/12.  
The charges are predominantly non-cash and include:
– £131.1 million relating to Unieuro, the Group’s Italian business. 
The majority of this cost (£109.4 million) relates to goodwill with 
the balance relating to other ﬁxed assets, onerous lease costs 
and store closure costs. Following this impairment there remains 
£26.6 million of goodwill relating to this business;
– £36.5 million relating to Kotsovolos, the Group’s Greek business. 
This represents full impairment of the goodwill relating to 
this business; and
– £28.4 million relating to PIXmania, representing approximately  
one third of the value of goodwill held at the beginning of the year.
  Proﬁt of £37 .2 million arises on the sale (and subsequent leaseback) 
of the Group’s Nordic distribution centre in Jönköping, Sweden.
  Other items of £1.6 million comprise:
– Net costs of £3.2 million which relate to the UK riots with such 
costs of £3.5 million relating mainly to stock write offs and repair 
costs to damaged properties and are shown net of insurance 
recoveries received to date of £0.3 million; and
– An upwards revaluation of £1.6 million (required by accounting 
standards) of a small Nordic associate shareholding following  
the acquisition of the remaining shares in that entity.
  The ﬁnancing charge comprises the following elements:
– £0.1 million of interest charges relating to the closed PC City 
operations in Spain;
– £2.8 million of net fair value remeasurement losses on revaluation 
of ﬁnancial instruments as required by IAS 32 & 39; and
– Accelerated amortisation of facility fees which relate to the 
reﬁnancing activities and comprise the write off of fees relating  
to the amendment of the £360 million revolving credit facility to  
a £300 million revolving credit facility in May 2012. Equivalent  
fees relating to the £300 million revolving credit facility are being
amortised into underlying results in the same manner as the 
historical facility fees. Gains and charges in the prior year relate  
to the reﬁnancing that occurred in July 2010. 39
Performance Review
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Property losses
Underlying property losses were £13.6 million (2010/11 loss of 
£12.8 million). These comprise mainly store re-site and store asset 
disposal costs associated with the Renewal and Transformation 
plan, predominantly in the UK and Nordics.
Underlying net ﬁnance costs
Underlying net ﬁnance costs were £44.3 million (2010/11  
£42.3 million). The increase in costs was primarily due to:
the effect of the higher coupon rate on the 2015 Notes, which 
were issued part way through the ﬁrst half of the prior year; 
  higher net foreign exchange losses compared to the 
prior year; and
increased Euribor and Libor interest rates during the year, 
affecting ﬂoating rate swap income.
Tax
The Group’s underlying tax charge equates to an effective rate  
of 51% (2010/11 37%). The increase in the full year tax rate reﬂects 
losses where no tax beneﬁt has been recognised, the non-
recurrence of one off releases in the prior year of surplus tax 
provisions following favourable outcomes and the increased 
proportion of non-deductible items (which are comparatively 
ﬁxed in amount) taken as a percentage of the reduced proﬁt 
before tax ﬁgure.   
Pensions
The IAS 19 accounting deﬁcit of the deﬁned beneﬁt section of 
the UK pension scheme amounted to £261.9 million compared 
to £244.0 million at 30 April 2011. The assumptions used for 
determining the accounting valuation use a consistent basis to 
that adopted at 30 April 2011 which build from the most recent 
actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2010. 
The deﬁcit has increased as a result of an increase in the liabilities 
which was greater than the increase in assets. The increase in the 
liabilities was driven by a decrease in the discount rate applied to  
the liabilities (which increases their value) which has been offset in 
part by a decrease in the expectation of long term inﬂation which  
has an overall limiting effect on the overall increase in the liabilities. 
A full triennial actuarial valuation of the UK deﬁned beneﬁt pension 
scheme as at 31 March 2010 showed a shortfall of assets compared 
with liabilities of £239.0 million. A ‘recovery plan’ based on this 
valuation commenced in 2010/11 with payments of £12.0 million 
which rose to £16.0 million in 2011/12 and will rise to £20.0 million 
in 2012/13 and 2013/14, rising approximately annually thereafter 
to £35.0 million by 2020/21. The next triennial valuation is expected 
to commence in March 2013. Directors’ Report 
Performance Review
40 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Corporate Responsibility Report
Dixons Retail takes its responsibility to its stakeholders and the 
environment very seriously. Good sustainability practices are good 
business practices and we believe that adopting good practice in this 
area can help us not only to do business sustainably but to achieve 
our corporate objectives and fulﬁll our business plan. Our policies  
in this area are designed to balance the needs of our customers, 
shareholders, employees and the wider community with our 
commercial business objectives. 
We are dedicated to reducing our carbon footprint by reducing 
energy consumption throughout our operations, minimising  
and recycling waste, cutting transport emissions and reducing 
unnecessary packaging. We seek to source products from all  
our suppliers that meet industry standards and are as energy 
efﬁcient as practicable. We continue to improve the environmental 
performance of our own brand products throughout their life-cycle 
by systemic integration of environmental aspects at an early stage  
in product design.
Corporate responsibility management framework
The Group Finance Director, Humphrey Singer, is the Board member 
responsible for corporate responsibility matters. He is supported  
by the Corporate Responsibility Committee, which comprises  
senior executives from key business areas and is chaired by  
Helen Grantham, the Company Secretary and General Counsel.  
The Committee met twice during the period under review and a 
summary of some of the key matters discussed are listed below:
 Monitoring the key performance indicators;
Assessing the reporting structures in place and determining 
changes to be implemented when gathering information in  
respect of the key performance indicators;
 Ongoing evaluation of the Group’s risks and opportunities 
and identiﬁcation of areas where the Committee can enhance 
reporting or control mechanisms already in place;
 Reviewing the Group Health and Safety Policy; and
 Reviewing the impact of the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
upon the UK business and the internal reporting mechanisms  
to ensure compliance. 
Sustainability review
Dixons Retail operates in different countries, each with differing 
stakeholder needs. Accordingly, the Group’s corporate responsibility 
efforts are largely organised on a local level. The Committee will be 
undertaking a review of our current initiatives during this ﬁnancial 
year to see how we can further improve our environmental impact 
and how we can share best practice and reporting across all  
our businesses.
Our approach to corporate responsibility
Dixons Retail seeks to identify the risks and opportunities which  
are most signiﬁcant to its business rather than addressing a 
standardised agenda, in accordance with the approach to corporate 
responsibility contained within the Association of British Insurer’s 
Guidelines. Accordingly, the Committee maintains a matrix of risks 
and opportunities that are speciﬁc to the business. This allows us  
to identify our main exposures and most signiﬁcant opportunities 
and to address any issues. During the year, our priorities included  
the following:
 To provide a safe and healthy environment for customers, 
colleagues and visitors to our stores and other locations;
 To engage colleagues through the provision of rewarding 
workplace environments and careers, whilst assisting in the 
ongoing improvement of customer service levels;
 To improve operational energy efﬁciency and forward planning;
 To reduce our impact on the environment and to reduce costs 
and raise revenue through improved waste recycling;
 The provision of safe and reliable own-brand products, achieved 
as a result of our expert technical knowledge with products 
sourced from manufacturers who are audited against our  
ethical requirements; and
 To add to and promote the customer proposition in relation 
to product reuse and recycling. 
A member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee has been 
identiﬁed as accountable for each of these priorities.
The Committee has established key performance indicators,  
which are discussed in more detail below.
Business ethics 
At Dixons Retail the way we do business is important to us and  
forms part of our corporate responsibility objectives. Our shared 
values are to:
 operate with honesty and integrity;
 give outstanding service to our customers;
 respect our colleagues;
 continually seek ways to improve performance; and
 work together to beat our competition.
The Dixons Retail Ethical Conduct Policy applies to all employees.
Customer services 
At Dixons Retail, we are proud to serve thousands of customers 
every year in our stores, over the telephone and online. In the tough 
economic environment of the last few years, our customers have 
looked to us to provide greater value, choice and service and we 
have reinvigorated our business model accordingly. Our customers 
have told us what a great shopping trip feels like and we have used 
this to develop our Customer Plan in a series of programmes with the 
objective of improving the shopping and post-shopping experience 
of our customers.  41
Performance Review
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
During the period under review, these programmes have included 
the roll out of our award winning service proposition Knowhow™, 
the continued transformation of our store portfolio, the unveiling of a 
technology department in Harrods’ ﬂagship store in London and an 
enhanced user experience for customers on our shopping websites. 
Great customer service is key to the success of our business and  
is measured through regular mystery shopping and exit surveys as 
well as customer feedback received via our call centre and service 
colleagues. The customer satisfaction measures are combined with 
key performance indicators from across operations, people and 
ﬁnance to form our scorecard. This provides a balanced view of 
how we are doing and is regularly reviewed by the Committee  
and the Board.
As part of our commitment to delivering customer service to  
the highest standards, our colleagues work to ensure that our 
communications with customers are clear and that the information 
we present them with is accurate and not misleading. We maintain 
compliance with trading standards and legal requirements.  
Our policies and procedures integrate those standards into  
our daily work. 
Supplier relationships 
Many of our electrical products are sourced through major 
international brands, which have their own strong ethical and 
environmental policies in place.
The Group operates an Ethical Sourcing Policy based on the Social 
Accountability 8000 criteria. Suppliers of our own brand products 
are audited prior to selection and rated on a trafﬁc light basis.  
Once approved they remain subject to regular checks and audits. 
Green status on an audit indicates that a supplier meets or exceeds 
all our standards. Amber status indicates that some of the standards 
required have not been met. Red status means that some signiﬁcant 
failures were identiﬁed against our Ethical Sourcing Policy standards. 
Our own brand product supplier audits are carried out with a view to 
assisting our suppliers in improving their working practices. We work 
with factories where failures have been identiﬁed to improve their 
working practices. Where this is not possible or no improvements  
are made, they will not be approved as a supplier, or will be delisted 
as appropriate.
The results of ethical supply chain audits carried out during the 
period under review are detailed below:
Performance Indicators 2011/12 2010/11
Green 0 0
Amber 90 136
Red 51 75
Total factories audited 141 211
Delisted / Not approved 26 72
Environment
Dixons Retail recognises that it has a responsibility to manage the 
impact of its business on the environment both now and in the 
future. Key areas of focus continue to be:
 energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, distribution 
centres and ofﬁces;
 fuel emissions from the transportation of products to either stores 
or customers’ homes; 
 waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres 
and ofﬁces; and
 unwanted electrical equipment collected for recycling.
Carbon footprint management
Dixons Retail is committed to a carbon management programme, 
which aims to reduce the Group’s carbon footprint. Along with all 
other British businesses, for the ﬁrst time we reported our emissions 
as part of the Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme which 
launched this year and have introduced several programmes to help 
us reduce the impact of our operations on the environment whilst 
improving efﬁciency and saving costs. A signiﬁcant proportion of the 
cost savings made have been reinvested into the next phase of our 
energy management programme.
This year as part of our sustainability review we will be monitoring 
progress on our carbon footprint reduction and the key performance 
indicators we use to encourage change across the business. We will 
be reviewing our carbon management plan to see how it can provide 
even more positive impacts in the future. 
Energy management 
We continue to work on reducing our environmental impact and 
improve energy efﬁciency in our operations. As part of our ongoing 
energy reduction programme, over the last 12 months we have rolled 
out our energy reduction initiatives programme to a further 93 UK 
stores, reducing average consumption by over 15%, as well as at  
our UK head ofﬁce. We have also continued to replace older lighting 
systems with low energy light ﬁttings which reduce energy use.  
This year we began installing smart energy management systems  
in all our stores, allowing us to remotely monitor and reduce our UK 
energy still further. 
Over 11,000 UK Dixons Retail store colleagues have undergone 
energy awareness training to help them better control and reduce 
their energy usage. Over the next 12 months we intend to roll out 
more energy reduction and efﬁciency programmes, as well as 
reviewing and trialling several sustainable technologies in our  
stores and ofﬁces.  Directors’ Report 
Performance Review
Corporate Responsibility Report 
(continued)
42 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Waste management 
In addition to being good for the environment, managing waste in the 
most efﬁcient way is an opportunity for our business. Due to our work 
on recycling, we have been shortlisted for Retail Recycler of the Year, 
and been nominated in the Green Business Awards 2012. We are 
pleased to report that during the year under review we recycled more 
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and generated 
more dry mixed recyclate than the previous year.
At Dixons Retail, we take seriously our responsibility for the electrical 
products that we place on the market, especially when consumers 
no longer require their hardware. In accordance with the WEEE 
Regulations, we provide an in-store take-back service to the public. 
We also collect and recycle old equipment, free of charge, from our 
customers’ homes whilst delivering new products.
Waste recycled as a percentage of total waste
†
2011/12 2010/11
UK 65% 73%
Nordics 95% 91%
†Not including WEEE.
Transport and distribution 
Keeping our stores stocked with the thousands of products  
we sell, and delivering to our customers’ homes, means our ﬂeet  
of commercial vehicles is constantly transporting products around  
the country. The Group seeks to reduce the environmental impact  
of delivering its products by efﬁcient route planning to avoid 
unnecessary mileage, using rail freight where appropriate, increasing 
vehicle load and making use of empty vehicles on return journeys. 
This year has seen a new ﬂeet introduced in both our retail ﬂeet and 
home delivery ﬂeet. This has led to an increase in our miles per gallon 
and a reduction in the CO
2
 produced per vehicle. 
Fleet carbon emissions
Tonnes of CO 2 produced 2011/12 2010/11
UK home delivery ﬂeet 8,660 7,830
UK retail ﬂeet 15,278 15,088
Nordics delivery ﬂeet 11,775 11,267
Total 35,713 34,185
Workplace 
Our colleagues
At Dixons Retail, we believe that our people are at the heart  
of our business and they are the key to delivering excellent  
customer service. We recognise the importance of listening to  
our colleagues as they are the face of our business and truly 
understand our customers and what they want from our company. 
Therefore, we want them to ﬂourish and we are committed  
to providing them with development opportunities to reach  
their potential. 
We value and respect each colleague and endeavour to engage  
their talents and abilities to the fullest extent. We want to be 
recognised as an employer of choice and aim to reward colleagues 
fairly, to provide equality of opportunity, personal development and 
training. Our culture supports the discovery of new and better ways 
of working, two-way communication and the speedy resolution of 
any concerns or queries.
We also recognise the need to have effective leaders in place to 
support our competitive edge and support colleagues. We take  
our responsibilities seriously and our leaders are engaged and 
focused on delivery of the Customer Plan, which will make  
Dixons Retail better for customers, easier for colleagues and  
cost effective to operate. 
We review regularly our beneﬁts offering to colleagues to ensure 
these are attractive and conducive to the recruitment and retention  
of talented people. Through a range of share plans, we encourage  
all colleagues to build a personal stake in the business. 
At Dixons Retail, we work to achieve high standards in employment 
practices. We have a comprehensive suite of employment policies 
and procedures, which we review regularly to ensure we set out our 
responsibilities and obligations to our colleagues clearly to remain 
commercially focused and compliant with legislation in the UK. 
These policies include guidance on family friendly procedures 
through to colleague dispute management and, of course, diversity 
and equal opportunities. 
The Group’s policy on equal opportunities clearly demonstrates  
our total commitment to prevent any form of discrimination in  
the workplace. To that extent, we promote an open and honest 
environment and encourage colleagues with concerns to report 
issues to us either directly through line managers or via the 
independent and conﬁdential integrity line. 
Employee diversity
Colleague diversity in terms of age, gender and ethnicity remains  
a key performance indicator of ours and we report on these below:
2011/12 2010/11
Female 32% 28%
Male 68% 72%
Full-time 58% 65%
Part-time 42% 35%
Ethnic minority/non-national 18% 26%†
Aged over 50 8% 11 %
†Data for those countries within the Group that are either required by law or have voluntarily 
recorded this information. 43
Performance Review
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Training and development
In the UK our personal and career development processes are 
designed to ensure all our people have the skills to meet the 
requirements of their roles and to thereby contribute to our Customer 
Plan. All colleagues on joining the business attend Go Live, the 
Group induction programme, and are assigned a unique training 
plan for their role. Our learning options include face to face and 
e-Learning, all deployed via our learning management system –  
The Edge. Our store colleagues have all been trained in FIVES,  
our bespoke sales training programme, and have received further 
training on service under our Knowhow™ brand. Each person  
has a personal appraisal and development plan, including an 
assessment of their performance together with their line manager  
on at least a bi-annual basis.
Employee communications
Dixons in the UK has a comprehensive engagement programme 
which is underpinned by a full colleague survey. Our people are our 
brand, so it is important to us to hear the voice of our colleagues  
and keep them engaged in the development of our business through 
executive blogs and employee forums. We continue to keep the 
customer at the heart of the business by constantly engaging 
colleagues. We bring life to technology through regular supplier 
events and continuously improving our multiple communication 
streams, which include regular town hall meetings, online open 
discussions, sharing of best practice and regular Q&A sessions 
directly with the Chief Executive UK & Ireland. 
Health and Safety 
It is the policy of the Group to comply with relevant Health and Safety 
and Fire Safety legislation and take all reasonably practicable steps 
to ensure the health, safety and welfare of all employees, visitors and 
members of the public who are or may be affected by our activities.
Dixons Retail engenders a positive health and safety culture 
throughout the business, taking measures to maintain a safe 
environment for our customers and colleagues. A comprehensive 
safety management system is operated throughout the business to 
ensure legislative requirements and best practice are adhered to.
Throughout the past year we have reviewed health and safety 
standards across the Group and concentrated on reducing  
high risk/high cost accidents. This has culminated in reducing 
employee accidents in the UK by 14% and a reduction of 21% in  
the rate per thousand employees. We anticipate that continued root 
cause analysis of accidents and focused action plans are expected 
to see a further signiﬁcant reduction in accidents in the coming  
year. Health and Safety performance is reviewed by the Committee 
quarterly. The Group Health and Safety Policy is reviewed and 
approved by the Board annually and was last reviewed in May 2012 
and signed by the Group Chief Executive.
Health and Safety: employee accidents and injuries
2011/12 2010/11
Number of accidents or injuries reported 869 1016
Rate of accidents per 1,000 employees 42 53
Data for UK and Ireland.
Community 
Community involvement 
Our fundraising programme, Switched on Communities, continues 
the theme of improving access to technology for disadvantaged  
and disabled children, while encouraging colleagues to engage  
with their local communities by supporting local charities. Under the 
programme our Knowhow™ Distribution and Repair Centre have, 
through fundraising activities, raised over £24,000 for various local 
and national charities. 
The Group continues to support Lifelites and the e-Learning 
Foundation, who work locally with colleagues to support their 
fundraising efforts. In the year ahead, the Group intends to review its 
charitable programmes to better align its objectives with colleagues’ 
charitable choices.
Colleagues are encouraged to support charities of their choice  
and are invited to apply for a grant from The DSG international 
Foundation (the Foundation), the Group’s registered charitable  
trust, to support their fundraising activities, subject to certain criteria.  
The charitable donations made by the Foundation in 2011/12  
were £5,000 (2010/11 £5,000).
In the Nordics the Elkjøp Group raised a total of NOK 5.8 million  
in support of the Norwegian Red Cross for their project Water for 
Life. This was through a combination of fundraising activities by 
colleagues and donations by the Elkjøp Group.
Key performance indicators 
The performance criteria reported above are largely focused on  
the Group’s UK & Ireland and Northern European businesses which 
represent 79% of Group turnover in the period. The Committee 
recognises that it needs to work towards extending the use and 
monitoring of these performance criteria throughout the rest of  
the Group, with a view to improving the reporting of the Group’s 
corporate responsibility efforts going forward. 
Humphrey Singer
Executive Director with responsibility for Corporate Responsibility 44 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors
At 21 June 2012
Committee Membership
Audit Nominations Remuneration
John Allan †
 Rita Clifton 
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen
Tim How
†
Jock Lennox †

Dharmash Mistry
†Denotes the chair of the committee
5
3
9 7
4
2
8
1
6 45
Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
1 John Allan CBE, Chairman 
John Allan (63) joined the Board on 23 June 2009 and was appointed 
Chairman on 2 September 2009. He is chairman of the Nominations 
Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee. He is also 
chairman of WorldPay Limited and Care UK Health & Social Care Holdings 
Limited and senior advisor to Deutsche Bank UK and Alix Partners. He is  
a non-executive member of the Home Office Supervisory Board, chairman  
of the DHL UK Foundation and a regent of the University of Edinburgh.  
He was previously chief executive of Exel plc and, following its acquisition by 
Deutsche Post, a member of its management board and subsequently chief 
financial officer of Deutsche Post. Prior to this, he was a director of BET Plc. 
His early career was with Lever Brothers, Bristol-Myers Company Ltd and 
Fine Fare Ltd. He has extensive board experience having been chairman  
of Samsonite Corporation and a non-executive director of PHS Group plc, 
ISS A/S, National Grid plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc, 3i plc and Connell plc. 
He has also served on the supervisory boards of both Lufthansa AG and 
Deutsche Postbank.
2 Sebastian James, Group Chief Executive 
Sebastian James (46) joined the Board on 20 February 2012. Sebastian 
joined the Group in April 2008 and held various roles before his appointment 
to the Board including Group Operations Director. He is chairman of INK 
Publishing (Holdings) Limited. Prior to joining the Group he was chief 
executive of Synergy Insurance Services Limited, a private equity backed 
insurance company. He has wide retail experience and was strategy director 
responsible for developing and implementing the turnaround strategy at 
Mothercare plc in 2003. He started his career at The Boston Consulting 
Group having completed an MBA at INSEAD and an MA at Oxford University.
3 Humphrey Singer, Group Finance Director 
Humphrey Singer (46) joined the Board on 1 July 2011. Humphrey joined 
Dixons Retail in 2007. He has held various finance roles since then, including 
finance director of Currys, group financial controller and finance director 
of the UK & Ireland division. Prior to joining Dixons Retail, Humphrey was 
finance director of Coca Cola Enterprises (UK) Ltd and prior to that also held 
a number of finance roles at Coca Cola Enterprises (UK) Ltd and Cadbury 
Schweppes plc.
4 Katie Bickerstaffe, Chief Executive UK & Ireland
Katie Bickerstaffe (45) joined the Board on 20 February 2012. She joined the 
Group as director of marketing, people and property in June 2008. In addition 
to her executive position she is also a non-executive director of Scottish  
and Southern Energy plc. Previously, Katie was managing director of Kwik 
Save Ltd and group retail director and group HR director at Somerfield plc.  
Her earlier career included roles at Dyson Ltd, PepsiCo Inc. and Unilever PLC.
5 Tim How, Senior Independent Director
Tim How (61) joined the Board on 8 September 2009. He took on the role  
of Senior Independent Director on 9 May 2012 and he is chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of both the Audit and Nominations 
Committees. He is chairman of Rayner and Keeler Limited and Woburn 
Enterprises Limited, non-executive director of Henderson Group plc, Downing 
Income VCT 4 plc and Peabody Capital plc, director of Enotria Group Ltd, 
Wine and Spirit Education Trust and a governor of the Peabody Trust. He was 
formerly chief executive of Majestic Wine plc, where he led the management 
buy-out of the business and subsequent Alternative Investment Market (AIM) 
flotation. Prior to this, Tim How was managing director of Bejam Group plc.
6 Jock Lennox, Independent Non-Executive Director
Jock Lennox (55) joined the Board on 10 January 2012. He is chairman  
of the Audit Committee and is also a member of the Nominations and  
the Remuneration Committees. Jock is a Chartered Accountant and has 
extensive accounting and finance experience having worked for over  
30 years for Ernst & Young (20 years as a partner) where he led a number  
of relationships with international clients and held a number of leadership 
positions in the UK and globally. Jock retired from Ernst & Young in 2009 
and subsequently has acted as a non-executive director of a number of 
companies and was until recently a council member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Scotland. He is currently a trustee of the Tall Ships 
Youth Trust and non-executive director and chairman of the Audit Committee 
of A&J Mucklow Group plc, Enquest plc, Hill and Smith Holdings plc and 
Oxford Instruments plc.
7 Rita Clifton, Independent Non-Executive Director 
Rita Clifton (54) joined the Board on 1 September 2003. She is a member  
of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees. She is chairman  
of Interbrand UK Limited, Populus Limited and TCV social enterprise group, 
non-executive director of Bupa, president of the Market Research Society, 
director of Henley Festival Limited, visiting professor at Henley Management 
College, trustee of the WWF and member of the Assurance and Advisory  
Board of BP’s carbon offset programme. She was formerly vice chairman and 
executive planning director at Saatchi and Saatchi. She has had a successful 
18 year advertising career with both Saatchi and Saatchi and J Walter 
Thompson. She was previously a non-executive director of Emap plc and  
a member of the Government’s Sustainable Development Commission. 
8 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen, Independent Non-Executive Director 
Utho Creusen (56) joined the Board on 1 February 2010. He is a member  
of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees. He is owner  
of Positive Leadership (a management consultancy) and co-owner of 
Grid-International, non-executive director of M.Video (the leading Russian 
electronic retailer), chairman of the Jury of the European Retail Institute, 
vice-president of Modern Market-Methods Association in Germany, advisor 
to Boston Consulting Group, and honorary professor at both Westfälische 
Wilhelms-Universität Münster and the Catholic University, Eichstätt-Ingolstadt. 
He has extensive international retail experience and was previously human 
resources director of Media-Saturn Holding GmbH (an electronics retail chain) 
and co-owner of Alpha tecc (the German consumer electronics chain).  
He spent 22 years with OBI AG, a leading European DIY retailer, where  
he rose to become a member of its executive board and chairman of OBI 
Franchise GmbH.
9 Dharmash Mistry, Independent Non-Executive Director 
Dharmash Mistry (41) joined the Board on 27 September 2010. He is a 
member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees. He is  
a partner at Balderton Capital Management (UK) LLP, investor director and 
board member of MOG, eWise, KupiVIP.ru, Achica Limited and non-executive 
director of Hargreaves Landsdown plc. He was formerly investor director  
and board member of Sulake (Habbo Hotel), my-wardrobe.com and a board 
director of Lovefilm. Prior to joining Balderton Capital, he was part of the 
executive team at Emap plc, as group managing director of Emap Consumer 
Media and Emap Performance. Prior to this, he was at Boston Consulting 
Group and started his career as a brand manager at Procter & Gamble.  Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
Chairman’s Introduction
John Allan
46 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/2012
“In 201 1/12 our first externally 
facilitated Board effectiveness 
review was undertaken.”
It has been a busy year in the Corporate Governance world, one in 
which corporate governance and executive pay issues have been at 
the forefront of public attention. Your Board keeps itself fully abreast 
of developments and, where they consider appropriate, apply them 
to the running of the Group in order to adopt best practice in the 
ﬁelds of corporate governance and executive pay.
Effective governance is at the core of any well run business and at 
Dixons Retail, we strive to embed governance principles in the day 
to day operation of the business. The non-executive directors work 
in partnership with the executive in the spirit of collaboration. We 
believe governance is not just about compliance, but how we work 
together to challenge, interrogate and support each other to ensure 
effective decision making and implementation, leadership and 
accountability in all aspects of our business. 
It has been a year of change for the Board. After almost nine years 
Andrew Lynch stepped down from the Board on 9 May 2012.  
We were pleased to announce that his role as Chairman of the  
Audit Committee would be taken by Jock Lennox. Jock was a senior 
audit partner at Ernst & Young (EY) where he led a number of major 
multinational client relationships, reporting to and advising the boards 
on a range of complex audits, ﬁnancial restructurings and corporate 
transactions. Jock held a number of leadership positions at EY in  
the UK and globally. Jock retired from EY in 2009, since then he  
has been chairing the Audit Committees of a number of UK listed 
companies. Jock, therefore, has the recent and relevant ﬁnancial 
experience to perform this role and from which the Group will beneﬁt. 
In addition to the changes above, John Browett, as Chief Executive, 
and Nicholas Cadbury, as Group Finance Director, both left during 
the year. It is a testament to the strength and breadth of talent  
within the business that both replacements, Sebastian James and 
Humphrey Singer, were promoted from within the Group, as was the 
third executive director appointed during the year, Katie Bickerstaffe. 
These internal appointments have enabled continuity of leadership. 
In the light of the Board changes outlined above, we have identiﬁed 
the need to refocus our attention on succession planning in order to 
secure and develop the future leaders of the Group. 
The Board believes that it has the right management team in  
place to move the business forward. As such the Remuneration 
Committee has worked hard on designing this year’s remuneration 
strategy in order to incentivise and motivate the new management 
team to deliver the Group’s priorities. The decision was taken to work 
within the current long term incentive plans already in place and, for 
this year only, a one off award of 200% of salary will be made under 
the Performance Share Plan and also a grant of options under the 
Executive Share Option Plan. We have consulted with our major 
shareholders in ﬁnalising this year’s long term incentive proposals 
and have taken on board input provided. More information on this 
can be found in the Remuneration Report. 
The Board welcomes the recommendations of the Davies Report on 
gender diversity and is committed to developing a diverse workforce 
and equal opportunity for all. We are absolutely committed to 
opportunity and diversity in the Boardroom and senior management 
team. However, we are not supportive of speciﬁc quotas, preferring 
instead to make appointments based on merit. During the year we 
have appointed an additional female director, Katie Bickerstaffe, and 
currently the Board has two female directors (22%) and 25% of its 
senior management are women.
The Board engaged the services of Independent Board Evaluation 
to lead our ﬁrst externally facilitated Board effectiveness review. The 
review was performed in a spirit of openness with the directors being 
fully engaged in the process. The Board has been pleased with the 
results and in particular, that its corporate governance practices were 
seen to be a strength. Some improvements were also identiﬁed, 
many of which we have already begun to address. More details 
can be found on page 50.
We are committed to effective shareholder communication.  
A key aspect of this is the Annual General Meeting (AGM) which  
will again be held at the Holiday Inn London-Bloomsbury, on  
6 September. This meeting enables us to answer any questions  
you may have on strategy or how we have run the Group during the 
year. In line with the Code, all of the Directors will again be offering 
themselves for re-election or election at the meeting and the Board 
has no hesitation in recommending their election. 
John Allan 
Chairman 47
Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Statutory Information 
The directors present their report and audited ﬁnancial statements 
for the 52 week period ended 28 April 2012.
The Business Review, which provides a comprehensive review 
of the development, performance and future prospects of the 
Group’s operations for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012, 
includes the following:
  Business Overview, including principal activities;
  Strategic Summary;
  Performance Review, including Corporate Responsibility Report; and
  Corporate Governance.
These sections are incorporated by reference and are deemed  
to form part of this report.
Changes in composition of the Group
As announced in the 2010/11 Annual Report, all 34 stores and 
online operations of PC City Spain were closed or transferred to 
third parties during the year with the last store closing in June 2011.
Post balance sheet events
Particulars of any important events affecting the Group since 
28 April 2012 are described in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
Directors
The names, biographies and dates of appointment of the Board  
of directors are provided on page 45.
In line with best practice and the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the Code), all directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election 
at the 2012 AGM. The Remuneration Report on pages 60 and 61
provides details of applicable service agreements for executive 
directors and terms of appointment for non-executive directors. The 
Board is satisﬁed that each director is qualiﬁed for reappointment  
by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
During the year, no director had any material interest in any contract 
of signiﬁcance to the Group’s business. Their interests, including 
those of any connected persons, in the shares of the Company are 
outlined in sections (IV), (VIII) and (IX) of the Remuneration Report.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors,  
the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, 
the Companies Acts and related legislation. The Articles themselves 
may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders. 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and to the 
extent permitted by law, the Company may indemnify its directors 
out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result of their 
ofﬁce. The Group has purchased directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability 
insurance cover for any claim brought against directors or ofﬁcers  
for wrongful acts in connection with their positions. The insurance 
provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty.
Subject to the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, 
the Companies Acts and any directions given by the Company by 
special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed  
by the Board, who may exercise all the powers of the Company, 
whether relating to the management of the business of the Company 
or not. The matters reserved for the Board are detailed in a speciﬁc 
schedule, details of which are reviewed annually and provided in the 
Corporate Governance Report. 
Directors’ responsibilities
The directors’ responsibilities for the ﬁnancial statements contained 
within this Annual Report and the directors’ conﬁrmations required 
under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4. 1. 12 are set out on page 67 .
Employees and employee share schemes
A commentary on the Group’s role as an employer is included  
in the Corporate Responsibility Report and details of employee 
involvement through share participation are contained in the 
Remuneration Report.
Details of the Group’s employee share plans and long-term incentive 
plans are contained in the Remuneration Report and note 25 to the 
Financial Statements.
Share capital
The Company’s only class of share is ordinary shares. The authorised 
and issued share capital of the Company, together with any shares 
issued during the period are set out in note 23 to the Financial 
Statements. The voting rights of all Dixons Retail plc shares are 
identical, with each share carrying the right to one vote. holds no 
shares in Treasury and did not make any market Dixons Retail plc 
purchases of its own shares during the period under review. 
Restrictions on transfer of securities of the Company
There are no speciﬁc restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the 
transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions 
of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. The directors 
are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company’s 
shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or 
on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Change of control – signiﬁcant agreements
The Company does not have any signiﬁcant agreements which 
contain change of control clauses other than for its borrowings. 
Further details are disclosed in note 17 to the Financial Statements.
In addition, provisions under the rules of the Company’s share 
incentive schemes may cause options and awards granted under 
these schemes to vest and become exercisable in the event of a 
change of control. Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
48 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Statutory Information 
(continued)
Major shareholders
As at 20 June 2012, the Company has been notiﬁed in accordance 
with the Financial Service Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company:
Direct / indirect No. of shares % 
Schroders Plc Indirect 487,888,849 13.51%
UBS Global Asset 
Management
Direct and  
Indirect 400,763,593 11.10%
Tameside MBC Greater 
Manchester Pension Fund Direct 256,990,933 7.12%
Standard Life Investments Ltd
Direct and 
 Indirect 244,603,053 6.78%
Invesco Limited Indirect 180,788,477 5.00%
Letko, Brosseau & Associates Inc. Indirect 179,918,108 4.98%
Capital Research & 
Management Company Indirect 175,071,032 4.85%
Skagen AS Direct 148,902,954 4.12%
Norges Bank Direct 144,441,267 4.00%
Legal & General Group Plc Direct 115,471,857 3.19%
Capital Group International, Inc. Indirect 108,285,949 3.00%
Issue of shares
At the 2011 AGM, shareholders approved a resolution to give the 
directors authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 
£30,085,950. The directors have no present intention to issue ordinary 
shares, other than obligations under employee share schemes. This 
resolution remains valid until the conclusion of this year’s AGM when  
a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority.
Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year  
are contained in note 31 to the Financial Statements.
Political and charitable donations
The Group engages in various charitable activities as set out in  
the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 43. During the period 
under review, the Group made donations of £657 ,000 (2010/11 
£211,000) to local charities serving the communities in which the 
Group operates.
At the 2011 AGM, the shareholders of the Company adopted a 
resolution authorising the Board to incur political expenditure up  
to an aggregate amount not exceeding £25,000 during 2011/12. 
Notwithstanding this, the Company made no political donations 
during the period (2010/11 £nil). The Company has no present 
intention to make political donations but a resolution will be 
presented to the 2012 AGM to renew this authority.
Payment of suppliers
It is the Group’s policy to agree terms of payment with its suppliers 
on a case by case basis prior to commencing trade with them. 
Payments are made in accordance with these terms provided  
the supplier has complied with relevant contractual obligations.  
Trade creditors as at 28 April 2012 represent 54 days of annual 
purchases made during the period (30 April 2011 53 days). 
Going concern 
In considering the going concern basis for preparing the ﬁnancial 
statements, the directors have considered the Company’s objectives 
and strategy, risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives  
and its review of business performance which are all set out in the 
Business Overview, Strategic Summary and Performance Review 
sections of this Annual Report and Accounts. The Group’s liquidity 
and funding arrangements are described in notes 17 and 22(f)
to the ﬁnancial statements as well as in the funding section of the 
Performance Review and the directors consider that the Group has 
signiﬁcant covenant and liquidity headroom in its borrowing facilities 
for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, after reviewing the Company’s expenditure commitments, 
current ﬁnancial projections and expected future cash ﬂows, together 
with the available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing 
facilities, the directors have considered that adequate resources  
exist for the Company to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future. Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt  
the going concern basis in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
Corporate governance compliance
The statement on compliance with the Financial Reporting Council’s 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) for the reporting period 
is contained on page 49 of this report.
Audit information
So far as each person who is a director at the date of approving 
this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being 
information needed by the auditors in connection with their report, 
of which the auditors are unaware. Having made enquiries of fellow 
directors, each director has taken all the steps that he / she is 
obliged to take as a director in order to make himself / herself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are 
aware of that information. This information is given and should be 
interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Auditors
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to be reappointed 
as auditors of the Company. Upon the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditors and 
to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be 
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on 6 September 2012 at Holiday Inn London 
– Bloomsbury, Coram Street, Russell Square, London WC1N 1HT  
at 10.30am. The Notice of Meeting, together with full details of the 
business to be conducted, are included as a separate document.
Helen Grantham 
Company Secretary 
21 June 2012 49
Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Corporate Governance Report 
John Allan
Corporate Governance Report
The Board conﬁrms that during the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012, 
and as at the date of this Annual Report, the Company has been  
in compliance with the Code, which applied to the Company  
for the ﬁrst time this ﬁnancial year. This report together with the 
Statutory Information, the Audit Committee Report, the Nominations 
Committee Report, and the Remuneration Report provides details 
of how the Company has applied the principles and complied with 
the provisions of the Code.
The Board
As at 28 April 2012, the Board of Directors was made up of ten 
members, comprising the Chairman, three executive directors and 
six non-executive directors. Since that date, Andrew Lynch has 
resigned from the Board on 9 May 2012, as previously announced. 
The Board has reconﬁrmed that all the non-executive directors 
continue to be considered as independent and each brings their 
own senior level of experience. The Board has especially considered 
the independence of Rita Clifton who has been on the Board for just 
under nine years at the date of this report and has concluded that 
she continues to be independent in character and judgement.  
The Chairman was deemed to be independent on appointment.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Group 
Chief Executive is formally deﬁned, set out in writing and reviewed  
by the Board on a regular basis. The Chairman is responsible for  
the overall operation, leadership and governance of the Board.  
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the executive 
management of the Group’s business and for implementing  
the Group’s strategic and commercial objectives.
Andrew Lynch performed the role of Senior Independent Director 
during the period under review and until his resignation on 9 May  
2012, at which point Tim How took over the role. As such Tim  
How now supports the Chairman and is available for approach or 
representation from shareholders who feel they are unable to raise 
issues with the Chairman directly. The Senior Independent Director 
also discusses, on an individual basis, the performance of the 
Chairman with each director and provides feedback on these 
discussions to the Chairman. The role of the Senior Independent 
Director is clearly deﬁned and set out in writing.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision. 
This schedule was reviewed during the year and includes, but is not 
limited to:
   approval of Group strategy and the annual budget;
  overseeing the Group’s operations and review of its performance;
  changes relating to the Company’s share capital or 
corporate structure;
  communications with shareholders including approval of the Interim 
Statement, Annual Report and Accounts (including the review  
of critical accounting policies and judgements and assessment  
of going concern) and other major public announcements;
  maintainance and monitoring the Group’s system of internal 
control and risk management;
  approval of major capital expenditure, material acquisitions and 
divestments and material contracts; and
  appointment and remuneration of the external auditors on the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Helen Grantham, the Company Secretary and General Counsel,  
acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees. She is also 
responsible for ensuring that correct Board procedures are followed 
and advises the Board on legal and corporate governance matters. 
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary and may also take independent professional advice  
at the expense of the Company in furtherance of their duties.  
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is  
one of the matters reserved for the Board.
Board attendance
The Board held a separate strategy day in addition to meeting on  
12 occasions during the year under review, nine of which were 
scheduled Board meetings and three were ad-hoc meetings to 
approve speciﬁc matters. Due to the ad-hoc board meetings being 
called at short notice, not all directors were able to attend, and the  
table below shows attendance at scheduled Board meetings only 
during the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012.
Member Attendance
John Allan 9 of 9
Sebastian James
(1)
2 of 2
Humphrey Singer
(2)
7 of 7 
Katie Bickerstaffe
(1) (7)
1 of 2
Rita Clifton 9 of 9
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 9 of 9
Tim How 9 of 9
Dharmash Mistry 9 of 9
Jock Lennox
(3)
3 of 3
Former directors
John Browett
(4)
7 of 7
Nicholas Cadbury
(5)
3 of 3
Andrew Lynch
(6) (8)
8 of 9
(1) appointed to the Board 20 February 2012 
(2) appointed to the Board 1 July 2011 
(3) appointed to the Board 10 January 2012
(4) resigned from the Board on 20 February 2012
(5) resigned from the Board on 1 September 2011
(6) resigned from the Board on 9 May 2012
(7) Katie Bickerstaffe was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior commitment made 
before her appointment.
(8) Andrew Lynch was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior commitment.
Committees of the Board
The Board has three main committees: Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration. Individual reports on the work of these committees 
and their membership and attendance are set out on pages 52 to 66. Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
50 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Dixons Retail is dependent on its senior management to operate its 
business and execute its strategies. Dixons Retail has a decentralised 
management structure with many high-level management decisions 
delegated to regional or country management.
Board information and development
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors are 
properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they 
have full and timely access to relevant information. The quality and 
supply of information provided to the Board is reviewed as part  
of the Board evaluation exercise. The Chairman also holds regular 
meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive 
directors being present to discuss, amongst other matters, corporate 
strategy, business performance and the performance of the 
executive team. There is frequent contact between directors outside 
formal meetings to progress the Group’s business and to promote 
open communication and team working.
The Board holds meetings at a variety of Group business locations  
to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the 
business. This also provides senior management from across the 
Group with the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to 
meet the directors on more informal occasions. All directors are 
encouraged to attend external seminars relevant to the retail industry 
and corporate governance matters in order to refresh and update 
their knowledge. The Board also receives bi-monthly updates on 
legal and corporate governance matters.
New directors appointed to the Board receive a tailored induction 
programme together with guidance and training as appropriate  
to their level of previous experience. Each director is given the 
opportunity to meet with the members of senior management  
and store colleagues, and to visit the Group’s sites both in the UK 
and overseas in order to familiarise themselves with the Group’s 
businesses and the markets in which they operate. New directors 
are also encouraged to meet with the Group’s auditors and 
other advisors.
Board evaluation
During the year, in accordance with the Code, the Board undertook 
its ﬁrst externally facilitated performance evaluation. The external 
evaluation was carried out by Independent Board Evaluation, who 
have no other connection to the Company, and it included the 
performance of the Board, its committees and of individual directors. 
The process was that each director, and certain members of the 
senior management team, were interviewed in depth by Independent 
Board Evaluation without other Board members present. Two Board 
meetings were observed, John Browett’s ﬁnal Board meeting  
and the ﬁrst meeting following Sebastian James’s appointment.  
A number of committee meetings were also attended. The review’s 
ﬁndings were then discussed with the Chairman prior to being 
presented to the Board.
The results of the evaluation were well received by the Directors. 
Certain strengths were identiﬁed such as corporate governance 
practices and relationships with shareholders, in addition to several 
areas of improvement such as Board materials (including presentation 
and volume of papers) and succession planning. Since the review, 
the Group has implemented some new guidelines in the production 
of board papers and has begun to use an electronic board portal. 
Further improvements will be made in the coming year.
Certain aspects of evaluation continued to be done internally.  
Each committee performed a self evaluation of its performance  
on the basis of a detailed questionnaire relating to the areas of 
responsibility for that particular committee and provided feedback  
to the Board. Key issues and action areas were then reported to,  
and monitored by, the Board. 
Authorisation of conﬂicts of interest
The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise and 
manage conﬂicts of interest and these procedures have operated 
effectively during the year. Authorisation of conﬂicts is handled by the 
Board and the Audit Committee reviews them on an annual basis.  
A register of directors’ conﬂicts is maintained. 
Internal control 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal 
control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst senior management 
is responsible and accountable for internal control and effective risk 
management at an operational level.
The Board conﬁrms that the Group has established and maintained 
a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signiﬁcant 
risks faced by the Group and this has been in place throughout the 
52 weeks ended 28 April 2012, up to the date of approval of the 
ﬁnancial statements, and accords with the Turnbull guidance and the 
Code. This process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable, but not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Certain of the Board’s responsibilities have been delegated to  
the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control (including material ﬁnancial, operational  
and compliance controls) and risk management for the year under 
review. The Audit Committee has ensured that any required remedial 
action has or is being taken. This has included regular reporting  
and presentations from PIXmania management on the progress in 
resolving historical issues arising from weaknesses in controls over 
supplier receivables. The system of internal control and the process 
for managing risk include the following elements:
  Discussion and approval by the Board of the Group’s strategic 
direction, plans and objectives, and the risks to achieving them;
  The Board and management committees meet regularly to monitor 
progress against the targets set out in the Group’s budget and 
strategic ﬁve year plan;
  The deﬁned levels of authority established by the Board ensure 
that signiﬁcant decisions are taken at an appropriate level, 
supported by a group wide delegation of authority process;
Corporate Governance Report
(continued) 51
Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
  Each business function has established procedures and controls 
to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the Group’s assets; 
  Policies, procedures and governance structures to ensure capital 
investment is appropriately approved and subsequently monitored;
  Policies, controls and procedures have been established over the 
security of data held on, and functionality provided by, the Group’s 
business systems. These include disaster recovery arrangements;
 Business continuity plan;
  The Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to enable them 
to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the roles assigned  
to them to minimise operational risk;
  The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with 
each signiﬁcant risk that has been identiﬁed. These strategies 
include insurance, treasury policies and operational framework, 
and common standards of internal control; 
 All employees in subsidiaries within the Group have the opportunity 
to make conﬁdential disclosures about suspected impropriety or 
wrongdoing to a hotline run and monitored by a third party;
 Policies and procedures covering ﬁnancial reporting;
  Local management at each business unit and in those functions 
of the Group requiring greater overview have responsibility for 
identiﬁcation and evaluation of signiﬁcant risks to their business 
areas together with design of mitigating controls; and 
 The Company Code of Ethics.
The Group’s approach to managing risk is reviewed regularly  
to identify ways in which it can be improved.
There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control 
and reporting any signiﬁcant corrective control weaknesses, together 
with corrective action. These include reports to the Audit Committee 
from assurance providers, periodic certiﬁcation from business units, 
reviews by Group and regional management, whistleblowing facilities 
and independent assurance from both internal and external audit.  
The latter of these are described in more detail below.
Internal audit
The Internal Audit department is fully independent of business 
operations and has a group-wide mandate. Its work is driven by  
a risk-based methodology ensuring that the controls to mitigate  
the Group’s key risks are audited on a regular basis. Third parties 
may be engaged to support audit work as appropriate. Its plans  
are approved by the Audit Committee, which also receives reports 
on its ﬁndings and progress of related actions at each meeting.  
The department also works with the businesses to promote and 
further develop effective risk management within their operations. 
The Group Director for Internal Audit and Risk Management  
attends all Audit Committee meetings.
External auditors
The external auditors provide further independent observations of 
certain elements of the internal ﬁnancial controls as part of their audit 
of the ﬁnancial statements. Their ﬁndings are presented to the Audit 
Committee with updates on progress against the recommendations 
being made throughout the year.
Whistleblowing policy
The Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a conﬁdential 
helpline operated by a third party. This can be used to report, 
anonymously if so wished, on matters of concern to employees.  
This can range from unethical behaviour, such as fraud, to practices 
that might endanger the health of customers and colleagues.
Bribery Act
The Bribery Act came into force on 1 July 2011. As a result, the 
Group has reviewed and enhanced its policies and procedures to 
help prevent individuals associated with the Group from committing 
acts of bribery. These policies and procedures include training for 
individuals to ensure awareness of acts that might be construed as 
contravening the new regulations. The Group’s Anti-Bribery Policy  
is included on the Investors section of the corporate website. 
Relations with shareholders
The Company is committed to effective communication with all of  
its members, whether institutional investors, private or employee 
shareholders. The Company reports formally to shareholders when 
its full year and half year results are published. These results are 
posted on the investor section of the Company’s corporate website. 
Regular trading updates are also posted on the corporate website  
in addition to RNS announcements and other press releases  
made by the Company. In accordance with the Listing Rules, formal 
notiﬁcation of the Company’s AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 
working days in advance of the meeting. The directors, including the 
respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees, are available for questions formally during the AGM  
and informally afterwards. The AGM of the Company is due to take 
place on 6 September 2012 at the Holiday Inn London - Bloomsbury, 
Coram Street, London WC1N 1HT. Further details of the AGM are  
set out in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
Effective two-way communication with institutional investors,  
brokers and analysts is established through regular presentations and 
meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Group Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director and Investor Relations & Corporate Affairs 
Director. The Chairman holds occasional meetings with major 
shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest including corporate 
strategy and governance. Where appropriate, the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee communicates with major shareholders  
to canvass opinion when deciding remuneration policy. The Senior 
Independent Director and the other non-executive directors are also 
available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested. 
Matters arising from these presentations and meetings are 
communicated to the Board. The Board receives an investor relations 
report at each of its scheduled meetings, as well as a detailed annual 
review of the perception of the Company amongst stakeholders.
John Allan 
Chairman 
21 June 2012 Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
52 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Audit Committee
Reports to the Dixons Retail plc Board
Main Objective: To assist the Board in fulﬁlling its obligations related 
to the Company’s ﬁnancial management and reporting and internal 
control systems.
Chairman: Jock Lennox
Number of meetings: 4
Member Attendance
Jock Lennox
(1)
1 of 1
Rita Clifton 4 of 4
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 4 of 4
Tim How 4 of 4
Dharmash Mistry 4 of 4
Former director
Andrew Lynch
(2)
4 of 4
(1) Appointed 10 January 2012 and appointed Chairman of Audit Committee 9 May 2012 
(2) Resigned as a Director and Chairman of Audit Committee 9 May 2012
Membership and meetings
During the year under review the Committee comprised of Andrew 
Lynch (as Chairman) (resigned 9 May 2012), Rita Clifton, Prof. Dr. Utho 
Creusen, Tim How, Dharmash Mistry and Jock Lennox (appointed  
as Committee member on 10 January 2012 and Chairman on  
9 May 2012), all of whom are independent non-executive directors.  
The remaining members served throughout the period under review.
The biographical details of the current members of the Committee 
are set out on page 45. The Board is satisﬁed that the Chairman  
of the Committee meets the requirement for recent and relevant 
ﬁnancial experience. The Company Secretary and General Counsel 
acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met on four occasions during the period, and the 
members’ attendance record is shown above. The Committee’s 
deliberations are reported by its Chairman to the following Board 
meeting and the minutes of each meeting are circulated to all 
members of the Board.
Role
The Committee assists the Board to fulﬁl its oversight  
responsibilities. Its primary functions are to:
  monitor the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements and any formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s ﬁnancial performance;
  review critical accounting policies and ﬁnancial reporting 
judgements;
  review the integrity of the Group’s system of internal control 
and risk management;
  monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit function;
  review and approve the annual audit plan of both the internal 
and external audit functions including principal areas of focus;
  review the Group’s risk and insurance programmes;
  carry out an annual assessment of the external auditors, review and 
monitor their independence and objectivity taking into consideration 
relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements, assess the 
effectiveness of the external audit process, approve the external 
auditors’ remuneration and terms of engagement and make 
recommendations in respect of their reappointment or removal;
  review the directors’ conﬂicts of interest register and to agree 
any amendments to previously approved conﬂicts;
  review regularly the Group’s policy and quantum in respect of the 
supply of non-audit services by the external auditors, such that 
relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit 
services, when taken as a proportion of the audit fee, is considered 
in addition to the nature of such services in order to preserve  
the external auditors’ independence and objectivity; and
  monitor the results and effectiveness of arrangements under 
which employees can raise in conﬁdence issues of concern  
relating to ﬁnancial matters and internal controls.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually  
by the Committee and then by the Board. A copy of the terms  
of reference is available on the Group’s corporate website.
Attendance at meetings
The Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance 
Director, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief Accountant and 
Head of Tax, Director of Internal Audit and Risk, Company Secretary 
and General Counsel, Deputy Company Secretary and external 
auditors were invited by the Chairman of the Committee to attend 
meetings during the year. The Group Treasurer also attended some 
meetings at the Committee’s request. Each time the Committee 
convenes, it meets with external auditors without the presence  
of management.
In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the services 
of the Group Finance Director and the Company Secretary and 
General Counsel, as well as access to external professional advice.
Audit Committee Report 
Jock Lennox
“Our Audit Committee monitors  
and reviews the Company’s risk 
and financial management and  
its systems of internal control.” Corporate Governance
53 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Key matters considered
During the period, the Committee reviewed the following:
  Signiﬁcant issues arising from reports of both the internal and 
external audits;
Systems and controls in place at PIXmania following the identiﬁcation 
in prior years of historical under-estimated purchase accruals; the 
PIXmania Finance Director attended a meeting to personally brief  
the Committee on the improvement plan and progress made, which 
is being closely monitored by Group Finance and Internal Audit;
 The policies and procedures and related training developed in 
response to the Bribery Act 201 1;
 Progress towards achievement of PCI (Payment Card Industry) 
Standard compliance;
  The working capital position of the Group and the management 
of its cash ﬂow;
 The approach to developing risk management and the proposed 
plan of action for the year;
 Monitoring compliance activity in relation to the terms of the 
Group’s ﬁnancing;
  The carrying value of certain assets in the Group, including 
goodwill;
 Tax matters, including the approach to the Senior Accounting 
Ofﬁcer sign off;
    A review of the Committee’s performance and terms of reference;
  The effectiveness and resources of Internal Audit;
  Developments in corporate governance; 
  The annual audit fee, which is set out in note 3 to the Financial 
Statements, with due regard to the balance between audit and 
non-audit fees and the policy for approval of non-audit fees paid  
to the Group’s auditors;
A review of the Group’s policy on the use of the auditors for 
non-audit services;
 A review of the Board Chairman’s expenses; and
 A review of the annual calendar and meeting agenda.
An external review of the Committee was undertaken during the 
period as part of the main externally facilitated review of the Board.
Policy on the use of the auditors for non-audit services
The Audit Committee has approved a policy for the use of external 
auditors for non-audit purposes. The policy requires that the auditors 
should not be asked to perform any other services, unless a speciﬁc 
reason exists for why they should perform such work, such as a 
statutory requirement, for conﬁdentiality reasons or for their historical 
knowledge. The policy speciﬁcally excludes the external auditors 
from performing services which would impair their independence or 
put them in a position where they would be auditing their own work, 
such as bookkeeping or internal audit.
External auditors
The Committee, having considered the policies and procedures 
applied by the Group and the internal policies and representations of 
Deloitte LLP , including the regular rotation of audit partner, remains 
satisﬁed with the auditors’ objectivity and independence and the 
effectiveness of the audit process. Accordingly, the Committee has 
recommended to the Board that a resolution for their reappointment 
be proposed at the AGM. 
Jock Lennox
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
21 June 2012 Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
54 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Role
The principal duties of the Committee are to:
  Review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its 
principal Committees and to recommend changes as necessary;
  Review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive 
and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability 
of the organisation to compete effectively; 
  Be responsible for the succession planning for Board members, 
in particular the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive;
  Identify, evaluate and nominate candidates to ﬁll vacancies 
on the Board; and
  Make recommendations to the Board regarding the continuation 
in ofﬁce of a director upon the expiry of any speciﬁed terms 
of appointment.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually  
by the Committee and are available on the Corporate Governance 
section of the Group’s website.
Key matters considered
During the year, the principal matters considered by the Committee 
were as follows:
  The appointment of Humphrey Singer, Sebastian James and 
Katie Bickerstaffe as executive directors and the appointment  
of Jock Lennox as non-executive director to the Board; 
  Consideration of the succession planning process for the directors 
following the Board changes that had taken place during the year;
  An evaluation of the size, composition and structure of the Board 
and its Committees; and
  A review of the Committee’s performance and terms of reference.
The Nominations Committee keeps itself up to date on best practice 
through a combination of private research in addition to brieﬁng  
by internal and external advisors on key developments relevant  
to the Company.
Appointments to the Board
The Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure 
for the appointment of new directors to the Board which it followed 
in relation to director appointments during the year. It is the policy 
of the Committee that appointments are made on merit, against 
objective criteria and with due regard for the beneﬁts of diversity 
and the leadership needs of the Company. For the executive 
appointments made during the year, the Committee met to identify 
any potential internal candidates through the use of external 
evaluations and benchmarking. They were satisﬁed that the 
candidates were suitable against objective criteria for appointment  
to the Board. 
Nominations Committee Report
John Allan
“We have a formal rigorous and 
transparent process for the 
appointment of new directors 
which was followed during 
the year .”
Nominations Committee
Reports to the Dixons Retail plc Board
Main Objective: To monitor the size and composition of the Board 
and its committees and ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new directors and to plan 
for succession.
Chairman: John Allan
Number of Meetings: 5
Member Attendance
John Allan 5 of 5 
Rita Clifton 5 of 5
Utho Creusen 5 of 5
Tim How 5 of 5
Dharmash Mistry 4 of 5
Jock Lennox
(1)
3 of 3
Former director
Andrew Lynch
(2)
5 of 5
(1) Appointed 10 January 2012 
(2) Resigned 9 May 2012
Membership and process
During the year under review the Committee comprised of  
John Allan (as Chairman), Rita Clifton, Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen,  
Tim How, Dharmash Mistry, Andrew Lynch (resigned 9 May 2012) 
and Jock Lennox (appointed 10 January 2012), all of whom are 
non-executive directors. The remaining members served throughout 
the period under review.
The biographical details of the members of the Committee are 
set out on page 45. The Company Secretary and General Counsel 
acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met on ﬁve occasions during the period and  
the members’ attendance record at meetings is shown above. 
The Committee’s deliberations are reported by its chairman to  
the following Board meeting and the minutes of each meeting  
are circulated to all members of the Board. 55
Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
With regard to the appointment of Jock Lennox as non-executive 
director, the Committee engaged the services of the Zygos 
Partnership, an independent ﬁrm specialising in non-executive 
recruitment, who were asked to assist with the search for a suitable 
candidate as against a summary of requirements for the candidate 
which was put together by the Committee in conjunction with the 
Chairman. A formal and objective process then took place which 
involved the potential candidate meeting with the Chairman and  
the Board, suitable references being obtained and an objective 
assessment of the candidates’ skills and experience which  
are matched with the needs of the business. 
The Board and the Nominations Committee were mindful of the fact 
that the Board had comprised certain long-serving directors and 
reviewed its succession planning with the progressive refreshing  
of the Board in mind. As part of this programme on 9 May 2012, 
Andrew Lynch retired from the Board having served just under  
nine years as a director and was replaced by Jock Lennox. 
Terms of reference
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee were  
reviewed during the year and re-approved. Whilst the Committee  
is responsible for succession planning in relation to directors of the 
Board it continues to be Company policy that succession planning 
for senior executives (other than Board members) be dealt with by 
the Board as a whole.
Diversity
The Board acknowledges the Davies Report on Women on Boards, 
and recognises the importance of diversity, including, but not 
restricted to, gender diversity on the Board and in its senior 
management team. The Board recognises the important role that 
diversity plays in achieving the right mix of skills, knowledge and 
experience in order to help the organisation reach its potential. 
However, the Board is not supportive of speciﬁc quotas, believing 
that individuals should be appointed on merit. The Board is, however, 
committed to increasing boardroom and senior management 
diversity as suitable candidates present themselves for appointment. 
The Committee monitors gender diversity and currently 22% (two 
out of nine) of the Company’s Board are female and 25% of the 
Group’s senior management team are women.
Re-election 
The Company has determined that in line with its previous practice 
and in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all 
directors should seek election or re-election at the 2012 AGM.  
Each of the directors being proposed for election or re-election are 
being unanimously recommended by the other members of the 
Board. This recommendation was considered appropriate due  
to the directors’ individual experience and knowledge and wider 
management and industry experience. The annual performance 
evaluation concluded that each director continued to be effective 
and committed to their role and the independent non-executive 
directors were re-afﬁrmed by the Board to be independent in 
character and judgement.
The executive directors’ service contracts and non-executive 
directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection by 
prior arrangement, during normal business hours, at the Company’s 
registered ofﬁce. They will also be available for inspection at the 
venue, prior to the AGM, details of which are contained in the 
Notice of Meeting.
John Allan 
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
21 June 2012 Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
56 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Remuneration Committee
Reports to the Dixons Retail plc Board
Main objective: To determine and agree remuneration policy for 
executive directors and senior management and to monitor and 
report on it.
Chairman: Tim How
Number of meetings: 6
Member Attendance
Tim How 6 of 6
John Allan 6 of 6
Rita Clifton 6 of 6
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 6 of 6
Jock Lennox
(1)
3 of 3
Dharmash Mistry 5 of 6 
Former Director
Andrew Lynch
(2)
6 of 6
(1) Appointed: 10 January 2012
(2) Resigned: 9 May 2012
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (Schedule 8) 
and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. This report 
is divided into two sections:
 Remuneration policy (not subject to audit) and as set out in 
sections (I) to (V) which details the role of the Committee, the 
principles of remuneration and other matters; and
 Remuneration review (audited) and as set out in sections (VI) to (X) 
which details directors’ and former directors’ emoluments, share 
awards, share options and pension arrangements.
The purpose of this report is to inform shareholders of the 
Company’s policies on directors’ remuneration for the ﬁnancial 
period ended 28 April 2012 and so far as practicable, the policy for 
subsequent years; and to provide details of the remuneration of 
individual directors as determined by the Remuneration Committee. 
Shareholders will be asked to approve the report at the AGM on  
6 September 2012.
Remuneration policy (not subject to audit)
(I) Role of the Remuneration Committee
Role
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee 
responsibility for determining policy in relation to the remuneration 
packages for directors and senior management. This delegation 
includes the terms and conditions of employment of each of the 
executive directors and other senior management in addition to the 
operation of the Group’s share-based employee incentive schemes.
Membership and attendance
The membership of the Committee currently comprises the ﬁve 
independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the 
Company. Their biographies and qualiﬁcations are set out on page
45. Jock Lennox joined the Committee upon his appointment  
to the Board on 10 January 2012 and following the year end Andrew 
Lynch left the Committee on 9 May 2012 when he resigned from the 
Board. The remaining members served throughout the period under 
review. In line with the Code, the Chairman is a member of the 
Committee but is not its Chairman; the Committee Chairman is 
Tim How. The Committee’s terms of reference are shown on the 
Investors section of the corporate website. The Committee met six 
times during the period; the members’ attendance record is shown 
in the table opposite. Any additional matters between scheduled 
meetings that require consideration are dealt with either at ad-hoc 
meetings or through discussions with the Chairman and other 
members of the Committee.
The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the 
Chief Executive UK & Ireland attended meetings of the Committee  
by invitation and in an advisory capacity only. Meetings are also 
attended by the Company Secretary and General Counsel (who acts 
as Committee Secretary) and by the Head of Group Reward. 
No executive participates in discussions about their own remuneration.
Advice
The Committee keeps itself fully informed with best practice in the 
ﬁeld of executive remuneration and it seeks advice from internal  
and external advisors as appropriate. 
The Committee has retained the services of New Bridge Street 
(NBS), a subsidiary of Aon Hewitt Limited, as their external advisor 
throughout the year. Fees paid to NBS were £64,000 (2010/11: 
£60,000) both of which represent a full year’s appointment.  
NBS provided no other services to the Company.
(II) Remuneration principles
The Company’s remuneration policy is designed to attract and 
retain an appropriate level of executive leadership capability at 
executive director and senior management level. The Group’s 
incentive policy is designed to adequately incentivise management 
to achieve the Company’s strategic objectives. With the 
appointment of three new executive directors since the last annual 
report, their retention and ensuring that they are motivated to drive 
the business forward, is a priority for the Company and is important 
in delivering shareholder value and company performance. Our 
remuneration policy has necessarily been adjusted to reﬂect this. 
In developing its policy the Committee has regard to:
 The performance, roles and responsibilities of each individual director;
 Arrangements which apply below senior management level, 
including average base salary increases;
 Information and surveys from internal and independent sources; 
and
 The economic environment and ﬁnancial performance of the Group.
Remuneration Report 
Tim How
“Our remuneration policy aims 
to attract and retain executive 
directors who are adequately 
and appropriately incentivised to 
deliver our business objectives.”  57
Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
The Committee acknowledges the ABI and NAPF remuneration 
guidance and believes that whilst benchmarking is a useful tool  
for establishing a point of reference for like salaries available in  
the marketplace, it does not simply use this information to apply a 
median to its salary recommendations. Competitor benchmarking 
has not been used this year when reviewing salaries for executive 
directors but it has been used in some cases where roles and 
responsibilities have changed signiﬁcantly. The Committee is also 
mindful of the potential multiplying effect that increasing base  
salaries can have on overall remuneration packages.
Remuneration objectives in respect of executive directors
The objectives of the remuneration policy are to: 
 facilitate the building and retention of a high calibre and focused 
team which will work effectively to achieve the Group’s longer  
term strategic objectives; 
 ensure that the remuneration structure motivates the directors  
and senior management to succeed and appropriately rewards 
them for their contribution to the attainment of the Group’s short 
and long term results;
 maintain, via an appropriate level of base salary and incentive 
structure, a competitive package of pay and beneﬁts which 
provides the motivation for future achievement;
 align the directors’ interests with those of shareholders by  
offering participation in reward schemes which provide 
opportunities to build shareholdings in the Company; and
  avoid reward for failure.
2012/13 Performance Related Remuneration Policy 
Introduction
In formulating the remuneration strategy for 2012/13 the 
Remuneration Committee is cognisant of the recent organisational 
restructure at Board level. There has been a new executive director 
team during the ﬁnancial year, alongside reorganised management 
teams below Board level. In order to drive performance over the 
medium term the Remuneration Committee will again be offering  
a cash bonus, the payment of which will be subject to stretching 
performance targets. However, the Remuneration Committee is 
aware of the need to ensure that the executives are appropriately 
‘locked in’ and incentivised to deliver a step change in the 
Company’s earnings and share price performance. 
To achieve this the Remuneration Committee believes that  
it is imperative that the long term incentive awards for 2012/13  
are simple, transparent and focused on absolute improvement  
in the Company’s performance with suitable underpins.  
Accordingly, for 2012/13 it is proposed that awards are made under 
the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Executive Share Option  
Plan (ESOP) as a one-off exceptional award year. Both awards at 
executive director level will be subject to challenging performance 
targets which will deliver signiﬁcant value to shareholders if met.
In order to encourage superior performance, these awards will have  
a face value of 200% of salary for the PSP and 75% of salary for the 
ESOP . Whilst this compares to just PSP awards in 2011/12 with a face 
value of 100%, the awards will be subject to stringent performance 
conditions and are designed to drive performance and improvements 
in shareholder value. 
Cash bonus
For the cash bonus earned in 2012/13, there will be no change in 
the existing bonus potential for the executive directors which shall 
remain 100% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 85% of 
salary for the Group Finance Director and Chief Executive UK  
& Ireland. The bonus paid will depend upon underlying Group 
operating proﬁt (55% of bonus), Group Free Cash Flow (25% of 
bonus) and achievement of measureable personal objectives (20% 
of bonus). Bonus targets for 2012/13 have been set at levels using 
benchmarks that reﬂect both internal business objectives and 
external expectations and the Committee is satisﬁed that the targets 
are sufﬁciently challenging relative to company performance in 
2011/12 and are also satisﬁed that the targets will not encourage 
irresponsible behaviour. The Committee has for the ﬁrst time this  
year included a clawback in its cash bonus and will include such  
a clause in its future share scheme arrangements. 
PSP award
The 200% of salary award under the PSP will vest based on share 
price performance as outlined in the table below and subject to the 
the EPS underpin referred to below:
Share price
Percentage of 
award to vest
25p 25%
25p – 35p 25% – 100%
35p 100%
The total number of shares capable of vesting will be determined  
at the end of the three year performance period. If up to 75% of  
the award is deemed to vest then the shares will be issued to  
the participants following determination. If more than 75% of the 
award vests, then there will be a partial vesting of 75% following 
determination and anything over 75% will be released on the  
fourth anniversary of the award subject to continued employment.
For any part of the award to vest the EPS underpin will require the 
average EPS growth of the Company to achieve RPI+5% per annum 
over the performance period and the Remuneration Committee  
to consider that the ﬁnancial performance of the Group supports 
vesting. In order to address the dilution effect of the share awards, 
the number of shares awarded will be calculated with reference to  
a share price of 17 .5p which is marginally above the three month 
average to the 19 June 2012. The percentage of awards that will  
vest will be determined with reference to a three month average 
share price to the end of the performance period.  Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
58 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Remuneration Report 
(continued)
base salaries across the Group are also taken into account when 
determining any increase for the directors, although this may be 
adjusted based on the assessed performance of the executive  
over the previous year in line with the Group’s performance review 
process. The potential multiplier effect of base salary increases is 
taken into consideration when making base salary adjustments.
The Committee has approved an overall increase to base salaries 
across the whole UK workforce of 2% with individual increases 
varying between 1% and 4% based on individual performance.  
The Committee has decided that as the salaries for each of the 
executive directors remain appropriate and no increase is to be 
applied to the base salaries of any of the executive directors. 
Accordingly, the salary for the Group Chief Executive, the Group  
Finance Director and the Chief Executive UK & Ireland are 
£600,000, £360,000 and £400,000, respectively. The salaries  
of the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director  
are approximately 15% below those of their predecessors.
(b) Performance-related remuneration
The performance-related elements of remuneration are designed  
to drive Company performance and to strengthen the alignment 
between the interests of the Company’s shareholders and its  
senior management, whilst encouraging management retention.  
No aspect of performance-related remuneration is pensionable and 
the components of performance-related remuneration are as follows:
(i) Annual cash bonus
During 2011/12, performance-related remuneration for the current 
executive directors included an annual cash bonus plan based  
on the achievement of the Group’s targets (80%) and personal 
objectives (20%). All personal targets are set at the beginning of  
the year and they can relate to the achievement of either business 
objectives or more general personal development targets.  
For 2011/12 the maximum potential bonus for the Group Chief 
Executive and the Group Finance Director (both from appointment) 
and, for the Chief Executive UK & Ireland was 100%, 85% and 85% 
of base salary respectively. The maximum potential bonus for the 
Group targets, the percentage of maximum bonus paid, and  
the details of the performance achieved is set out below:
% maximum 
bonus 
opportunity
% bonus 
opportunity 
paid
Achieved
 £million
Group underlying operating proﬁt 55 21 115.1
Adjusted Free Cash Flow* 25 25 72.2
*Comprises Free Cash Flow adjusted to exclude the proceeds from the sale of Jönköping.
Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe were 
paid £23,077, £44,135 and £13,077, respectively in respect of their 
personal objectives. For 2011/12 therefore, cash bonuses were 
awarded to the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and 
the Chief Executive UK & Ireland of £79,419, £146,152 and £43,304, 
respectively. The ﬁgures shown above for all directors are shown for 
the period since appointment to the Board. When considering the 
bonus awards the Committee was satisﬁed that targets had been met. 
ESOP award
The 75% salary award under the ESOP will vest based on EPS 
performance for the 2014/15 ﬁnancial year as follows:
EPS
Percentage of 
award to vest
2.5p 25%
2.5p – 3.5p 25% – 100%
3.5p 100%
No option will be exercisable until the ﬁfth anniversary of the date  
of grant. 
As with the PSP award, the number of options granted will be 
calculated with reference to a share price of 17 .5p. 
Guidelines of Responsible Investment Disclosure
In line with the ABI Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, 
the Committee is satisﬁed that the incentive structure and targets 
shown above for executive directors do not raise any environmental, 
social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible 
or reckless behaviour. Details of prior awards made under these 
plans to the executive directors and those made under the Group’s 
other share plans are shown later in this Report. 
Pay Mix
The chart below shows the average mix of executive director pay 
under certain vesting scenarios, scenario 1 shows no vesting of cash 
bonus or long term incentives (PSP and ESOP) (LTI) awards, scenario 
2 shows the pay mix if 25% of the LTIs vest and 50% of the cash 
bonus and scenario 3 shows the pay mix on 100% vesting of the cash 
bonus and LTI awards. PSP awards have been included based on  
the face value of the award when granted, a notional gain in the share 
options has been determined based on a compound annual increase 
in share price of 15% and 30% for scenarios 2 and 3, respectively.
Breakdown of Package
% of Total
Scenario 2
49 22 29
21 19 60
Scenario 3
Scenario 1
100
Salary Bonus PSP & ESOP
Remuneration Components 2011/12
(a) Fixed remuneration – base salary
As a general policy the Remuneration Committee sets base salaries 
at a level sufﬁcient to attract and retain executive directors with  
the appropriate experience and knowledge to drive the business 
forward. Any salary that is offered is adjusted based on the 
individual executive’s experience, performance and value to the 
business. This assessment takes into account external information 
and advice provided to the Committee by NBS. Increases in   59
Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
The former executive directors, John Browett and Nicholas Cadbury, 
forfeited their annual bonus upon resignation and did not receive  
a payment in respect of this bonus scheme.
(ii) Discretionary Share Plans
Releases of shares to the directors under any of the following plans 
may be satisﬁed by shares held in the Group’s Employee Share 
Ownership Trust (the Trust), further details of which are shown in  
note 24 to the Financial Statements. 
Performance Share Plan
The ﬁrst grant was made under this scheme in December 2008.  
In 2011/12 the Company awarded long term incentives solely  
under the PSP , the rules of which permit awards to be made over 
shares worth up to 100% of salary per annum (200% of salary in 
exceptional circumstances).
PSP awards made to the directors in 2011/12 were subject to two 
individual performance measures:
 50% of the award is subject to Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index 
(comprising FTSE 101-350 companies, excluding investment 
trusts), at the start of the performance period. Full vesting will 
occur for upper quartile performance reducing on a straight line 
basis to 25% of this part of the award at median. No award vests 
for below median performance; and
 50% of the award is subject to the underlying diluted EPS of the 
Company at the end of the performance period. 25% of this part of 
the award would vest for an EPS of 2p and full vesting would occur 
at an EPS of 4p with straight line vesting between the two results.
In line with other employees of their management grade, and  
prior to joining the Board, Sebastian James and Katie Bickerstaffe 
both received awards in 2011/12 with no performance conditions. 
These awards along with all other outstanding director share awards 
are shown in the table in section (VIII) of this report.
Executive Share Option Plan
The Remuneration Committee approves the basis on which options 
are granted to executive directors and other employees under the 
Company’s discretionary share option schemes. 
Prior to 2011/12 options were granted annually to the executive 
directors under the ESOP . The plan permits making an award with  
a market value on the date of grant of not more than 200% of the 
recipient’s basic salary. However, in exceptional circumstances (for 
instance to facilitate recruitment or to retain key executives) this limit 
can be exceeded. No share options were granted to executive 
directors under the ESOP in 2011/12. 
Options are generally exercisable between three and ten years from 
the date of grant, subject to the performance conditions being met. 
The performance conditions applicable to the executive directors’ 
discretionary share options that remain unvested at 28 April 2012  
are shown in the table in section (IX).
Reward Sacriﬁce Scheme
In 2009 certain executives were offered the choice to sacriﬁce part 
of their salary for a share award. For every £1 of salary sacriﬁced  
a £3 face value of share options was received. The shares would 
vest after a three year retention period with no further performance 
conditions. 60 executives decided to participate with 11,902,439 
share options being granted to the applicants at an exercise price  
of 28.43p. Given the sacriﬁce of base salary necessary to participate 
in this scheme, leavers are able to keep their share option award on 
leaving, with the number of options being pro-rated for the portion 
of the retention period for which they were employed. This rule 
applied in the cases of John Browett and Nicholas Cadbury who 
left during the year.
Retention and Recruitment Share Plan
This share plan was primarily used as a retention tool with a grant 
being made in July 2008 to retain and motivate key executives 
below Board level at the time of grant, including Sebastian James, 
Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe. Those awards were not 
subject to any performance criteria other than continued service 
and they therefore vested in July 2011 and were released to 
participants. The awards were considered necessary to ensure that 
these executives key to delivering the targets were appropriately 
incentivised and ‘locked in’ for a three year period. Details relating  
to the release of those shares to the directors are shown in 
section (VIII). 
The plan is now mainly used to recruit key individuals into the 
Company where they are losing the beneﬁt of share options  
or awards from previous employers. In 2011/12 619,813 shares 
(2010/11 749,211 shares) were awarded to four participants. 
Executive directors will not receive awards under this plan.
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
Under the LTIP , participants were provisionally awarded shares  
in the Company which vest after a three year vesting period,  
subject to Remuneration Committee approval and satisfaction  
of performance conditions. The performance target for executive 
directors under this scheme required that the Company obtain at 
least a median TSR ranking in a peer comparator group as detailed 
in section (VIII). At median performance 25% of the award would vest 
and 100% would vest for upper quartile performance with straight 
line vesting in between.
The last grant made under this scheme was in July 2008. This grant 
did not reach its performance target and therefore lapsed in full in 
July 2011. There are no awards outstanding under this scheme and 
at the date of this report no further grants are expected to be made.
(iii) All Employee Share Plans
Sharesave Plan (SAYE)
Executive directors are also entitled to participate in the SAYE  
on the same basis as other employees. The Company will again  
be inviting UK employees to participate in a SAYE grant in 2012. 
During the year 2,518 employees applied to join the Company’s 
sharesave plan (2010/11 3,317) and options were granted over  
22.1 million shares (2010/11 30.3 million).  Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
60 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Outstanding performance criteria review – all schemes
The status of the provisional awards and options under the 
outstanding share plans are reviewed regularly and at the last  
review in June 2012, the status of the awards and options as  
at 28 April 2012 was as follows:
Period in 
which 
provisional 
award made Scheme Outcome of test Status
Award  
if status 
maintained
2009/10 PSP TSR below median lapsed
†
No award
2010/11 PSP TSR below median No award
2011/12 PSP TSR below median No award
2011/12 PSP EPS below target No award
2009/10 ESOP EPS below target lapsed
†
No award
2010/11 ESOP EPS below target No award
†Lapsing occurred subsequent to the year end following review by the Remuneration 
Committee.
The full performance criteria relating to the current serving directors 
are shown in the footnotes to the tables in section (VIII) and (IX) or for 
2011/12 in the narrative in section (II)b(ii).
At the end of the performance period for both the PSP and the 
ESOP , the awards will vest subject to the Committee determining 
that the performance conditions have been met. Such determination 
is made once EPS ﬁgures are known for the relevant ﬁnancial year. 
There is no re-testing of performance conditions. All share  
options lapse on the earlier of ten years from the date of grant or,  
where performance conditions apply, on the date on which the 
Remuneration Committee determines that the performance 
conditions have not been met.
Dilution
A combination of both newly issued shares and shares bought in the 
market are to be used to satisfy awards under the Group’s employee 
share incentive arrangements. 
The Remuneration Committee is aware of, and supports, the ABI 
guidelines regarding dilution and regularly monitors compliance  
with these requirements. The Remuneration Committee included 
provisions in the scheme rules adopted at the 2008 AGM which limit 
the number of newly issued shares which can be granted to 10%  
of the issued share capital in ten years under all of the Company’s 
share schemes and 5% for the executive directors and senior 
management under discretionary share schemes.
At the date of this report, the Company’s usage of shares against the 
limits detailed above in respect of all the Company’s share schemes 
was 4.97% of the issued capital. This includes 1.61% in respect  
of grants to executive directors and senior management under 
discretionary share schemes. Shares relating to a portion of the 
potential obligations are held in the Trust for the beneﬁt of participants 
of the share schemes and, if required, it is the Committee’s intention  
to make purchases of shares. Any decision to do so will take into 
account the number of awards vesting and those options to be 
satisﬁed either from the Trust or by new issue, together with the 
likelihood of any performance targets being met and any potential 
lapsing of awards when employees leave the Group.
(c) Taxable beneﬁts
Each of the executive directors receives a cash payment in lieu of a 
company car and is a member of the non-contributory Dixons Retail 
medical expenses plan which provides beneﬁts similar to those 
applicable in comparable companies. Further information on taxable 
beneﬁts relating to senior management is given in note 31 to the 
Financial Statements.
(d) Pensions and related beneﬁts
All current executive directors are members of the deﬁned contribution 
section of the Company’s pension scheme (“pensionbuilder”). 
The Company’s contribution for each executive director is 20% up  
to the earnings cap (which is currently £137 ,400). The Company has 
agreed to provide each director with a salary supplement above  
the earnings cap. Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer and Katie 
Bickerstaffe all have a 20% salary supplement for the remainder of  
their salary over and above the earnings cap. Transitional arrangements 
have been in place from a previous beneﬁt package for Katie 
Bickerstaffe and these are noted in more detail along with the amount 
the Company has contributed in respect of pension for all of the 
executive directors in the main remuneration table in section (VI).
(e) Service agreements
Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe have 
service agreements with Dixons Retail plc which may be terminated  
at any time by 12 months’ notice by the Company and six months’ 
notice by the Director. Service agreements contain neither a liquidated 
damages nor a change of control clause. It is the Company’s policy to 
ensure that any payments made to a director in the event of the early 
termination of a service agreement reﬂect the circumstances giving  
rise to termination and, where considered appropriate, the obligation of 
the outgoing director to mitigate his loss. Accordingly, consideration is 
given to making compensation payments in instalments and payments 
being conditional on the leaver’s employment and earnings status. 
The service agreements of the executive directors who served during 
the ﬁnancial period were entered into on the following dates:
Date
Sebastian James 29 Mar 2012
Humphrey Singer 2 Sep 2011
Katie Bickerstaffe 29 Mar 2012
Former directors
John Browett (resigned 20 February 2012) 6 Jun 2007
Nicholas Cadbury (resigned 1 September 2011) 13 Apr 2009
The service agreements of the directors are available for inspection 
at the registered ofﬁce of the Company during normal business 
hours on each business day.
(f) External directorships
Executive directors are permitted to accept non-executive 
directorships in external companies and to retain the fees which  
they receive in such roles. No more than one non-executive 
directorship in a FTSE350 company will be authorised for each 
director. Katie Bickerstaffe was appointed as a non-executive 
Remuneration Report 
(continued) 61
Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
director of Scottish and Southern Energy plc on 1 July 2011 and  
is paid a fee of £54,000 per annum. Sebastian James is Chairman  
of Ink Publishing (Holdings) Limited and is paid a fee of £12,000  
per annum.
(g) Former Directors
John Browett was Chief Executive for the year under review until  
20 February 2012 and Nicholas Cadbury was Group Finance Director 
for the year under review until 1 September 2011. Their share awards 
and options lapsed upon leaving apart from their reward sacriﬁce 
options. Their share grants under this scheme were pro-rated  
based on the proportion of the vesting period they were employed  
by the Company. No payments were made to them on cessation  
of employment.
(III) Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for three year  
terms, although appointments vary depending on length of service 
and succession planning considerations. Rita Clifton’s term of 
appointment was extended by one year due to her length of service.
Their current terms expire as follows:
Date
John Allan 2 Sep 2015
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 1 Feb 2016
Rita Clifton 1 Sep 2013
Tim How 7 Sep 2015
Jock Lennox 10 Jan 2015
Dharmash Mistry 26 Sep 2013
Former director
Andrew Lynch (resigned 9 May 2012) 24 May 2012
Letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are available 
on application to the Company Secretary and will also be available  
at the Company’s AGM. The remuneration of non-executive directors 
is determined by the Board upon the recommendation of the Group 
Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director. The Chairman is 
not involved in the setting of his own salary which is dealt with by 
the Remuneration Committee without his participation.
John Allan’s fee is £259,000 per annum. The other non-executive 
directors receive a fee of £50,000 per annum or euro equivalent.  
The fee is reviewed annually and is due to be reviewed later in 2012.
The chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees receive  
an additional fee of £10,000 per annum. Andrew Lynch was Senior 
Independent Director for the year under review for which he received 
a further fee of £5,000 per annum. From 9 May 2012, following the 
resignation of Andrew Lynch from the Board, Tim How accepted  
the role of Senior Independent Director and will therefore receive this 
fee going forward. Non-executive directors derive no other beneﬁts  
from their ofﬁce and are not eligible to participate in the Dixons Retail 
pension scheme. It is company policy not to grant share options  
or share awards to non-executive directors or to require part of their  
fees to be paid in the form of shares.
(IV) Directors’ share interests 
The Company has a policy of encouraging directors to build 
shareholdings in the Company. Executive directors are required  
to retain 50% of the net of tax outturn from the vesting of future 
awards under the Company’s share plans until a shareholding  
with a minimum value equivalent to their base salary is achieved.
Unrestricted beneﬁcial and family interests 28 April 2012 30 April 2011
†
Executive directors
Sebastian James 109,072 109,072
Humphrey Singer 55,627 –
Katie Bickerstaffe 171,789 171,789
Non-executive directors
John Allan 921,428 271,428
Rita Clifton 63,190 24,903
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 97,071 97 ,071
Tim How 80,000 80,000
Jock Lennox 75,000 –
Dharmash Mistry 173,626 –
Former director
Andrew Lynch (resigned 9 May 2012) 181,428 181,428
†Date of appointment if later.
There were no changes in the directors’ restricted or unrestricted 
share interests between 28 April 2012 and the date of this report.
In addition to the share interests disclosed above, John Allan holds 
£528,000 6.125% 2012 Guaranteed Bonds (the 2012 Bonds) and 
£556,000 8.75% 2015 Guaranteed Notes (the 2015 Notes) issued  
by the Company. Andrew Lynch also holds £50,000 of the 2015 
Notes. Full details of the 2012 Bonds and the 2015 Notes are  
shown in note 17 to the Financial Statements.
(V) Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
The graph below shows the Company’s performance measured  
by TSR on a holding of £100 in the Company’s shares over the  
ﬁve years since 28 April 2007 measured against the same amount 
invested in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts).  
The other points plotted are values at intervening ﬁnancial year ends.  
This index has been selected as the Company’s most recent PSP 
award uses this index as its TSR comparator group.
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
28 Apr 2012 30 Apr 2011 1 May 2010 2 May 2009 3 May 2008 28 Apr 2007
Dixons Retail plc
£
FTSE 250 Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
62 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Remuneration review (audited) 
(VI) Directors’ remuneration
The following table shows an analysis of the emoluments of individual directors:
2011/12 2010/11
Basic salary 
and fees 
£’000
Pension 
contributions 
£’000
Cash  
bonus  
£’000
Taxable 
beneﬁts 
 £’000
Total  
£’000
Basic salary 
and fees 
£’000
Pension  
contributions  
£’000
Cash bonus 
£’000
Taxable 
beneﬁts 
 £’000
Total  
£’000
Executive
Current directors
Sebastian James
(1)
114 23
(3),(4)
79 2 218 –––––
Humphrey Singer
(1)
264 52
(3),(4) 
146 11 473 –––––
Katie Bickerstaffe
(1)
76 30
(3),(4)
43 2 151 –––––
Former directors
John Browett
(1), (2)
561 180
(5),(4)
–12 753 676 217
(5)
122 15 1,030
Nicholas Cadbury
(1)
137 38
(3),(4)
–4 179 404 84
(3)
62 14 564
1,152 323 268 31 1,774 1,080 301 184 29 1,594
Non-executive
Current directors
John Allan 258 – – – 258 253––– 253
Rita Clifton 50 – – – 50 49 – – – 49
Prof. Dr. Utho 
Creusen 50 – – – 50 49 – – – 49
Tim How 60 – – – 60 59––– 59
Jock Lennox
(1)
15 – – – 15 –––––
Dharmash Mistry 50 – – – 50 29
(1)
––– 29
Former directors
Andrew Lynch
(6)
65 – – – 65 64––– 64
548 – – – 548 503––– 503
1,700 323 268 31 2,322 1,583 301 184 29 2,097
(1) Basic salary and fees relate to periods in ofﬁce as a directors. 2011/12 Sebastian James: 20 February 2012 to 28 April 2012, Humphrey Singer: 1 July 2011 to 28 April 2012, Katie Bickerstaffe:  
20 February 2012 to 28 April 2012, Jock Lennox: 10 January 2012 to 28 April 2012, John Browett: 1 May 2011 to 20 February 2012, Nicholas Cadbury: 1 May 2011 to 1 September 2011. 2010/11 
Dharmash Mistry 27 September 2010 to 30 April 2011. The annual salaries for the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Chief Executive UK & Ireland are £600,000, 
£360,000 and £400,000, respectively.
(2) John Browett elected to take up the opportunity to sacriﬁce a portion of his salary under the Reward Sacriﬁce Scheme. For 2011/12 no amounts were sacriﬁced (2010/11 £116,000 making his 
base salary after the sacriﬁced amounts £560,000). 
(3)   Pension contributions comprise the Company’s contribution together with an additional amount applied to the difference between basic salary and the scheme earnings cap set by the 
Company. This additional amount was 20% for Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe and 30% for Nicholas Cadbury.
(4) A transitional arrangement from Katie Bickerstaffe’s previous pension arrangements of 30% above the scheme earnings cap to her new package as an executive director of 20% above the 
scheme earnings cap has been operating since her appointment. This arrangement resulted in compensating payments of £19,000. 
(5) John Browett’s pension contribution payable to him represented an amount calculated as a percentage (32.1%) of basic salary to fund his own retirement arrangements.
(6) Andrew Lynch resigned with effect from 9 May 2012.
Remuneration Report 
(continued) 63
Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
(VII) Directors’ pensions 
No directors accrued beneﬁts under a deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme. Nicholas Cadbury was a member of the deﬁned beneﬁt section of 
the UK pension scheme which was closed to future accrual on 30 April 2010. His accrued pension at his date of resignation on 1 September 
2011 was £37 ,000 (2010/11 £37 ,000) and the transfer value of his accrued beneﬁts was £322,000 (2010/11 £312,000), representing an 
increase of £10,000 from 30 April 2011. 
Further details of the directors’ pension arrangement are shown in section (II)(d). 
(VIII) Directors’ LTIP , PSP and Reward Share awards 
The directors’ restricted beneﬁcial interests shown in the table below represent the maximum number of shares which may vest under the 
LTIP , PSP or Retention and Recruitment Plan. Further details of the LTIP and PSP are described in section (II)(b)(ii), above.
Reference  
market
price
(1)
At  
1 May
2011
(2)
Awarded  
in the  
period
Vested  
in the  
period
Lapsed  
in the  
period
At  
28 April 
2012
End of 
performance 
period 
Vesting  
date
Market  
price on  
grant date
Current directors
Sebastian James
PSP
2009/10
(3), (5)
25.22p 237,906 – – – 237,906 Apr 2012 Jul 2012 24.75p
2010/11
(3), (6)
27.59p 500,000 – – – 500,000 Apr 2013 Aug 2013 27.56p
2011/12
(3), (8)
15.99p 1,555,191 – – – 1,555,191 N/A Aug 2014 13.44p
2,293,097 –––2,293,097
Humphrey Singer
LTIP
2008/09
(3), (4)
38.50p 154,520 ––(154,520) – Apr 2011 Jul 2011 28.41p
PSP
2011/12
(7)
15.99p – 1,876,173 – – 1,876,173 May 2014 Aug 2014 13.44p
Reward Shares 
2008/09
(9)
38.50p 115,889 –(115,889) – – N/A Jul 2011 28.41p
270,409 1,876,173 (115,889) (154,520) 1,876,173
Katie Bickerstaffe 
PSP
2009/10
(3), (5)
25.22p 249,802 –––249,802 Apr 2012 Jul 2012 24.75p
2010/11
(3), (6)
27.59p 405,406 – – – 405,406 Apr 2013 Aug 2013 27.56p
2011/12
(3), (8)
15.99p 1,260,967 –––1,260,967 N/A Aug 2014 13.44p
1,916, 175 –––1,916,175 Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
64 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Reference  
market
price
(1)
At  
1 May
 2011
(2)
Awarded  
in the  
period
Vested  
in the  
period
Lapsed or  
forfeited in 
the period
(10)
At  
28 April 
2012
End of 
performance 
period 
Vesting
 date
Market  
price on  
grant date
Former directors
John Browett
LTIP
2008/09
(4)
38.50p 761,236 ––(761,236) – Apr 2011 Jul 2011 28.41p
PSP
2009/10
(5)
25.22p 664,155 – – (664,155) – Apr 2012 Jul 2012 24.75p
2010/11
(6) 
27 .59p 1,914,286 – – (1,914,286) – Apr 2013 Aug 2013 27.56p
2011/12
 (7)
15.99p – 4,252,971 – (4,252,971) – May 2014 Aug 2014 13.44p
3,339,677 4,252,971 – (7,592,648) –
Nicholas Cadbury
LTIP
2008/09
(4)
38.50p 204,511 ––(204,511) – Apr 2011 Jul 2011 28.41p
PSP
2009/10
(5)
25.22p 396,511 ––(396,511) – Apr 2012 Jul 2012 24.75p
2010/11
(6)
27 .59p 1,142,857 ––(1,142,857) – Apr 2013 Aug 2013 27.56p
Reward Shares 
2008/09
(9)
38.50p 153,383 ––(153,383) – N/A Jul 2011 28.41p
1,897 ,262 ––(1,897,262) –
(1)  The number of LTIP and PSP shares granted was usually calculated by reference to the share price averaged over a speciﬁed period prior to the date of the award.
(2)  Date of appointment, if later.
(3)  Award made prior to joining the Board.
(4)  The 2008/09 LTIP award failed to meet its performance condition and has therefore lapsed.
(5)  The 2009/10 PSP award was dependent on the Company’s TSR performance as outlined below over the three ﬁnancial periods ended 1 May 2010, 30 April 2011 and 28 April 2012.  
Since 28 April 2012, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed this performance condition and has determined that it has not been met. Accordingly, these awards have now lapsed.
  For 2009/10 PSP awards the TSR performance is compared to that of a bespoke weighted index comprising UK and European retailers. This group comprised: Brown (N) Group, Carphone 
Warehouse Group, Debenhams, Game Group, Kesa Electricals, Kingﬁsher, Marks and Spencer Group, Metro Group, HMV Group, Home Retail Group, Inchcape, Signet Group, Praktiker, PPR, 
Sports Direct International, Tesco, Halfords, Next and WH Smith Group. All companies had equal weighting within the group other than Kesa Electricals and Metro Group, who have greater 
competitive relevance and therefore have double weighting. Under this condition full vesting occurs for performance equivalent to the upper quartile over the three-year performance period, 
reducing to 25% of an award vesting for performance equivalent to median (with no vesting below this level). Vesting between these targets will occur on a straight-line basis.
(6)  PSP awards made in 2010/11 were subject to TSR performance relative to the FTSE 250 Index (comprising FTSE 101-350 companies), excluding investment trusts, at the start of the 
performance period. Full vesting would occur for upper quartile performance with 25% vesting for median performance with straight line vesting between the two. No award vests for below 
median performance. Additionally, awards made to John Browett and Nicholas Cadbury who at the time were executive directors contained an EPS underpin requiring total EPS growth of RPI 
plus 2% per annum for the performance period.
(7)  PSP awards made in 2011/12 to Humphrey Singer and John Browett were subject to both TSR and EPS performance conditions (deﬁned on page 59).
(8)  Awards made prior to joining the Board with no performance condition other than continued service during the three year vesting period. 
(9)  Reward Shares were issued to participants on 4 July 2011 and the mid market value on the date of release was 15.80p.
(10)  Awards for the former directors were forfeited upon them ceasing to be employees.
Remuneration Report 
(continued) 65
Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
(IX) Directors’ share options 
Date of  
grant
Exercise  
price
At 
1 May
 2011
(1)
Awarded 
in the 
period
Lapsed or 
forfeited in 
the period
(9)
At
 28 April 
2012
Date from 
which ﬁrst 
exercisable
Expiry of  
the exercise
 period
Current directors
Sebastian James
Discretionary
(2)
23 Jul 2009
(4)
23.95p 1,189,532 – – 1,189,532 23 Jul 2012 22 Jul 2019
3 Aug 2010
(8)
27.59p 3,000,000 – – 3,000,000 3 Aug 2013 2 Aug 2020
4,189,532 – – 4,189,532
Humphrey Singer
Discretionary
(2)
11 Jul 2008 27.63p 386,415 ––386,415 11 Jul 2011 10 Jul 2018
23 Jul 2009
(4)
23.95p 300,000 – – 300,000 23 Jul 2012 22 Jul 2019
3 Aug 2010
(8)
27.59p 300,000 – – 300,000 3 Aug 2013 2 Aug 2020
Reward Sacriﬁce
(5)
28 Sep 2009 28.43p 101,110 ––101,110 28 Sep 2012 27 Sep 2019
Sharesave
(2), (6)
24 Jul 2009 18.32p 24,768 –– 24,768 1 Oct 2012 31 Mar 2013
3 Aug 2010 20.23p 12,100 –– 12,100 1 Oct 2013 31 Mar 2014
22 Jul 2011 13.01p – 9,711 – 9,711 1 Oct 2014 31 Mar 2015
1, 124,393 9,711 – 1,134,104
Katie Bickerstaffe
Discretionary
(2)
23 Jul 2009
(4)
23.95p 1,249,009 – – 1,249,009 23 Jul 2012 22 Jul 2019
3 Aug 2010
(8)
27.59p 2,432,434 – – 2,432,434 3 Aug 2013 2 Aug 2020
Reward Sacriﬁce
(5)
28 Sep 2009 28.43p 299,762 – – 299,762 28 Sep 2012 27 Sep 2019
Sharesave
(2), (6)
24 Jul 2009 18.32p 24,768 –– 24,768 1 Oct 2012 31 Mar 2013
3 Aug 2010 20.23p 12,100 –– 12,100 1 Oct 2013 31 Mar 2014
 22 Jul 2011 13.01p – 9,711 – 9,711 1 Oct 2014 31 Mar 2015
4,018,073 9,711 – 4,027,784
Former directors
John Browett
Discretionary
(2)
6 Dec 2007
(3)
83.26p 1,561,372 – (1,561,372) – 6 Dec 2010 5 Dec 2017
11 Jul 2008
(3)
27.63p 3,045,866 –(3,045,866) – 11 Jul 2011 10 Jul 2018
23 Jul 2009
(4)
23.95p 2,656,622 –(2,656,622) – 23 Jul 2012 22 Jul 2019
3 Aug 2010
(8)
27 .59p 3,828,571 –(3,828,571) – 3 Aug 2013 2 Aug 2020
Reward Sacriﬁce
(5)
28 Sep 2009 28.43p 1,992,466 –(664,156) 1,328,310
(7)
28 Sep 2012 27 Sep 2019
Sharesave
(2), (6)
24 Jul 2009 18.32p 24,768 –(24,768) – 1 Oct 2012 31 Mar 2013
3 Aug 2010 20.23p 12,100 –(12,100) – 1 Oct 2013 31 Mar 2014
22 Jul 2011 13.01p – 9,711 (9,711) – 1 Oct 2014 31 Mar 2015
13,121,765 9,711 (11,803,166) 1,328,310 Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance
66 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Remuneration Report 
(continued)
Date of  
grant
Exercise  
price
At 
1 May
 2011
(1)
Awarded 
in the 
period
Lapsed or 
forfeited in 
the period
(9)
At
 28 April 
2012
Date from 
which ﬁrst 
exercisable
Expiry of
 the exercise
 period
Nicholas Cadbury
Discretionary
(2)
23 Jul 2001 170.45p 35,200 – (35,200) – 23 Jul 2004 22 Jul 2011
22 Jul 2002 118.80p 60,605 – (60,605) – 22 Jul 2005 21 Jul 2012
11 Jul 2008 27.63p 767,148 –(767,148) – 11 Jul 2011 10 Jul 2018
14 Aug 2008
(3)
41.84p 1,066,599 –(1,066,599) – 14 Aug 2011 13 Aug 2018
23 Jul 2009
(4)
23.95p 1,586,043 –(1,586,043) – 23 Jul 2012 22 Jul 2019
3 Aug 2010
(8)
27 .59p 2,285,714 –(2,285,714) – 3 Aug 2013 2 Aug 2020
Reward Sacriﬁce
(5)
28 Sep 2009 28.43p 475,813 –(317,209) 158,604
(7)
28 Sep 2012 27 Sep 2019
Sharesave
(2), (6)
24 Jul 2009 18.32p 24,768 –(24,768) – 1 Oct 2012 31 Mar 2013
3 Aug 2010 20.23p 12,100 –(12,100) – 1 Oct 2013 31 Mar 2014
6,313,990 – (6,155,386) 158,604
(1)  Date of appointment, if later.
(2)  Discretionary and Sharesave options are granted for nil consideration. 
(3)  Options granted on 6 December 2007 and 11 July 2008 for John Browett and 14 August 2008 for Nicholas Cadbury had EPS performance conditions for which the performance period ended 
30 April 2011. Accordingly, these options have now lapsed.
(4)  Options granted on 23 July 2009 have EPS performance conditions for which the performance period ended on 28 April 2012. Since that date, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed this 
performance condition and has determined that the conditions have not been met. Accordingly, these options have now lapsed. 
(5)  The Reward Sacriﬁce Scheme was approved by shareholders at the 2009 AGM. Under this scheme the executive directors and certain members of senior management (including the current 
executive directors who were part of senior management at the time of grant) were given the opportunity to sacriﬁce a portion of their salary in return for receiving non-performance related 
market value share options of an ‘equivalent’ fair value to the sacriﬁced salary. 
(6)  Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in the six month period following the date of maturity of the savings contracts which have terms of three years.
(7)  Reward Sacriﬁce shares were earned in proportion to the number of full year’s service completed during the three year period following the grant of these awards. Accordingly, upon resignation from  
the Board, John Browett had earned two thirds of his potential entitlement and Nicholas Cadbury had earned one third of his potential entitlement.
(8)  Options granted on 3 August 2010 are subject to an EPS performance condition. 25% of the options vest for EPS in 2012/13 of 4p. 100% of the options vest for EPS in 2012/13 of 6p, options  
will vest on a straight line basis between 25% and 100% of the award.
(9) Options for the former directors lapsed upon them ceasing to be employees, other than as set out in note 7 above.
The share price on 28 April 2012 was 18.04p and closing prices ranged between 9.36p and 19.91p during the year.
(X) Former executive director
Pursuant to an agreement dated 1 October 2002, Lord Kalms, the former Chairman, was appointed President of the Company for an initial 
period ending on 16 September 2012. He received £32,895 for his services as President during the year. His remuneration is subject to 
annual review in line with RPI. He was provided with beneﬁts amounting to £35,647 comprising membership of the non-contributory Dixons 
Retail medical expenses plan and a car in addition to ofﬁce facilities. He is not eligible to participate in discretionary share schemes or in 
any bonus arrangements.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Tim How
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
21 June 2012 The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  
and the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations. English company law requires the directors to prepare 
ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year and under that law, the 
directors have prepared the Group and the Company ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union.
The ﬁnancial statements are required by law to give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 
proﬁt or loss of the Group for the period. In preparing the ﬁnancial 
statements, the directors are also required to:
 Properly select and apply accounting policies;
 Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner  
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; and
 Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc 
requirements of IFRS is insufﬁcient to enable users to understand  
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions  
on the ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial performance.
In preparing both the Group and the Company ﬁnancial statements, 
suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, 
and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been 
made. Applicable accounting standards have been followed. The 
ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis 
as disclosed in the Statutory Information section of the Directors’ 
Report and Business Review.
The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting 
records and sufﬁcient internal controls to safeguard the assets of  
the Company and to take reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud or any other irregularities and for the preparation  
of a directors’ report and directors’ remuneration report which 
comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group ﬁnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of ﬁnancial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the directors conﬁrm that to the best of their knowledge:
 The Group and Company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt / (loss) of 
the Group and Company, respectively; and
 The business and ﬁnancial review contained in this Annual Report 
and Accounts includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group and 
Company together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties they face.
By Order of the Board 
Sebastian James Humphrey Singer
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
21 June 2012 21 June 2012
Directors’ Responsibilities
67 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Corporate Governance We have audited the consolidated and the company ﬁnancial 
statements of Dixons Retail plc for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012 
which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income and expense, the consolidated 
and company balance sheets, the consolidated and company  
cash ﬂow statements, the consolidated and company statement  
of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 32 and C1 to C16. 
The ﬁnancial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and as 
regards the Company ﬁnancial statements as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as 
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities,  
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the ﬁnancial 
statements and for being satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the ﬁnancial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁnancial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements sufﬁcient to give reasonable 
assurance that the ﬁnancial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate  
to the Group’s and the Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness  
of signiﬁcant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the 
overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. In addition, we read  
all the ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information in the Annual Report  
and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
ﬁnancial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Opinions
Financial statements 
In our opinion the financial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Company’s affairs as at 28 April 2012 and of the Group’s loss  
for the 52 weeks then ended;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of  
the Companies Act 2006 and as regards the Group ﬁnancial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
IFRSs issued by the IASB
As explained in notes 1.1 and C1 to the Group and Company 
ﬁnancial statements, respectively, the Group and Company in 
addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). In our 
opinion the ﬁnancial statements comply with IFRSs as issued 
by the IASB.
Other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁnancial  
year for which the ﬁnancial statements are prepared is consistent  
with the ﬁnancial statements; and
 the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report upon in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches visited by us; or 
 the Company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with  
the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speciﬁed by law  
are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ Report  
and Business Review in relation to going concern;
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to  
the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code speciﬁed for our review; and
 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board  
on directors’ remuneration.
Nicola Mitchell FCA  
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom
21 June 2012
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report 
68 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 69
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
52 weeks ended 28 April 2012 52 weeks ended 30 April 2011 
Non-underlying * Non-underlying *
Note
Underlying* 
£million
Closed
business**
 £million
Other 
 £million
Total  
£million
Underlying* 
£million
Closed
business**
£million
Other 
 £million
Total  
£million
Continuing operations
Revenue 2,3 8,186.7 6.5 – 8,193.2 8,154.4 187.4 – 8,341.8
Profit / (loss) from operations 
before associates 114.5 (2.8) (181.2) (69.5) 128.0 (7.7) (298.1) (177.8)
Share of post-tax results  
of associates  12 0.6 – – 0.6 (0.4) – – (0.4)
Operating profit / (loss) 2,3 115.1 (2.8) (181.2) (68.9) 127.6 (7.7) (298.1) (178.2)
Finance income 57.2 – 6.3 63.5 58.9 – 12.5 71.4
Finance costs (101.5) (0.1) (11.8) (113.4) (101.2) (0.8) (15.3) (117.3)
Net finance costs 5 (44.3) (0.1) (5.5) (49.9) (42.3) (0.8) (2.8) (45.9)
Profit / (loss) before tax 70.8 (2.9) (186.7) (118.8) 85.3 (8.5) (300.9) (224.1)
Income tax (expense) / credit 7 (36.4) – (7.7) (44.1) (31.4) – 12.3 (19.1)
Profit / (loss) after tax – 
continuing operations 34.4 (2.9) (194.4) (162.9) 53.9 (8.5) (288.6) (243.2)
Loss after tax –  
discontinued operations 27 ––– – – – (2.1) (2.1)
Profit / (loss) for the period 34.4 (2.9) (194.4) (162.9) 53.9 (8.5) (290.7) (245.3)
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the 
parent company 41.3 (2.9) (192.7) (154.3) 58.8 (8.5) (289.3) (239.0)
Non-controlling interests (6.9) – (1.7) (8.6) (4.9) – (1.4) (6.3)
34.4 (2.9) (194.4) (162.9) 53.9 (8.5) (290.7) (245.3)
Loss per share (pence) 8
Basic – total (4.3)p (6.6)p
Diluted – total (4.3)p (6.6)p
Basic – continuing operations (4.3)p (6.6)p
Diluted – continuing operations (4.3)p (6.6)p
Underlying earnings per share 
(pence) 1,8
Basic – continuing operations 1.1p 1.6p
Diluted – continuing operations 1.1p 1.6p
*
  Underlying profit and earnings per share measures exclude the trading results of closed businesses, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and 
other one off, non-recurring items, fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations. Such excluded items are described as ‘Non-underlying’. 
Further information on these items is shown in notes 1, 4, 5, 7 and 27.
**
  Closed business relates to the operations of PC City Spain which were closed in June 2011. This closed business does not meet the deﬁnition of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 
5 and accordingly the disclosures within non-underlying items differ from those for applicable discontinued operations. 
Consolidated Income Statement 70 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Note
52 weeks  
ended  
28 April 2012 
 £million
52 weeks  
ended  
30 April 2011 
 £million
Loss for the period (162.9) (245.3)
Actuarial (losses) / gains on defined benefit pension schemes – UK 21 (28.2) 13.1
    – Overseas (1.9) (0.3)
Cash flow hedges 22
Fair value remeasurement gains / (losses) 3.3 (8.0)
Losses transferred to carrying amount of inventories 4.7 7.4
(Gains) / losses transferred to income statement (within cost of sales) (5.3) 6.7
Net investment hedges 22
Fair value remeasurement gains / (losses) 15.6 (4.9)
Investments 
Fair value remeasurement (losses) / gains (0.1) 0.2
Tax on items taken directly to equity 1.0 (8.5)
Currency translation movements (93.8) 31.7
Net (expense) / income recognised directly in equity (104.7) 37.4
Total comprehensive expense for the period (267.6) (207.9)
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent company (257.2) (201.2)
Non-controlling interests (10.4) (6.7)
(267.6) (207.9)
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expense 71
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Note
28 April 2012 
£million
30 April 2011 
£million
Non-current assets
Goodwill 9 740.7 970.8
Intangible assets 10 98.1 113.1
Property, plant & equipment 11 480.4 583.7
Investments in associates 12 3.5 3.4
Trade and other receivables 14 23.6 49.6
Deferred tax assets 7 155.2 163.4
1,501.5 1,884.0
Current assets
Inventories 13 874.2 960.9
Trade and other receivables 14 343.9 383.2
Income tax receivable 2.7 4.1
Short term investments 15 7.3 10.5
Cash and cash equivalents 16 316.8 334.7
1,544.9 1,693.4
Total assets 3,046.4 3,577.4
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 17 (15.8) (5.6)
Borrowings 17 (162.5) (130.0)
Obligations under finance leases 18 (3.1) (3.1)
Trade and other payables 19 (1,579.0) (1,644.2)
Income tax payable (55.7) (48.5)
Provisions 20 (18.6) (44.4)
(1,834.7) (1,875.8)
Net current liabilities (289.8) (182.4)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 17 (147.8) (315.3)
Obligations under finance leases 18 (98.9) (98.0)
Retirement benefit obligations 21 (266.0) (247.3)
Other payables 19 (255.2) (331.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 7 (20.2) (17.6)
Provisions 20 (19.6) (15.9)
(807.7) (1,025.1)
Total liabilities (2,642.4) (2,900.9)
Net assets 404.0 676.5
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 90.3 90.3
Share premium account 169.5 169.5
Other reserves 23 (521.0) (537.7)
Retained earnings 652.6 931.4
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 391.4 653.5
Equity non-controlling interests 12.6 23.0
Total equity 404.0 676.5
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the directors on 21 June 2012 and signed on their behalf by: 
Sebastian James Humphrey Singer
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Consolidated Balance Sheet 72 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Note
52 weeks  
ended 
28 April 2012 
£million
52 weeks  
ended 
30 April 2011 
£million
Operating activities – continuing operations
Cash generated from operations
*
26 231.3 292.8
Special contributions to defined benefit pension scheme 21 (16.0) (12.0)
Income tax paid
*
(26.8) (26.2)
Net cash flows from operating activities 188.5 254.6
Investing activities – continuing operations
Purchase of property, plant & equipment and other intangibles
*
(101.5) (223.2)
Purchase of subsidiaries (1.2) –
Interest received
*
12.6 17.9
Decrease / (increase) in short term investments 3.1 (1.8)
Disposals of property, plant & equipment and other intangibles
*
70.2 2.0
Dividend received from associate – 1.1
Net cash flows from investing activities (16.8) (204.0)
Financing activities – continuing operations
Issue of ordinary share capital – 0.2
Additions to finance leases 2.8 2.4
Capital element of finance lease payments (4.4) (1.5)
Interest element of finance lease payments 
*
(6.4) (7.0)
(Decrease) / increase in borrowings due within one year (130.0) 31.8
Increase in borrowings due after more than one year – 5.4
Interest paid
*
(49.1) (46.3)
Investment from minority shareholder – 1.1
Net cash flows from financing activities (187.1) (13.9)
(Decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (i)
Continuing operations (15.4) 36.7
Discontinued operations 27 (1.5) (0.1)
(16.9) 36.6
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period (i) 26 329.1 290.8
Currency translation differences (11.2) 1.7
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (i) 26 301.0 329.1
Free Cash Flow (ii) 130.3 10.0
(i)  For the purposes of this cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise those items disclosed as ‘cash and cash equivalents’ on the face of the balance sheet, less overdrafts, which 
are classified within current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet. A reconciliation to the balance sheet amounts is shown in note 26.
(ii)  Free Cash Flow comprises those items marked 
*
 and comprises cash generated from / (utilised by) continuing operations before special pension contributions, less net ﬁnance expense, less 
income tax paid and net capital expenditure. The directors consider that ‘Free Cash Flow’ provides additional useful information to shareholders in respect of cash generation and is consistent 
with how business performance is measured internally.
Financial Statements
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 73
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Share  
capital 
 £million
Share  
premium  
£million
Other 
 reserves 
£million
Retained 
earnings  
£million
Sub-total 
£million
Non-
controlling 
interests  
£million
Total equity 
£million
At 2 May 2010 90.2 169.4 (537.5) 1,124.4 846.5 28.6 875.1
Loss for the period – – – (245.3) (245.3) – (245.3)
Other comprehensive income and expense  
recognised directly in equity – – (0.2) 44.3 44.1 (6.7) 37.4
Total comprehensive income and expense  
for the period – – (0.2) (201.0) (201.2) (6.7) (207.9)
Non-controlling interests – increase in capital – – – – – 1.1 1.1
Ordinary shares issued 0.1 0.1 – – 0.2 – 0.2
Share-based payments – – – 8.6 8.6 – 8.6
Tax on share-based payments – – – (0.6) (0.6) – (0.6)
At 30 April 2011 90.3 169.5 (537.7) 931.4 653.5 23.0 676.5
Loss for the period – – – (162.9) (162.9) – (162.9)
Other comprehensive income and expense  
recognised directly in equity – – 16.7 (111.0) (94.3) (10.4) (104.7)
Total comprehensive income and expense  
for the period – – 16.7 (273.9) (257.2) (10.4) (267.6)
Share-based payments – – – (4.9) (4.9) – (4.9)
At 28 April 2012 90.3 169.5 (521.0) 652.6 391.4 12.6 404.0
Non-controlling interests (minority interests) comprise shareholdings in Pixmania S.A.S. (PIXmania), Electroworld Iç ve Dis Ticaret AS 
(Electroworld Turkey) and Dixons South-East Europe A.E.V.E. (Kotsovolos).
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 1 Accounting policies
1. 1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as adopted by the EU, IFRS issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to those companies reporting under IFRS, and have  
been prepared on a going concern basis as disclosed in the going 
concern statement in the Statutory Information section of the 
Directors’ Report on page 48. 
The Group’s income statement and segmental analysis identify 
separately underlying performance measures and non-underlying 
items. Underlying performance measures reﬂect an adjustment to 
total performance measures to exclude the impact of closed 
businesses and other non-underlying items. Underlying performance 
measures comprise proﬁts and losses incurred as part of the 
day-to-day ongoing retail activities of the Company and include proﬁts 
and losses incurred on the disposal and closure of owned or leased 
properties that occur as part of the Group’s annual retail churn.  
The proﬁts or losses incurred on disposal or closure of owned or 
leased properties as part of a one off restructuring programme are 
excluded from underlying performance measures and are therefore 
included, among other items, within non-underlying items as 
described below. The directors consider ‘underlying’ performance 
measures to be a more accurate reﬂection of the ongoing trading 
performance of the Group and believe that these measures provide 
additional useful information for shareholders on the Group’s 
performance and are consistent with how business performance  
is measured internally.
Non-underlying items comprise trading results of closed businesses, 
amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business 
impairment charges and other one off, non-recurring items, proﬁt  
on sale of investments, fair value remeasurements of ﬁnancial 
instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations.  
Closed businesses are those which do not meet the deﬁnition of 
discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5. Items excluded 
from underlying results can evolve from one ﬁnancial year to the  
next depending on the nature of re-organisation or one-off type 
activities described above. 
Underlying performance measures may not be directly comparable 
with other similarly titled measures or ‘adjusted’ revenue or proﬁt 
measures used by other companies.
There are no new accounting standards, amendments to standards or 
IFRIC interpretations which are effective for the Group for the ﬁrst time 
during the current ﬁnancial period which have had an impact on the 
Group’s results or net assets.
The principal accounting policies are set out below:
1.2 Accounting convention and basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements incorporate the ﬁnancial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company. 
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to control the 
ﬁnancial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain beneﬁts 
from its activities. The results of subsidiaries acquired are included 
from the date on which power to control passes. The net assets of 
subsidiaries acquired are recorded at their fair values. The results  
of subsidiaries disposed of are included up to the effective date  
of disposal. 
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of  
accounting from the date on which the power to exercise  
signiﬁcant inﬂuence passes. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation.
1.3 Revenue 
Revenue comprises sales of goods and services excluding sales 
taxes. Revenue from sales of goods is recognised at the point of  
sale or, where later, upon delivery to the customer and is stated net  
of returns. Revenue earned from customer support agreements  
is recognised as such over the life of the agreement by reference  
to the stage of completion of the transaction at the balance  
sheet date. 
1.4 Other income, including non-operating income 
Other income, which is incidental to the Group’s principal activities 
of selling goods and services and accordingly is not recorded as 
part of revenue, is recognised when the Group obtains the right  
to consideration by performance of its contractual obligations.  
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the 
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the right  
to receive payment has been established.
1.5 Discontinued operations 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group which 
represents a signiﬁcant separate line of business which has been 
sold. Classiﬁcation as a discontinued operation occurs upon 
disposal or earlier if beneﬁcial title and risk has transferred to the 
purchaser and in the case of a business acquired exclusively with  
a view to subsequent disposal, on the date of acquisition. 
Where the sale of a component of the Group is considered highly 
probable and the business is available for immediate sale in its 
present condition, it is classiﬁed as held for sale. Assets and liabilities 
held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell.
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
74 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 1.6 Leases
Leases are classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases whenever the terms of the 
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to 
the lessee. The determination of the classiﬁcation of property leases 
is made by reference to the land and buildings elements separately. 
All leases not classiﬁed as ﬁnance leases are operating leases.
Finance leases
Assets held under ﬁnance leases are capitalised at their fair value  
on acquisition or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments, each determined at the inception of the lease and 
depreciated over their estimated useful lives or the lease term if 
shorter. The corresponding obligation to the lessor is included in  
the balance sheet as a liability. Lease payments are apportioned 
between ﬁnance charges and reduction of the lease obligation. 
Finance charges are charged to the income statement over the 
period of the lease in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating property leases are charged to  
the income statement on a straight line basis over the ﬁxed term  
of the lease. At the end of the ﬁxed term of leases, rental payments 
are reset to market rates, typically on an upwards only basis. 
Beneﬁts received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an 
operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the 
lease term.
Where a lease forms part of a separate cash generating unit (CGU), 
such as a store or group of stores, and business indicators exist 
which could lead to the conclusion that the carrying value of the 
CGU is not supportable, the recoverable amount of the CGU  
is determined by calculating its value in use. The value in use  
is calculated by applying discounted cash ﬂow modelling to 
management’s projection of future proﬁtability. If an impairment  
of a CGU has been identiﬁed such that the value in use is negative 
and a lease exists in that CGU, a provision for the onerous portion  
of the lease is made equal to the lower of the outstanding lease 
commitment and the negative present value of the CGU.
1.7 Translation of foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rate  
of exchange prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the 
rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange gains 
and losses arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary assets 
and liabilities are included in the income statement. 
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the rate 
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results of overseas 
subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the average 
rates of exchange during the period. Exchange differences resulting 
from the translation of the results and balance sheets of overseas 
subsidiary undertakings are charged or credited directly to retained 
earnings. Such translation differences become recognised in the 
income statement in the period in which the subsidiary undertaking  
is disposed.
As the cumulative translation differences for all foreign subsidiaries 
were deemed to be zero at the transition date to IFRS on 2 May 2004, 
upon disposal of a foreign subsidiary, any gain or loss arising will 
include only those foreign exchange gains or losses attributable  
to periods after that date.
1.8 Goodwill
On acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, the fair value of the 
consideration is allocated between the identiﬁable net tangible  
and intangible assets / liabilities on a fair value basis, with any  
excess consideration representing goodwill. Goodwill in respect  
of subsidiaries is capitalised as goodwill on the balance sheet; 
goodwill relating to associates is capitalised in investments in 
associates as part of the carrying value of the associate.
Goodwill is not amortised, but instead is reviewed annually for 
impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the  
income statement and is not subsequently reversed. 
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate the attributable amount  
of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss  
on disposal.
1.9 Intangible assets 
Acquired intangibles
Acquired intangibles comprise brands and customer lists purchased 
as part of acquisitions of businesses and are capitalised and 
amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line  
basis. Acquired intangibles are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in 
value or estimated loss on disposal. Amortisation is provided to 
write off the cost of assets on a straight line basis between three 
and 30 years.
75
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc 1 Accounting policies (continued)
Other intangible assets: computer software
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs  
incurred both to acquire and bring into use the speciﬁc software. 
Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of assets on a straight 
line basis over their estimated useful lives of between three and 
seven years. Costs associated with developing or maintaining 
computer software are recognised as an expense as incurred  
unless they increase the future economic beneﬁts of the asset,  
in which case they are capitalised.
Internally generated computer software is capitalised at cost if the 
project is technically and commercially feasible and the economic 
beneﬁts which are expected to be generated exceed one year.  
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct 
labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Subsequent 
expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future 
economic beneﬁts embodied in the speciﬁc asset to which it 
relates Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of assets 
on a straight line basis between three and seven years.
Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in value or  
estimated loss on disposal.
1. 10 Property, plant & equipment
Property, plant & equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in 
value or estimated loss on disposal. Depreciation is provided to write 
off the cost of the assets by equal instalments over their estimated 
useful lives. The rates used are:
Short leasehold property – over the term of the lease
Freehold and long  
  leasehold buildings – between 1
2
/3% and 2½% per annum
Fixtures, ﬁttings  
  and equipment – between 10% and 33
1
/3% per annum
No depreciation is provided on freehold and long leasehold land  
or on assets in the course of construction.
Property, plant & equipment are assessed on an ongoing basis  
to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead to  
the conclusion that the net book value is not supportable.  
Where assets are to be taken out of use, an impairment charge  
is levied. Where useful lives of assets are shortened, an estimate  
is made of their new lives and an accelerated depreciation charge  
is levied. Where the property, plant & equipment form part of a 
separate cash generating unit (CGU), such as a store or group  
of stores, and business indicators exist which could lead to the 
conclusions that the net book value is not supportable, the 
recoverable amount of the CGU is determined by calculating its 
value in use. The value in use is calculated by applying discounted 
cash ﬂow modelling to management’s projection of future 
proﬁtability and any impairment is determined by comparing 
the net book value with the value in use. 
1. 1 1 Investments and other ﬁnancial assets
The Group’s ﬁnancial assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, 
short term investments and those receivables which involve  
a contractual right to receive cash from external parties.  
Financial assets comprise all items shown in notes 14, 15 and  
16 with the exception of prepayments. Under the classiﬁcations 
stipulated by IAS 39, short term investments and trade and other 
receivables (excluding derivative ﬁnancial assets) are classiﬁed as 
‘available for sale’ and ‘loans and receivables’, respectively.  
Cash and cash equivalents and derivative ﬁnancial instruments, 
which are further described in notes 1.14 and 1.16, are classiﬁed  
as ‘loans and receivables’ and ‘held for trading unless designated  
in a hedge relationship’, respectively.
All purchases and sales of investments and other ﬁnancial assets  
are recognised on the date that the Group becomes committed to 
make such purchase or sale (‘the trade date’). 
Investment in associates
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting 
from the date on which the power to exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence 
passes and are stated net of any impairment charges. 
Short term investments
Investments are initially measured at fair value and then subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date owing to 
occasional sales of such investments. The fair value of unlisted 
investments is estimated either by comparing recent arm’s length 
transactions or by using discounted cash ﬂow analysis or other 
modelling techniques. Gains and losses arising from revaluation at 
the balance sheet date are recognised directly in equity. For unlisted 
investments a signiﬁcant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the 
investment below its cost is considered evidence of impairment.
To the extent that any fair value losses are deemed permanent,  
such impairment is recognised in the income statement. Upon sale 
or impairment of the investments, any cumulative gains or losses 
held in equity are transferred to the income statement. 
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables (excluding derivative ﬁnancial  
assets) are recorded at cost less an allowance for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts and any other adjustments required to align 
cost to fair value. The carrying amount of trade receivables is 
reduced through the use of a provision account. A provision for bad 
and doubtful debts is made for speciﬁc receivables when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all of the 
amounts due under the original terms of the invoice. Receivables  
that are not assessed individually for impairment are assessed for 
impairment on a collective basis using ageing analysis to determine 
the required provision. Bad debts are written off when identiﬁed.
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued)
76 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 1. 12 Taxation 
Current taxation
Current taxation is the expected tax payable on the taxable income 
for the period, using prevailing tax rates and adjusted for any tax 
payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent  
that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and 
liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from 
goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that 
affects neither the tax proﬁt nor the accounting proﬁt.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where 
the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference 
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future. No provision is made for tax which would 
have been payable on the distribution of retained proﬁts of 
overseas subsidiaries or associated undertakings where it has 
been determined that these proﬁts will not be distributed in the 
foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when 
they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and 
when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities 
on a net basis.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, 
except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to 
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected 
to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted,  
or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax 
balances are not discounted.
1. 13 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost and net realisable 
value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those overheads 
that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present 
location and condition, both types of cost being measured using a 
weighted average cost formula. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all estimated and directly attributable 
costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling 
and distribution. 
1. 14 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, 
bank overdrafts and short term highly liquid deposits with a maturity 
of three months or less and which are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk 
of changes in value. Bank overdrafts, which form part of cash and 
cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash ﬂow statement, are 
shown under current liabilities.
1. 15 Borrowings and other ﬁnancial liabilities
The Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities are those which involve a contractual 
obligation to deliver cash to external parties at a future date.  
Financial liabilities comprise all items shown in notes 17 , 18 and 19  
with the exception of other taxation and social security, deferred 
income from customer support agreements, other deferred income 
and other non-ﬁnancial creditors. Under the classiﬁcations stipulated 
by IAS 39, borrowings, ﬁnance lease obligations and trade and other 
payables (excluding derivative ﬁnancial liabilities) are classiﬁed as 
‘ﬁnancial liabilities measured at amortised cost’. Derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments, which are described further in note 1.16 below, are 
classiﬁed as ‘held for trading unless designated in a hedge relationship’. 
Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recorded at the consideration received  
less directly attributable transaction costs. Transaction costs are 
amortised through the income statement using the effective interest 
method and the unamortised balance is included as part of the 
related borrowing at the balance sheet date. A fair value adjustment 
is made to the borrowing where hedge accounting, as described in 
note 1.16 below, has been applied. 
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables (excluding derivative ﬁnancial liabilities)  
are recorded at cost. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments, which includes 
put options over equity held by minority shareholders, are initially 
recorded at fair value and then subsequently remeasured to fair value 
at each balance sheet date and are held within assets or liabilities as 
appropriate. Gains and losses arising from revaluation at the balance 
sheet date are recognised in the income statement unless the 
derivatives are designated as hedges and such hedges are proved 
to be effective.
1. 16 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge accounting
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments held by the Group are initially 
recognised in the balance sheet at fair value within assets or liabilities 
as appropriate and then subsequently remeasured to fair value at 
each balance sheet date. Gains and losses arising from revaluation 
at the balance sheet date are recognised in the income statement 
unless the derivatives are designated as hedges and such hedges 
are proved to be effective. 
Derivatives are classiﬁed as non-current assets or liabilities where  
a hedge relationship is identiﬁed and the remaining maturity of the 
hedged item is greater than 12 months from the balance sheet  
date. Derivatives are classiﬁed as current assets or liabilities in  
all other circumstances.
Fair values are derived from market values. The fair value of ﬁnancial 
instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market 
prices at the balance sheet date. 
77
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc 1 Accounting policies (continued)
Hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the ﬁnancial risks 
associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency 
exchange rates. The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments such 
as interest rate swaps, options, cross currency swaps and forward 
currency contracts to hedge these risks. The Group does not use 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments for speculative purposes.
Where hedge accounting is to be applied, the Group formally 
designates and documents the hedge relationship to which  
the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk 
management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer meets the 
criteria for hedge accounting.
The accounting treatment of derivatives that qualify for hedge 
accounting is dependent on how they are designated. The different 
designations and accounting treatments are explained below:
Fair value hedges
The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge the exposure to 
changes in the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments that meet the ‘fair value’ hedging 
requirements are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value with 
corresponding fair value movements recognised within ﬁnance 
income / costs in the income statement. For an effective fair value 
hedge, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value 
attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry  
in the income statement. To the extent that the designated hedge 
relationship is effective, such amounts in the income statement offset 
each other. As a result, only the ineffective element of any designated 
hedging relationship impacts the income statement. If the hedge no 
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the 
carrying amount of the hedged item for which the effective interest 
method is used, is amortised to the income statement over the  
period to maturity.
Cash ﬂow hedges
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the 
foreign currency exposure on inventory ordered and purchased and 
certain sales of inventory. It is Group policy to hedge between 80% 
and 100% of committed purchase orders and sales. At any point  
in time the Group also hedges up to 80% of its estimated foreign 
currency exposure in respect of forecast purchases and sales for 
the subsequent 12 months. Orders and purchases as well as sales 
are each considered to be separately hedged transactions. 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments that qualify for such cash ﬂow 
hedging are initially recognised on the balance sheet with gains  
and losses relating to the remeasurement of the effective portion  
of the hedge being deferred in equity. To the extent that such items  
are ineffectively hedged, gains or losses relating to the ineffective 
portion are recognised in the income statement. Amounts taken to 
equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged 
transaction affects proﬁt or loss (i.e. when a purchase or sale is 
made). For inventory purchases, the associated gains or losses  
on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are 
included in the initial measurement of inventory. For sales, the gains 
or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in 
equity are included in the income statement in the period in which 
the sale is made. 
Net investment hedges
The Group uses cross currency forward contracts and cross currency 
swaps to hedge its currency risk on the translation of net investments 
in foreign entities. Gains and losses arising on the retranslation of the 
investments and the related derivatives are recognised in equity. 
However, this is on the basis that the hedging requirements of IAS 39 
are met and the hedging relationship is effective. To the extent that 
such items are ineffectively hedged, gains or losses relating to the 
ineffective portion are recognised within the income statement. 
1. 17 Retirement beneﬁt obligations
Company contributions to deﬁned contribution pension schemes 
and contributions made to state pension schemes for certain 
overseas employees are charged to the income statement on 
an accruals basis as contributions become payable.
For deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes, the regular service cost  
of providing retirement beneﬁts to employees during the period, 
together with the cost of any beneﬁts relating to past service is 
charged to operating results in the period. A credit representing the 
expected return on assets of the retirement beneﬁt schemes during 
the period is included within other ﬁnance income. This is based on 
the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the 
ﬁnancial period. A charge is included within other ﬁnance costs, 
representing the expected increase in the liabilities of the retirement 
beneﬁt schemes during the period. The difference between the 
market value of the assets and the present value of the accrued 
pension liabilities is shown as an asset or liability in the balance 
sheet. Differences between the actual and expected returns on 
assets during the period are recognised in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income and expense, together  
with differences arising from changes in actuarial assumptions. 
1. 18 Share-based payments 
The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to  
certain employees which are measured at fair value at the date  
of grant. This fair value is expensed in the income statement on  
a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate  
of the number of shares that will eventually vest as adjusted for  
any non-market conditions.
A liability equal to the portion of services received from employees  
is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance 
sheet date for cash settled share-based payments.
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued)
78 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 1. 19 Estimates, judgements and critical accounting policies
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles requires management to make 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of 
assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and 
liabilities. Signiﬁcant items subject to such assumptions and 
estimates include the useful lives of assets; the measurement and 
recognition of provisions; the recognition of deferred tax assets; and 
liabilities for potential corporation tax. Actual results could differ from 
these estimates and any subsequent changes are accounted for 
with an effect on income at the time such updated information 
becomes available. The most critical accounting policies in 
determining the ﬁnancial condition and results of the Group are those 
requiring the greatest degree of subjective or complex judgements. 
These relate to revenue recognition, inventory valuation, onerous 
lease costs, the valuation of goodwill, acquired intangible assets and 
property, plant & equipment, share-based payments, post-retirement 
beneﬁts and taxation, and are set out below.
Revenue recognition
Revenue earned from the sale of customer support agreements is 
recognised over the term of the contracts when the Group obtains 
the right to consideration as a result of performance of its contractual 
obligations. Revenue in any one year is therefore recognised to 
match the proportion of the expected costs of fulﬁlling the Group’s 
total obligations under the agreements. An estimate of the degree  
of performance of these contractual obligations is determined by 
reference to extensive historical claims data. Reliance on historical 
data assumes that current and future experience will follow past 
trends. The directors consider that the quantity and quality of data 
available provides an appropriate proxy for current trends.
Inventory valuation
Inventories are valued at the lower of average cost and net realisable 
value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those overheads 
that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present 
location and condition, both types of cost being measures using a 
weighted average cost formula. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less all estimated and directly attributable 
costs of completion and costs to be incurred in the marketing, selling 
and distribution. Net realisable value includes, where necessary, 
provisions for slow moving and damaged inventory. The provision 
represents the difference between the cost of stock and its 
estimated net realisable value, based on ageing. Calculation of these 
provisions requires judgements to be made which include forecast 
consumer demand, the promotional, competitive and economic 
environment and inventory loss trends.
Provisions and accruals for onerous leases
If the Group vacates a store or other property prior to the expiry of 
the related lease, or a lease forms part of a separate CGU whereby 
the carrying value of that CGU is not considered supportable, it 
records a provision or accrual for the expected lease payments that 
the Group will incur prior to assignment or sublease of the property. 
Such a calculation requires a judgement as to the timing and 
duration of the expected vacant periods and the amount and timing 
of future potential sublease income. When making these judgements, 
the directors consider a number of factors, including the landlord,  
the location and condition of the property, the terms of the lease,  
the speciﬁc marketplace demand and the economic environment.
Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 
impairment reviews
Goodwill is required to be valued annually to assess the requirement 
for potential impairment. Other assets are assessed on an ongoing 
basis to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead to the 
conclusion that the net book value of such assets is not supportable. 
Impairment testing on goodwill is carried out in accordance with  
the methodology described in note 9. Such calculations require 
judgement relating to the appropriate discount factors and long term 
growth prevalent in a particular market as well as short and medium 
term business plans. The directors draw upon experience as well as 
external resources in making these judgements.
In assessing impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and 
equipment, discounted cash ﬂow methods are used as described  
in note 1.10. Judgement is required in determining the appropriate 
discount factors as well as the short and medium term business 
plans. As for goodwill, the directors draw upon experience and 
external resources in making these judgements. 
Share-based payments
The charge for share-based payments is calculated by estimating  
the fair value of the award at the date of grant using either the 
Binomial or Black Scholes option pricing model or the Monte Carlo 
simulation. The option valuation models used require highly 
subjective assumptions to be made including the future volatility  
of the Company’s share price, expected dividend yields, risk-free 
interest rates, expected staff turnover and the likelihood of non-
market vesting conditions being met. The directors draw upon  
a variety of external sources to aid in the determination of the 
appropriate data to use in such calculations.
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes
The surplus or deﬁcit in the UK deﬁned beneﬁt scheme that is 
recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income and expense is subject to a number of assumptions and 
uncertainties. The calculated liabilities of the scheme are based on 
assumptions regarding salary increases, inﬂation rates, discount 
rates, the long term expected return on the scheme’s assets and 
member longevity. Such assumptions are based on actuarial  
advice and are benchmarked against similar pension schemes.
Taxation
Tax laws that apply to the Group’s businesses may be amended  
by the relevant authorities, for example as a result of changes in  
ﬁscal circumstances or priorities. Such potential amendments  
and their application to the Group are monitored regularly and  
the requirement for recognition of any liabilities assessed where 
necessary. The Group is subject to income taxes in a number  
of different jurisdictions and judgement is required in determining  
the appropriate provision for transactions where the ultimate tax 
determination is uncertain. In such circumstances, the Group 
recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes due based on best 
information available and where the anticipated liability is probable 
and estimable. Where the ﬁnal outcome of such matters differs from 
the amounts initially recorded, any differences will impact the income 
tax and deferred tax provisions in the period to which such 
determination is made. Where the potential liabilities are not 
considered probable, the amount at risk is disclosed unless  
an adverse outcome is considered remote.
79
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc 1 Accounting policies (continued)
Deferred tax is recognised on taxable losses based on the expected 
ability to utilise such losses. This ability takes account of the business 
plans for the relevant companies, potential uncertainties around the 
longer term aspects of these business plans, any expiry of taxable 
beneﬁts and potential future volatility in the local tax regimes. 
1.20 New accounting standards and interpretations
During the period, the following new standards, and amendments  
to existing standards, which are applicable to the Group were 
published, but do not become effective until 2013/14: 
 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. This standard is the ﬁrst step in the 
process to replace IAS 39, ‘Financial instruments: recognition and 
measurement’. IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying 
and measuring ﬁnancial assets and is likely to affect the Group’s 
accounting for its ﬁnancial assets. 
 Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts. The amendment 
replaces interest cost and expected return on plan assets with  
a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount 
rate to the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability. This will impact the Group’s 
interest income in respect of its deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme.
 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. This standard aims to improve 
consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise deﬁnition 
of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and 
disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IFRS 12 Disclosure 
of Interests in Other Entities will also become effective for the Group 
for 2013/14. At the present time these new standards are not 
expected to have any material effect, however may impact 
acquisitions in the future.
Certain other amendments to existing standards and interpretations 
were issued during the period which either do not apply to the Group 
or are not expected to have any material effect.
2 Segmental analysis 
The Group’s operating segments have been determined based  
on the information reported to the Board. This information is 
predominantly based on geographical areas which are either 
managed separately or have similar trading characteristics such  
that they can be aggregated together into one segment and, in the 
case of PIXmania, as a business area with geographical territories 
aggregated. Accounting policies for each operating segment are  
the same as those for the Group as described in note 1. The Group 
evaluates each operating segment based on underlying operating 
proﬁts which excludes those items described in note 1.1. 
All segments are involved in the multi-channel sale of high technology 
consumer electronics, personal computers, domestic appliances, 
photographic equipment, communication products and related 
ﬁnancial and after-sales services. The principal categories of 
customer are retail, business to business (B2B) and online. 
The Group’s reportable segments have been identified as follows: 
 UK & Ireland comprises electrical and computing retail chains as 
well as B2B activities and Dixons.co.uk, a pure play online retailer. 
The division is engaged predominantly in multi-channel retail sales, 
associated peripherals and services and related ﬁnancial and after 
sales services and also in business to business sales of computer 
hardware and software. 
 Northern Europe operates in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, 
the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Iceland, Greenland and the Faroe 
Islands. The division engages in multi-channel retail sales and 
provides related product support services to its customers. It  
also engages in B2B sales of computer hardware, software and 
services. Across the region, the division operates a successful 
franchise business, typically in smaller markets. 
 Southern Europe comprises operations in Italy, Greece, Turkey and 
the closed business in Spain which is excluded from underlying 
results. The division engages in retail sales (including multi-channel 
sales in some countries) and provides related product support 
services to its customers in all of its markets. It also engages in B2B 
sales of computer hardware, software and services in Italy and 
Greece and has franchise operations in Italy, Greece and Turkey. 
 PIXmania is a pure play online retailer and operates in 26 countries 
across Europe. 
During the period, management responsibility for Dixons.co.uk was 
transferred from the Pure play e-commerce division (now renamed 
PIXmania) to UK & Ireland. In addition, management responsibility  
for the Central European operations was transferred from the  
Other International division (now renamed Southern Europe) to the 
Northern Europe division. Comparative ﬁgures have been restated to 
reﬂect these changes in responsibility, together with a realignment of 
central assets and liabilities to reﬂect how these assets and liabilities 
are managed.
Closed business relates to PC City Spain which was closed in 
June 2011. Owing to its closure rather than disposal, this operation 
does not meet the deﬁnition of discontinued operations as stipulated 
by IFRS 5. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued)
Financial Statements
80 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 81
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
(a) Income statement 
2011/12
External 
 revenue 
 £million
Inter- 
segmental 
revenue  
£million
Total
revenue 
£million
Underlying 
profit / (loss) 
£million
Total  
profit / (loss) 
£million 
UK & Ireland 3,833.9 50.5 3,884.4 78.8 65.7
Northern Europe 2,628.0 28.6 2,656.6 113.3 152.1
Southern Europe 1,066.3 0.3 1,066.6 (30.4) (201.6)
PIXmania 665.0 6.0 671.0 (19.8) (58.2)
Eliminations – (85.4) (85.4) – –
8,193.2 – 8,193.2 141.9 (42.0)
Share of post-tax results of associates 0.6 0.6
Operating profit / (loss) before central costs and property losses 142.5 (41.4)
Central costs (13.8) (14.0)
Property losses (13.6) (13.5)
Operating profit / (loss) 115.1 (68.9)
Finance income 57.2 63.5
Finance costs (101.5) (113.4)
Profit / (loss) before tax for the period 70.8 (118.8)
External revenue for Southern Europe includes £6.5 million relating to the closed business.
Reconciliation of underlying proﬁt / (loss) to total proﬁt / (loss)
2011/12
Underlying 
profit / (loss) 
£million
Closed 
business 
£million
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles 
£million
Net 
restructuring 
charges 
£million
 Business 
impairment 
charges 
£million
Other items 
£million
Other 
non-
underlying 
financing 
items 
 £million
 Total  
 profit / (loss) 
£million
UK & Ireland 78.8 – (0.4) (9.5) – (3.2) – 65.7
Northern Europe 113.3–––– 38.8 – 152.1
Southern Europe (30.4) (2.9) (0.7) – (167.6) – – (201.6)
PIXmania (19.8) – (3.4) (6.6) (28.4) – – (58.2)
141.9 (2.9) (4.5) (16.1) (196.0) 35.6 – (42.0)
Share of post-tax results of associates 0.6–––––– 0.6
Operating profit / (loss) before 
central costs and property losses 142.5 (2.9) (4.5) (16.1) (196.0) 35.6 – (41.4)
Central costs (13.8) – – (0.2) – – – (14.0)
Property losses (13.6) 0.1––––– (13.5)
Operating profit / (loss) 115.1 (2.8) (4.5) (16.3) (196.0) 35.6 – (68.9)
Finance income 57.2––––– 6.3 63.5
Finance costs (101.5) (0.1) –––– (11.8) (113.4)
Profit / (loss) before tax for 
the period 70.8(2.9)(4.5)(16.3)(196.0)35.6(5.5)(118.8)
Share of post-tax results of associates relates to Northern Europe. 82 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
2010/11
External  
revenue 
£million
Inter-segmental 
revenue  
£million
 Total
revenue 
£million
Underlying 
profit / (loss) 
£million
Total  
profit / (loss) 
£million 
UK & Ireland 3,925.3 57.8 3,983.1 68.7 47.8
Northern Europe 2,375.6 4.0 2,379.6 102.5 81.8
Southern Europe 1,307.4 0.4 1,307.8 (18.1) (150.3)
PIXmania 733.55.0738.53.5(118.2)
Eliminations – (67.2) (67.2) – –
8,341.8 – 8,341.8 156.6 (138.9)
Share of post-tax results of associates (0.4) (0.4)
Operating profit / (loss) before central costs and property losses 156.2 (139.3)
Central costs (15.8) (26.1)
Property losses (12.8) (12.8)
Operating profit / (loss) 127.6 (178.2)
Finance income 58.9 71.4
Finance costs (101.2) (117.3)
Profit / (loss) before tax for the period 85.3 (224.1)
External revenue for Southern Europe includes £187 .4 million relating to the closed business.
Reconciliation of underlying proﬁt / (loss) to total proﬁt / (loss)
2010/11
Underlying 
profit / (loss) 
£million
Closed 
business 
£million
Amortisation of 
acquired 
intangibles 
£million
Net 
restructuring 
charges 
£million
 Business 
impairment 
charges 
£million
Other items 
£million
Other 
non-underlying 
financing items 
 £million
 Total  
 profit / (loss) 
£million
UK & Ireland 68.7 – (0.4) (5.6) – (14.9) – 47.8
Northern Europe 102.5––– (21.5) 0.8 – 81.8
Southern Europe (18.1) (7.7) (0.7) – (123.8) – – (150.3)
PIXmania 3.5 – (3.4) – (106.3) (12.0) – (118.2)
156.6 (7.7) (4.5) (5.6) (251.6) (26.1) – (138.9)
Share of post-tax results of associates (0.4) –––––– (0.4)
Operating profit / (loss) before central 
costs and property losses 156.2 (7.7) (4.5) (5.6) (251.6) (26.1) – (139.3)
Central costs (15.8) – – (11.5) – 1.2 – (26.1)
Property losses (12.8) –––––– (12.8)
Operating profit / (loss) 127.6 (7.7) (4.5) (17.1) (251.6) (24.9) – (178.2)
Finance income 58.9––––– 12.5 71.4
Finance costs (101.2) (0.8) –––– (15.3) (117.3)
Profit / (loss) before tax for the period 85.3 (8.5) (4.5) (17.1) (251.6) (24.9) (2.8) (224.1)
Share of post-tax results of associates relates to Northern Europe.
(b) Geographical analysis 
Revenues are allocated to countries according to the entity’s country of domicile. Revenue generated by the UK business was  
£3,704.7 million (2010/11 £3,800.9 million). Revenue by destination is not materially different to that shown by domicile. There was 
no revenue from discontinued operations (2010/11 none).
Non-current assets comprise property, plant & equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, investments in associates and non-current trade  
and other receivables. Non-current assets held by the UK, Italy and PIXmania were £367 .6 million (2011 £402.0 million), £53.2 million  
(2011 £185.3 million), and £93.0 million (2011 £135.5 million), respectively. Non-current assets held by Northern Europe were £749.3 million 
(2011 £823.9 million) and predominantly comprised goodwill (as disclosed in note 9) which has not been allocated to individual countries.
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) 83
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
(c) Balance sheet 
2012
Segment 
 assets 
£million
Investment 
 in associates 
£million
Total  
segment assets 
 £million
Segment 
liabilities 
 £million
 Net assets 
 £million
UK & Ireland 1,750.8 – 1,750.8 (1,173.7) 577.1
Northern Europe 1,130.2 3.5 1,133.7 (383.4) 750.3
Southern Europe 376.3 – 376.3 (409.6) (33.3)
PIXmania 187.9 – 187.9 (117.7) 70.2
Central 661.0 – 661.0 (1,619.8) (958.8)
Eliminations (1,063.3) – (1,063.3) 1,063.3 –
Continuing operations 3,042.9 3.5 3,046.4 (2,640.9) 405.5
Discontinued operations – – – (1.5) (1.5)
3,042.9 3.5 3,046.4 (2,642.4) 404.0
2011
Segment  
assets  
£million
Investment 
 in associates 
£million
Total  
segment assets 
 £million
Segment 
liabilities  
£million
 Net assets 
£million
UK & Ireland 1,730.9 – 1,730.9 (1,205.3) 525.6
Northern Europe 1,195.7 3.4 1,199.1 (343.9) 855.2
Southern Europe 626.4 – 626.4 (633.6) (7.2)
PIXmania 263.7 – 263.7 (122.6) 141.1
Central 936.1 – 936.1 (1,771.3) (835.2)
Eliminations (1,178.8) – (1,178.8) 1,178.8 –
Continuing operations 3,574.0 3.4 3,577.4 (2,897.9) 679.5
Discontinued operations – – – (3.0) (3.0)
3,574.0 3.4 3,577.4 (2,900.9) 676.5
Central assets and liabilities predominantly comprise intersegment balances, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, net retirement beneﬁt 
obligations, derivative ﬁnancial instruments and tax assets and liabilities. 
(d) Other information 2011/12
Capital expenditure
Intangible 
assets  
£million
Property,
 plant & 
equipment 
£million
Depreciation 
£million
Amortisation 
£million
Share-based 
payments 
£million
UK & Ireland 1.8 46.8 72.2 10.6 (1.0)
Northern Europe 5.1 22.5 28.5 4.4 (1.2)
Southern Europe 2.0 7.5 18.3 2.0 (1.1)
PIXmania 4.3 3.8 4.4 5.9 –
Central – 0.2 0.4 – (1.4)
Continuing operations 13.2 80.8 123.8 22.9 (4.7)
Discontinued operations –––––
13.2 80.8 123.8 22.9 (4.7)
2010/11
Capital expenditure
Intangible  
assets  
£million
Property,  
plant & 
equipment 
£million
 Depreciation 
£million
Amortisation 
£million
 Share-based 
payments 
£million
UK & Ireland 14.3 118.9 65.3 14.4 3.9
Northern Europe 4.6 43.5 27.1 4.6 1.1
Southern Europe 2.8 25.7 21.7 2.8 1.1
PIXmania 2.7 6.0 4.4 5.5 0.1
Central – – 0.2 – 1.8
Continuing operations 24.4 194.1 118.7 27.3 8.0
Discontinued operations – – – – –
24.4 194.1 118.7 27.3 8.0 84 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
3 Revenue and operating proﬁt / (loss) 
2011/12 2010/11
Non-underlying Non-underlying
Underlying 
£million
Closed 
business 
£million
Other  
£million
Total  
£million
Underlying 
£million
Closed 
business
 £million
Other  
£million
Total  
£million
Revenue 8,186.7 6.5 – 8,193.2 8,154.4 187.4 – 8,341.8
Cost of sales (7,643.3) (8.8) (14.4) (7,666.5) (7,579.4) (185.3) (83.8) (7,848.5)
Gross profit / (loss) 543.4 (2.3) (14.4) 526.7 575.0 2.1 (83.8) 493.3
Distribution costs (163.1) (0.2) – (163.3) (186.2) (3.6) (2.1) (191.9)
Administrative expenses (252.2) (0.4) (166.8) (419.4) (247.2) (6.2) (212.2) (465.6)
Other operating  
(charge) / income (13.6) 0.1 – (13.5) (13.6) – – (13.6)
Profit / (loss) from operations 
before associates 114.5 (2.8) (181.2) (69.5) 128.0 (7.7) (298.1) (177.8)
Share of post-tax results of 
associates 0.6 – – 0.6 (0.4) – – (0.4)
Total operating profit / (loss) 115.1 (2.8) (181.2) (68.9) 127.6 (7.7) (298.1) (178.2)
Non-underlying items comprise amortisation of acquired intangibles of £4.5 million (2010/11 £4.5 million), included within administrative 
expenses. Such items are described further in note 4. Included within underlying cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative 
expenses is amortisation of other intangibles of £9.8 million, £1.6 million and £7 .0 million, respectively (2010/11 £12.5 million, £2.4 million 
and £7.0 million, respectively).
2011/12 2010/11
Underlying 
£million
Closed 
business 
 £million
 Total  
£million
Underlying 
£million
Closed 
business 
 £million
 Total  
£million
Sale of goods 7,714.4 3.8 7,718.2 7,689.7 172.9 7,862.6
Revenue from services 472.3 2.7 475.0 464.7 14.5 479.2
8,186.7 6.5 8,193.2 8,154.4 187.4 8,341.8
Revenue from services predominantly comprises those relating to customer support agreements, delivery and installation, product repairs 
and product support. 
2011/12 2010/11
Underlying 
£million
Closed 
business
 £million
Total
 £million
Underlying 
£million
Closed 
business
 £million
Total
 £million
Inventories recognised as an expense 6,033.4 3.9 6,037.3 6,204.1 153.0 6,357.1
Cost of inventory write-down 26.5 – 26.5 25.4 0.4 25.8
Rentals paid under operating leases:
Plant and machinery 10.6 – 10.6 8.5 – 8.5
Property – non-contingent rent 362.4 0.6 363.0 359.4 10.1 369.5
Property – contingent rent 13.3 – 13.3 5.4 – 5.4
Rentals received under operating leases:
Property – subleases (5.0) – (5.0) (7.3) – (7.3)
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
Auditor’s remuneration 
Audit services – Group financial statements 0.5 0.5
  – Subsidiary financial statements 0.6 0.6
Total audit fees 1.1 1.1
Non-audit services pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2
Other 0.2 –
Total fees paid to the auditor 1.5 1.3
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) 85
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
4 Non-underlying items
2011/12 2010/11
Note
Closed  
business  
£million
 Other 
 £million
 Total 
 £million
Closed 
business 
£million
 Other 
 £million
 Total 
 £million
Included in operating profit / (loss): 
Closed business (i) (2.8) – (2.8) (7.7) – (7.7)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – (4.5) (4.5) – (4.5) (4.5)
Net restructuring charges (ii) – (16.3) (16.3) – (17.1) (17.1)
Business impairment charges (iii) – (196.0) (196.0) – (251.6) (251.6)
Other items (iv) – 35.6 35.6 – (24.9) (24.9)
(2.8) (181.2) (184.0) (7.7) (298.1) (305.8)
Included in net finance costs:
Closed business (i) (0.1) – (0.1) (0.8) – (0.8)
Net fair value remeasurements of financial  
instruments (v) – (2.8) (2.8) – (2.8) (2.8)
Accelerated amortisation of facility fees (vi) – (2.7) (2.7) – (7.8) (7.8)
Net 2012 Bond redemption gains (vii) ––– – 7.8 7.8
(0.1) (5.5) (5.6) (0.8) (2.8) (3.6)
Total impact on profit / (loss) before tax (2.9) (186.7) (189.6) (8.5) (300.9) (309.4)
Included in income tax expense:
Closed business ––– –––
Tax on other non-underlying items – 8.3 8.3 – 12.3 12.3
Non-underlying: tax specific items (viii) – (16.0) (16.0) –––
– (7.7) (7.7) – 12.3 12.3
Total impact on profit / (loss) after tax (2.9) (194.4) (197.3) (8.5) (288.6) (297.1)
(i)  Closed business: comprises the operating activities of PC City Spain which were closed in June 2011.
(ii) Net restructuring charges – strategic reorganisation:
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
Asset impairments (8.8) (1.6)
Property charges (2.9) (7.4)
Other charges (4.6) (8.1)
(16.3) (17.1)
Net restructuring charges relate predominantly to the renewal and transformation of the UK & Ireland business which has been 
focused mainly on the reformatting and reorganisation of the UK & Ireland store portfolio and the reorganisation of the service  
offering as well as, for 2011/12, a reorganisation of the PIXmania photo processing operations.
In the UK, asset impairments relate mainly to items of property, plant & equipment, some of which comprise incremental accelerated 
depreciation charges which arose from restructuring initiatives which commenced in 2007/08. Property charges comprise onerous 
lease costs and charges related to vacating properties. Other charges predominantly comprise employee severance.
The PIXmania restructuring charges amount to £6.6 million which relate to the closure and ensuing reorganisation of its photo 
processing operations. The charge comprises £1.7 million for asset impairments, £1.7 million for onerous property charges and 
£3.2 million of other charges. 86 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
4 Non-underlying items (continued)
(iii) Business impairment charges:
2011/12
Goodwill  
impairment  
£million
Other assets  
impairment 
£million
Property 
charges  
£million
Other  
 charges 
 £million
 Total  
£million
Italian business (109.4) (5.6) (15.1) (1.0) (131.1)
PIXmania (28.4) – – – (28.4)
Greek business (36.5) – – – (36.5)
(174.3) (5.6) (15.1) (1.0) (196.0)
2010/11
Goodwill  
impairment  
£million
Other assets  
impairment 
£million
Property 
charges  
£million
Other  
 charges 
 £million
 Total  
£million
Closed business (15.1) (31.8) (6.1) (17.6) (70.6)
PIXmania (106.3) – – – (106.3)
Greek business (53.2) – – – (53.2)
Associate – (21.5) – – (21.5)
(174.6) (53.3) (6.1) (17.6) (251.6)
201 1/12: 
 Italian business: The current increased macro-economic uncertainties, which have contributed to further weakness in the Italian 
economy which was particularly evident over the Peak trading period, together with an expectation that growth in the Italian economy 
will be signiﬁcantly less than previously forecast, have led to an impairment to the goodwill of Unieuro which is described further  
in note 9, as well as impairment charges to property, plant & equipment and property charges comprising onerous lease costs.
 PIXmania and Greek business: Continuing weakness in the Southern European economies in which PIXmania operates, which 
includes Greece, and which was again particularly evident over the Peak trading period, together with further delays to economic 
recovery now anticipated, has resulted in proﬁt performance continuing to fall further behind that envisaged in the prior period’s 
forecasts. This has therefore led to an impairment to the goodwill in these businesses. 
2010/1 1:
 The closed business relates to PC City Spain following the closure of these operations in June 2011 and comprised the full impairment 
of goodwill as well as other tangible and intangible asset impairments. Property charges comprised onerous lease costs and charges 
related to vacating properties. Other charges related predominantly to employee severance.
 PIXmania: Weakness in the Southern European economies, investment in developing new web platforms and changes in the internet 
retailing market caused proﬁt performance to be behind that envisaged at the time of the acquisition of the business and this therefore 
led to an impairment to the goodwill.
 Greek business: Following an extended period of economic difﬁculty and the expectation that a full recovery will be prolonged, 
an impairment to the goodwill was recognised.
 Associate: Relates to a long period of decline in the results of F-Group leading to the conclusion that the carrying value of the 
investment (which incorporates prior year dividends received) was impaired. Further information is provided in note 12.
(iv) Other items comprise the following:
2011/12 
£million
2010/11  
£million
Profit on disposal of property 37.2 –
UK Riot related net costs (3.2) –
Revaluation of associate shares 1.6 –
Impairment of other intangibles work in progress – (14.9)
Exceptional supplier balance write offs – (12.0)
Credits in respect of prior restructurings – 2.0
35.6 (24.9)
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) 87
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
201 1/12:
 Proﬁt on disposal of property relates to the sale and leaseback of the Group’s Nordic distribution centre in Jönköping in Sweden. 
The sale completed on 23 June 2011 for SEK 602 million (£58.1 million). Owing to the size of the gain as well as the signiﬁcance  
of the property in relation to the Group’s operations, the proﬁt has been treated as a non-underlying item.
 UK Riot related net costs comprise mainly inventory write offs and reinstatement costs together with certain other incremental  
costs arising from the riots which occurred in August 2011 and which amounted to £3.5 million. These amounts have been offset  
by insurance recoveries received to date of £0.3 million, with further insurance claims outstanding.
 Revaluation of associate shares: Relates to gain arising on the revaluation of a previous small associate shareholding following  
the acquisition of the remaining shares during the period.
2010/1 1:
 Impairment of other intangibles work in progress related to capitalised system costs in the UK from 2008 following the decision  
to defer the project in order to focus on existing process improvements. 
 The exceptional supplier balance write offs related to supplier receivables in PIXmania dating back to 2008/09 and prior years.  
This write off arose due to the culmination of a reconciliation process following the implementation of new systems highlighting  
the extent of the receivables outstanding and a detailed review of the Group’s ability to recover these balances. 
 Credits related mainly to closed businesses and represent cash recoveries from third parties which due to their contingent nature  
had not previously been recognised.
(v)  Net fair value remeasurement gains and losses on revaluation of ﬁnancial instruments: Items excluded from underlying ﬁnance income 
and expense represent the gains and losses arising from the revaluation of derivative ﬁnancial instruments under methodologies 
stipulated by IAS 39 compared with those on an accruals basis (the basis upon which all other items in the ﬁnancial statements are 
prepared). Such a treatment is a form of revaluation gain or loss created by an assumption that the derivatives will be settled before 
their maturity.
  Such gains and losses are unrealised and in the directors’ view also conﬂict with both the commercial reasons for entering into such 
arrangements as well as Group Treasury policy whereby early settlement in the majority of cases would amount to speculative use  
of derivatives.
(vi)  2011/12: On 24 May 2012, the Group signed an amendment and restatement agreement implementing a revised revolving facility 
agreement (the New Facility) for £300 million. The renegotiation of this facility has triggered the acceleration of the amortisation of fees 
for the £360 million revolving credit facility (the £360 million Facility) which would otherwise have been charged evenly over the period  
to the pre-existing facility’s maturity in August 2013.
   2010/11: On 12 May 2010, the Group signed a new £360 million revolving credit facility (the £360 million Facility) which came into  
effect on 9 July 2010 when the Group’s pre-existing £400 million sterling committed facility (the £400 million Facility) was cancelled.  
This cancellation triggered the acceleration of the amortisation of fees from the £400 million Facility which would otherwise have been 
charged evenly over the period to the pre-existing facility’s maturity in October 2011.
(vii)  2010/11: On 23 July 2010, the Group conditionally accepted tenders to repurchase £140 million in nominal amount of its £300 million 
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds due November 2012 (the 2012 Bonds), subject to the successful completion of appropriate ﬁnancing to  
fund the repurchase. This repurchase was ﬁnanced by a new issue of £150 million 8.75% Guaranteed Notes due 3 August 2015 and for 
which proceeds were received on 30 July 2010. As a result of the repurchase, charges relating to the acceleration of the amortisation of 
fees from the 2012 Bonds which would otherwise have been charged evenly over the period to the 2012 Bonds’ maturity in November 
2012 has occurred together with a redemption premium. These have been more than offset by gains arising on the notional cancellation 
of interest rate swaps which were in place on the portion of the 2012 Bonds which have now been redeemed.
(viii)  2011/12: Tax speciﬁc non-underlying items comprise adjustments in respect of prior years which relate mainly to the recognition and 
remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities on historical acquisitions in the Northern Europe division for which differences between the tax 
written down value and the book value of goodwill from acquisition have been identiﬁed and for which IAS 12 requires such recognition. 
Because these items relate to historical acquisitions from prior years and the liabilities created will not give rise to any actual payment of 
tax either in the current or future periods in any of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, the ensuing charge required to create 
the liability has been treated as non-underlying. The liability which has been recorded and which arises due to accounting standard 
requirements, is expected to remain for the foreseeable future. 88 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
5 Net ﬁnance costs
Note 
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
Bank and other interest receivable (ii) 12.4 14.2
Expected return on pension scheme assets 44.8 44.7
Fair value remeasurement gains on financial instruments
*
(iv) 6.3 2.3
2012 Bond redemption gains
*
– 10.2
Finance income 63.5 71.4
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 interest and related charges (9.3) (12.0)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 interest and related charges (14.0) (9.8)
Bank loans, overdrafts and other interest payable:
Non-underlying: closed business
*
(0.1) (0.8)
Underlying (iii) (21.3) (22.0)
Finance lease interest payable (6.4) (7.1)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (50.5) (50.3)
Fair value remeasurement losses on financial instruments
*
(iv) (9.1) (5.1)
Accelerated amortisation of facility fees
*
(2.7) (7.8)
2012 Bond redemption costs
*
– (2.4)
Finance costs (113.4) (117.3)
Total net finance costs – continuing operations (49.9) (45.9)
Underlying total net finance costs – continuing operations (i) (44.3) (42.3)
(i)  Underlying total net ﬁnance costs exclude items marked 
*
. See note 4 for a description of such items. Net ﬁnance costs for the closed 
business comprise interest on bank loans and overdrafts. 
(ii) Bank and other interest receivable comprise:
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
Interest on cash and cash equivalents and short term investments 2.1 2.1
Derivative interest income 10.3 12.1
12.4 14.2
  Derivative interest income includes amounts relating to the remeasurement of ﬁnancial instruments on an accruals basis. Included within 
derivative interest income is income of £5.3 million (2010/11 £4.2 million) from ﬁnancial instruments not in a designated hedging 
relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
(iii) Bank loans, overdrafts and other interest payable comprise:
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (11.4) (14.8)
Exchange losses (5.3) (3.8)
Derivative interest expense (4.6) (3.4)
(21.3) (22.0)
  Included within exchange losses are losses of £11.9 million (2010/11 losses of £1.2 million) which is a natural offset for gains arising 
from ﬁnancial instruments not in a formal designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
  Derivative interest expense includes amounts relating to the remeasurement of ﬁnancial instruments on an accruals basis. Included 
within derivative interest expense is a £4.6 million charge (2010/11 £3.4 million) from ﬁnancial instruments not in a designated hedging 
relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
(iv)  Fair value remeasurement gains and losses on ﬁnancial instruments include losses of £3.4 million (2010/11 £3.4 million) which are 
not in a designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
(v)   Interest income of £2.1 million (2010/11 £2.1 million) and expense of £36.0 million (2010/11 £58.5 million) is included within net ﬁnance 
costs relating to ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, respectively not held at fair value through the Income Statement.
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) 89
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
6 Employees
Staff costs for the period were:
2011/12 
 £million
2010/11 
 £million
Wages and salaries 719.9 745.1
Social security costs 105.2 113.2
Other pension costs 17.0 17.4
842.1 875.7
The average number of employees, including part time employees, was:
2011/12 
Number
2010/11  
Number
UK & Ireland 20,851 23,091
Northern Europe 8,748 8,154
Southern Europe 5,214 6,758
PIXmania 1,402 1,398
Corporate centre and shared services 370 332
Continuing operations 36,585 39,733
The average number of employees for Southern Europe includes 139 (2010/11 1,378) relating to the closed business.
7Tax 
(a) Income tax expense 
2011/12  
£million
2010/11  
£million
Current tax
UK corporation tax at 25.85%
(ii) 
(2010/11 27.83%) – 0.1
Double tax relief – (0.1)
– –
Overseas taxation – underlying 29.1 22.7
Adjustment in respect of earlier periods: 
 UK corporation tax – underlying – –
 Overseas taxation – underlying 4.4 (0.2)
– non-underlying: tax specific
*
4.1 –
37.6 22.5
Deferred tax 
Current period – underlying 8.7 18.9
  – non-underlying: closed business
*
– –
  – non-underlying: other
*
(8.3) (12.3)
Adjustment in respect of earlier periods:
 UK corporation tax – underlying (1.7) (2.0)
  – non-underlying: tax specific
*
2.5 –
 Overseas taxation – underlying (4.1) (8.0)
  – non-underlying: tax specific
*
9.4 –
6.5 (3.4)
Income tax expense – continuing operations 44.1 19.1
Underlying income tax expense – continuing operations (i) 36.4 31.4
(i)  Underlying income tax expense excludes those items marked 
*
. Further information on these items is shown in note 4. 
(ii)  The UK corporation tax rate for the period was 26% for the period up to 31 March 2012 and 24% thereafter (2010/11 28% for the 
period up to 31 March 2011 and 26% thereafter). 90 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
7Tax (continued)
A reconciliation of the notional to the actual income tax expense is set out below:
Note
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
Loss before tax – continuing operations (118.8) (224.1)
Loss before tax – discontinued operations 27 – (2.1)
(118.8) (226.2)
Tax on loss at UK statutory rate of 25.85% (2010/11 27.83%) (30.7) (63.0)
Non-qualifying depreciation 3.0 3.3
Differences in effective overseas taxation rates (0.3) (1.0)
Non-deductible charges 1.0 1.9
Non-taxable (gains) / losses on property disposals (9.8) 1.1
Non-deductible losses   – non-underlying: other 50.3 71.4
Overseas deferred tax not recognised – underlying 6.2 3.7
    – non-underlying: closed business 1.7 –
Adjustment in respect of earlier periods – underlying (1.4) (10.2)
    – non-underlying: tax specific 16.0 –
Non-deductible loss on discontinued  
operations – 1.0
Effect of change in UK statutory  
tax rate 4.1 6.0
Other differences 4.0 4.9
Income tax expense – total 44.1 19.1
Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 27 – –
Income tax expense – continuing operations 44.1 19.1
The effective tax rate on underlying earnings of 51% (2010/11 37%) is expected to fall in future periods due mainly to unrecognised losses and 
non-deductible items starting to form a lower proportion of net proﬁts. The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax 
losses of £128.6 million (2010/11 £126.1 million) of which £76.9 million (2010/11 £0.9 million) have no time restriction over when they can be 
utilised. The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to time restricted tax losses of £51.7 million (2010/11 £125.2 million) for which 
the weighted average period over which they can be utilised is seven years (2010/11 ﬁve years). 
(b) Deferred tax 
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£million
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£million
Losses  
carried  
forward
 £million
Other 
 timing 
differences 
£million
 Total  
£million
At 2 May 2010 33.0 75.0 27.5 15.2 150.7
Credited / (charged) to income statement 14.0 (3.2) (3.6) (3.8) 3.4
Charged directly to equity – (7.0) – (2.1) (9.1)
Currency retranslation 0.2 – 0.4 0.2 0.8
At 30 April 2011 47.2 64.8 24.3 9.5 145.8
Credited / (charged) to income statement (13.4) (2.6) 10.1 (0.6) (6.5)
Charged directly to equity – 2.5 – (1.5) 1.0
Disposals – – (3.6) – (3.6)
Currency retranslation (0.9) (0.2) (0.7) 0.1 (1.7)
At 28 April 2012 32.9 64.5 30.1 7.5 135.0
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) 91
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Summary of assets and liabilities as disclosed:
2012  
£million
2011  
£million
Deferred tax assets 155.2 163.4
Deferred tax liabilities (20.2) (17.6)
135.0 145.8
Analysis of deferred tax relating to items credited / (charged) directly to equity in the period:
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
Actuarial losses / (gains) on defined benefit pension schemes 2.5 (7.0)
Net losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges (0.6) (1.9)
Net (gains) / losses on hedges of net investments (0.9) 0.4
Charged to comprehensive expense 1.0 (8.5)
Share-based payments – (0.6)
1.0 (9.1)
The recognition of trading losses carried forward is considered supportable due to the ability to offset losses against future proﬁts. 
As a result of share disposals, allowable losses have been incurred which are available for offset against certain future chargeable gains.  
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as it is considered that there is insufﬁcient evidence that chargeable 
gains will arise. The deferred tax asset not recognised, measured at the standard rate of 24% (2011 26%), is not less than £301.8 million 
(2011 £327 .0 million). Where permitted, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset for ﬁnancial reporting purposes. 92 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
8 Earnings per share 
Note 
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
Basic and diluted loss
Total (continuing and discontinued operations) (154.3) (239.0)
Discontinued operations – loss after tax 27 – 2.1
Continuing operations (154.3) (236.9)
Adjustments (non-underlying)
Closed business 2.9 8.5
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4.5 4.5
Net restructuring charges 16.3 17.1
Business impairment charges 196.0 251.6
Other items (35.6) 24.9
Net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments 2.8 2.8
Accelerated amortisation of facility fees 2.7 7.8
2012 Bond redemption gains – (7.8)
189.6 309.4
Attributable to non-controlling interests (2.5) (3.6)
Attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 187.1 305.8
Tax on adjustments (8.3) (12.3)
Tax specific non-underlying items 16.0 –
Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.8 2.2
Tax on adjustments attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 8.5 (10.1)
Total adjustments (net of taxation) 195.6 295.7
Underlying basic and diluted earnings 41.3 58.8
Million Million
Basic weighted average number of shares 3,608.7 3,606.6
Employee share option and ownership schemes 11.5 12.3
Diluted weighted average number of shares 3,620.2 3,618.9
Pence Pence
Basic (loss) / earnings per share
Total (continuing and discontinued operations) (4.3) (6.6)
Discontinued operations – –
Continuing operations (4.3) (6.6)
Adjustments (net of taxation) 5.4 8.2
Underlying basic earnings per share 1.1 1.6
Diluted (loss) / earnings per share
Total (continuing and discontinued operations) (4.3) (6.6)
Discontinued operations – –
Continuing operations (4.3) (6.6)
Adjustments (net of taxation) 5.4 8.2
Underlying diluted earnings per share 1.1 1.6
Basic and diluted earnings per share are based on the proﬁt for the period attributable to equity shareholders. Underlying earnings per share 
are presented in order to show the underlying performance of the Group. Adjustments used to determine underlying earnings are described 
further in note 4.
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) 93
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
9 Goodwill
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
Cost 
At beginning of period 1,538.1 1,516.5
Additions 5.1 2.6
Disposals (0.2) (15.1)
Currency retranslation (99.2) 34.1
At end of period 1,443.8 1,538.1
Impairment 
At beginning of period 567.3 400.0
Non-underlying impairment 174.3 174.6
Disposals – (15.1)
Currency retranslation (38.5) 7.8
At end of period 703.1 567.3
Net book value at the end of period 740.7 970.8
(a) Carrying value
The carrying value of goodwill is made up of the following businesses: 
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
Elkjøp Nordic AS (Elkjøp) 650.9 686.6
Unieuro S.p.A. (Unieuro) 26.6 146.9
PIXmania S.A.S. (PIXmania) 46.1 80.8
Dixons South East Europe A.E.V.E. (Kotsovolos) – 39.4
Others 17.1 17.1
740.7 970.8
The non-underlying impairment charges, which form part of non-underlying operating proﬁt, comprise:
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
Unieuro 109.4 –
PIXmania 28.4 106.3
Kotsovolos 36.5 53.2
Closed business – 15.1
174.3 174.6
2011/12:
For all three businesses impaired, increasing weaknesses in the Southern European economies which were particularly evident over  
the peak trading period, together with the ensuing expectations that the achievability of targets will be considerably less than previously 
forecast and recovery may be prolonged, has caused the directors to revise projections for the ﬁve year period referred to below signiﬁcantly 
downwards when compared to previous periods, thereby giving rise to impairment charges.
The revised projections for Unieuro incorporate management’s actions on costs as well as improving the estate and competitiveness in  
the market. In respect of PIXmania, as described in the performance review section of this Annual Report and Accounts, this business  
has been evolving its business model through growth in new product categories, its E-merchant e-commerce platform, as well as other 
initiatives. Such actions are considered by management, through the impairment modelling described below, to appropriately support  
the remaining carrying value of the goodwill for Unieuro and PIXmania.
The projections for Kotsovolos demonstrate a robust market position, however, the uncertainty concerning the outlook for the economy  
in Greece has supressed the projections such that the remaining value of goodwill has been impaired down to £nil.
2010/11:
The disposal related to the closed business resulting from there being no ongoing business attaching to the goodwill.
Further details of these charges is shown in note 4 and the methodology used in their calculation is set out below. 94 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
9 Goodwill (continued) 
(b) Impairment testing
As required by IAS 36, goodwill is subject to annual impairment reviews. These reviews are carried out using the following criteria:
 business acquisitions generate an attributed amount of goodwill; 
 the manner in which these businesses are run and managed is used to determine the ‘Cash Generating Unit’ (CGU) grouping as deﬁned  
in IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’;
 the recoverable amount of each CGU group is determined based on calculating its value in use (VIU);
 the VIU is calculated by applying discounted cash ﬂow modelling to management’s own projections covering a ﬁve year period;
 cash ﬂows beyond the ﬁve year period are extrapolated using a long term growth rate equivalent to the relevant market’s Gross  
Domestic Product (GDP); and
 the VIU is then compared to the carrying amount in order to determine whether impairment has occurred. 
The key assumptions used in calculating value in use are:
 management’s ﬁve year projections;
 the growth rate beyond ﬁve years; and 
 the pre-tax adjusted discount rate. 
The ﬁve year projections, which have been approved by management, have been prepared using risk adjusted strategic plans which have 
regard to the relative performance of competitors and knowledge of the current market together with management’s views on the future 
achievable growth in market share and impact of the committed initiatives under the Renewal and Transformation plan (which includes 
upgrade of the store network). The cash ﬂows which derive from these ﬁve year projections include ongoing capital expenditure required  
to develop and upgrade the store network in order to maintain and operate the businesses and to compete in their markets. In forming the  
ﬁve year projections, management draws on past experience as a measure to forecast future performance.
Key assumptions used in determining the ﬁve year projections comprise the growth in sales and costs over this period. The compound 
annual growth rate in sales and costs can rise as well as fall year on year depending not only on the year ﬁve targets, but also on the current 
ﬁnancial year base. These targets, when combined, accordingly drive the resulting proﬁt margins and the proﬁt in year ﬁve of the projections 
which is in turn used to calculate the terminal value in the VIU calculation. Historical amounts for the businesses under impairment review as 
well as from other parts of the Group are used to generate the values attributed to these assumptions.
The growth rate beyond ﬁve years is based on the GDP for the territories in which these businesses operate. The discount rates applied  
to cash ﬂows are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital having regard to the strategic ﬁve year plans themselves already 
being risk adjusted to take account of speciﬁc risks in the relevant market or region. 
The values attributed to these assumptions are as follows:
2012 2011
Compound 
annual growth 
in sales
Compound 
annual growth 
in costs
Growth rate 
beyond five 
years
Pre-tax 
discount rate
Compound 
annual growth in 
sales
Compound 
annual growth in 
costs
Growth rate 
beyond five 
years
Pre-tax 
discount rate
Elkjøp 6.1% 6.1% 2.5% 11.4% 4.3% 4.4% 2.6% 11.7%
Unieuro 6.9% 6.0% 1.5% 11.8% 11.8% 11.1% 0.9% 12.5%
PIXmania 10.5% 9.4% 2.0% 11.1% 8.7% 8.3% 1.8% 12.7%
Kotsovolos 3.1% 1.8% 1.5% 10.7% 1.8% 0.9% 2.0% 11.7%
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) 95
Financial Statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
(c) Sensitivities
A sensitivity analysis had been performed on each of the base case assumptions used for assessing the goodwill with other variables  
held constant. Consideration of sensitivities to key assumptions can evolve from one ﬁnancial year to the next. 
The directors have concluded that in the case of Elkjøp there are no reasonably possible changes in any key assumption which would 
cause the carrying amount of goodwill to exceed its value in use. In the case of Unieuro and PIXmania it is reasonably possible that a 
change in a key assumption could occur and because the value in use equals the respective carrying value after impairment, any adverse 
change in a key assumption would, in isolation, cause a further impairment loss to be recognised. The following sensitivities are therefore 
presented, which are calculated independently, leaving all other variables constant:
 decrease in the compound annual growth rate in sales; 
 increase in the compound annual growth rate in costs; 
 decrease in the growth rate beyond ﬁve years; and 
 increase in the pre-tax discount rate.
In addition to the above, a further sensitivity is presented which shows the effect of a decrease in the compound annual growth rate  
in sales combined with an equivalent reduction in the compound annual growth rate in costs in order to reﬂect how sales and costs  
are interconnected.
2012
Amount of further impairment determined by further changes in key assumptions
Surplus of 
value in use 
over carrying 
value
Decrease in 
compound  
annual growth  
in sales
Increase in 
compound 
annual growth  
in costs
Decrease in 
compound 
annual growth 
in sales and 
costs
Decrease in 
growth rate 
beyond five 
years
Increase in 
pre-tax 
discount rate
Percentage change (0.05)% 0.05% (1.0)% (0.1)% 0.5%
£million £million £million £million £million £million
Unieuro – 17.0 16.9 3.0 0.9 5.6
PIXmania – 18.7 18.5 4.4 1.2 7.9
2011
Change required for surplus of value in use over carrying value to erode to £nil
Surplus of value 
in use over 
carrying value
£million
Decrease in 
compound 
annual growth in 
sales
Increase in 
compound 
annual growth in 
costs
Decrease in 
compound 
annual growth in 
sales and costs
Decrease in 
growth rate 
beyond five 
years
Increase in 
pre-tax 
discount rate
Unieuro 20.5 (0.05)% 0.05% (2.8)% (1.7)% 1.1%
2011
Amount of further impairment determined by further changes in key assumptions
Surplus of value 
in use over 
carrying value
Decrease in 
compound  
annual growth  
in sales
Increase in 
compound 
annual growth  
in costs
Decrease in 
compound 
annual growth in 
sales and costs
Decrease in 
growth rate 
beyond five 
years
Increase in 
pre-tax 
discount rate
Percentage change (0.05)% 0.05% (1.0)% (0.1)% 0.5%
£million £million £million £million £million £million
PIXmania – 17.7 17.7 6.7 1.0 7.1
Kotsovolos – 8.3 8.2 4.0 0.8 5.5 96 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
10 Intangible assets
Other intangibles
Acquired 
intangibles 
£million
Software 
(externally 
acquired) 
£million
Software 
(internally 
generated) 
£million
Sub-total 
£million
Total 
£million
Cost
At 2 May 2010 87.3 121.0 69.7 190.7 278.0
Additions – 19.2 5.2 24.4 24.4
Disposals – (2.0) (0.7) (2.7) (2.7)
Currency retranslation 1.5 1.2 0.4 1.6 3.1
At 30 April 2011 88.8 139.4 74.6 214.0 302.8
Additions – 9.5 3.7 13.2 13.2
Disposals – (3.8) (1.8) (5.6) (5.6)
Currency retranslation (6.5) (3.5) (1.2) (4.7) (11.2)
At 28 April 2012 82.3 141.6 75.3 216.9 299.2
Amortisation
At 2 May 2010 31.1 72.2 44.0 116.2 147.3
Charge for the period – regular 4.5 12.6 10.1 22.7 27.2
  – accelerated – 0.1 – 0.1 0.1
Non-underlying impairment – 15.6 – 15.6 15.6
Disposals – (1.7) (0.7) (2.4) (2.4)
Currency retranslation 0.7 1.0 0.2 1.2 1.9
At 30 April 2011 36.3 99.8 53.6 153.4 189.7
Charge for the period – regular 4.5 10.4 8.0 18.4 22.9
Disposals – (3.8) (1.6) (5.4) (5.4)
Currency retranslation (2.5) (2.7) (0.9) (3.6) (6.1)
At 28 April 2012 38.3 103.7 59.1 162.8 201.1
Net book value
At 28 April 2012 44.0 37.9 16.2 54.1 98.1
At 30 April 2011 52.5 39.6 21.0 60.6 113.1
Acquired intangibles predominantly comprise brand names. Amortisation of intangibles relates to continuing operations. 
Included within the carrying amount of brand names are £27.2 million and £14.6 million (2011 £32.8 million and £16.5 million) relating to the 
euro denominated PIXmania and Kotsovolos brand names, respectively and for which the remaining life of these assets is nine years and 
22 years, respectively. Included in net book value of other intangibles are assets under construction of £15.8 million (2011 £18.6 million).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
97 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
11 Property, plant & equipment
2012 2011
Land and  
buildings  
£million
Fixtures, 
 ﬁttings and 
 equipment 
 £million
Total 
 £million
Land and 
buildings  
£million
Fixtures,  
ﬁttings and 
equipment 
£million
Total 
 £million
Cost
At beginning of period 209.6 1,327.9 1,537.5 205.8 1,250.0 1,455.8
Additions 2.1 78.7 80.8 4.9 189.2 194.1
Disposals (56.9) (166.0) (222.9) (4.8) (127.8) (132.6)
Currency retranslation (1.7) (38.4) (40.1) 3.7 16.5 20.2
At end of period 153.1 1,202.2 1,355.3 209.6 1,327.9 1,537.5
Depreciation
At beginning of period 64.4 889.4 953.8 57.8 857.0 914.8
Charge for the period – regular 5.8 114.6 120.4 7.7 109.0 116.7
  – accelerated – 3.4 3.4 – 2.0 2.0
Non-underlying impairment 3.7 6.4 10.1 – 25.0 25.0
Reclassiﬁcation 13.3 (13.3) –
Disposals (29.7) (160.2) (189.9) (2.3) (115.6) (117.9)
Currency retranslation (0.1) (22.8) (22.9) 1.2 12.0 13.2
At end of period 57.4 817.5 874.9 64.4 889.4 953.8
Net book value at end of period 95.7 384.7 480.4 145.2 438.5 583.7
Included in net book value
Land not depreciated 9.5 – 9.5 19.7 – 19.7
Assets in the course of construction – 14.5 14.5 0.1 9.7 9.8
Assets held under ﬁnance leases 69.8 4.8 74.6 74.2 3.3 77.5
£4.8 million of additions related to ﬁnance leases (2010/11 £2.4 million). Legal title for these leased assets remains with the lessor.  
Assets disclosed as held under ﬁnance leases for 2011 have been restated from those disclosed in the 2010/11 accounts, however,  
such disclosure has had no other impact on the ﬁnancial statements.
12 Investments in associates
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
At beginning of period 3.4 26.4
Share of proﬁt / (loss) after tax 0.6 (0.4)
Acquisitions 0.1 –
Transfer of associate to subsidiary undertakings (0.5) –
Non-underlying impairment – (21.5)
Dividends – (1.1)
Currency retranslation (0.1) –
At end of period 3.5 3.4
Comprising:
F-Group (40%) 2.7 2.9
Other 0.8 0.5
3.5 3.4
The transfer of associate to subsidiary undertakings relates to a previous small associate shareholding which became a subsidiary 
following the acquisition of the remaining shares during the period. 98 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
12 Investments in associates (continued)
The Group’s share of post-tax results of associates is recorded as a single line in the income statement within operating results.  
Additional information for selected income statement and balance sheet headings for F-Group, which is incorporated in Denmark,  
and to which the Group’s share of 40% is applied are as follows:
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
Income statement
Revenue 221.4 227.7
Proﬁt / (loss) after tax 0.9 (1.7)
 2012 
 £million
 2011 
 £million
Balance sheet
Assets 58.3 68.1
Liabilities (27.9) (35.9)
Net assets 30.4 32.2
In 2010/11 the non-underlying impairment related to continued weakness in the results of F-Group which gave rise to a revision in 
expectations of future proﬁtability such that the directors concluded that an impairment charge was required. The impairment was 
calculated by comparing the carrying value of the investment with the Group’s share of the value in use, which was calculated using 
principles described in note 9 and using a pre-tax discount rate of 12.2%.
Investments in other associates comprise shareholdings in several different enterprises in the Nordic region, none of which are signiﬁcant.
13 Inventories
2012  
£million
2011  
£million
Finished goods and goods for resale 908.6 1,002.5
Provision for obsolete and slow moving goods (34.4) (41.6)
874.2 960.9
14 Trade and other receivables
 2012 2011
Note
Current  
£million
Non-current 
£million
Current  
£million
Non-current 
£million
Trade debtors 220.4 5.7 243.7 9.4
Provision for bad and doubtful debts (24.8) – (24.2) (1.7)
195.6 5.7 219.5 7.7
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 22 13.0 – 3.5 18.3
Other debtors 47.2 16.9 68.3 12.7
Prepayments 65.4 1.0 60.6 2.8
Accrued income 22.7 – 31.3 8.1
343.9 23.6 383.2 49.6
The majority of trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 day terms. The balance comprises both 
B2B receivables and consumer credit receivables with no material individual balances. The total ﬁnancial assets included within trade and 
other receivables are £301.1 million (2011 £369.4 million). The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates fair value with 
no concentration of credit risk. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
99 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
The Group’s trade debtors included the following amounts which are past due at the end of the period and for which the Group has not 
provided for owing to the amounts being considered recoverable:
2012 
 £million
2011 
 £million
Up to six months past due 34.1 42.9
Six to 12 months past due 1.3 0.8
Over 12 months past due – 1.7
35.4 45.4
Movements on the provision for bad and doubtful debts are as follows:
2012  
£million
2011  
£million
At beginning of period 25.9 28.2
Charge for the year 6.5 9.4
Utilisation of provision (6.5) (11.8)
Currency retranslation (1.1) 0.1
At end of period 24.8 25.9
The Group does not hold any collateral as security over receivables balances. 
15 Short term investments
2012  
£million
2011  
£million
Floating rate notes 2.3 2.6
Money market deposits 5.0 7.9
7.3 10.5
Floating rate notes have a nominal value of £2.8 million (2011 £3.1 million) and have an average expected maturity of 12.9 years  
(2011 9.5 years). Money market deposits are made for varying periods of 90 to 180 days with an average maturity of 118 days (2011 90 days).  
The carrying amount of money market deposits approximates their fair value.
Short term investments include £nil (2011 £7.4 million) which, together with certain cash and cash equivalents, are held under trust to fund 
customer support agreement liabilities as disclosed in note 26.
16 Cash and cash equivalents
2012  
£million
2011  
£million
Cash at bank 199.3 195.3
Money market deposits 117.5 139.4
316.8 334.7
Cash at bank earns interest at ﬂoating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. Money market deposits 
are made for varying periods of up to 90 days with an average maturity of 17 days (2011 31 days). The carrying amount of money market 
deposits approximates their fair value. 100 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
17 Borrowings
2012 
 £million
2011 
 £million
Current 
Bank overdrafts 15.8 5.6
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 162.5 –
Other borrowing – 130.0
178.3 135.6
Non-current 
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 – 168.2
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 147.8 147.1
147.8 315.3
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. 
At 28 April 2012 there were no drawings under the £360 million revolving credit facility (the £360 million Facility) (2011 £130.0 million at a 
weighted average effective yield of 4.35% with an average maturity of ﬁve days). The £360 million Facility has a maturity date of August 2013, 
however, this will be affected by a new revolving facility agreement which is discussed further below. The £360 million Facility is described 
further in note 22(d). The available undrawn amount of the £360 million Facility was £360 million (2011 £230 million). The carrying amount  
of current borrowings and overdrafts approximates their fair value.
On 24 May 2012, the Group signed an amendment and restatement agreement implementing a revised revolving facility agreement (the 
New Facility) for £300 million. The New Facility, which has a maturity date of 30 June 2015, amends the £360 million Facility and the terms 
and covenants attaching to the New Facility are substantially the same as that for the £360 million Facility. The New Facility will reduce in 
size over its life to £200 million by September 2014, further information on which is provided in note 32.
The 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (the 2012 Bonds) are denominated in sterling with a nominal value of £160 million, paying interest 
annually, are unsecured, are guaranteed by DSG Retail Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, and are listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled they will be redeemed at par on 15 November 2012. The 2012 Bonds may  
be redeemed in whole or in part at their principal amount plus accrued interest by providing 30 to 60 days’ notice to the bondholder.  
The 2012 Bonds may also be purchased in the open market by any company within the Group. In either circumstance, the 2012 Bonds 
and any unmatured coupons will be cancelled and may not be re-issued or re-sold. In the event of a change of control, if the rating of the 
2012 Bonds were to have fallen below a speciﬁed level, bondholders would have the right to redemption. The value of the 2012 Bonds 
excludes accrued interest of £4.4 million (2011 £4.5 million), included in trade and other payables. 
The 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (the 2015 Notes) are denominated in sterling with a nominal value of £150 million, paying interest 
semi-annually, and are guaranteed by a number of UK and Irish subsidiary undertakings of the Group, including DSG Retail Limited.  
The 2015 Notes are listed on the London Stock Exchange. Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled the 2015 Notes  
will be redeemed at par on 3 August 2015. The 2015 Notes may be redeemed in whole or in part at their principal amount plus accrued 
interest by providing 30 to 60 days’ notice to the Noteholders. The 2015 Notes may also be purchased in the open market by any 
company within the Group. In either circumstance, the 2015 Notes and any unmatured coupons will be cancelled and may not be 
re-issued or re-sold. In the event of a speciﬁc change of control event, each Noteholder has an option to require Dixons Retail plc to 
redeem or, at the option of Dixons Retail plc, purchase (or procure the purchase of) any of the 2015 Notes held by such Noteholder  
at a cash price equal to 101% of their principal amount together with interest accrued. The value of the 2015 Notes excludes accrued  
interest of £3.2 million (2011 £3.2 million), included in trade and other payables. 
Further information concerning fair value, hedging and ensuing interest rate and currency proﬁles relating to the 2012 Bonds and the  
2015 Notes is included in note 22.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
101 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
18 Obligations under ﬁnance leases
 2012 2011
Minimum lease 
payments 
£million
Present value 
of minimum 
lease  
payments 
£million
Minimum lease 
payments 
£million
Present value  
of minimum 
lease  
payments 
£million
Amounts due:
Within one year 10.1 9.2 9.4 8.5
In more than one year and not more than ﬁve years 34.8 28.2 33.7 28.5
In more than ﬁve years 139.7 64.6 132.9 64.1
184.6 102.0 176.0 101.1
Less future ﬁnance charges (82.6) – (74.9) –
Present value of lease obligations 102.0 102.0 101.1 101.1
Less amounts due within one year (3.1) (3.1) (3.1) (3.1)
Amounts due after more than one year 98.9 98.9 98.0 98.0
The majority of ﬁnance leases relate to properties in the UK where obligations are denominated in sterling and lease terms vary between 
13 and 24 years. The effective borrowing rate on individual leases ranged between 5.51% and 8.15% (2011 between 4.57% and 8.15%). 
Interest rates are ﬁxed at the contract date. All leases are on a ﬁxed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for 
contingent rental payments.
The total value of minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases was £nil (2011 £2.7 million).
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
19 Trade and other payables
2012 2011
Note
Current 
 £million
Non-current 
£million
Current 
 £million
Non-current 
£million
Trade creditors 961.1 – 1,055.3 5.2
Other taxation and social security 133.5 – 132.6 –
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 22 67.2 – 6.5 78.9
Other creditors 36.5 21.8 61.1 16.0
Accruals 230.2 83.6 236.4 81.5
Deferred income – customer support agreements 120.5 147.0 122.3 148.6
Deferred income – other 30.0 2.8 30.0 0.8
1,579.0 255.2 1,644.2 331.0
Included in other creditors and accruals is £60.4 million (2011 £61.0 million) relating to other non-ﬁnancial liabilities. The total ﬁnancial 
liabilities included in trade and other payables are £1,340.0 million (2011 £1,479.9 million). The carrying amount of trade and other payables 
approximates their fair value.  102 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
20 Provisions 
2012 2011
Property 
related  
£million
Severance  
and other 
£million
 Total  
£million
Property  
related  
£million
Severance  
and other 
£million
 Total  
£million
At beginning of period 38.4 21.9 60.3 45.8 6.0 51.8
Additions 17.5 5.5 23.0 13.5 25.7 39.2
Utilisation (23.6) (20.2) (43.8) (21.0) (9.9) (30.9)
Currency retranslation (1.2) (0.1) (1.3) 0.1 0.1 0.2
At end of period 31.1 7.1 38.2 38.4 21.9 60.3
Analysed as:
Current 11.5 7.1 18.6 22.5 21.9 44.4
Non-current 19.6 – 19.6 15.9 – 15.9
31.1 7.1 38.2 38.4 21.9 60.3
Additions during the period relate to restructuring and business impairment charges which are described further in note 4. Property related 
provisions mainly comprise onerous lease contracts. 
Of the amounts included within non-current liabilities remaining at 28 April 2012, the majority are expected to be utilised within the next  
ﬁve years. 
21 Retirement and other post-employment beneﬁt obligations
2012 
 £million
2011 
 £million
Retirement beneﬁt obligations – UK 21 (b) – (d) (261.9) (244.0)
    – Northern Europe (4.1) (3.3)
(266.0) (247.3)
The Group operates a number of deﬁned contribution and deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes. 
The principal scheme which operates in the UK includes a funded deﬁned beneﬁt section whose assets are held in a separate trustee 
administered fund. The scheme is valued by a qualiﬁed actuary at least every three years and contributions are assessed in accordance 
with the actuary’s advice so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members. Since 1 September  
2002, the deﬁned beneﬁt section of the scheme has been closed to new entrants and on 30 April 2010 was closed to future accrual with 
automatic entry into the deﬁned contribution section being offered to those active members of the deﬁned beneﬁt section at that time. 
Membership of the deﬁned contribution section is offered to eligible employees. 
In the Northern Europe division, the Group operates two funded secured deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes with assets held by a life 
insurance company as well as an unsecured pension arrangement. In addition, contributions are made to a state pension scheme.  
The net movement in the obligation comprises a charge to operating proﬁt of £0.6 million (2010/11 £0.8 million) with the remaining 
movements relating to the beneﬁts paid in the period, actuarial gains / (losses) and currency retranslation. 
In other territories, the Group also provides other post-employment beneﬁts which are largely governed by statute, in particular in Italy  
and Greece. These beneﬁts are unfunded.
(a) Deﬁned contribution pension schemes
The pension charge in respect of deﬁned contribution schemes was £12.6 million (2010/11 £12.3 million). 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
103 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
(b) UK Deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme – actuarial valuation and assumptions
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was last carried out as at 31 March 2010 and showed a shortfall of assets compared with liabilities  
of £239.0 million. A ‘recovery plan’ based on this valuation has been agreed with the trustee and commenced in 2010/11 with special 
contributions of £12.0 million, which rose to £16.0 million in 2011/12 and will rise to £20.0 million for 2012/13 and 2013/14, rising approximately 
annually thereafter to £35.0 million by 2020/21. The next triennial valuation will be as at 31 March 2013.
The principal actuarial assumptions as at 31 March 2010 were:
Rate per annum
Discount rate for accrued beneﬁts – Pre retirement 6.4% 
  – Post-retirement 5.1% – 5.3% 
Rate of increase to pensions – Guaranteed Minimum Pension 0% – 2.8% 
  – Pension in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pension 2.4% – 4.1% 
Inﬂation 3.7% 
Expected return on assets 6.6%
At 31 March 2010, the market value of the scheme’s investments was £672.0 million and, based on the above assumptions, the  
value of the assets was sufﬁcient to cover 74% of the beneﬁts accrued to members with the liabilities amounting to £911.0 million. 
(c) UK Deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme – IAS 19 
The following summarises the components of net beneﬁt expense recognised in the consolidated income statement, the funded status 
and amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. The methodologies set out in IAS 19 are different from those used by the 
scheme actuaries in determining funding arrangements.
(i) Principal assumptions adopted
The assumptions used in calculating the expenses and obligations are set by the directors after consultation with the independent 
actuaries. 
Rates per annum 2012 2011
Discount rate 5.2% 5.4%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment / deferred pensions (pre / post April 2006 accrual) 3.1% / 2.1% 3.3% / 2.2%
Inﬂation 3.2% 3.4%
The Group uses certain demographic assumptions when calculating scheme obligations which are those underlying the last formal 
actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 31 March 2010. In particular, post-retirement mortality has been assumed to follow the standard 
mortality tables ‘S1’ All Pensioners tables published by the CMI, based on the experience of Self-Administered Pension Schemes (‘SAPS’) 
from 2000 to 2006 with medium cohort improvements up to 2009 and multipliers of 105% for males and 110% for females. In addition, 
an allowance has been made for future improvements in longevity by using the new CMI 2009 Core projections with a long term rate of 
improvement of 1.5% per annum for men and 1.0% per annum for women. Applying such tables results in an average expected longevity 
of between 87 .1 years and 88.7 years for men and between 88.5 years and 89.6 years for women (2011 between 86.9 years and 88.6 years 
for men and between 88.4 years and 89.6 years for women) for those becoming 65 at the measurement date.
(ii) Amounts recognised in consolidated income statement
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
Expected return on plan assets 44.8 44.7
Interest cost on beneﬁt obligations (50.5) (50.3)
Net other ﬁnance costs (5.7) (5.6)
Other than the payments under the recovery plan, the Group does not expect to make any further contributions to its UK deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension scheme in 2012/13. 104 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
21 Retirement and other post-employment beneﬁt obligations (continued)
(iii) Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet
2012  
£million
2011  
£million
2010 
 £million
2009  
£million
2008 
 £million
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (991.8) (949.7) (929.4) (693.3) (740.7)
Fair value of plan assets 729.9 705.7 665.9 544.5 689.7
Net obligation (261.9) (244.0) (263.5) (148.8) (51.0)
Changes in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation:
2012  
£million
2011  
£million
Opening obligation 949.7 929.4
Interest cost 50.5 50.3
Actuarial loss / (gain) 24.6 (3.7)
Beneﬁts paid (33.0) (26.3)
Closing obligation 991.8 949.7
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets:
2012 
 £million
2011 
 £million
Opening fair value 705.7 665.9
Expected return 44.8 44.7
Employer special contributions 16.0 12.0
Actuarial (loss) / gain (3.6) 9.4
Beneﬁts paid (33.0) (26.3)
Closing fair value 729.9 705.7
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
105 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Analysis of scheme assets:
2012 2011
Long term 
expected rate 
of return £million
% of fair value 
of total  
scheme 
 assets
Long term 
expected rate of 
return £million
% of fair value of 
total  
scheme 
 assets
Equities (UK / Overseas) 7.0% / 7.6% 481.7 66.0% 7.3% / 7.3% 471.8 66.9%
Property 5.2% 32.9 4.5% 5.8% 33.3 4.7%
Bonds / gilts 3.4% 205.8 28.2% 4.3% 185.7 26.3%
Cash 3.2% 9.5 1.3% 3.4% 14.9 2.1%
729.9 705.7
The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, applicable  
to the period over which the obligation is to be settled. Actual return on the scheme assets was a gain of £41.2 million (2010/11 gain of 
£54.1 million). The actual return on other post-employment beneﬁt scheme assets was not signiﬁcant.
(iv) Experience adjustments recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense:
2012 
 £million
2011 
 £million
2010 
 £million
2009 
 £million
2008 
 £million
(Loss) / gain on scheme liabilities (24.6) 3.7 (241.4) 81.8 17.0
(Loss) / gain from actual less expected return on assets (3.6) 9.4 85.4 (196.1) (41.7)
Actuarial (losses) / gains (28.2) 13.1 (156.0) (114.3) (24.7)
Cumulative actuarial (loss) / gain (276.6) (248.4) (261.5) (105.5) 8.8
(d) Sensitivities 
The value of the UK deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme assets is sensitive to market conditions, particularly equity values. Changes in assumptions 
used for determining retirement beneﬁt costs and liabilities may have a material impact on the 2012/13 income statement and the balance sheet. 
The main assumptions are the discount rate, the rate of inﬂation and the assumed mortality rate. The following table provides an estimate of the 
potential impacts of each of these variables if applied to the current period consolidated income statement and balance sheet. 
Net ﬁnance costs Net deﬁcit
Positive / (negative) effect:
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
2012  
£million
2011  
£million
Discount rate: 0.25% increase 0.2 0.3 53.3 49.6
Inﬂation rate: 0.25% increase
†
(2.4) (2.4) (47.6) (42.9)
Mortality rate: 1 year increase (1.3) (1.4) (25.8) (25.4)
†The increase in scheme beneﬁts provided to members on retirement is subject to an inﬂation cap. 
(e) Other post-employment beneﬁts – IAS 19
The Group offers other post-employment beneﬁts to employees in overseas locations. At 28 April 2012 the net obligation in relation  
to these beneﬁts was £11.1 million (2011 £11.6 million). The net movement in the obligation comprises a charge to operating proﬁt of  
£3.8 million (2010/11 £4.3 million) with the remaining movements relating to the beneﬁts paid in the period and currency retranslation. 106 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
22 Financial instruments
(a) Financial risk management objectives and policies 
Treasury operations are managed centrally within policies approved by the Board and are subject to periodic independent internal and 
external reviews. Group Treasury reports regularly to the Audit Committee and the Tax & Treasury Committee. The major treasury risks  
to which the Group is exposed relate to market risks (movements in foreign exchange and interest rates), liquidity risk and credit risk.  
Areas where risks are most likely to occur are evaluated regularly. The Group uses ﬁnancial instruments and derivatives to manage these 
risks in accordance with deﬁned policies. Throughout the period under review, in accordance with Group policy, no speculative use of 
derivatives, foreign exchange or other instruments was permitted.
The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in note 1.16.
Exchange rate risk
The Group is exposed to exchange movements on recognised assets and liabilities, overseas earnings and translated values of foreign 
currency assets and liabilities. The Group’s principal translation currency exposures are the euro and Norwegian krone. Taking into 
account the cost of hedging, the Group’s policy is to match, in whole or in part, currency earnings with related currency costs and 
currency assets with currency liabilities through the use of appropriate hedging instruments. 
The Group is also exposed to certain transactional currency exposures. Such exposures arise from purchases in currencies other than in 
the functional currency of the entity. The Group’s principal transactional currency exposures are the US dollar and euro. It is Group policy 
to minimise the currency exposures on such purchases through the use of appropriate hedging instruments such as forward exchange 
contracts. Such contracts are designed to cover exposures ranging from one month to one year.
Interest rate risk
The principal interest rate risks of the Group arise in respect of sterling cash, investments and euro and sterling borrowings.  
Potential exposure to interest rate movements is mitigated by the Group’s policy to match to the extent possible the proﬁle of interest 
payments with that of its interest receipts. Taking into account the cost of hedging, further mitigation is achieved with interest based credit 
commissions received and through the use of interest based hedging instruments. Such matching is evaluated regularly to ensure that 
risks are minimised. 
Liquidity risk
It is Group policy to maintain a balance of funds, borrowings, committed bank and other facilities sufﬁcient to meet anticipated short term 
and long term ﬁnancial requirements. In applying this policy the Group continuously monitors forecast and actual cash ﬂows against the 
maturity proﬁles of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. Uncommitted facilities are used if available on advantageous terms. It is Group treasury 
policy to ensure that a speciﬁc level of committed facilities is always available based on forecast working capital requirements. 
Cash forecasts identifying the Group’s liquidity requirements are produced and are stress tested for different scenarios including, but not 
limited to, reasonably possible decreases in proﬁt margins and increases in interest rates on the Group’s borrowing facilities and the 
weakening of sterling against other functional currencies within the Group.
Credit risk
The Group’s exposure to credit risk on liquid funds, investments (mainly bank deposits and ﬂoating rate notes) and derivative ﬁnancial 
instruments arises from the risk of non-performance of counterparties, with a maximum exposure equal to the book value of these assets. 
The Group limits its exposure to credit risk through application of Group treasury policy which restricts exposure to counterparties to those 
with a minimum Moody’s long term credit rating below A1, bank ﬁnancial strength rating below C and short term credit rating below P1. 
The Group also has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any single ﬁnancial institution. The Group continuously reviews the 
credit quality of counterparties, the limits placed on individual credit exposures and categories of investments. The Group does not anticipate 
non-performance of counterparties and believes it is not subject to material concentration of credit risk given the policies in place. 
The Group’s receivable balances comprise a large number of individually small amounts from unrelated customers, spread across  
diverse industries and geographical areas. Concentration of risk is therefore limited and maximum exposure is equal to the book value of 
receivables. Sales to retail customers are made predominantly in cash or via major credit cards. It is Group policy that all customers who 
wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit veriﬁcation procedures. New credit customers are assessed using an external rating 
report which is used to establish a credit limit. Such limits are reviewed periodically on both a proactive and reactive basis, for example, 
when a customer wishes to place an order in excess of their existing credit limit. Receivable balances are monitored regularly with the 
result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not signiﬁcant. Management therefore believe that there is no further credit risk provision 
required in excess of the normal provision for doubtful receivables.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
107 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Capital risk management
It is the Group’s policy to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market conﬁdence and to sustain the 
future development of the business. The Group is subject to certain externally imposed capital requirements in the form of banking 
covenants involving borrowing ratios which it met throughout the period.
The Board has delegated responsibility for routine capital expenditure to a Capital Committee, which has approval responsibility for: 
Group long term and budgeted capital spend, setting capital assessment criteria, new store capital approval, subsidiary company 
funding, business acquisitions, business disposals and contingent liabilities such as guarantees. The Committee also approves routine 
statutory and internal delegated powers of authority in relation to capital expenditure.
The Group considers the manner in which funds are distributed to shareholders by assessing the performance of the business, the level  
of available net funds and the short to medium term strategic plans concerning future capital spend as well as the need to meet banking 
covenants and borrowing ratios. Such assessment will inﬂuence the level of dividends payable as well as consideration from time to time 
of market purchases of the Group’s own shares.
The Group monitors available net funds on a regular basis and this is affected by Free Cash Flow, one of the Group’s key performance 
indicators as deﬁned further in the Strategic Summary section of the Directors’ Report.
(b) Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 
For receivables and payables classiﬁed as ﬁnancial assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 32, fair value is estimated to be equivalent 
to book value. These values are shown in notes 14 and 19, respectively. The categories of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities and their related 
accounting policy are set out in notes 1.11 and 1.15. 
For those ﬁnancial assets and liabilities which bear either a ﬂoating rate of interest or no interest, fair value is estimated to be equivalent  
to book value. These values are shown in note 22(d). 
The fair value of the 2012 Bonds is £160.4 million (2011 £154.4 million). The 2012 Bonds are carried at amortised cost, plus a fair value 
adjustment, as a result of the fair value hedge discussed below. Excluded from the fair value is £4.4 million (2011 £4.5 million) of accrued 
interest which is included in trade and other payables.
The fair value of the 2015 Notes is £147.4 million (2011 £129.8 million). The 2015 Notes are carried at amortised cost. Excluded from the  
fair value is £3.2 million (2011 £3.2 million) of accrued interest which is included in trade and other payables. 
Fair value of derivatives is predominantly determined using observable market data such as interest rates and foreign exchange rates.  
As such, derivatives are classiﬁed as ‘Level 2’ under the requirements of IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’. 
Fair values of derivatives by designation 
2012
Trade and other receivables Trade and other payables
Derivatives held to:
Current  
£million
Non-current 
£million
Current  
£million 
Non-current 
£million
Total  
 £million
Hedge interest rate risk 9.0 – – – 9.0
Manage the currency exposure of:
Financial assets and liabilities 1.5 – (3.9) – (2.4)
Net investments in overseas subsidiaries – – (62.6) – (62.6)
Future transactions occurring within one year 2.5 – (0.7) – 1.8
Total derivatives 13.0 – (67.2) – (54.2)
2011
Trade and other receivables Trade and other payables
Derivatives held to:
Current  
£million
Non-current 
£million
Current  
£million 
Non-current 
£million
Total  
 £million
Hedge interest rate risk – 18.3 – – 18.3
Manage the currency exposure of:
Financial assets and liabilities 0.6 – (2.4) – (1.8)
Net investments in overseas subsidiaries – – – (78.9) (78.9)
Future transactions occurring within one year 2.9 – (4.1) – (1.2)
Total derivatives 3.5 18.3 (6.5) (78.9) (63.6)
Included in derivative ﬁnancial instruments are forward foreign currency contracts, options, interest rate swaps and currency swaps.  108 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
22 Financial instruments (continued)
(c) Hedging activities
The Group manages exposures that arise on purchases and sales denominated in foreign currencies predominantly by entering  
into forward foreign exchange currency contracts. It also uses swaps and options to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange 
translation exposure. 
At 28 April 2012 the Group had interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges for the 2012 Bonds with a notional amount of 
£125 million (2011 £125 million) whereby it receives a ﬁxed interest rate of 6.125% and pays a ﬂoating rate of interest based on LIBOR. 
At 28 April 2012 the Group also had interest rate swaps in place with a notional amount of £125 million (2011 £125 million) whereby the 
Group receives a ﬁxed interest rate of 6.125% and pays a ﬂoating rate of interest based on LIBOR, and which act as a hedge for the 2015 
Notes until August 2012. These swaps are not designated as hedges under IAS 39.
In order to provide a hedge against certain euro denominated ﬁxed asset investments and to ﬁnance working capital £200 million 
(2011 £200 million) has been swapped into ﬂoating rate euro borrowings bearing interest based on EURIBOR. During the year forward 
foreign exchange contracts have been entered into which have reduced the hedge against euro denominated ﬁxed asset investments 
to €100 million at 28 April 2012.
The Group designates ﬁnancial instruments as hedges under IAS 39 as follows:
Cash ﬂow hedges
At 28 April 2012 the Group had forward foreign exchange contracts in place with a notional value of £415.5 million (2011 £415.5 million) that are 
designated and effective as cash ﬂow hedges. These contracts are expected to cover exposures ranging from one month to one year. The fair 
value of these currency derivatives which have been deferred in equity amounts to a £3.3 million gain (2010/11 £8.0 million loss). In respect of 
contracts which matured during the period, losses of £4.7 million and gains of £5.3 million have been transferred out of equity into inventory 
and out of equity into operating proﬁt, respectively (2010/11 losses of £7 .4 million and losses of £6.7 million). 
Hedge ineffectiveness of £0.2 million gain was recorded in the income statement (2010/11 £0.2 million loss).
Fair value hedges
As mentioned above the Group had interest rate swaps in place for the 2012 Bonds whereby it receives a ﬁxed interest rate of 6.125%  
and pays a ﬂoating rate of interest based on LIBOR. The interest rate swaps are used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value  
of £125 million (2011 £125 million) of the 2012 Bonds and have the same critical terms. The fair value of interest rate swaps entered into  
as fair value hedges is an asset of £5.3 million (2011 an asset of £9.9 million). 
A fair value loss on the interest rate swaps of £4.4 million (2010/11 loss of £1.3 million) has been recognised in the income statement and 
offset by an equivalent fair value gain on the 2012 Bonds. Hedge ineffectiveness of £0.6 million gain was recorded in the income statement 
(2011 £0.4 million loss).
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations
At 28 April 2012 the Group had forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps in place which mature in November 2012 with a 
notional value of €100 million (2011 €312 million) which have been designated as a hedge of the net investments in foreign operations. Gains and 
losses on the retranslation of these derivatives are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the 
foreign operations. The fair value of currency derivatives entered into as net investment hedges is a £62.6 million loss (2010/11 £78.9 million loss). 
No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in the income statement (2010/11 £nil).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
109 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
(d) Interest rate proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities by currency
The following table sets out the interest rate exposure of the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities of the Group. The ﬁnancial instruments not 
included in the table are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
2012
Sterling  
£million
 Euro  
£million
 US dollar  
£million
Other  
currencies  
£million
 Total  
£million
Cash and cash equivalents and short term investments:
Floating rate 106.2 35.9 33.7 27.7 203.5
Fixed rate 111.0 4.2 – 5.4 120.6
217.2 40.1 33.7 33.1 324.1
Borrowings:
Floating rate (50.0) (206.6) – (9.4) (266.0)
Fixed rate (60.1) – – – (60.1)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases:
Fixed rate (97.5) (3.2) – (1.3) (102.0)
(207.6) (209.8) – (10.7) (428.1)
Net debt 9.6 (169.7) 33.7 22.4 (104.0)
2011
Sterling  
£million
 Euro  
£million
US dollar  
£million
Other
 currencies 
£million
 Total  
£million
Cash and cash equivalents and short term investments:
Floating rate 59.5 126.4 – 29.9 215.8
Fixed rate 121.5 3.9 – 4.0 129.4
181.0 130.3 – 33.9 345.2
Borrowings:
Floating rate (180.9) (209.0) – – (389.9)
Fixed rate (61.0) – – – (61.0)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases:
Fixed rate (97.6) (2.2) – (1.3) (101.1)
(339.5) (211.2) – (1.3) (552.0)
Net debt (158.5) (80.9) – 32.6 (206.8)
Floating rate cash and cash equivalents and short term investments relates to cash at bank and ﬂoating rate notes. Cash at bank earns 
interest at ﬂoating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. Floating rate notes have an effective yield  
of 1.19% (2011 1.07%). 
Fixed rate cash and cash equivalents, and, short term investments are predominantly money market deposits (as shown in note 16)  
and earn interest at an average effective rate of 0.80% (2011 0.64%). 
Floating rate borrowings include bank overdrafts and ﬁxed rate bonds after taking into account the effect of interest rates swaps entered 
into by the Group. The weighted average effective interest rate on bank overdrafts approximates 9.9% (2011 1.5%). The Group’s interest 
rate swaps (which relate to the 2012 Bonds and the 2015 Notes) have a nominal value of £250 million (2011 £250 million), receive ﬁxed 
interest rates of 6.125% (2010/11 6.125%) and pay ﬂoating rates of LIBOR plus margins which range from 1.76% to 2.37% (2010/11 1.59% 
to 2.03%). Currency swaps with a nominal value of £200 million (2011 £200 million) receive LIBOR plus a margin and pay EURIBOR plus  
a margin. The sterling ﬂoating rates ranged from 1.78% to 2.06% in the year (2010/11 1.59% to 2.03%) and the euro ﬂoating rates ranged 
from 2.13% to 2.62% (2010/11 1.74% to 2.14%). 
The other major component of ﬂoating rate borrowings is drawings under the £360 million Facility. Interest on drawn amounts on the 
£360 million Facility is payable at LIBOR plus a margin of 3.75%. The commitment fee on undrawn amounts is 1.6875%. A utilisation fee of 
0.25% is payable on drawings greater than one third of the maximum but less than two thirds of the maximum and a rate of 0.5% on drawings 
greater than two thirds of the maximum. The £360 million Facility is guaranteed by a number of UK and Irish subsidiary undertakings of the 
Group, including DSG Retail Limited. In the event of a change of control, the syndicated banks have the option to terminate the £360 million 
Facility. The terms of the New Facility are similar and further information on both the £360 million Facility and the New Facility are shown in note 17 . 11 0 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
22 Financial instruments (continued)
Sterling ﬁxed rate borrowings relate to £50 million of the 2012 Bonds whereby the remainder have been swapped into ﬂoating rate 
borrowings as described in note 22(c). 
Amounts in respect of other currencies relate to funds held within subsidiary companies, operating in the Nordic region and Central Europe. 
Interest on ﬁnancial instruments classiﬁed as ﬂoating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on ﬁnancial instruments 
classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate is ﬁxed until the maturity of the instrument.
(e) Sensitivity analysis
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, shows the sensitivity of proﬁt before tax and total equity to changes in speciﬁed market 
variables on monetary assets and liabilities and derivative ﬁnancial instruments as listed below. As a consequence, the sensitivity reﬂects 
the position as at 28 April 2012 and 30 April 2011, and is not necessarily representative of actual or future outcomes. 
Changes in exchange rates affect the Group’s proﬁt before tax due to changes in the value of monetary assets and liabilities and derivative 
ﬁnancial instruments. Changes in exchange rates affect the Group’s total equity due to changes in the fair value of derivatives designated 
as cash ﬂow hedges and net investment hedges. The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the 
Group’s key currencies of US dollar, euro and Norwegian krone with other variables held constant. A 10% decrease would have an equal 
and opposite effect. 
2012 2011
Effect on 
underlying  
proﬁt before  
tax increase /
(decrease) 
£million
 Effect on  
total equity 
increase / 
(decrease) 
£million
Effect on 
underlying  
proﬁt before  
tax increase /
(decrease) 
£million
 Effect on  
total equity 
increase / 
(decrease) 
£million
Change in exchange rates:
US dollar + 10% 0.9 3.5 (0.1) 2.1
Euro + 10% (11.8) 5.8 (9.5) (7.9)
Norwegian krone + 10% (0.2) (10.2) (4.9) (25.6)
Changes in interest rates affect the Group’s proﬁt before tax, mainly due to the impact of ﬂoating rate borrowings, cash and derivative 
ﬁnancial instruments. The Group’s principal ﬂoating rate interest rate exposures are based on LIBOR and EURIBOR. The numbers below 
shows the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates (uniform across all currencies), with other variables held constant.  
A 1% decrease would have an equal and opposite effect. A 1% increase in interest rates would decrease proﬁt before tax and equity by 
£2.3 million (2010/11 a £4.1 million decrease in proﬁt before tax and equity). 
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis:
 The balance of borrowings, investments and the derivative portfolio are all held constant for the whole year.
 All net investment, fair value and cash ﬂow hedges are assumed to be highly effective.
 The effect of changes in interest rates on ﬁxed rate bonds is calculated after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.  
In combination these ﬁnancial instruments are ﬂoating in nature. 
 Changes in the carrying value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments designated as net investment hedges arising from movements  
in interest rates are recorded in the income statement. The impact of movements in exchange rates is recorded directly in equity.
 Changes in the carrying value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that are not in hedging relationships arising from movements in interest 
rates and exchange rates only affect the income statement to the extent that they are not offset by changes in an underlying transaction.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
111 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
(f) Liquidity risk
The tables below analyse the Group’s contractual undiscounted cash ﬂows payable under ﬁnancial liabilities (excluding ﬁnance lease 
liabilities, which are shown in note 18) and derivative assets and liabilities into their maturity groupings. The tables include both principal 
and interest ﬂows.
2012
Contractual undiscounted cash ﬂows
Within 
one year 
 £million
In more than 
 one year but 
 not more than 
 ﬁve years 
 £million
 In more than  
ﬁve years 
 £million
 Total 
 £million
 Carrying 
 value 
£million
Non derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Bank overdrafts (15.8) – – (15.8) (15.8)
Trade and other payables (1,206.0) (36.3) (22.9) (1,265.2) (1,272.8)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (169.8) – – (169.8) (162.5)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (13.1) (182.9) – (196.0) (147.8)
(1,404.7) (219.2) (22.9) (1,646.8) (1,598.9)
Derivative contracts:
Inﬂows 1,471.3 – – 1,471.3 1,466.8
Outﬂows (1,526.9) – – (1,526.9) (1,521.0)
(55.6) – – (55.6) (54.2)
2011
Contractual undiscounted cash ﬂows
Within  
one year  
£million
In more than  
one year but  
not more than 
ﬁve years 
£million
 In more than  
ﬁve years 
£million
 Total 
 £million
 Carrying  
value  
£million
Non derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Bank overdrafts (5.6) – – (5.6) (5.6)
Other borrowings (131.6) – – (131.6) (130.0)
Trade and other payables (1,327.4) (37.0) (20.7) (1,385.1) (1,394.5)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (9.8) (169.8) – (179.6) (168.2)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (13.1) (195.9) – (209.0) (147.1)
(1,487.5) (402.7) (20.7) (1,910.9) (1,845.4)
Derivative contracts:
Inﬂows 1,072.0 464.6 – 1,536.6 1,532.4
Outﬂows (1,068.4) (535.5) – (1,603.9) (1,596.0)
3.6 (70.9) – (67.3) (63.6)
The carrying value of trade and other payables includes accrued interest on the 2012 Bonds of £4.4 million (2011 £4.5 million), interest  
on the 2015 Notes of £3.2 million (2011 £3.2 million) and interest on other borrowings of £nil (2011 £0.1 million). 
The Group reviews regularly its available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing facilities required to fulﬁl its objectives and 
strategy. Cash ﬂow forecasts are prepared covering a ﬁve year period and these are updated annually. Shorter term forecasts are reviewed 
and monitored on a regular basis in varying degrees of granularity including, in some cases, daily review. These forecasts are used in 
determining both the level of borrowings required for funding purposes as well as planning for repayments of borrowings either at their 
maturity or sooner where practical. An appropriate level of headroom is maintained to provide against unexpected outﬂows or an 
unforeseen downturn in trading. 
Further details of committed borrowing facilities are shown in note 17. 11 2 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
23 Share capital and reserves
(a) Called up share capital
2012  
£million
2011  
£million
Authorised 
4,980,252,496 (2011 4,980,252,496) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 124.5 124.5
Allotted and fully paid 
3,610,386,607 (2011 3,610,350,075) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 90.3 90.3
During the period 36,532 shares (2010/11 412,642) were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share option and 
ownership schemes. 
(b) Other reserves
Merger 
 reserve  
£million
Capital  
redemption  
reserve 
 £million
Investment  
in own shares  
£million
 Hedging 
 reserve  
£million
Revaluation  
reserve 
 £million
Total  
£million
At 2 May 2010 (386.1) 5.0 (2.3) (151.7) (2.4) (537.5)
Other comprehensive income and expense recognised 
directly in equity – – – (0.3) 0.1 (0.2)
At 30 April 2011 (386.1) 5.0 (2.3) (152.0) (2.3) (537.7)
Other comprehensive income and expense recognised 
directly in equity – – – 16.8 (0.1) 16.7
At 28 April 2012 (386.1) 5.0 (2.3) (135.2) (2.4) (521.0)
The balance shown on the merger reserve arose on the group reconstruction which occurred during 1999/00. The group reconstruction took 
the form of introducing a new parent company above the existing group and the merger reserve represents the difference between the 
capital structure of the new parent company and that of the former parent company.
Own shares held by the Group represent shares in the Company held by Dixons Retail Employee Share Trust (the Trust), further details of 
which are given in note 24. The 1,470,419 shares held at 28 April 2012 had a market value of £0.3 million (2011 2,948,718 shares held had 
a market value of £0.4 million) and their nominal value was £0.1 million (2011 £0.1 million).
(c) Cumulative foreign exchange reserves within retained earnings
Included within retained earnings are exchange differences resulting from the translation of the results and balance sheets of overseas 
subsidiary undertakings, which have been charged or credited directly to equity. The following table shows a reconciliation of such amounts:
2012  
£million
2011  
£million
At beginning of period 366.0 333.9
Currency translation movements (92.0) 32.1
At end of period 274.0 366.0
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
11 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
24 Employee share ownership trusts
During the year the trustee of Dixons Retail Employee Share Trust (the Trust) changed from Halifax EES Trustees International Limited  
to Sanne Trust Company Limited. 
Historically the Trust has held shares in the Company for the purposes of satisfying potential awards to speciﬁed executive directors and 
senior employees under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), Performance Share Plan (PSP) and Retention and Recruitment Share Plan 
(Reward Shares) share schemes. Details of the LTIP, PSP and Reward Shares are given in the Remuneration Report in section (II) (b) (ii) of 
the Remuneration Report. The number of shares held by the Trust, which are shown in the table below, remain held for potential awards  
under outstanding plans.
The Company’s aim has been to hedge in part its obligations under the LTIP, PSP and Reward Shares by buying shares through the  
Trust to meet the anticipated future liability. The anticipated liability is re-assessed regularly during the relevant performance period and 
additional shares are purchased when required to meet an increase in this liability. The costs of funding and administering the Trust are 
charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate. Shareholders’ funds are reduced by the net book value of shares  
held in the Trust which have not vested unconditionally.
2012  
Number
2011  
Number
Investment in own shares 1,470,419 2,948,718
Sanne Trust Company Limited has waived all dividends except for a total payment of 1 penny at the time any dividend is paid. The 
mid-market price of a share as at 28 April 2012 was 18.0 pence (2011 14.4 pence). 
25 Share-based payments
Note
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
Amounts (credited) / charged to operating proﬁt
Share-based payments – equity settled (a) (4.7) 8.6
  – cash settled (b) – (0.6)
(4.7) 8.0
(a) Equity settled
Share option plans
Employee Share Option Scheme (ESOS) and Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP)
Options have historically been granted annually to executive directors and other senior executives. In September 2008, the Group adopted a 
new share option plan (ESOP) which replaced the existing ESOS. Options granted after this date have only been granted under the new ESOP . 
The ESOS and ESOP permit making awards with a market value on the date of grant of not more than twice the recipients’ salary and three 
times in exceptional circumstances. Options are also granted to other employees in the UK and overseas on the basis of management grade. 
Vesting of options is based upon remaining in service with the Group over a three year period, unless speciﬁc circumstances apply to a 
participant as determined by the Remuneration Committee. Depending on grade, vesting is also dependent on the level of growth in 
underlying diluted earnings per share (EPS) over a three year period. Options may be exercised up to seven years after the vesting date.
Save As You Earn (SAYE)
The Group offers to all of its UK and Irish employees, having completed the relevant period of service, share-based savings plans  
whereby amounts may be contributed up to a speciﬁed limit per plan and per employee. Three year and ﬁve year plans have been offered 
annually, with exercise prices set at a 20% discount to the market share price on the date of grant. Exercise is conditional upon employees 
remaining employed by the Group for the full term of the plan unless speciﬁc circumstances apply to a participant as determined by the 
Remuneration Committee. Employees can choose to withdraw their contributions in full from the plan at any time, together with any 
interest earned. 11 4 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
25 Share-based payments (continued)
Details of equity settled share option plans outstanding during the year are as follows:
2011/12 2010/11
Note Number
Weighted average 
exercise price Number
Weighted average 
exercise price
At beginning of period 306,913,017 £0.28 236,377,764 £0.31
Granted during the period (i) 22,931,718 £0.13 106,073,741 £0.25
Forfeited during the period (74,916,680) £0.25 (32,658,128) £0.35
Exercised during the period (ii) (36,532) £0.11 (412,642) £0.18
Lapsed during the period (21,515,422) £0.51 (2,467,718) £2.01
At end of period (iii),(iv) 233,376,101 £0.25 306,913,017 £0.28
48,782,982 options were exercisable at 28 April 2012 (2011 none). 
2012 2011
(i) weighted average fair value of options granted during the period £0.07 £0.16
(ii) weighted average share price at the date of exercise £0.19 £0.24
(iii) weighted average remaining contractual life for options outstanding 5.9 years 6.4 years
(iv) range of exercise prices for options outstanding £0.09 – £1.19 £0.09 – £1.70
The fair value of equity settled share option plans granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Binomial or Black Scholes option 
pricing models taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The following table lists the inputs 
to the models used for the periods ended 28 April 2012 and 30 April 2011 based on information prevailing at the date of grant.
2012 2011
Dividend yield 0% 0%
Historical and expected volatility 79.0% – 80.0% 86.2% – 87.5%
Risk-free interest rate 1.0% – 1.1% 1.5% – 1.6%
Expected remaining life of options 3.25 – 4.0 years 3.0 – 3.25 years
Weighted average share price £0.13 £0.28
The expected remaining life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of the actual exercise patterns that 
may occur. The expected volatility reﬂects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends. Actual outcome may 
differ from this assumption. 
Other equity settled share plans
Executive directors’ and senior executives’ PSP, ESOP, Reward Sacriﬁce, Retention and Recruitment Share Plan and LTIP 
Up to 2010/11, LTIP and PSP shares were provisionally awarded to executive directors and certain other participating senior executives 
and were based upon performance measured in terms of the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) achieved by the Company. For 2008/09 
and 2009/10 TSR performance has been based on a bespoke weighted index comprising UK and European retailers. For 2010/11 
onwards, TSR performance has been based on constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (comprising FTSE 101-350 companies) excluding 
investment trusts.
During 2011/12, PSP shares were provisionally awarded to executive directors and other senior executives instead of the ESOP options 
which had been granted in previous years. Vesting of these awards is based upon remaining in service with the Group over a three year 
period. For awards to executive directors, vesting is also dependent on the level of EPS achieved at the end of a three year period and  
TSR performance on the same terms as the 2010/11 awards. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
11 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Details of LTIP and PSP equity settled share-based payments outstanding during the year are as follows:
Note
2012 
 Number
2011 
 Number
At beginning of period 15,588,155 13,662,455
Provisionally awarded during the period (i) 41,652,660 6,798,796
Forfeited during the period (11,203,400) (1,409,300)
Vested during the period – (1,068,870)
Expired during the period (6,454,354) (2,394,926)
At end of period (ii) 39,583,061 15,588,155
Outstanding awards vested at end of period 99,344 99,344
2012 2011
(i) weighted average fair value of awards awarded during the period £0.13 £0.20
(ii) weighted average remaining contractual life for awards outstanding 2.1 years 1.3 years
Reward Sacriﬁce options were offered to senior executives in September 2009 and do not have any performance conditions. 
11,902,442 options were granted at a fair value of £0.15. During the year, 803,421 (2010/11 529,259) options lapsed. The number 
outstanding at the end of the period is 9,832,330 (2010/11 10,635,751).
Reward Shares were granted to a limited number of executives in July 2008, August 2011 and February 2012 and do not have any 
performance conditions. During the period 619,813 (2010/11 none) Reward Shares were granted, 1,222,178 (2010/11 451,194) Reward 
Shares lapsed and 4,314,618 (2010/11 none) Reward Shares vested. The number outstanding at the end of the period is 334,915  
(2010/11 5,251,898).
The fair value of such other equity settled share-based payments granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the option pricing 
models listed below as well as taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The following 
table lists the inputs to the models used for the periods ended 28 April 2012 and 30 April 2011 based on information prevailing at the 
date of grant.
2011/12 2010/11
Plan PSP Reward Shares PSP
Option pricing model Monte Carlo Black Scholes Monte Carlo
Dividend yield 0% 0% 0%
Historical and expected volatility 71.6% N/A 87.5%
Risk-free interest rate 1.0% N/A 1.5%
Expected life of awards 3.0 years 1.0 – 2.0 years 3.0 years
Weighted average share price £0.13 £0.14 £0.28
Further information concerning share-based incentive plans speciﬁc to directors is included in the unaudited section of the Remuneration 
Report in sections (II) (b) (ii) and (iii).
(b) Cash settled 
Historical awards were granted to employees on the basis of a monetary amount determined by grade and length of service.  
Employees had to remain in employment until the vesting date which occured on the third anniversary of the date of grant unless speciﬁc 
circumstances applied to a participant as determined by the Remuneration Committee. The vesting of such share-based payments for 
employees above a certain grade was determined based on the level of growth in EPS over a three year period. Such awards were settled 
in cash which was calculated based on the share price at the exercise date. The fair value of cash settled share-based payment plans was 
estimated at each balance sheet date using the Binomial option pricing model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the instruments were granted. All remaining awards had either vested or lapsed as at 28 April 2012. No outstanding cash settled awards 
had vested at 30 April 2011. 
2012 
 £million
2011 
 £million
Amount included within trade and other payables relating to cash settled share-based payments – 0.2 11 6 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
25 Share-based payments (continued)
(c) Additional SAYE, ESOS, ESOP , LTIP and PSP information
During the period 22,931,718 options under the employee share option schemes were granted to 2,519 employees at exercise prices 
ranging between £0.12 and £0.13. In addition, 41,652,660 PSP shares were provisionally granted to 1,414 employees. At 28 April 2012 
options outstanding for accounting purposes amounted to 233,376,101 shares (2011 306,913,017) and LTIP and PSP shares outstanding 
amounted to 39,583,061 shares (2011 15,588,155), analysed as follows:
SAYE ESOS & ESOP LTIP & PSP
Date of grant
Exercise price  
Pence Number Date of grant
Exercise price  
Pence Number Date of grant Number
26 Feb 2007 99.52 216,455 22 Jul 2002 118.80 2,618,654 16 Aug 2002 18,548
26 Feb 2008 44.54 1,157,461 7 Feb 2003 75.59 40,660 21 Aug 2003 25,654
23 Jul 2009 18.32 24,770,605 11 Jul 2008 27.63 43,000,005 23 Jul 2004 55,142
3 Aug 2010 20.23 16,290,660 16 Dec 2008 9.20 – 10.85 6,225,823 23 Jul 2009 1,645,478
22 Jul 2011 13.01 19,798,473 23 Jul 2009 23.95 46,868,641 3 Aug 2010 3,466,050
28 Sep 2009 28.43 9,832,330 3 Aug 2011 33,592,545
7 Dec 2009 36.88 3,043,330 8 Dec 2011 779,644
3 Aug 2010 27.59 54,899,559
8 Dec 2010 25.51 3,750,000
8 Dec 2011 11.53 863,445
62,233,654 171,142,447 39,583,061
Options granted under the ESOS and ESOP can vest between three to ten years subject to performance conditions, where applicable, 
being met. PSP shares vest after three years subject to performance conditions, where applicable, being met. The performance 
conditions applicable to these schemes are set out in sections (II) (b) (ii) and (iii) of the unaudited section of the Remuneration Report.
26 Notes to the cash ﬂow statement 
(a) Reconciliation of operating loss to net cash inﬂow from operating activities
2011/12  
£million
2010/11  
£million
Operating loss (68.9) (180.3)
Operating loss – discontinued operations – 2.1
Operating loss – continuing operations (68.9) (178.2)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4.5 4.5
Amortisation of other intangibles 18.4 22.7
Depreciation 120.4 116.7
Share-based payment (credit) / charge (4.7) 8.0
Share of post-tax results of associates (0.6) 0.4
Loss on disposal of property, plant & equipment 13.5 13.6
Proﬁt on disposal of Jönköping (37.2) –
Increase in non-underlying provisions 23.0 39.2
Non-underlying impairments, other charges and accelerated depreciation / amortisation 190.9 256.4
Utilisation of non-underlying provisions (43.8) (30.9)
Operating cash ﬂows before movements in working capital 215.5 252.4
Movements in working capital:
Decrease in inventories 41.3 16.2
Decrease in trade and other receivables 29.6 9.1
(Decrease) / increase in trade and other payables (55.1) 15.1
15.8 40.4
Cash generated from operations – continuing operations 231.3 292.8
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
11 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
(b) Analysis of net debt 
 1 May 2011 
£million
 Cash ﬂow 
£million
Other 
non-cash 
movements 
£million 
Currency 
translation 
£million
28 April 2012 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents
†
334.7 (6.9) – (11.0) 316.8
Bank overdrafts (5.6) (10.0) – (0.2) (15.8)
 329.1 (16.9) – (11.2) 301.0
Short term investments 10.5 (3.1) (0.1) – 7.3
Borrowings due within one year (130.0) 130.0 (162.5) – (162.5)
Borrowings due after more than one year (315.3) – 167.5 – (147.8)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (101.1) 1.6 (2.0) (0.5) (102.0)
(546.4) 131.6 3.0 (0.5) (412.3)
Net debt (206.8) 111.6 2.9 (11.7) (104.0)
 2 May 2010 
£million
 Cash ﬂow 
£million
Other non-cash 
movements 
£million 
Currency 
translation 
£million
30 April 2011 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents
†
295.7 37.3 – 1.7 334.7
Bank overdrafts (4.9) (0.7) – – (5.6)
 290.8 36.6 – 1.7 329.1
Short term investments 8.5 1.8 0.2 – 10.5
Borrowings due within one year (98.5) (31.8) – 0.3 (130.0)
Borrowings due after more than one year (321.4) (5.4) 11.5 – (315.3)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases  (100.0) 1.5 (2.4) (0.2) (101.1)
(519.9) (35.7) 9.1 0.1 (546.4)
Net debt (220.6) 2.7 9.3 1.8 (206.8)
Restricted funds, which predominantly comprise funds held under trust to fund potential customer support agreement liabilities were 
£114.0 million (2011 £120.3 million). Net debt excluding restricted funds totalled £218.0 million (2011 £327.1 million).
†Cash and cash equivalents are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the consolidated balance sheet. For the purposes of the consolidated cash ﬂow, cash and cash equivalents 
comprise those amounts presented on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts (which are disclosed separately on the consolidated balance sheet 
and as disclosed in note 17). 11 8 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
27 Discontinued operations
(a) Loss after tax – discontinued operations 
2011/12  
£million
2010/11  
£million
Loss after tax – discontinued operations – (2.1)
2010/11: The loss after tax from discontinued operations relates to charges in respect of the Group’s former operations in Hungary, which 
were disposed of on 19 May 2009 to EW Electro Retail Limited for consideration of €1.
2011/12 2010/11
Hungary  
£million
Hungary  
£million
Expenses – (2.1)
Operating loss and loss before tax – (2.1)
Income tax expense – –
Loss after tax from discontinued operations – (2.1)
All losses were attributable to the equity shareholders of the Company. 
(b) Cash ﬂows from discontinued operations 
2011/12
 £million
2010/11
 £million
Operating activities (1.5) (0.1)
28 Capital commitments
2012
 £million
2011 
 £million
Contracted for but not provided for in the accounts 27.3 28.9
29 Contingent liabilities
2012
 £million
2011 
 £million
Contingent liabilities 4.3 4.0
In addition to the ﬁgures shown in the table above, contingent liabilities also exist in respect of lease covenants relating to premises 
assigned to third parties.
30 Operating lease commitments
2012 2011
Land and 
 buildings 
 £million
Other  
assets  
£million
Land and 
buildings  
£million
Other  
assets  
£million
Total undiscounted future committed payments due:
Within one year 364.5 8.8 379.0 8.9
Between two and ﬁve years 1,265.2 8.5 1,286.3 8.9
After ﬁve years 1,417.5 – 1,479.4 –
3,047.2 17.3 3,144.7 17.8
Operating lease commitments represent rentals payable for retail, distribution and ofﬁce properties, as well as vehicles, equipment  
and ofﬁce equipment. Contingent rentals are payable on certain retail store leases based on store revenues. 
The above ﬁgures include committed payments under onerous lease contracts for which provisions or accruals exist on the balance sheet, 
including those for closed businesses. 
Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases was £28.3 million (201 1 £34.5 million).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
11 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
31 Related party transactions
Transactions between Group undertakings, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and accordingly  
are not disclosed.
Transactions between Group undertakings and associates comprised sales of goods of £17.1 million (2010/11 £16.8 million) and purchase 
of logistic services of £4.1 million (2010/11 £3.9 million).
The Group via its registered charitable trust, the DSG international Foundation (the Foundation), made charitable donations of £5,000 
(2010/11 £5,000). The Company made no charitable donations to the Foundation during the period (2010/11 £nil). The Company is the sole 
benefactor of the Foundation, the principal beneﬁciaries of which are concerned with education, community affairs, health and disabilities, 
heritage and the environment.
Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum, the President and Vice President of PIXmania respectively and previously both members of 
the Senior Executive management team, together with close family members and companies controlled by them, own 21.9% of PIXmania, 
a company controlled by the Group. In connection with their management roles with respect to PIXmania, Steve Rosenblum and Jean-
Emile Rosenblum received management fees of €260,000 (£223,000) (2010/11 €260,000 (£221,000)). Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile 
Rosenblum together have certain exit rights exercisable between July 2011 and July 2013 in relation to their holdings in PIXmania.
Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum own buildings which are occupied and leased by PIXmania. During 2011/12 total rental 
payments of €706,000 (£605,000) (2010/11 €653,000 (£553,000)) were charged in relation to these properties. 
Remuneration of directors and key management personnel
The remuneration of non-executive directors, executive directors, and members of the senior management team, who are the key 
management personnel of the Group, is set out below. Further information about individual directors’ remuneration, share interests, share 
options, pensions and other entitlements, which form part of these ﬁnancial statements, is given in sections (VI) to (X) of the directors’ 
Remuneration Report which are described as having been audited.
2012 
 £million
2011 
 £million
Short term employee beneﬁts 5.9 5.1
Termination beneﬁts – 0.2
Share-based payment (1.7) 2.2
32 Post balance sheet event
On 24 May 2012, the Group signed an amendment and restatement agreement implementing a revised revolving credit facility agreement 
(the New Facility) for £300 million. The New Facility, which has a maturity date of 30 June 2015, replaces the £360 million Facility and the 
terms and covenants attaching to the New Facility are substantially the same as that for the £360 million Facility, although some small 
relaxation to the ﬁnancial covenants has been incorporated. The New Facility will reduce in size to £200 million by September 2014.  
The New Facility is also discussed in notes 17 and 22. 120 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
Note
28 April 2012 
£million
30 April 2011 
£million
1 May 2010 
£million
Non-current assets 
Investments C3 1,727.6 1,732.3 1,723.7
Property, plant & equipment C4 – ––
1,727.6 1,732.3 1,723.7
Current assets
Trade and other receivables C5 11.7 36.5 53.0
Cash and cash equivalents C6 72.9 10.3 80.7
84.6 46.8 133.7
Total assets 1,812.2 1,779.1 1,857.4
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts C7 (86.0) (78.4) –
Borrowings C7 (162.3) (130.0) (95.0)
Trade and other payables C8 (381.2) (264.5) (462.9)
(629.5) (472.9) (557.9)
Net current liabilities (544.9) (426.1) (424.2)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings C7 (147.8) (314.3) (319.7)
(147.8) (314.3) (319.7)
Total liabilities (777.3) (787.2) (877.6)
Net assets 1,034.9 991.9 979.8
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital C9 90.3 90.3 90.2
Share premium account 169.5 169.5 169.4
Investment in own shares (2.3) (2.3) (2.3)
Capital redemption reserve 5.0 5.0 5.0
Proﬁt and loss account 772.4 729.4 717.5
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,034.9 991.9 979.8
The ﬁnancial statements were approved by the directors on 21 June 2012 and signed on their behalf by:
Sebastian James Humphrey Singer
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
21 June 2012 21 June 2012
Company Balance Sheet Financial Statements
121 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Note
52 weeks 
 ended  
28 April 2012 
£million
52 weeks  
ended  
30 April 2011 
£million
Operating activities 
Cash utilised by operations C10 125.6 (195.4)
Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 125.6 (195.4)
Investing activities 
Dividend received 100.0 50.0
Interest received 10.8 16.0
Net cash ﬂows from investing activities 110.8 66.0
Financing activities 
Issue of ordinary share capital – 0.2
(Decrease) / increase in borrowings due within one year (130.0) 35.0
Increase in borrowings due after more than one year – 5.4
Interest paid (51.4) (60.0)
Net cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities (181.4) (19.4)
Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
†
C10 55.0 (148.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
†
C10 (68.1) 80.7
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
†
C10 (13.1) (68.1)
†For the purposes of this cash ﬂow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise those items disclosed as ‘cash and cash equivalents’ on the face of the balance sheet, less overdrafts, 
which are classiﬁed within current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet. A reconciliation to the balance sheet amounts is shown in note C10.
Company Cash Flow Statement 122 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
Share 
capital 
£million
Share 
premium 
£million
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£million
Investment in 
own shares 
£million
Retained 
earnings 
£million
Total equity 
£million
At 2 May 2010 90.2 169.4 5.0 (2.3) 717.5 979.8
Proﬁt for the period – – – – 3.3 3.3
Ordinary shares issued 0.1 0.1 – – – 0.2
Share-based payments – – – – 8.6 8.6
At 30 April 2011 90.3 169.5 5.0 (2.3) 729.4 991.9
Proﬁt for the period – – – – 47.7 47.7
Share-based payments – – – – (4.7) (4.7)
At 28 April 2012 90.3 169.5 5.0 (2.3) 772.4 1,034.9
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement for the Company is included in these ﬁnancial statements. 
Own shares held by the Company represent shares in the Company held by Dixons Retail Employee Share Trust, further details of which 
are given in notes 23(b) and 24 to the Group ﬁnancial statements.
Company Statement of Changes in Equity Financial Statements
123 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
C1 Accounting policies
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, 
IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to those companies 
reporting under IFRSs. Accounting policies have been consistently applied throughout the current and preceding periods. 
After making due enquiry, on the basis of current ﬁnancial projections, the directors are satisﬁed that the Company has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis  
in preparing the ﬁnancial statements. 
The Company’s accounting policies in relation to operating leases, share-based payments, translation of foreign currencies, property, 
plant & equipment, taxation and derivative ﬁnancial instruments are set out in note 1 to the Group ﬁnancial statements. Other accounting 
policies which are speciﬁc to the Company are set out below. 
(a) Share-based payments 
Where the Company has granted rights to its equity to employees of subsidiary undertakings in relation to equity-settled, share-based 
payment arrangements the contribution to the subsidiary undertakings is recognised as an additional investment.
(b) Investments
Investments are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value.
(c) Post-retirement beneﬁts 
It is not practical to allocate the underlying assets and liabilities of the deﬁned beneﬁt section of the pension scheme to the Company on a 
consistent and reasonable basis. The Company has therefore accounted for its contributions to the deﬁned beneﬁt section of the scheme 
as if it were a deﬁned contribution scheme. 
The Company’s contributions to the deﬁned contribution section of the pension scheme are charged to the income statement on an 
accruals basis as they become payable.
C2 Directors’ and auditors’ remuneration
Details of directors’ remuneration, share interests, share options, pensions and other entitlements, which form part of these ﬁnancial 
statements, are given in the parts of the directors’ Remuneration Report which are described as having been audited. Fees paid to the 
auditors in respect of their audit of the Company were £0.1 million (2010/11 £0.1 million).
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 124 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
C3 Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
Cost
At beginning of period 1,732.3 1,723.7
Movement in the period (4.7) 8.6
At end of period 1,727.6 1,732.3
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are set out in note C15.
C4 Property, plant & equipment 
Fixtures, ﬁttings and equipment
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
Cost
At beginning and end of period 0.5 0.5
Depreciation
At beginning and end of period 0.5 0.5
Net book value
At beginning and end of period – –
C5 Trade and other receivables 
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 0.2 11.8 15.7
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 9.0 18.3 25.0
Other debtors 0.5 0.1 0.1
Prepayments 2.0 6.3 9.1
Accrued income – – 3.1
11.7 36.5 53.0
Further information on derivative ﬁnancial instruments is provided in note C12.
The majority of other receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 60 day terms. The total ﬁnancial assets included within  
trade and other receivables are £9.7 million (2011 £30.2 million and 2010 £43.9 million). The carrying amount of trade and other receivables 
approximates fair value. There were no past due or impaired balances at the end of the period (2011 and 2010 £nil). 
C6 Cash and cash equivalents 
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
Cash at bank – – 80.7
Money market deposits 72.9 10.3 –
72.9 10.3 80.7
Cash at bank earns interest at ﬂoating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
125 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
C7 Borrowings and overdrafts
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
Current
Bank overdrafts 86.0 78.4 –
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 162.3 ––
Other borrowing – 130.0 95.0
248.3 208.4 95.0
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
Non-current 
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 – 167.2 319.7
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 147.8 147.1 –
147.8 314.3 319.7
Bank overdrafts are subject to a pooling arrangement with other Group companies and are repayable on demand. 
Other borrowings represent amounts which have been drawn down under the £360 million Facility (2011 the £360 million Facility,  
2010 the £400 million Facility which was in place prior to 12 May 2010). 
On 23 July 2010, tenders were conditionally accepted to repurchase £140 million in nominal amount of the £300 million 2012 Bonds, 
subject to the successful completion of appropriate ﬁnancing to fund the repurchase. This repurchase was ﬁnanced by a new issue  
of £150 million 8.75% Guaranteed Notes due 3 August 2015 (the 2015 Notes) and for which proceeds were received on 30 July 2010. 
On 24 May 2012, the Company signed an amendment and restatement agreement implementing a revised revolving credit facility 
agreement (the New Facility) for £300 million, further information on which is provided in note C16.
Further details on the £360 million Facility, the 2012 Bonds and the 2015 Notes are provided in notes 17 and 22 to the Group  
ﬁnancial statements. 
C8 Trade and other payables
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 365.2 250.5 446.6
Accruals 16.0 14.0 16.3
381.2 264.5 462.9
The total shown equals the total ﬁnancial liabilities. The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value. 
C9 Share capital
Called up share capital
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
Authorised
4,980,252,496 (2011 and 2010 4,980,252,496) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 124.5 124.5 124.5
Allotted and fully paid
3,610,386,607 (2010 3,610,350,075, 2010 3,609,937,433) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 90.3 90.3 90.2
During the period 36,532 shares (2010/11 412,642) were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share option schemes.  126 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
C10 Notes to the cash ﬂow statement 
(a) Reconciliation of operating loss to net cash outﬂow from operating activities
2011/12 
£million
2010/11 
£million
Operating loss (5.6) (3.2)
Operating cash ﬂows before movements in working capital (5.6) (3.2)
Movements in working capital:
Decrease in trade and other receivables 15.5 6.7
Increase / (decrease) in trade and other payables 115.7 (198.9)
131.2 (192.2)
Cash generated from operations 125.6 (195.4)
(b) Analysis of net debt
1 May 2011 
£million
Cash ﬂow 
£million
Other 
non-cash 
movements 
£million 
28 April 2012 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents
†
10.3 62.6 – 72.9
Bank overdrafts (78.4) (7.6) – (86.0)
(68.1) 55.0 – (13.1)
Borrowings due within one year (130.0) 130.0 (162.3) (162.3)
Borrowings due after more than one year (314.3) – 166.5 (147.8)
(444.3) 130.0 4.2 (310.1)
Net debt (512.4) 185.0 4.2 (323.2)
2 May 2010 
£million
Cash ﬂow 
£million
Other  
non-cash 
movements 
£million 
30 April 2011 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents
†
80.7 (70.4) – 10.3
Bank overdrafts – (78.4) – (78.4)
80.7 (148.8) – (68.1)
Borrowings due within one year (95.0) (35.0) – (130.0)
Borrowings due after more than one year (319.7) (5.4) 10.8 (314.3)
(414.7) (40.4) 10.8 (444.3)
Net debt (334.0) (189.2) 10.8 (512.4)
†Cash and cash equivalents are represented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet. For the purposes of the cash ﬂow, cash and cash equivalents comprise those amounts 
represented on the balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts (which are disclosed separately on the balance sheet and as disclosed in note C7).
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
127 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
C11 Post-retirement beneﬁts
The Company maintains a pension scheme for eligible employees in the UK comprising both a deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution 
section. The deﬁned beneﬁt section is a funded scheme with assets held in a separate trustee administered fund. The scheme is valued by a 
qualiﬁed actuary at least every three years and contributions are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualiﬁed actuaries so 
as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members. Since 1 September 2002, the deﬁned beneﬁt section of the 
scheme has been closed to new entrants and on 30 April 2010 was closed to future accrual with automatic entry into the deﬁned contribution 
section being offered to those active members of the deﬁned beneﬁt section at that time. Membership of the deﬁned contribution section is 
offered to all eligible employees. 
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was last carried out as at 31 March 2010 and showed a shortfall of assets compared with liabilities 
of £239.0 million. The ‘recovery plan’ based on this valuation commenced in 2010/11 with special contributions of £12.0 million, which rose 
to £16.0 million in 2011/12 and will rise to £20.0 million for 2012/13 and 2013/14, rising approximately annually thereafter to £35.0 million by 
2020/21. The next triennial valuation will be as at 31 March 2013. 
At 31 March 2010, the market value of the scheme’s investments was £672.0 million and, based on the above assumptions, the value of the 
assets was sufﬁcient to cover 74% of the beneﬁts accrued to members with the liabilities amounting to £911.0 million. The valuation of the 
deﬁned beneﬁt section for the purposes of IAS 19 showed a gross pension deﬁcit (before deferred tax) of £261.9 million (2011 £244.0 million 
and 2010 £263.5 million). Further particulars of the scheme are disclosed in note 21 to the Group ﬁnancial statements.
C12 Financial instruments 
(a) Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Company is exposed to liquidity, interest rate, exchange, credit and capital risks and adopts the same approach to the management 
of these risks as the Group as set out in the Directors’ Report and in note 22 to the Group ﬁnancial statements. 
(b) Fair values of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 
For receivables and payables classiﬁed as ﬁnancial assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 32, fair value is estimated to be equivalent 
to book value. These values are shown in notes C5 and C8, respectively. The categories of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities and their related 
accounting policy are set out in notes 1.11 and 1.15 to the Group ﬁnancial statements. 
For those ﬁnancial assets and liabilities which bear either a ﬂoating rate of interest or no interest, fair value is estimated to be equivalent  
to book value. These values are shown in note C12 (d). 
Included in trade and other receivables is £9.0 million (2011 £18.3 million and 2010 £25.0 million) relating to interest rate swaps held 
to hedge fair value interest rate risk. See note C12 (c) for further details. 
The Company uses swaps to manage its interest rate exposure. Further details on the Company’s interest rate swaps are included  
in note 22(d) to the Group ﬁnancial statements. 
(c) Hedging activities
The Company manages exposures that arise on interest rates by entering into interest rate swaps. Further information on fair value 
hedging is set out in note 22(c) to the Group ﬁnancial statements.  128 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
C12 Financial instruments (continued)
(d) Interest rate proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities by currency
The following table sets out the interest rate exposure of the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities of the Company.
2012
Sterling 
£million
Other 
£million
Total 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents:
Floating rate 72.9 – 72.9
Borrowings:
Fixed rate (60.0) – (60.0)
Floating rate (336.1) – (336.1)
(396.1) – (396.1)
Net borrowings (323.2) – (323.2)
2011
Sterling 
£million
Other 
£million
Total 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents:
Floating rate 10.3 – 10.3
Borrowings:
Fixed rate (60.9) – (60.9)
Floating rate (461.8) – (461.8)
(522.7) – (522.7)
Net borrowings (512.4) – (512.4)
2010
Sterling 
£million
Other 
£million
Total 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents:
Floating rate 80.3 0.4 80.7
Borrowings:
Fixed rate (53.3) – (53.3)
Floating rate (361.4) – (361.4)
(414.7) – (414.7)
Net borrowings (334.4) 0.4 (334.0)
Interest on ﬁnancial instruments classiﬁed as ﬂoating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on ﬁnancial instruments 
classiﬁed as ﬁxed rate is ﬁxed until the maturity of the instrument.
Floating rate cash and cash equivalents relate to money market deposits (as shown in note C6). 
Fixed rate borrowings comprise the unhedged part of the 2012 Bonds and the 2015 Notes. Floating rate borrowings include bank 
overdrafts and ﬁxed rate bonds after taking into account the effect of interest rates swaps entered into by the Company and drawings 
under the £360 million Facility (2011 the £360 million Facility, 2010 the £400 million Facility). The weighted average effective interest rate  
on bank overdrafts approximated 1.5% (2010/11 1.5%). Further details on ﬁxed and ﬂoating rate borrowings are shown in notes 17 and 22 
to the Group ﬁnancial statements. 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
129 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
(e) Sensitivity analysis
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, shows the sensitivity of proﬁt before tax and total equity to changes in interest rates on 
derivative ﬁnancial instruments and certain monetary items. The sensitivity analysis reﬂects the position as at 28 April 2012 and 
30 April 2011 respectively, and is not necessarily representative of actual or future outcomes. 
Changes in interest rates affect the Company’s loss before tax, mainly due to the impact of ﬂoating rate borrowings, cash and derivative 
ﬁnancial instruments. The Company’s principal ﬂoating rate interest rate exposures are based on LIBOR. The following sensitivity  
analysis shows a reasonably possible change in interest rates (uniform across all currencies), with other variables held constant and the 
corresponding decrease would have an equal and opposite effect. A 1% increase in interest rates would have a negative effect on proﬁt 
before tax and equity of £6.1 million (2010/11 a £5.9 million negative effect on proﬁt before tax and equity). Assumptions used in calculating 
the sensitivity analysis are set out in note 22(e) to the Group ﬁnancial statements. 
(f) Liquidity Risk
The table below analyses the Company’s contractual undiscounted cash ﬂows payable under ﬁnancial liabilities and derivative assets  
into their maturity groupings. The table includes both principal and interest ﬂows.
2012
Contractual undiscounted cash ﬂows
Within  
one year 
£million
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
ﬁve years 
£million
Total 
£million
Carrying 
value 
£million
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Bank overdrafts (86.0) – (86.0) (86.0)
Trade and other payables (373.5) – (373.5) (381.1)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (169.8) – (169.8) (162.3)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (13.1) (182.9) (196.0) (147.8)
(642.4) (182.9) (825.3) (777.2)
Derivative contracts:
Inﬂows 263.4 – 263.4 263.4
Outﬂows (254.4) – (254.4) (254.4)
9.0 – 9.0 9.0
2011
Contractual undiscounted cash ﬂows
Within  
one year 
£million
In more than one 
year but not 
more than ﬁve 
years 
£million
Total 
£million
Carrying 
value 
£million
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Bank overdrafts (78.4) – (78.4) (78.4)
Borrowings (131.6) – (131.6) (130.0)
Trade and other payables (255.2) – (255.2) (264.5)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (9.8) (169.8) (179.6) (167.2)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (13.1) (195.9) (209.0) (147.1)
(488.1) (365.7) (853.8) (787.2)
Derivative contracts:
Inﬂows 16.1 262.6 278.7 278.4
Outﬂows (5.8) (254.4) (260.2) (260.1)
10.3 8.2 18.5 18.3 130 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Financial Statements
C12 Financial instruments (continued)
2010
Contractual undiscounted cash ﬂows
Within  
one year 
£million
In more than
 one year but
 not more than 
ﬁve years 
£million
Total 
£million
Carrying 
value 
£million
Non-derivative ﬁnancial liabilities:
Borrowings (95.0) – (95.0) (95.0)
Trade and other payables (454.0) – (454.0) (462.9)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (18.4) (337.1) (355.5) (319.7)
(567.4) (337.1) (904.5) (877.6)
Derivative contracts:
Inﬂows 15.3 30.6 45.9 44.8
Outﬂows (5.0) (15.4) (20.4) (19.8)
10.3 15.2 25.5 25.0
The carrying value of trade and other payables includes accrued interest on the 2012 Bonds of £4.4 million (2011 £4.5 million and 2010 
£8.4 million), accrued interest of £3.2 million on the 2015 Notes (2011 £3.2 million and 2010 £nil) and accrued interest on other borrowings 
of £nil (2011 £0.1 million and 2010 £0.4 million). 
(g) Credit risk
The Company’s exposure to credit risk is discussed in note 22 (a) to the Group ﬁnancial statements. The Company’s receivable balances 
mainly consist of amounts due from subsidiary undertakings. Further information on the Company’s exposure to signiﬁcant concentration 
of credit risk on receivables from subsidiary undertakings is set out in note C14. 
C13 Contingent liabilities
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
Guarantees – – 54.5
Other 2.3 3.1 2.8
2.3 3.1 57.3
Guarantees comprise potential obligations to ﬁnancial institutions in respect of activities undertaken in the normal course of business.
C14 Related parties
During the period the Company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties as follows: 
2011/12 
£million
2010/11 
£million
Subsidiary undertakings: 
Recharge of costs 12.1 12.9
Interest paid (7.8) (6.9)
Dividends received 100.0 50.0
Recharge of costs relates to management charges for services provided to other Group companies.
Included within amounts repayable to subsidiaries are loans of £351.0 million (2011 £234.2 million and 2010 £431.3 million) with maturity  
of one month but renewable on a rolling basis and bear interest at 4.25% (2010/11 4.25%). The Company also has ﬁxed loans of £14.2 million 
(2011 £14.2 million and 2010 £14.2 million) which have no maturity date and bear no interest.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
(continued) Financial Statements
131 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
C15 Principal subsidiary undertakings 
The directors consider that to give full particulars of all Group undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. A full list of 
Group undertakings is attached to the latest annual return. The following information relates to those subsidiary undertakings, all of which 
are engaged in retail activities, whose results or ﬁnancial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affect the consolidated ﬁnancial 
statements of the Group at 28 April 2012:
DSG international Holdings Limited – UK
†
El-Giganten AS – Denmark
DSG Retail Ireland Limited – Ireland Elkjøp Nordic AS – Norway 
DSG Retail Limited – UK Gigantti OY – Finland 
Dixons South-East Europe A.E.V.E. – Greece (99.2%) PIXmania S.A.S. – France (77.1%) 
Electro World s.r.o. – Czech Republic Electro World lç ve Dıs ¸ Ticaret A.S ¸   – Turkey (60%)
Unieuro S.p.A. – Italy El-Giganten AB – Sweden
†A direct subsidiary undertaking of Dixons Retail plc and a holding company.
Unless otherwise indicated, principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly-owned. All Group undertakings operate in their country  
of incorporation.
C16 Post-balance sheet event 
On 24 May 2012, the Company signed an amendment and restatement agreement implementing a revised revolving facility agreement 
(the New Facility) for £300 million. The New Facility, which has a maturity date of 30 June 2015, replaces the £360 million Facility and the 
terms and covenants attaching to the New Facility are substantially the same as that for the £360 million Facility, although some small 
relaxation to the ﬁnancial covenants has been incorporated. The New Facility will reduce in size to £200 million by September 2014. 
The New Facility is also discussed in notes 17 and 22 to the Group Financial Statements. 132 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12
Shareholder Information
Consolidated income statement
2011/12 
£million
2010/11 
£million
2009/10 
£million
2008/09 
£million
2007/08 
£million
Underlying revenue
(1)
8,186.7 8,154.4 8,320.0 7,955.8 8,074.8
Percentage change 0.4% (2.0)% 4.6% (1.5)% 7.2%
Underlying operating proﬁt / EBIT
(2)
115.1 127.6 133.2 95.3 214.3
Underlying net ﬁnance (costs) / income
(1)
(44.3) (42.3) (42.3) (24.7) 14.1
Underlying proﬁt before tax
(1)
70.8 85.3 90.9 70.6 228.4
Percentage change (17.0)% (6.2)% 28.8% (69.1)% (24.9)%
Closed businesses (2.9) (8.5) (0.6) (28.6) (13.8)
Acquired intangible amortisation (4.5) (4.5) (4.6) (4.9) (4.4)
Net restructuring charges (16.3) (17.1) (5.6) (59.1) (20.7)
Business impairment charges (196.0) (251.6) – (96.1) (364.2)
Other items 32.9 (24.9) – 1.9 –
Changes in pension beneﬁts – – 33.4 – –
Proﬁt on sale of investment – – – – 1.7
Net fair value remeasurements (2.8) (2.8) (0.8) (7.4) (6.2)
(Loss) / proﬁt before tax – continuing operations (118.8) (224.1) 112.7 (123.6) (179.2)
Income tax expense (44.1) (19.1) (46.7) (56.8) (66.0)
(Loss) / proﬁt after tax – continuing operations (162.9) (243.2) 66.0 (180.4) (245.2)
Loss after tax – discontinued operations – (2.1) (8.7) (38.9) (14.5)
(Loss) / proﬁt for the period (162.9) (245.3) 57.3 (219.3) (259.7)
Underlying diluted earnings per share (pence)
(1)
1.1p 1.6p 1.5p 1.3p 7.0p
Percentage change (31.3)% 6.7% 15.4% (81.4)% (25.5)%
Consolidated cash ﬂow
2011/12 
£million
2010/11 
£million
2009/10 
£million
2008/09 
£million
2007/08 
£million
Underlying proﬁt before tax
(1)
70.8 85.3 90.9 70.6 228.4
Closed businesses loss before tax (2.9) (8.5) (0.6) (28.6) (13.8)
Depreciation and amortisation 138.8 139.4 128.6 134.7 136.2
Working capital movements 15.8 40.4 39.7 (285.4) 8.1
Taxation (26.8) (26.2) (31.9) (35.7) (53.1)
Net capital expenditure (31.3) (221.2) (164.6) (129.9) (123.6)
Other 9.7 29.7 (34.0) (65.7) (48.9)
Free Cash Flow before restructuring items
(3)
174.1 38.9 28.1 (340.0) 133.3
Net restructuring and other one-off items (43.8) (28.9) (45.7) (64.2) (37.6)
Free Cash Flow
(4)
130.3 10.0 (17.6) (404.2) 95.7
Closing net (debt) / funds (104.0) (206.8) (220.6) (477.5) 50.1
Less restricted funds
(5)
(114.0) (120.3) (78.9) (67.6) (66.5)
Unrestricted net debt
(5)
(218.0) (327.1) (299.5) (545.1) (16.4)
Five Year Record 133
Shareholder Information
Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc
Consolidated balance sheet 
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
2009 
£million
2008 
£million
Non-current assets
Goodwill 740.7 970.8 1,116.5 1,069.1 984.3
Intangible assets 98.1 113.1 130.7 148.4 143.9
Tangible assets 480.4 583.7 541.0 489.6 531.3
Other non-current assets 182.3 216.4 253.8 248.6 154.7
1,501.5 1,884.0 2,042.0 1,955.7 1,814.2
Current assets
Inventories 874.2 960.9 972.6 971.9 1,093.1
Other current assets 346.6 387.3 397.0 516.5 501.7
Short term investments 7.3 10.5 8.5 9.0 82.0
Cash and cash equivalents 316.8 334.7 295.7 192.6 365.8
1,544.9 1,693.4 1,673.8 1,690.0 2,042.6
Assets held for sale – – – 13.2 –
Total assets 3,046.4 3,577.4 3,715.8 3,658.9 3,856.8
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts (15.8) (5.6) (4.9) (4.8) (2.1)
Other borrowings (162.5) (130.0) (98.5) (250.1) (0.2)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (3.1) (3.1) (2.4) (2.8) (1.5)
Other current liabilities (1,634.7) (1,692.7) (1,652.9) (1,722.5) (2,070.1)
Provisions (18.6) (44.4) (22.3) (72.1) (46.2)
(1,834.7) (1,875.8) (1,781.0) (2,052.3) (2,120.1)
Net current liabilities (289.8) (182.4) (107.2) (362.3) (77.5)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (147.8) (315.3) (321.4) (322.5) (294.6)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases (98.9) (98.0) (97.6) (98.9) (99.3)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations (266.0) (247.3) (266.8) (153.0) (54.0)
Other non-current liabilities (275.4) (348.6) (344.4) (392.5) (384.2)
Provisions (19.6) (15.9) (29.5) (40.4) (51.1)
(807.7) (1,025.1) (1,059.7) (1,007.3) (883.2)
Liabilities associated with assets classiﬁed as held for sale – – – (14.4) –
Total liabilities (2,642.4) (2,900.9) (2,840.7) (3,074.0) (3,003.3)
Net assets 404.0 676.5 875.1 584.9 853.5
Equity shareholders’ funds 391.4 653.5 846.5 558.9 826.7
Equity non-controlling interests 12.6 23.0 28.6 26.0 26.8
Total equity 404.0 676.5 875.1 584.9 853.5
Notes:
(1)  Underlying ﬁgures exclude the effects of trading results of closed businesses, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one-off, 
non-recurring items, proﬁts on sale of investments and net fair value remeasurements of ﬁnancial instruments, and where applicable, discontinued operations.
(2) EBIT equates to underlying operating proﬁt.
(3)  Free Cash Flow before restructuring items includes dividend payments to non-controlling interests (minority shareholders).
(4)  Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash ﬂow generated from operations before special pension contributions, less net ﬁnance expense, less income tax and 
net capital expenditure.
(5)  Unrestricted net debt comprise cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and borrowings and exclude restricted funds which predominantly comprise funds held under trust to 
fund potential customer support agreement liabilities. Shareholder Information
Registered ofﬁce
Maylands Avenue, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire HP2 7TG UK 
(United Kingdom). Registered No. 3847921. www.dixonsretail.com
Registrars and transfer ofﬁce
Capita Registrars Limited, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU. Tel: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost  
10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.30am – 
5.30pm Monday to Friday). If calling from abroad the  
number is +44 20 8639 3399. The website address is  
www.capitaregistrars.com
Joint brokers
Citigroup Global Markets, JP Morgan Cazenove.
Shareholder enquiries
Shareholders can access shareholding details over the internet  
via our Registrar’s secure portal at www.capitashareportal.com.  
As well as checking name, address and shareholding details in  
the Shareholder Help section, you can download change of 
address, dividend mandate and stock transfer forms. This is 
a secure site and you will need to register first. Please follow  
the simple instructions on the website. So that the system  
can validate your enquiries an Investor Code is required.  
This is a numerical account number and can be found on  
your share certificate. 
Share dealing service
Online and telephone share dealing services are available to 
shareholders through our Registrars, providing easy access and 
simple to use services. There is no need to preregister and the 
facilities allow you to trade in ‘real time’ and at a known price  
which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.  
In order to deal via these facilities you will need your Investor  
Code (see above) as well as stating your surname, full post code 
and date of birth. Details of the online dealing service are available  
on www.capitadeal.com and the telephone dealing service is  
on 0871 664 0454 (calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras). 
Lines are open Monday to Friday 8am to 4.30pm. 
Unsolicited mail
The Company is obliged to make its share register available to  
third parties on payment of a prescribed fee. This may result in 
shareholders receiving unsolicited mail. If you wish to limit the 
receipt of unsolicited mail you should write to: The Mailing 
Preference Service, FREEPOST 22, London W1E 7ER or register  
on their website at www.mpsonline.org.uk
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation 
scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value 
makes it uneconomic to sell them. Details of the scheme are 
available on the ShareGift internet site, www.sharegift.org
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting 6 September 2012
2012/13 Interim results announcement 29 November 2012
2012/13 Interim statement publication January 2013
Alternative Format
If you would like this Annual  
Report and Accounts or any  
other shareholder documentation  
in an alternative format,  
please send a request to  
corporate.affairs
@
dixonsretail.com 
or telephone 00 44 (0)844 800 2030
Shareholder Information 
134 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 A 
Accounting policies 74-80
Accounting estimates 
and judgements 79-80
Acquired intangibles 96
Amortisation 83, 96
Associates 97-98
Audit Committee Report 52-53
Auditor’s remuneration 84
Auditor’s report 68
B
Balance Sheet (Consolidated) 71
Board of directors 44-45
Borrowings and borrowing facilities 100
Brands 04-05, 96
Business Model 22-23
C
Capital commitments 118
Capital expenditure 83, 96-97
Cash and cash equivalents 72, 99, 117
Cash flow statement (Consolidated) 72
Charitable donations 48
Community 43
Contingent liabilities 118
Corporate Governance Report 49-51
D
Deferred tax 90-91
Depreciation 83, 97
Directors’ remuneration 62
Directors’ interests 61, 63-66
Discontinued operations 118
E
Earnings / loss per share 92
Employee numbers 04-05, 89
Employees 42-43, 89
Environment 41-42
Executive Share  
Option Plan 59, 113-114, 116
F 
Finance costs / income 88
Finance leases 101
Financial instruments 106-111
Five Year Record 132-133
Free Cash Flow 37, 72
Funding 37, 100, 117
G
Going concern 48
Goodwill 93-95
H
Health and Safety 43
I
Impairment 85-86, 93-95
Income statement (Consolidated) 69
Intangible assets 96
Inventories 98
K
Key Performance Indicators 27
L
LTIP / Long Term Incentive Plan 59
Looking Forward 26
M 
Markets 20
N 
Nominations Committee Report 54-55
Non-underlying items 74, 81-82, 85-87
O
Operating lease charges 84
Operating lease commitments 118
P
Pensions 39, 60, 63, 102-105
PSP / Performance Share Plan 59, 114-116
Post balance sheet events 119
Property losses 39, 81-82
Property, plant & equipment 97
Provisions 102
R
Related party transactions 119
Resources 24-25
Remuneration Report 56-66
Retention and Recruitment  
Share Plan 59, 114-115
Reward Sacrifice Scheme 59, 114-115
Risk factors 28-30
S
Segmental analysis 80-83
Selling space 04-05
Share-based payments 113-116
Share capital 112
Shareholder information 132-134
Short term investments 99
Sharesave plan 59, 113-114, 116
Statement of changes in  
Equity (Consolidated) 73
Statement of comprehensive income  
and expense (Consolidated) 70
Strategy 21-22
Store numbers 04-05
Subsidiary undertakings 131
T
Tax 89-91
TSR (Total Shareholder Return) 27, 61
Trade & other payables 101
Trade & other receivables 98-99
Treasury policy 106-107
U
Underlying definition 74
Index
Shareholder Information
135 Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Dixons Retail plc Shareholder Information
Notes
136 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011/12 Designed and produced by MerchantCantos: www.merchantcantos.com
Photography: 
Dixons Retail plc Digital studio
Dennis Davis: Dennis Davis Photography
Isaac Newman: www.isaac.uk.com
Printed by Park Communications on FSC
®
 certiﬁed paper. Park is an EMAS 
certiﬁed CarbonNeutral
®
 Company and its Environmental Management System 
is certiﬁed to ISO14001. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of 
press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% of any waste 
associated with this production will be recycled. 
This document is printed on Revive 50:50 Silk and Revive 100 Offset, papers 
containing a minimum of 50% recycled ﬁbre and the balance 50% virgin ﬁbre 
sourced from well managed, sustainable, FSC
®
 certiﬁed forests. Dixons Retail plc 
Maylands Avenue
Hemel Hempstead 
Hertfordshire 
HP2 7TG 
United Kingdom
Tel: 0844 800 2030 
www.dixonsretail.com
