 Annual Report & Accounts 2012/13
As a leading multi-channel retailer we know that a good on-line experience is a great starting 
point for customers. As we are improving our on-line experience at www.dixonsretail.com we 
have been able to keep our printed Annual Report & Accounts simple and straightforward.
By doing this we not only save costs, but reduce the amount of ink and paper we use, 
thereby doing a little bit more to help the environment.
 The £60,000 we saved doing this can be put to use in our business in the following ways:
 We could run a specialist training workshop for 100 store colleagues;
and fuel 33 delivery trucks from John O’Groats to Lands End;
and remove 1,700 viruses from customers’ computers;
and deliver 400 washing machines to customers’ homes;
and make stock deliveries to 100 of our Currys/PC World stores;
and  provide further support to our Foundation in providing technology for 
disadvantaged children.
So it really does make sense and we hope you’ll agree.
For further information on Dixons Retail please see our website www.dixonsretail.com
Follow us on Twitter: @DixonsRetail Cautionary statement
Certain statements made in this Annual Report and Accounts are forward 
looking. Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject 
to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from any expected future events or results referred to in these 
forward looking statements. Unless otherwise required by applicable laws, 
regulations or accounting standards, we do not undertake any obligation to 
update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new 
information, future developments or otherwise. Nothing in this Annual Report 
and Accounts should be regarded as a profit forecast.
“It has been a good year for Dixons Retail with underlying profits up by 15%, and a great year in the UK & Ireland with profits up 
by 39%. We have returned to growth for the Group as a whole, and also to a net cash position, marking an important milestone 
in our transition from survivor to winner. On all of our strategic priorities I am pleased with the progress we have made, even 
though I am, of course, impatient for us to achieve even more, even faster, particularly in focusing on markets where we are, or 
can be, a leader.
Our success has not been the result of short term changes, but rather a fundamental shift in our trading philosophy over the 
last few years so that we are increasingly standing shoulder-to-shoulder with our customers in this difficult and uncertain world. 
This has enabled us to take full advantage of the opportunity arising from some consolidation in our markets, but we can allow 
for no complacency. The economic backdrop remains tough; we will have to strive hard to keep up our momentum and will 
flourish only if we continue to offer ever higher levels of service, and the sharpest possible prices, no matter which channel our 
customers choose.
The year ahead offers many fantastic opportunities for us and we have plans which touch every part of our business to make 
things better, easier and faster. I believe that many of our stores are now among the very best in the world, but I recognise that 
we need to make sure that the experience in our stores is completely consistent – from Truro to Tromsø; every day we must 
find new ways to surprise, delight and improve the lives of our customers. I look forward to another good year, building on the 
momentum of this year, and one which proves rewarding for our customers, our teams and of course, our shareholders. In the 
meantime, nothing has given me more pleasure than to celebrate with my colleagues, very briefly, all we have achieved and to 
thank them for their hard work before launching headlong into the coming year.” 
Sebastian James
Group Chief Executive
20 June 2013
Investor Relations app  
To get the latest Annual and Interim Reports, Presentations 
and Trading Updates on your iPad or iPhone, scan the code 
to download our IR app. 
 
To be directed to the Dixons Retail corporate website, scan 
the code below.   
 
Contents
Dixons Retail plc 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report and Business Review
Business Overview
2 Group at a Glance and Five Year Highlights
3 Chairman’s Statement 
4 Group Chief Executive’s Statement
Strategic Summary
6 Our Markets
7 Strategy and Business Model
9 Our Resources
11 Key Performance Indicators
12 Principal Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives
Performance Review
16 Overview
19 Divisional Summary
21 Group Financial Summary
23 Corporate Responsibility Report
Corporate Governance
27 Board of Directors
29 Corporate Governance Overview
30 Statutory Information
32 Corporate Governance Report
36 Audit Committee Report 
39 Nominations Committee Report
41 Remuneration Report
53 Directors’ Responsibilities
Financial Statements
54 Independent Auditor’s Report
55 Consolidated Income Statement
56 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income and Expense
57 Consolidated Balance Sheet
58 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
59 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
60 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
109 Company Balance Sheet
110 Company Cash Flow Statement
111 Company Statement of Changes in Equity
112 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Investor Information
120 Five Year Record
122 Other Shareholder Information
123 Index Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Group at a Glance
Dixons Retail plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
We are a leading European specialist electrical retailing and services company.  We trade through over 
1,100 stores and on-line. We operate four divisions as follows:
UK & Ireland Northern Europe Southern Europe PIXmania
Currys and PC World 
are the largest specialist 
electrical retailing and 
services operators in the 
UK and Ireland.
KNOWHOW is our  
market leading services 
brand. 
Dixons Travel operates 
in all major UK airports 
as well as Dublin, 
Copenhagen, Rome, 
Milan and Brussels.
PC World Business 
provides computing 
products and services 
to business to business 
customers.
The Elkjøp Group is 
the leading specialist 
electrical retailer across 
the Nordics.
Elkjøp and Lefdal stores 
operate in Norway, El 
Giganten in Sweden and 
Denmark and Gigantti in 
Finland.
In the Czech Republic 
and Slovakia, we operate 
under the Electroworld 
brand.
Kotsovolos is Greece’s 
leading specialist 
electrical retailer.
In Italy, we operate 
Unieuro electrical stores 
with some as combined 
2-in-1 Unieuro and PC 
City stores. 
In Turkey, we operate the 
Electroworld brand with a 
local joint venture partner.
PIXmania is one of the 
largest pure play on-line 
electrical retailers in 
Europe operating in 14 
countries.
Brands
Currys, PC World, 
KNOWHOW, Dixons 
Travel, PC World Business
Elkjøp, El Giganten, 
Gigantti, Lefdal, 
Electroworld
Kotsovolos, Unieuro, 
Electroworld
PIXmania
Underlying  
sales (£million)
4,014.5 2,876.3 965.6 357.5
Underlying 
operating profit / 
(loss) (£million)
113.3 120.5 (24.4) (31.3)
Number of 
stores
552 319 273 10
Average 
number of 
employees
20,461 9,092 4,676 1,281
Selling space 
(‘000 sq ft)
7,755 5,084 3,704 14
Average selling 
area per store 
(sq ft)
14,049 15,937 13,568 1,400
Websites
www.currys.co.uk 
www.pcworld.co.uk 
www.knowhow.co.uk 
www.currys.ie  
www.pcworld.ie 
www.pcworldbusiness.co.uk
www.elkjop.no 
www.elgiganten.se 
www.elgiganten.dk 
www.gigantti.fi 
www.lefdal.com 
www.electroworld.cz
www.kotsovolos.gr 
www.unieuro.it 
www.electroworld.gr 
www.electroworld.com.tr
www.pixmania.com
Five Year Highlights
Underlying Group sales 
£million
* EBIT 
£million
* Underlying profit before tax 
£million
* Underlying diluted earnings per share 
Pence
*
2012/13 8,213.9 136.0 94.5 1.5p
2011/12
†
7,910.2 121.3 82.1 1.4p
2010/11
†
7,916.4 127.6 90.5 1.8p
2009/10
†
8,045.7 132.7 98.3 1.7p
2008/09
†
7,613.2 102.7 77.2 1.6p
* Underlying performance measures are as defined in the Performance Review.
†  Underlying figures for 2011/12 and prior years have been re-presented to exclude the trading results of businesses exited / to be exited for which the decisions were 
made or executed in 2012/13 and in respect of profit before tax, to exclude the net interest on defined benefit pension schemes. Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Chairman’s Statement
Dixons Retail plc 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
When I last reported to you I highlighted that we remained 
relentlessly focused on two goals – continuously improving 
our offer to customers while at the same time strengthening 
our business in the long term interests of shareholders. 
I am pleased to report that we have had a year of good 
progress in Dixons Retail on both fronts:
• Our improving offer for customers is working as we see our 
key businesses strengthen their standing in each of their 
markets.
•	 We have strengthened our balance sheet through both 
the external debt markets as well as through improving 
cash generation.
And I am pleased that these actions have started to be 
reflected in the overall value of our shares.
The economic environment continues to remain challenging 
across Europe, but a continuous focus on the customer 
is enabling us to strengthen our position in key markets, 
particularly as the competitor landscape consolidates. 
Building on the Renewal and Transformation plan, 
Sebastian James has, in his first full year as Group Chief 
Executive, set the business on a clear path to delivering 
a sustainable business for the long term. We are building 
a blueprint model for how a leading specialist electrical 
retailing and services company should operate.
In the UK & Ireland, Katie Bickerstaffe has tirelessly 
driven the business forward since taking the reins at the 
beginning of 2012. Impressive customer satisfaction 
measures continue to be delivered day in and day out by 
all our colleagues in store, in the call centre and in our 
delivery and services networks, for which they must be 
congratulated, and which are key to building a business to 
which customers and suppliers continue to return. 
Our business in Northern Europe had another strong year 
as it further consolidates its position in each of its markets. 
This year we welcomed Jaan Ivar Semlitsch as Managing 
Director of Northern Europe and he brings a wealth of 
experience in retail. He is already starting to have a positive 
impact on the business and in developing best practice 
across the Group.
Our operations across Southern Europe continue to 
experience challenging economic environments. We have a 
solid business in Greece, but need to continue to move our 
Italian and Turkish businesses on to more stable financial 
footings.
PIXmania continues to experience challenges, but I am 
pleased that Sebastian swiftly started action once we took 
full control of the business in August. 
Our services business, KNOWHOW, has had another 
good year and I am pleased that we are now starting to 
embed some of its elements more widely across the Group 
with in-store clinics in Greece, Italy and Denmark being 
rolled out.
Our underlying Group profit before tax of £94.5 million was 
a good overall performance, but the Group is capable of 
more. While Dixons Retail has made significant progress 
since it embarked on the Renewal and Transformation plan 
in 2008 there remains further work to be done. The strong 
performances in the UK & Ireland and Nordics businesses 
has enabled these businesses together to deliver on our 
target of 3-4% return on sales and we need to consolidate 
this. We must continue to work on improving or resolving 
the performances in Southern Europe and PIXmania to 
enable the Group to make better progress on overall EBIT 
performance. As we continue to work on this we have 
incurred non-underlying charges of £209.8 million, resulting 
in a Group statutory pre-tax loss of £115.3 million.
The Group continues to make good progress on generating 
cash enabling us to reduce steadily net debt and 
restructure our external borrowing facilities. Following a 
successful new bond issue in September 2012, we have a 
better balance of external debt facilities, a more appropriate 
maturity profile, as well as a strengthened balance sheet.
During the year the Group continued to raise money for 
various charities in the countries in which our businesses 
operate. In the UK, our colleagues raised an impressive 
£100,000 for Children in Need in a very busy four weeks. 
In the Nordics, we raised NOK 3.75 million in support of 
the Red Cross water for life campaign. We continue to 
review how we can provide greater support and access to 
technology for disadvantaged children and their families.
Rita Clifton retired from the Board after nine years as a 
non-executive director. I would like to thank her for her 
considerable contribution in that time. I am also pleased 
to welcome Andrea Gisle Joosen to the Board. She brings 
with her a wealth of business experience in the consumer 
electronics sector and an in-depth knowledge of the Nordic 
region.
The Board, through its various committees, ensures that 
the requisite controls are in place across the business and 
that the highest possible principles of corporate governance 
are adhered to.
In the year ahead we are not anticipating any help from 
the economic environments of the markets in which we 
operate, but our model is proving to be a winner in its 
markets. We remain confident that our single-minded 
focus on getting the customer offer right while continuing 
to improve our efficiency will ensure we can continue to 
deliver on our goals.
I would like to thank all our colleagues and congratulate 
the leadership team for their successful efforts over the last 
year and I am sure they will work equally hard to achieve 
further success in the year ahead.
John Allan
Chairman Dixons Retail plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Group Chief Executive's Statement
I have now had my first full financial year in this role and 
I am pleased to report that we have made a lot of good 
progress. There remains much to do, but I am blessed with 
a strong team, and am proud of the way in which all of my 
colleagues have continued to improve the business for our 
customers. There is no doubt that we are reaping, and will 
continue to reap, rewards for our shareholders as a result. 
When I took over this role, I identified that there were three 
things which we needed to do:
1. Drive a successful and sustainable business model for 
a modern, multi-channel customer.
2. Be a leader in each of the markets in which the Group 
operates.
3. Align the Group to leverage consistently pan-European 
scale and knowhow.
These are discussed in more detail in the Strategy section 
of this report and by focusing on these we have delivered, 
and we believe we will continue to deliver, improved cash 
and EBIT returns.
In the UK & Ireland division the work carried out over 
the last few years to improve the business is now really 
starting to bear fruit under Katie Bickerstaffe’s strong 
leadership. I am convinced that we have now built the most 
economically sustainable specialist electrical multi-channel 
retail model in Europe, if not the World – though we still 
have much to do. A key part of this is a core belief that we 
do not have our customers by right, but that we have to 
earn the conversation with them every single day through 
great service and great prices. Our customer satisfaction 
and advocacy ratings are at all time highs and, though 
we will never be satisfied until we never make a mistake, 
with 93% of people saying that they would recommend 
us, we are definitely making progress. We are maintaining 
extremely high service standards with our two man delivery 
teams and our call centres. At the same time we continue 
to drive our prices so that we are getting more and more 
competitive with all of our competitors in all channels 
every day.
We continue to reshape the store portfolio with our 2-in-1 
stores (of which we now have 198) making a real difference 
for customers as well as delivering significantly improved 
economics. We continue to push our thinking on how to 
make our shops even more exciting, and during the year 
we opened a new store concept in Solihull that delivers 
another step forward in creating a place for customers to 
experience the best electrical products, get great advice 
and be inspired by the incredible new technologies that 
are emerging. Whether it be a simple kettle, or the latest 
high definition 3D Smart LED television, our job is to make 
buying it easy, fun and confidence-inspiring. Learnings from 
Solihull will shape our stores going forward, but we will 
also continue to push thinking with new ‘future-store’ ideas 
during the coming year. 
We now give customers a fully integrated and seamless 
multi-channel experience. Customers typically research on-
line before buying a brand new computer or television, but 
invariably also want to experience the product before they 
buy. We make the internet into a powerful friend by giving 
people a great experience both on-line and in store with 
every possible shopping option available to them.
Launching the KNOWHOW brand two years ago gave us 
a great opportunity to create something special for our 
customers – a connected brand delivering all the services 
that people need throughout the life of their product, but 
most importantly doing it really well. With great service 
metrics, KNOWHOW is delivering for customers and it 
is growing strongly in the fledgling added value services 
market.
Our colleagues in store have benefited from our 
comprehensive training programme that allows them to 
be genuinely knowledgeable on all the latest product 
developments, so that when customers come in to 
our stores they can be sure they are getting the very 
best advice. 
All of these things have meant that we can work 
with suppliers in new and exciting ways. The newest 
technologies can be bewildering and we do an important 
job for our suppliers in showcasing and demonstrating 
them to our customers. We bring our suppliers’ products 
to life in store and we are not shy of recommending those 
that we think are the best through the ‘Our Experts Love’ 
programme. In many of our markets we are the only people 
who can deliver this hands-on experience and, increasingly, 
both our suppliers and our customers are showing us, 
tangibly, that this is valuable to them.
In Northern Europe we have a very strong business. It 
is market leader in all its Nordic markets. With a lean 
operating model and a reputation for good customer 
service, it delivered a 4% return on sales in the year. 
We have a new, and very capable, management team 
in place under Jaan Ivar Semlitsch, our Managing 
Director of Northern Europe, and we can see a number 
of opportunities to improve the business further with 
better information systems, customer measurements 
and standardised operations. The fundamental business 
model and priorities are very similar in the Nordics and 
we are starting to share our operating model more than 
ever before. 
The competitive position of our Nordic Group is very strong 
in all of its markets but we anticipate that there will be some 
competitive activity this year. However, we will continue to 
take any action necessary to make sure that we continue 
to win and I am confident that the Northern European 
business will continue to deliver good returns.
In Southern Europe we have made good progress in 
stabilising the businesses which continue to operate in very 
tough economic environments and competitive markets. 
Mario Maiocchi, Managing Director for Southern Europe, 
has been relentless in driving cost improvements and 
stabilising the profit performance of the businesses. Dixons Retail plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Group Chief Executive's Statement (continued)
In Greece we have a very good business with a powerful 
brand and market position. Our priority is to continue to 
manage the business there with a tight control on costs 
and focus on serving the customer while waiting for the 
economy to stabilise. I am confident that as and when 
the economy in Greece starts to improve we will return to 
enjoying good returns out of Kotsovolos. In Italy we are a 
relatively small player in a very fragmented market and we 
are actively looking for ways to put our business there on 
a more solid strategic footing which may take some time. 
In the meantime, we have been focusing on constantly 
improving the customer experience (we won the mobile 
phone retailer of the year this year) while the team have 
been very aggressive in keeping a tight rein on costs. Our 
joint venture business in Turkey operates in a dynamic 
market, however it is one that is now very crowded in our 
space and we anticipate quite a lot of structural market 
change there.
Our troubled single channel operation in France, PIXmania, 
has been a primary focus for me. Having taken full control 
of the business in August 2012 we put in place a new 
management team and embarked on a restructuring plan 
that removed a substantial proportion of the costs, but most 
importantly stopped activities that were a drain on the core 
business. We remain focused on putting the business on a 
firmer financial footing.
Across the Group we have some very successful and 
strong operations with many exceptional people doing 
great things every day. I am keen that we share the best 
practices in each and every one of our businesses to 
ensure we fully exploit the benefits of being a Group. 
While it is still early days, I am pleased to say that we have 
already started to see some good practices being shared. 
For example ‘Our Experts Love’ model is a refinement of 
the model we use in Elkjøp, KNOWHOW has launched 
in Greece, Italy and Denmark and will be rolled out to all 
of our Nordic region Megastores this year. Over Peak we 
introduced a number of products across Europe which 
enabled us to offer our customers some great deals. I am 
keen to see just how far we can develop this alignment of 
our businesses over the next few years and I look forward 
to sharing with you our progress.
In almost all of our markets we have seen competitors 
disappear, both big and small. While we are seeing the 
benefit of capacity exiting our markets, we cannot be 
complacent. Our place remains shoulder to shoulder with 
the customer ensuring they get great products and services 
every minute of every day no matter how they choose 
to shop.
Our balance sheet is stronger than it has been for some 
time and I am very pleased with the cash performance of the 
Group which was as a result of excellent work in managing 
our working capital position. This year, our 2012 bonds 
reached maturity, as did a substantial currency hedge 
taken out many years ago, and we repurchased a number 
of our 2015 bonds through issuing new 2017 bonds. The 
fact that these new bonds were extremely well subscribed 
reflects, I think, the improving perception of Dixons Retail 
as it emerges from its restructuring over the last few years. I 
am confident that we now have the right, smoother, maturity 
profile on our borrowings. Our strong cash generation means 
that we can see a clear path to eliminating the external 
sources of finance from the Group over the next three to four 
years and in due course to start to reward shareholders for 
their support and perseverance over the last few years.
In the year ahead there are many new products coming 
to market, including even better quality televisions with 
the introduction of OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diode) 
and ultra high definition. Digitisation and energy efficiency 
continue to drive developments in white goods. With the 
main computer operating system platforms from Google, 
Microsoft and Apple all looking to grow their market shares, 
we are uniquely placed for these brands to help customers 
understand the features and benefits of each and to help 
them choose which one is right for them. While these are 
all exciting shorter term developments we continue to look 
at how our markets will evolve in the years ahead. We have 
some fantastic opportunities in content and added value 
services as we continue to develop our services model 
under the KNOWHOW brand. 
As we look forward we remain focused on doing what is 
right for the customer, improving our stores, our services 
and our financial performance.
It remains for me to give a huge thank you to all my 
colleagues who have worked so hard over the last year, 
in some cases in difficult environments. I am extremely 
proud of them all and know that I can rely on them for their 
continued support in the year ahead.
Sebastian James
Group Chief Executive Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Our Markets
Dixons Retail plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
our pay&collect service, where customers can access a 
wider range of products than is typically available in their 
local store for either home delivery or later collection from 
the store, are both proving to be increasingly popular.
Innovation brings new products and products with improved 
functionality, such as 3D and Smart TVs, Ultrabooks, 
Apple’s iPad, and other tablets in turn driving sales growth. 
New content, such as social media, apps, digital media and 
cloud computing, also help to drive hardware innovation 
and replacement. Product sales are also driven by 
structural shifts, such as analogue to digital and standard 
format to HD television. In addition, innovation drives new 
service requirements, such as TV installation, data backup 
and computer set up. In this increasingly complex world 
we believe our assisted sales model is best placed to help 
customers navigate the products available and to help them 
choose a complete solution that best meets their needs.
Electrical products, and in particular brown goods, 
are predominantly discretionary purchases. However, 
increasing penetration of digital technology in the home 
drives replacement cycles as these products become less 
discretionary. The economic backdrop also determines 
whether customers buy up or down price points. 
Accordingly, the electrical market tends to grow at a rate 
which is at or exceeding the economy during boom years. 
While the opposite can be true during a downturn, this may 
be influenced by new innovation and products.
The rapid innovation cycle leads to price deflation in 
brown goods and computing, but also drives volume as 
products become more affordable and replacement cycles 
accelerate. For larger ticket items, the low frequency of 
purchases limits the impact of price deflation on total 
market sales as consumers typically trade up to higher 
specification products.
The sale of white goods is underpinned by the replacement 
cycle. Due to higher costs of repair, it often makes better 
economic sense for consumers to replace white goods 
outright rather than to arrange for their repair. The sale of 
white goods is also driven by the dynamics of the housing 
market as new construction, house sales and refurbishment 
trigger new purchases. 
The UK and Nordic markets have high broadband 
penetration and a maturing on-line sales platform. The 
increase in on-line penetration provides us with the 
opportunity to increase both the range of goods on offer 
and the availability of product information. Our multi-
channel approach is well placed to exploit synergies 
between our internet sites and stores.
Technology and the digitised world increasingly embed 
themselves into our customers’ lives, whether it be 
keeping up with friends and family through social media, 
on-line gaming, watching movies on the move, sharing 
pictures with others or across different technologies in 
the home, backing up precious memories in the cloud or 
through energy efficiency. The latest technology allows 
our customers to do all this and more with tablets, Smart 
TVs and apps. The ecosystems behind the current digital 
revolution are simplifying our customers’ lives. Customers 
come to us not just for the enabling technology, but to find 
a solution.
Specialist electrical retailers are the predominant 
destination for customers in the European market. Buying 
groups, general merchants and independents also have 
a retail presence through stores and/or on-line in most 
European markets. The market is served by a relatively 
small number of global manufacturers supplying goods to 
local, regional, national and international electrical retailers.
The electrical retail market can be split between specialist 
electrical retailers, such as Dixons Retail, and general 
retailers which sell certain electrical goods as part of a 
wider offering, such as catalogue retailers, department 
stores, large supermarket chains and single channel 
internet retailers. The market can also be broken down 
into two distinct distribution channels: ‘assisted’ and 
‘unassisted’. In the assisted channel, specialist retailers 
such as us help customers through the buying process in 
the form of product advice, add-on services, delivery and 
installation. The unassisted channel, which includes single 
channel internet retailers as well as general retailers, tend 
not to offer all of these services.
We are one of the largest specialist electrical retailing and 
services companies in Europe and with leading market 
shares in the UK, Ireland, the Nordic region and Greece 
we benefit from long established and widely recognised 
brands. In each of our markets there are varying numbers 
of specialist retailers who compete in the assisted market. 
While we do compete against general retailers, this 
is generally limited to certain lower unit price product 
categories as these operators do not offer the full range of 
products, assisted sale or associated ancillary services we 
are able to provide.
We do maintain a presence in the unassisted channel 
through our pure play internet business of PIXmania, 
although this business has been going through significant 
restructuring, as discussed elsewhere.
We have seen some significant shifts in capacity in many of 
our markets over the last 12 to 24 months with some mass 
merchandisers reducing space for electrical products, some 
single channel internet operators exiting our markets, as 
well as some specialists exiting the market, for example 
Comet in the UK and Expert in Sweden. While these shifts 
have helped us gain market share it does underpin our 
view that a strong service led multi-channel operation 
satisfies both customer and supplier needs while delivering 
a sustainable business as customer shopping habits 
continue to evolve. We believe further consolidation will 
occur in some of our markets going forward.
The internet delivers enhanced product information and 
facilitates price comparability for consumers. Whilst this 
creates new challenges, it also provides a significant 
opportunity. We believe that, over time, internet demand 
will polarise towards the larger retailers with scalable 
distribution and systems, together with proven after sales 
service and support. In particular, customers are showing 
an increasing propensity to combine the internet with stores 
as they consider their purchase. We know that a significant 
proportion of customers spend part of their shopping trip 
on-line as much as they spend time in store. Services that 
combine the benefits of both the store and the internet are 
increasingly attractive to customers. Our collect@store 
service, where customers can order on the internet and 
collect from a convenient store at a time to suit them, and  Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Strategy and Business Model
Dixons Retail plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Strategy
The Renewal and Transformation plan continues to 
make significant improvements to our business. With 
Sebastian James’ appointment as Group Chief Executive in 
February 2012, we set out three strategic priorities that will 
build on that work and improve our business for customers. 
These will, we believe, deliver improving returns for 
shareholders through a focus on improving Free Cash Flow 
generation and EBIT margins of the Group:
1. Drive a successful and sustainable business model in a 
multi-channel world.
2. Be a leader in each of the markets in which the Group 
operates.
3. Align the Group to leverage consistently pan-European 
scale and knowhow.
1. Drive a successful and sustainable business model 
in a multi-channel world
The way in which a customer shops is fundamentally 
changing. Our customers tell us that they want advice, 
to experience products and to ensure they are making 
the right choices, particularly as these are often major 
purchases that they will own for several years. The 
internet empowers customers with lots of information 
including product knowledge and price transparency. 
Single channel internet operators have structurally 
lower costs to sell products and have historically been 
able to offer highly competitive prices versus store 
based operators. Over recent years we have reduced 
our costs significantly and in more recent times have 
been able to significantly reduce, and in many cases 
virtually eliminate, the price gap through a focus on four 
distinct activities that we believe are the key strengths 
of our multi-channel service based model and will 
support our competitive advantage going forward:
i. Work closely with suppliers to harness benefits 
available to our business model: Suppliers want 
to ensure that customers not only choose their 
brands, but also experience the benefits of the latest 
products they have developed to meet customers’ 
needs. As a multi-channel operator we work with our 
suppliers to ensure we can explain the benefits of 
these products and demonstrate them to customers 
in our stores and our suppliers support us in this 
work in a number of ways.
ii. Focus on complete solutions for customers: 
Customers buy products in order to achieve 
something, such as watching movies, or to 
entertain the children. This does not just mean 
buying the hardware, but increasingly includes 
delivery, explanation and peace of mind through 
product support and after sales services, as well 
as accessories and recycling. The conversations 
our colleagues have in store with customers gives 
us an opportunity to explain the benefits of these 
solutions. KNOWHOW in the UK offers customers 
one cohesive services brand that can help them 
with their product throughout its life from purchase, 
help and support, repair and through to disposal. We 
are confident that there are increasing opportunities 
emerging in the added value services market as 
customers become more reliant on content, cloud, 
services and technical support that enable them to 
get the most out of the products they buy. 
iii.  Drive our service proposition: We need to be able to 
stand shoulder to shoulder with our customers and 
for them to know they can come to our stores and get 
knowledgeable advice and great service to help them 
buy the right product. They need to be confident 
that we will solve their problem for them quickly 
and efficiently. If we get this right we believe that 
customers will be prepared to pay us for this service.
iv. Reduce costs: The scale of our operations across 
stores, ranges, logistics, distribution, repairs and 
services means that we can continually improve 
processes to reduce costs. Over the last six financial 
years the Group has removed a total of £330 million 
of costs and we are targeting a further £45 million of 
costs to be removed over the new financial year.
2. Be a leader in each of the markets in which the 
Group operates
We have strong market positions in the UK & Ireland, 
Northern Europe and in Greece. In each of these 
markets we have seen consolidation amongst 
competitors and we see opportunities to improve these 
positions further. Across the Southern European division 
and in PIXmania we need to set these businesses 
on paths that will make them strategically strong and 
profitable, and drive solutions that will put them on 
firmer footings.
While the economic environment in Greece is very 
tough, Kotsovolos is a strong brand and has a 
leading market share. It has managed costs carefully, 
minimising losses through a very difficult economic 
environment, but has continued to grow market share 
as both customers and suppliers recognise the strength 
of its brand. 
In Italy our business has been stabilised, although 
the economic environment remains challenging. 
The Italian market however is characterised by a 
number of specialist electrical retailers and we believe 
consolidation is likely to occur.
PIXmania has experienced extremely tough conditions 
over the last two years. It has been impacted by 
shifts in the market towards multi-channel retailers, 
increased competition in France and weak consumer 
environments in many of its major markets. In August 
2012 we took full control of the business, put in place 
new management and embarked on a restructuring 
programme. We have closed its pick-up stores, ceased 
trading in 12 countries and reduced the range of 
categories it offers. These actions will offset some of 
the pressures it has seen, but it is likely further action 
will be required to put the business on a firmer financial 
footing.
3. Align the Group to leverage consistently pan-
European scale and knowhow
The Group has many best practices in each of its 
business divisions. Some work has taken place to 
align these and share them across the Group, such as 
the new store formats, supplier relationships and, to 
a limited degree, own brands. However, there remain 
many opportunities to share knowledge, expertise and 
best practice across the Group. Some of these will 
take time, but we must exploit further the benefits of 
being a pan-European operator. We have had some 
initial success with some pan-European deals bought 
for the important Christmas period selling well in all of  Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Strategy and Business Model (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
our markets. In addition ‘Our Experts Love’ model that 
aligns recommendations for customers with suppliers’ 
new technology operates in some form in each of 
our key markets. We have also started to roll out our 
KNOWHOW services into Italy, Greece and Denmark.
Our UK & Ireland and Northern Europe divisions together 
delivered a 2.9% EBIT return after associated central costs 
in the 2012/13 financial year. We believe that a 3-4% EBIT 
return for these businesses is certainly achievable. In the 
other businesses, returns have been disappointing and 
we need to focus on reducing the losses to support an 
improvement in the Group’s EBIT return.
Cash is an important part of this and the Group has been 
cash generative in each of the last three financial years 
which has enabled us to turn our net debt position into 
net cash of £42.1 million. As a Group we need to make 
the right choices as to how each of our divisions utilise or 
preserve cash, whether it be determining ranges and stock 
held in store, managing returns and related processes or 
improving working capital and stock turn. 
Business Model
Our business model driven by customer insight, comprises 
three key pillars of an integrated multi-channel offering, a 
wide range of products and after sales service and support, 
underpinned by a low cost operating model. 
Customer Insight
In order to ensure we understand what products and 
services our customers want, how they use the products 
they buy from us and what they think of the service they get 
from us, we use extensive customer insight. This includes 
discussions at customer panels, interviews, home visits 
and detailed surveys. We use this information to build 
our ranges, improve our stores and services and other 
business decisions. This is supported by mystery shops in 
our own and competitor stores, exit surveys and customer 
feedback. During the year our UK businesses made 
considerable progress in customer satisfaction metrics as 
we continue to improve the business.
Taking each of the three pillars in turn, our model can be 
described as follows:
Multi-channel
The shopping trip for customers is constantly evolving. 
Our objective is to provide our customers with a seamless 
experience where convenience, ease of navigation and 
simplicity are key in attracting customers to shop with us 
whether it is on-line, in-store or a combination of both. 
We are improving our stores making them easier to shop 
with, for example, improved navigation, better signage, 
playtables to allow customers to interact with products 
before they buy, as well as good advice on features and 
benefits from our colleagues. Our websites are an integral 
part of the way in which customers choose products and 
we have carried out a wide range of improvements to them 
during the year. In recognition of how customer trends 
are evolving we have made it easier for our colleagues to 
access products and extended ranges in store. For example, 
our store colleagues are rewarded for all sales in their 
catchment, whether it be on-line or in store. We have also 
introduced pay&collect, alongside our existing collect@store 
service, where customers can buy products not immediately 
available in their local store for collection later.
Our training programmes combined with our Product 
Learning Centres provide our colleagues with the right tools 
to really understand customers’ needs and to provide them 
with the complete solution to properly meet those needs. 
We will continue to improve the training of our colleagues 
and the ways in which we can really make them experts in 
the products we sell.
Products
Combining our customer insight with our market strength 
across Europe we can make sure we have the right range 
of products in our stores to suit customers’ needs. Our 
scale and relationships with suppliers means that we 
can work with them to showcase the latest technology 
and products in our stores with areas dedicated to key 
suppliers’ products.
Own brand products enable us to offer customers greater 
choice and access to a range of products at competitive 
prices. We have defined a clear ‘good, better, best’ brand 
range of: Currys and PC World Essentials; Logik; iWantit; 
Advent; Goji; and Sandstrøm brands. We see particular 
opportunities in the area of accessories and essentials 
with, for example, our own range of Sandstrøm cables and 
Essentials ink.
After Sales Services and Support
Our customers need help with their products, whether it 
be delivery and installation, help keeping their products up 
and running or repair when things go wrong. Our business 
in the UK & Ireland sets the benchmark for our services 
infrastructure under our KNOWHOW brand. 
We operate the largest network of two man deliveries in the 
UK with an average of 50,000 deliveries per week enabling 
us to provide customers with the convenience of next day 
delivery in a three hour time slot or the value of a free 
delivery later.
Our KNOWHOW teams in stores, in our call centre and 
field technicians can provide set up and upgrade services 
as well as on-line fix and back up services. Our market 
leading range of help and support services ensure a 
customer has the backing of expertise and support that 
keeps their technology up and running. In the event that 
a customer has a problem with their product, we can fix it. 
For example, our state of the art repair facility in Newark 
is able to repair and return a laptop in seven days. During 
the year we introduced our white goods repair network 
enabling us to access a market we estimate is worth 
around £500 million. We provide customers with a choice 
of support agreements such as ‘Premier’ services which 
provide customers with a loan TV, for example, if theirs 
needs to be taken away for repair.
Through ownership of the service infrastructure we can 
ensure the quality of service delivered to customers. This, 
we believe, provides us with a significant competitive 
advantage in meeting the needs of our customers, as well 
as a revenue stream not readily available to single channel 
on-line and mass market competitors.
While much of the improvement work has been focused 
on the UK, core elements of the business model exist in 
our businesses in the Northern and Southern European 
divisions and we see more potential to develop this area. Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Our Resources
Dixons Retail plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
• Customers
• People
• Suppliers
• Distribution and Logistics
• Store Portfolio
• Intellectual Property
• Cash
•	 Energy
Customers
To deliver on our strategies and to ensure we continue to 
respond to customers’ needs we must listen effectively 
to them. Since 2008, and most significantly in the UK & 
Ireland, we have invested in comprehensive customer 
research programmes spanning a variety of tools including 
exit surveys, mystery shops, focus groups and effective 
data gathering.
Through this research, managed by our in-house Customer 
Insight team, we have developed a clear and detailed 
understanding of what we are doing well and more 
importantly of where we can target further improvements. 
Customers tell us that they need us to deliver a strong 
combination of Value, Choice and Service across all our 
shopping channels, and it is clear from their feedback that 
more and more they recognise that we are doing this. We 
will continue to deliver easier, more exciting places to shop 
for customers whether that be in store, on-line or a multi-
channel combination of both. 
Listening to customers extends into how we approach the 
sales process in-store. Our ‘FIVES’ training programme 
is designed to ensure customers leave our stores with a 
complete solution that is right for them. Doing this is a key 
part of our ongoing strategy and delivery of a sustainable 
business model, as well as enabling us to differentiate our 
offer from competitors.
By maintaining our absolute focus on the customer and 
delivering what they want in a retail environment that 
is constantly evolving, we will continue to attract new 
customers and retain existing ones. In the last 12 months 
our data shows that we have gained share in each of our 
key markets reflecting our increasing attractiveness to 
customers.
People
Dixons Retail is an organisation spanning much of Europe, 
with nearly 36,000 colleagues in over 1,100 stores, offices, 
call centres and distribution centres. For our colleagues, we 
believe there are four core values that constitute who we 
are, as individuals and as a team:
• We love to make our customers happy.
• We know our stuff.
• We love to work here.
•	 We deliver.
In 2009, in the UK, we launched a comprehensive 
Customer Plan in collaboration with our colleagues. The 
Customer Plan involves improving every possible aspect 
of the shopping trip for customers, whether that be in 
our exciting new stores, better ranges at great value, 
untangling the shopping trip for customers, helping them 
get their products up and working, or keeping them working 
as technology gets more and more embedded into daily 
lives.
We made huge progress last year across every aspect 
that we measured in the Shopping Trip. However, we must 
never be satisfied and we can and must make further 
improvements to delight customers and to outpace the 
competition. This year, the Customer Plan will remain our 
vehicle for demonstrating to the team what needs to be 
delivered, building on last year’s successes, introducing 
new work streams and sharing our practices across 
Europe. 
We are focusing on building a career development 
framework that rewards customer centric behaviour and 
instils a sense of pride in our colleagues. We now provide 
tailor-made development programmes and support further 
education qualifications for our colleagues throughout the 
business. Our development programmes use modules, 
training workshops and a dedicated e-learning intranet 
service that helps provide the skills colleagues need to 
succeed at every level and career stage.
We operate sophisticated tracking and measuring 
processes, including regular mystery shops and exit 
surveys, to measure individual’s and store’s performance, 
and to ensure we reward appropriate behaviours. Each 
region within the Group defines its own reward system as is 
appropriate to local customers’ expectations and colleague 
behaviours. However, all these systems incentivise a 
combination of good customer service and contribution to a 
store or team’s performance. 
Suppliers
As we build our market-leading reputation and become 
known not just for Value, Choice and Service, but also 
as the ‘go to’ location for all the latest technology, our 
relationship with suppliers becomes ever more important. 
Product sourcing offices for each of the UK & Ireland 
division, Northern Europe, Italy, Greece, Turkey and 
PIXmania continually monitor current and future product 
cycles with existing and potential suppliers.
In a complex multi-channel environment, suppliers trust us 
with their new product releases and stock allocations, as 
they appreciate the superior service and advice offered by 
our stores and indeed our websites, as well as the exciting 
environments offered by our transformed stores in which 
customers can experience their brands and products.
We work closely with suppliers of all sizes to help them 
deliver the right product for customers, through the 
forecasting and planning stages to ensure we deliver the 
right levels of stock for customers at the right time. The 
electrical and computing industry is characterised by a 
number of large global manufacturers, who account for 
a large proportion of our sales. However, we also source 
product from a large number of smaller suppliers. We seek 
to maintain strong relationships with all of these suppliers, 
not just to source the right product for customers, but also 
to ensure the Group can purchase the appropriate level of 
stock on favourable terms. While we leverage the Group’s 
scale and buying power through an International Buying 
team, we also maintain strong relationships at a local level. Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Our Resources (continued) 
Dixons Retail plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Our in-house design team continues to work closely with 
suppliers to develop exciting environments in store for 
colleagues to demonstrate brands and products and ensure 
customers leave with the right products for them.
We also continue to refine our own-brand ranges to suit 
all budgets and tastes. Our most notable successes have 
been the launch of our own Sandstrøm cables brand and 
the unveiling of a Goji headphone range fronted by Tinchy 
Stryder. We also continue to embed our Currys and PC 
World Essentials ranges as key entry level products in our 
‘good, better, best’ line-up. These products are sourced 
by the Group’s teams based in the UK and Hong Kong in 
collaboration with manufacturers in, for example, Asia.
Distribution and Logistics
The Group sees distribution as one of the keys to the 
success of the Group in maintaining highly competitive 
margins and delivering outstanding, market-beating 
service to customers. We operate a centralised system of 
distribution centres in all the countries in which we operate. 
This delivers significant competitive advantages, including 
reduced operating costs, reduced supplier delivery costs, 
reduced stock volumes in store, increased flexibility as 
to where to deliver and when, and a more efficient home 
delivery network for both us and our customers.
While continuing to reduce costs, we are also constantly 
raising the bar, both in terms of successful delivery and 
installation rates, but also the range and quality of services 
we offer customers nationwide. In our Nordic operations 
(Jönköping, Sweden) and the UK, Newark, we operate two 
of the largest distribution centres of their kind in Europe. 
In the UK alone we now make some 2.5 million deliveries, 
including some 500,000 installations per year.
Store Portfolio
We operate a wide variety of stores to suit the local 
customer demographics. We operate small, very popular 
outlets in airport locations up to ‘Megastores’ in out-of-town 
locations, up to 60,000 square feet.
We constantly review our store portfolio to ensure we 
have the right store for customers in the most competitive 
location. As part of this ongoing review in the UK, we are 
currently reducing our exposure to the High Street, only 
maintaining a presence in the most profitable locations. 
We are also transitioning a number of stores, where 
appropriate, to a 2-in-1 format. These stores allow us to 
offer the best of both worlds to customers, attracting new 
footfall and often at a lower cost.
Throughout Europe, we have replicated the success of the 
store refits first trialled in the UK and Nordics, delivering 
exciting, easy to shop stores offering the latest technology 
to customers. We also refine our Group portfolio strategy 
to suit local market conditions. In the Nordics, for example, 
we have opened a number of Elkjøp Express High Street 
shops, clearly establishing ourselves as the Norwegian 
market leader in mobile communication sales.
In the Nordic region, Italy, Greece and Turkey we also 
operate a number of franchise stores. This arrangement 
allows our brands to be present in a wider range of 
catchments, while increasing the volume of purchases and 
therefore buying power of the Group. 
Intellectual Property
Dixons Retail is one of the largest electrical and computing 
specialist groups in Europe, and leads the market in a 
number of its operations, in the UK & Ireland through 
Currys and PC World, in the Nordics through its Elkjøp 
brands, in Greece through Kotsovolos, in Italy through 
Unieuro and in a number of countries on-line through 
PIXmania. These brands are extremely well-established 
and respected in their markets. The Group is also building 
a strong service business (branded KNOWHOW) in the UK, 
aiming to delight customers while generating significant 
new business opportunities.
As well as our retail and service brands outlined above, 
we also sell a range of own brand products such as 
Sandstrøm, Goji, Essentials and Advent. Each of these 
brands have specific target markets defined in conjunction 
with our customer research findings. 
Cash
It remains the Group’s policy to maintain a strong capital 
base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market 
confidence and to sustain the future development of 
the business. This approach has never been more 
important than during the economic downturn, with 
‘reducing costs’ having been one of the five key corporate 
priorities highlighted at the launch of the Renewal and 
Transformation plan in 2008.
As we move forward under a new Group Chief Executive, 
our targets in the short term for the Group have been 
clearly laid out emphasising a delivery of a suitable and 
sustainable return on EBIT as well as generating cash.
As a Group we need to make the right choices as to how 
each division utilises or preserves cash, whether it be in 
determining ranges and stock held in store or managing 
returns and related processes. This focus has enabled 
the Group to be cash generative in each of the last 
three financial years. During the year the Group issued 
new 2017 bonds, redeemed its remaining £160 million 
2012 bonds and £49 million of its 2015 bonds. The Group 
has also been able to reduce the size of the Revolving 
Credit Facility (RCF) to £225 million leaving the Group 
with a suitable maturity profile on its debt facilities. The 
strengthening cash position of the Group has meant that 
the RCF has remained undrawn through the financial year.
Energy
Saving energy is good for the business, good for customers 
and of course good for the environment. We take energy 
efficiency extremely seriously and whilst we have already 
made progress in a number of areas, we are investing 
in a wider range of initiatives to significantly reduce our 
consumption going forward.
Over the past three years we have developed an ongoing 
programme to reduce energy consumption throughout 
our estate through, for example, low energy lighting and 
centralised monitoring of consumption. Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Key Performance Indicators
Dixons Retail plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Financial and operational
Definition Performance
Total  
underlying  
sales*
Growth in total underlying sales. The ability to grow sales is an important 
measure of a brand’s appeal to customers and its competitive position. 
2012/13
£8,213.9m
2011/12
†
£7,910.2m
Like for  
like sales
The Board measures like for like sales based on underlying store and internet 
sales using constant exchange rates. New stores are included where they 
have been open for a full financial year both at the beginning and end of 
the financial period. Closed stores are excluded for any period of closure. 
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like 
calculations. Sales targets and growth are set relative to the market and 
expected economic conditions.
2012/13
4%
2011/12
†
(3)%
Market  
position
In line with the Group’s strategy to be the leading specialist electrical retailer 
in Europe, this is an important measure of how well customers are being 
engaged by the Group’s brands in each market. Retailing operations should 
be, or be capable of becoming, the number one or number two specialist 
electrical retailer in their market, measured by market share.
No.1 market positions in: 
UK & Ireland 
Nordics 
Greece
Underlying  
operating  
profit/EBIT*
Continued growth of underlying operating profit enables the Group to invest in 
its future and provide a return for shareholders. Earnings before interest and 
tax (EBIT) equates to underlying operating profit. Targets are set relative to 
expected market performance.
2012/13
£136.0m
2011/12
†
£121.3m
Underlying  
profit before  
tax*
Continued growth of underlying profit before tax represents a measure of 
Group performance to external investors and shareholders. Targets are set 
relative to expected market performance.
2012/13
£94.5m
2011/12
†
£82.1m
Free Cash  
Flow
The Group defines Free Cash Flow as net cash generated from operations, less 
net finance costs, taxation and net capital expenditure and excluding certain 
discrete items such as special pension contributions. The management of 
cash usage, in particular working capital employed in the business, optimises 
resources available for the Group to invest in its future growth and to generate 
shareholder value.
2012/13
£153.4m
2011/12
†
£130.3m
Return on 
Capital 
Employed 
(ROCE) 
The Group calculates ROCE on a pre tax and lease adjusted basis. The return 
is based on underlying operating profit, adjusted to add back the estimated 
interest component associated with capitalising operating lease costs. 
Capital employed is based on net assets including capitalised leases, but 
excluding goodwill, cash, tax and the defined benefit pension obligations. The 
calculation is performed on a moving annual total in order to best match the 
return on assets in a year with the assets in use during the year to generate 
the return. 
2012/13
11.6%
†
Shareholder
Definition Performance
Underlying 
diluted earnings 
per share* (EPS)
The level of growth in EPS provides a suitable measure of the financial health 
of the Group and its ability to deliver returns to shareholders each year. The 
Group targets growth in EPS commensurate with growth in earnings.
2012/13
1.5p
2011/12
†
1.4p
Total 
shareholder 
return (TSR)
This metric provides a relative performance measure over the longer term of 
the Group’s ability to deliver returns for shareholders. From 2010/11, the base 
which the Group has used has been to measure against the FTSE 250 Index  
(comprising FTSE 101-350 companies), excluding investment trusts, over a  
three year period.
3 Year Compound 
Annual Growth
Dixons Retail plc
FTSE 250 Index
1.2%
8.4%
* Underlying performance measures are as defined in the Performance Review.
† Underlying figures for 2011/12 have been re-presented to exclude the trading results of businesses exited / to be exited for which the decisions were made or 
executed in 2012/13 and in respect of profit before tax, to exclude the net interest on defined benefit pension schemes. ROCE was not used as a key performance 
indicator in 2011/12 and accordingly, a figure has not been presented. Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Principal Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives
Dixons Retail plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
The Group recognises that taking risks is an inherent part of doing business and that competitive advantage can be gained 
through effectively managing risk. We continue to develop our risk management processes, integrating risk management into 
business decision making.
The principal risks and uncertainties together with their impacts are set out in the tables below along with an illustration of what 
is being done to mitigate them.
Context, Specific Risks and Potential Impacts
Principal Risk Context Specific Risks Potential Impacts
1.  Economic 
environment
Ongoing uncertainty in 
the European and global 
economies, with increased 
austerity measures to reduce 
deficits and borrowing
• The UK economic recovery is delayed with increased 
volatility through 2013 and beyond
• Greece exits from the euro, leading to a step change 
deterioration of the Greek economy and challenging 
the sustainability of our business
• Instability of the Italian and Greek governments with 
ongoing austerity measures results in prolonged 
weakness in these economies
Greater uncertainty 
Increased losses 
Deteriorating cash flow
2.  Changing 
technology 
& consumer 
preferences
Constantly evolving 
technology is driving changes 
in consumer behaviour
• We do not respond quickly enough to capitalise 
on changes in consumer demand for technology, 
e.g. growth of tablets and 3D TV
• We fail to flex our offering to respond to changes in 
the nature of revenue streams, e.g. the move to digital 
downloads
• We fail to respond to changes in consumer 
preferences as a result of converging technologies, 
e.g. the role of the mobile ecosystem
Reduced revenue and 
profitability
3. Competition The competitive landscape 
remains challenging with an 
array of competitor formats
• We fail to respond with a business model that enables 
us to compete effectively against a broad range of 
competitors, including from specialist electrical / 
computing retailers, generalist merchandisers and 
pure players
Reduced market share
Lower margins
4.  Employee 
effectiveness
We believe our colleagues 
are a key differentiator in 
delivering what our customers 
want
• We fail to attract, develop and retain the quality and 
depth of necessary leadership and management 
talent for our business
• We fail to develop our staff to deliver the service 
excellence to support our customer promise
Lower longer term 
profitability
Reduced customer 
satisfaction Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Principal Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Example Mitigating Actions and Related Strategic Priorities
Principal Risk Example Mitigating Actions Related Strategic Priorities
1.  Economic 
environment
• Strategy and business planning which takes into account varying economic scenarios 
• Ongoing monitoring by finance and senior executives
• Contingency management planning for economies most at risk
• Improved flexibility of cost base to improve responses to changes in economic 
circumstances, e.g. ongoing review and optimisation of store footprint, with closures 
or relocations as appropriate
• Ongoing cost reduction initiatives delivering a low cost operating model
• Profit and cash flow scenario planning to help the Group manage the impact of a range 
of possible scenarios
• Reducing exposure to currency devaluation
Sustainable business 
model
2.  Changing 
technology 
& consumer 
preferences
• Use of extensive customer insight to understand what our customers want
• Increasing investment in digital content services 
• Exciting product launches to make our stores the destination for the latest technology, 
e.g. 3D Smart Ultra High Definition TVs and tablets
• Extending mobile phone proposition across the Group and strengthening in key markets
• Continued focus on ensuring we have an excellent range across all price points, 
including own brand products
Leader in our markets
Group leverage
3. Competition • Renewal and Transformation plan continues to drive improvements in our stores, 
cost structure and service proposition
• Continuing development of strong multi-channel propositions to produce a seamless 
customer experience 
• Ensuring our prices offer good value, including use of a customer price index
• Continuing to take money out of our cost base and leveraging Group-wide benefits 
where opportunities arise
• Building ever stronger relationships with suppliers
Leader in our markets
Group leverage
4.  Employee 
effectiveness
• Group-wide standardised performance management
• Store structures which provide a clear career path for colleagues
• Maintain Group talent and succession plans with improved ‘bench strength’
• Reward strategy aligned to retain the best talent 
• Bonus plans, which include components relating to business performance and, for levels 
below senior management, individual performance
• Continued improvements in the quality of training courses and development 
programmes with specialist focus on service, product, commercial and technical
Leader in our markets Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Principal Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Context, Specific Risks and Potential Impacts
Principal Risk Context Specific Risks Potential Impacts
5.  Finance & 
treasury
Difficult economic 
circumstances increase 
our focus on maintaining 
and improving our financial 
position
• We fail to maintain the support of our credit insurers 
• We fail to maintain and develop processes and 
controls to support changes in our business activities
Reduced revenue and 
profit
Deteriorating cash flow
6.  T echnology 
infrastructure 
change
Complex projects planned for 
systems changes over the 
medium term with increasing 
dependence on on-line 
systems
• A key system becomes unavailable for a period of time
• Our IT systems do not support changing business 
needs
• The planned IT change programme does not deliver 
the necessary benefits due to programme failure 
or not having the right programme to the required 
timescales 
Lost revenue and 
margin
7.  Legislative, 
regulatory & 
contractual 
compliance
Multi-national business with 
a complex legislative and 
regulatory environment, 
e.g. competition, consumer 
rights, intellectual property, 
contractual obligations, health 
and safety, customer data
• Non-compliance with laws and regulations or adverse 
rulings by regulatory authorities
• Disputes with third parties and / or business partners 
Damage to our 
reputation 
Financial penalties
Need to adapt business 
activities and / or 
processes  Directors’ Report
Strategic Summary
Principal Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Example Mitigating Actions and Related Strategic Priorities
Principal Risk Example Mitigating Actions Related Strategic Priorities
5.  Finance & 
treasury
• Maintain adequate headroom in revolving credit facility 
• Tight balance sheet management with independent reviews by Group Finance
• Strong cash forecasting, management and monitoring
• Rigorous pre and post investment appraisal processes 
• Proactive engagement with suppliers and credit insurers
• Innovations in, and close scrutiny of, working capital together with regular monitoring 
and review
• Detailed Group hedging policies, managed centrally and reviewed through a Group Tax 
and Treasury Committee
Sustainable business 
model
6.  T echnology 
infrastructure 
change
• Development and implementation of IT strategy to harmonise key systems
• Evaluation, planning and implementation analysis carried out before updating or 
introducing new systems that have an impact on critical functions
• Investment in website functionality and user friendliness
• Implementation of appropriate measures to secure key systems and data against 
malicious attack 
• Contingency plans are in place and are tested regularly
Leader in our markets
Group leverage
7.  Legislative, 
regulatory & 
contractual 
compliance
• In-house legal teams communicate on a frequent basis and legal reports are submitted 
to the Board
• Legal teams manage issues which arise and there is Group oversight of significant 
matters
• Group Ethical Conduct Policy supported by annual declaration of compliance by 
colleagues
• Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to discuss reputational and 
regulatory risks and monitor mitigating action
• Quality checks and factory audits for own-branded product assembly
• Compliance Committee approves activity that may impact the terms of Group credit 
facilities
• Contact with regulatory authorities 
• Monitoring changes in legislation / regulation 
Sustainable business 
model Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Overview
Dixons Retail plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Key highlights
• Significant progress made against our three strategic 
priorities.
• Further improvements to the offer for customers and 
financial strength of the business for shareholders.
• Group underlying total sales
(1), (2)
 and like for like sales
(3)
 up 
4% in the full year.
 –  Like for like sales in the final quarter up 13% in 
the UK & Ireland and up 14% in Northern Europe 
reflecting strong share gains.
• Underlying pre-tax profit
(1)
 up 15% to £94.5 million (2011/12 
profit of £82.1 million).
 –  Good progress in UK & Ireland and Northern Europe 
with profits up 39% and 6% respectively.
 –  Robust performance in Southern Europe in difficult 
markets.
 –  Offset by poor performance in PIXmania.
• PIXmania restructured to reduce losses and enable 
process of putting the business on a firmer strategic 
footing.
• Customer satisfaction measures continue to show strong 
advocacy in the UK.
• Group costs reduced by £45 million as part of the two year 
£90 million cost reduction initiative.
 –  Very strong cash generation with the Group ending 
the year with net cash of £42.1 million versus net debt 
of £104.0 million at the start of the year.
Financial highlights
• Total underlying Group sales up 4% at £8.21 billion 
(2011/12 £7.91 billion).
• Total Group sales, including those from businesses 
exited / to be exited
(2)
 were £8.44 billion (2011/12 £8.19 
billion).
• Group gross margins down 0.7% in the full year driven 
largely by product mix.
• Restructuring and impairment charges of £168.8 million, 
relating mainly to PIXmania and the main non-store UK 
B2B operations following the disposal of Equanet.
• Total loss before tax of £115.3 million (2011/12 loss of 
£118.8 million), after non-underlying items
(1)
 of £209.8 
million, which predominantly comprise the restructuring 
and impairment charges.
•	 Underlying diluted earnings per share
(1)
 1.5 pence 
(2011/12 earnings of 1.4 pence). Basic loss per share 
4.4 pence (2011/12 loss per share of 4.3 pence). Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Overview (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Underlying sales and profit analysis
Underlying sales Underlying profit / (loss)
Note
Year 
ended 
30 April 2013 
£million
52 weeks 
ended 
28 April 2012 
£million % change
Like for  
like 
% change
(3) 
Year 
ended 
30 April 2013 
£million
52 weeks 
ended 
28 April 2012 
£million
(4) 
UK & Ireland (5) 4,014.5 3,751.3 7% 7% 113.3 81.5
Northern Europe (6) 2,876.3 2,619.3 10% 12% 120.5 113.7
Southern Europe (7) 965.6 1,048.2 (8)% (8)% (24.4) (31.3)
PIXmania 357.5 491.4 (27)% (24)% (31.3) (15.2)
Central costs (16.9) (13.8)
Total Group Retail 8,213.9 7,910.2 4% 4% 161.2 134.9
Property losses (25.2) (13.6)
EBIT (8) 136.0 121.3
Underlying net finance costs (41.5) (39.2)
Group underlying profit before tax 94.5 82.1
Notes
( 1 )  Throughout this Annual Report and Accounts, references are made to ‘underlying’ performance measures. Underlying results are defined as excluding trading results 
from businesses exited / to be exited, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one off non-recurring items, 
profits / (losses) on sale of investments or businesses, net interest on defined benefit pension schemes, net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, 
where applicable, discontinued operations. These excluded items are described as ‘non-underlying’. The financial effect of these items is shown in the analyses on 
the face of the income statement and in note 4 to the Financial Statements.
(2)  Businesses exited / to be exited include the operations of PC City Spain, Equanet, Webhallen, PLS and PIXmania stores which are now closed.
(3)  Like for like sales are calculated based on underlying store and internet sales using constant exchange rates. New stores are included where they have been open for 
a full financial year both at the beginning and end of the financial period. Closed stores are excluded for any period of closure. Customer support agreement sales are 
excluded from all UK like for like calculations.
(4)  Underlying figures for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012 have been re-presented to exclude the trading results of businesses exited / to be exited for which the 
decisions were made or executed in 2012/13 and in respect of net finance costs, to exclude net interest in respect of defined benefit pension schemes.
(5)  UK & Ireland comprises Currys, PC World, CurrysDigital, Dixons Travel, Harrods concession, operations in Ireland, PC World Business and KNOWHOW. Like for like 
sales exclude PC World Business.
(6)  Northern Europe comprises the Elkjøp group and Electroworld in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
(7)  Southern Europe comprises Greece (Kotsovolos), Italy (Unieuro, combined 2-in-1 Unieuro and PC City stores), and Turkey (Electroworld).
(8)  Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) equates to underlying operating profit and is defined as underlying earnings from retail operations, after property losses, 
before deduction of net finance costs and tax.
(9)  Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash flow from operating activities before special pension contributions, less net finance costs, 
less income tax paid and net capital expenditure. Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Overview (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Strategic Priorities
Since introducing our three strategic priorities last year we 
have made significant strides in improving the business 
for our customers, our suppliers and our shareholders. 
A summary of each of our priorities and some of the 
milestones we have achieved include:
1) Drive a successful and sustainable business model in 
a multi-channel world.
 Our customers tell us that they want advice, to 
experience products and to ensure they are making 
the right choices as well as getting value for money. 
We believe that our business model offers the best 
approach for both customers and suppliers:
• This year we have invested in improving our multi-
channel offer in all of our core markets. This has 
involved expanding and enriching the ways in which 
customers can shop with us and improving the 
link between the store experience and the on-line 
experience to make the transition as simple and 
seamless as possible. We also believe that our 
on-line proposition, particularly on mobile devices, 
is one of the best in the market and have radically 
overhauled the way in which we communicate with 
customers away from traditional advertising methods. 
Across Europe we have won or been shortlisted for 
six prestigious multi-channel awards.
• We have continued to deepen and broaden our 
supplier relationships as a vital component of 
value in our business model. This has involved 
developing a shared understanding of the drivers 
of the economics across the whole value chain 
and recognising much more explicitly the part that 
each of us plays in driving it. For example, we have 
discovered far more effective ways of communicating 
with customers through totally integrated marketing 
campaigns than were possible before.
• We have improved and deepened the range of ‘Our 
Experts Love’ products in each category, helping 
customers choose the best product for their needs. 
In the UK we have further rolled out our customer 
journeys into cameras, laundry and computing which 
have all performed very well.
• KNOWHOW, our market leading end to end services 
brand, has gone from strength to strength growing 
added value services by 54% in the UK:
 –  We have rolled out service improvements and 
products such as ‘Fault & Fix,’ white goods repair 
and 9pm cut off for next day delivery.
 –  We have piloted KNOWHOW in Northern Europe 
which has exceeded our expectations.
• We believe that the conversation with our customers 
is our unique source of competitive advantage and 
we continue to invest heavily in colleague training 
and designing a bespoke programme for every 
colleague in our business.
• We have reduced costs by £45 million as part of our 
two year £90 million cost reduction initiative.
• We are managing the business with stock turns 
at 6.4 times, which improved by 8% year on 
year and are, we believe, market leading for an 
electrical retailer.
2) Be a leader in each of the markets in which the Group 
operates.
• We have strong market positions in the UK & Ireland, 
Northern Europe and in Greece. In each of these 
markets we have seen consolidation amongst 
competitors and we see opportunities to improve 
our competitive position further as we implement the 
initiatives discussed above.
• In Italy and Turkey we are exploring ways to improve 
the strategic positioning of these businesses.
• Earlier in the year we took overall control of 
PIXmania that would enable us to start taking some 
decisive actions including:
 –  Agreeing the disposal of Webhallen for £14 million 
as well as PLS;
 –  Restructuring the business closing 19 stores, 
exiting 12 countries, eliminating non-core 
categories and reducing headcount from 1,400 to 
649 in France and 149 in the Czech Republic; and
 –  Continuing to explore options to put PIXmania on 
a firmer strategic footing.
3) Align the Group to leverage consistently pan-European 
scale and knowhow.
• We are rolling out KNOWHOW across the Elkjøp 
business and in Italy.
• We have firmly and successfully embedded the ‘Our 
Experts Love’ journeys in the UK & Ireland, a sales 
approach developed in our Elkjøp business.
• Over the important Christmas period we had a 
number of special deals negotiated centrally with 
suppliers and sold across our businesses, a first for 
the Group.
• We currently have store directors from the UK and 
Norway swapping roles to share best ideas and 
practices from each others’ stores.
This is just the beginning. There remain many 
opportunities to share knowledge, expertise and best 
practice across the Group. Some of these will take time, 
but we must exploit further the benefits of being a pan-
European operator.
Continuing to deliver on these priorities will enable the 
Group to further improve its EBIT margin going forward 
as well as strengthen our focus on cash generation and 
returns on capital employed.
Group business performance
Underlying Group sales were up 4% at £8,213.9 million 
(2011/12 £7,910.2 million) and up 4% on a like for like 
basis, outperforming local markets in general. Underlying 
Group sales were up 6% at constant exchange rates. 
Underlying profit before interest and tax was £136.0 million 
(2011/12 profit of £121.3 million). Underlying profit before 
tax was £94.5 million (2011/12 profit of £82.1 million). 
Group gross margins were down 0.7% across the full year, 
mainly driven by product mix. Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Divisional Summary
Dixons Retail plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
UK & Ireland
• Underlying operating profit growth of 39% to 
£113.3 million
•	 Strong market share gains
Total sales in the UK & Ireland division were up 7% to 
£4,014.5 million (2011/12 £3,751.3 million) and like for 
like sales were also up 7%. Underlying operating profits 
increased 39% to £113.3 million (2011/12 £81.5 million).
The UK & Ireland division has performed strongly 
throughout the year as improvements in stores, service, 
price and generating value through better supplier 
partnerships have borne fruit. During the year the Group 
estimates that the UK & Ireland business grew its market 
share to approximately 21%, driven by our clear strategy 
and accelerated by the closure of a number of competitors 
including our largest UK specialist electrical competitor 
Comet. This is a strong performance against a relatively 
weak market, underpinning our customer focused 
approach. The first half benefited from a number of events, 
such as the European football championships, the Queen’s 
Jubilee celebrations and the London Olympics. A strong 
performance over the second half, driven by tablets, TVs 
and white goods, as well as market share gains enabled 
the business to deliver a positive like for like performance 
against increasingly tough comparables.
The business made further progress with the Group’s 
sustainable business model and delivered the following 
benefits:
• Improving our value proposition versus our competitors.
• Further reduction in costs with the cost to sales ratio 
improving by 1.6 percentage points.
• Developing customer journeys for more categories such 
as laundry, refrigeration and computing.
• Working with suppliers to drive the ‘Our Experts Love’ 
model enabling our colleagues to help customers choose 
the best products for their needs.
•	 Customer satisfaction metrics continuing to improve with 
73% of customers very likely (and 93% likely or very 
likely) to recommend our stores to friends and family.
We have made further progress with our multi-channel 
business during the year, particularly in the second half 
which saw growth of 25%. During the year we introduced 
‘pay&collect’ providing customers with access to our full range 
of products in their local store. We also led the market by 
rewarding our store colleagues for on-line sales in their local 
catchment. We continue to improve the overall shopping trip for 
customers and in the year ahead we plan to move our last time 
for next day delivery to 10pm, providing customers with greater 
choices as well as increasing our delivery densities.
We now have 323 transformed stores which continue 
to deliver an improved customer experience as well as 
improved returns. Our latest High Street format in Westfield, 
Stratford was open in time for the London Olympics and 
exceeded our expectations. With the success of this new 
format we believe that there are approximately 30 - 40 
locations across the UK & Ireland where this format will be 
successful. We are making good progress right-sizing our 
High Street estate at a cost effective and responsible pace. 
Our 2-in-1 Megastore and Superstore formats continue to 
evolve and during the year we opened a new look store 
in Solihull which employs many of the learnings from our 
innovative Black trial store format, further improving the 
store experience for customers and colleagues. In the long 
term we envisage an estate of 380 - 400 stores in the UK, 
however, customer shopping patterns continue to evolve and 
we will ensure that we actively manage our store portfolio so 
that we provide our customers with the right store formats in 
the right locations.
Our services operation of KNOWHOW continues to go from 
strength to strength. Its new services of cloud, ‘Fault & Fix’, 
Installation, ‘Showhow’ and white goods repair continue to 
appeal to customers. Further products and services will be 
added to KNOWHOW in the year ahead strengthening the 
service offering as well as providing customers access to 
on-line and downloadable content.
Dixons Travel continues to perform well. The new format now 
rolled out across all of the Dixons Travel stores delivers a 
better range and store experience for customers, including a 
focus on portable items and accessories. Two stores opened 
in Brussels airport joining Copenhagen, Rome and Milan as 
international operations of the Dixons Travel business, but 
marking a milestone as the first stores to be opened in a 
market where we have no retail operations.
Northern Europe
• Northern Europe grew underlying operating profits by 6% 
to £120.5 million
•	 Delivered a 4.2% return on sales, in line with the Group’s 
objective
Northern Europe, which comprises the Elkjøp group 
and the Electroworld operations in the Czech Republic 
and Slovakia, continues to perform strongly. Sales grew 
by 12% at constant exchange rates, while in sterling, 
underlying sales grew by 10% to £2,876.3 million (2011/12 
£2,619.3 million). Like for like sales were up 12%. 
Underlying operating profits were £120.5 million (2011/12 
£113.7 million).
Elkjøp has had another very strong year, particularly in 
Denmark and Sweden where a number of competitors 
have exited the market enabling these businesses to grow 
market share. In Norway a smaller competitor is attempting 
to gain market share through promotional activity, impacting 
gross margins in that market.
Elkjøp operates a highly efficient low cost model with 
centralised operations and logistics infrastructure. With 
clear market leadership in each of its markets the Elkjøp 
group is well positioned to continue to deliver strong 
returns.
KNOWHOW, the Group’s services brand, is being rolled out 
across the Elkjøp business. With the services market being 
relatively immature and under serviced in the Nordics, 
the Group believes that KNOWHOW will add to Elkjøp’s 
competitive advantage and enable it to further improve the 
offer for customers as well as opening up attractive new 
revenue streams.
Elkjøp now operates 32 Megastores and 49 reformatted 
Superstores, which continue to perform particularly well.
The operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia are 
managed out of the Nordic infrastructure which improves 
efficiency and, in some categories, buying power. Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Divisional Summary (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Northern Europe (continued)
During the year Jaan Ivar Semlitsch was appointed 
Managing Director of the Northern European operations. 
He has made a number of significant changes since 
his appointment, including reshaping the management 
structures and team, embedding systematic customer 
metrics into the business and, as a part of the Group’s 
Management team, is working on ways to align the Group’s 
operating model and share best practices across our 
businesses.
Southern Europe
• Robust performances in difficult markets
•	 Work ongoing to improve financial and strategic footings
This division comprises operations in Italy, Greece and 
Turkey. Total sales were down 4% at constant exchange 
rates and down by 8% in sterling to £965.6 million (2011/12 
£1,048.2 million), with like for like sales down 8%, largely 
as a result of the weak economic environments being 
experienced in Greece and Italy. Underlying operating loss 
was £24.4 million (2011/12 loss of £31.3 million).
Greece
The economic environment in Greece remains challenging. 
Kotsovolos is the market leader and is able to leverage 
its market position, a superior retail concept and strong 
supplier relationships to grow its market share. Kotsovolos 
again showed robust cost management helping to improve 
profitability in the full year. The outlook in Greece continues 
to look uncertain, but with a focus on customer service 
and cost management we believe Kotsovolos will continue 
to out-perform its competitors. We recently launched 
three substantial implants in the Carrefour / Marinopoulos 
supermarket stores which have got off to a very 
encouraging start, and it is possible that we will expand this 
programme during the year ahead.
Italy
The consumer environment in Italy remains subdued. 
However, with a focus on cost control and customer 
service, Unieuro has significantly improved profitability year 
on year.
With phones already the largest category in Italy, the 
market shifted further towards smart phones and tablets 
during the year. By carefully managing stock, services and 
promotional activity, the business has improved margins.
The Italian specialist electrical retailing market is relatively 
fragmented. With one market leader and several smaller 
specialists the market is likely to consolidate.
Turkey
The Group now operates 32 stores in Turkey, including 
18 franchise stores. Turkey is a growing market, however 
there are a number of specialist electrical retailers now 
operating in that market and taking actions to grow share. 
With retail space growth continuing to outstrip underlying 
market growth, like for like sales have been impacted 
across the market. With a significant number of specialists 
in the market the Group continues to explore ways to put 
the Electroworld business in Turkey on a stronger strategic 
footing.
PIXmania
• Successful restructuring to focus on key operations
•	 Challenging market dynamics
Total sales were £357.5 million (2011/12 £491.4 million) 
with like for like sales down 24%. Underlying operating 
loss was £31.3 million (2011/12 loss of £15.2 million). 
PIXmania experienced another very difficult year as multi-
channel operators in its core markets improved their on-line 
proposition, suppliers focused on attracting customers 
through multi-channel operators and the key markets in 
which PIXmania operates remained challenging.
The Group’s focus is as a multi-channel specialist electrical 
retailer and we continue the process of putting PIXmania in 
a firmer strategic position.
Following the purchase of the 22% of PIXmania owned by 
the founding partners, PIXmania went through a significant 
reorganisation under a new management team, further 
impacting overall performance. This restructuring included 
closing its 19 stores, exiting non-profitable categories 
and markets, and reducing headcount from 1,400 to 649 
in France and 149 in the Group’s shared services centre 
in the Czech Republic. As a result, PIXmania has been 
refocused on its core business and costs have been 
significantly reduced. On 22 April 2013 we announced 
the disposal of Webhallen for a cash consideration of £14 
million, followed by the disposal of PLS, further focusing 
PIXmania on its core business. PIXmania continues to 
operate a successful internet platform licensing business 
and operates the websites for Carrefour (non-food only) 
and Celio. Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Group Financial Summary
Dixons Retail plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Financial position
The Group has delivered a very robust performance against 
the financial priorities of profitability and strengthening the 
balance sheet:
• The Group delivered net funds at year end, for the first 
time in five years, of £42.1 million compared to net debt 
of £104.0 million at the end of the 2011/12 financial year;
• Positive Free Cash Flow, before restructuring items, of 
£173.2 million was generated;
• Costs reduced by £45 million in the year, as part of the 
two year £90 million cost reduction programme;
• Rephased debt profile following the issue of new 
2017 Notes, part repurchase of 2015 Notes and full 
redemption of the 2012 Bonds;
• Group’s Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) extended to 30 
June 2015. This facility is currently £225 million and will 
reduce to £200 million in August 2013;
• Remaining portion of 2012 Bonds redeemed, and 
settlements of £62.6 million made in respect of 
associated currency hedging instruments; and
•	 The RCF has remained undrawn since October 2011.
Free Cash Flow
 Year 
ended 
30 April 2013 
£million
 52 weeks 
ended 
28 April 2012 
£million
Underlying profit before tax 94.5 82.1
Businesses exited / to be exited loss 
before tax (7.7) (8.5)
Depreciation and amortisation 134.0 138.8
Working capital 94.6 15.8
Taxation (11.8) (26.8)
Capital expenditure (92.4) (101.5)
Proceeds from sale of property – 70.2
Settlement of historical 
currency hedges (62.6) –
Other items 24.6 4.0
Free Cash Flow before 
restructuring items
173.2 174.1
Net restructuring (19.8) (43.8)
Free Cash Flow 153.4 130.3
Free Cash Flow was £153.4 million (2011/12 Free Cash 
Flow of £130.3 million). The improved cash result arose 
despite the one off proceeds on sale of Jönköping in 
the prior year, and the settlement of historical currency 
hedges of £62.6 million during the year. These headwinds 
were more than offset by improved profitability and good 
working capital management in all markets – with stock 
turn improving 8% to 6.4 times, as well as a natural benefit 
to working capital as a result of our strong sales growth. 
Net restructuring costs reduced, despite the PIXmania 
restructuring actions initiated this year, due to the higher 
Spain closure costs incurred last year. Finally, there were 
some timing benefits which affected Free Cash Flow, 
primarily as a result of capital projects completed late 
in the year, settlement of PIXmania restructuring costs 
and the timing of stock payments relating to the strong 
Easter sales.
Funding
At 30 April 2013 the Group had net funds of £42.1 million, 
compared with net debt of £104.0 million at 28 April 2012.
Year
 ended 
30 April 2013 
£million
52 weeks 
ended 
28 April 2012 
£million
Opening net debt (104.0) (206.8)
Free Cash Flow 153.4 130.3
Acquisitions and 
disposals (4.9) (1.2)
Special pension 
contributions (20.0) (16.0)
Other items 17.6 (10.3)
Other movements 
in net debt (7.3) (27.5)
Closing net funds / 
(debt) 42.1 (104.0)
Net funds are stated inclusive of restricted funds of £110.2 
million (2011/12 £114.0 million), which predominantly 
comprise funds held under trust for potential customer 
support agreement liabilities. The improvement in the net 
funding position was due to the Free Cash Flow generated, 
partly offset by £20.0 million paid to the UK defined benefit 
pension scheme under the terms of the deficit reduction 
plan (2011/12 £16.0 million). Other items include the impact 
of foreign exchange currency movements on cash balances 
held in foreign subsidiaries.
Adjustments to underlying results
Underlying profit before tax is reported before net non-
underlying charges before tax of £209.8 million.
Year
ended 
30 April 2013 
£million
52 weeks
ended 
28 April 2012 
£million
 
 
†
Underlying profit before tax 94.5 82.1
Add / (deduct) non-underlying 
items:
Trading results – Businesses exited / 
to be exited (8.0) (9.0)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (4.2) (4.5)
Net restructuring charges (89.4) (16.3)
Business impairments (79.4) (196.0)
Profit on sale of Swedish warehouse – 37.2
Other items (5.9) (1.6)
Loss on sale of business (9.6) –
Financing items:
Businesses exited / to be exited 0.3 0.5
Net fair value remeasurements (1.9) (2.8)
Accelerated amortisation of bond / 
facility fees (1.1) (2.7)
Bond redemption related costs (3.2) –
Net pension interest (7.4) (5.7)
Total net non-underlying charges (209.8) (200.9)
Loss before tax (115.3) (118.8)
†
  Underlying figures for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012 have been re-
presented to exclude the trading results of businesses exited / to be exited 
for which the decisions were made or executed in 2012/13 and in respect 
of financing items, to exclude the net interest in respect of defined benefit 
pension schemes. Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Group Financial Summary (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
• Trading results from businesses exited / to be exited 
include the former PC City operations in Spain, Equanet, 
Webhallen, PLS and the stores in PIXmania which were 
closed during the year.
• Amortisation of acquired intangibles of £4.2 million 
predominantly comprises brand names.
• Net restructuring charges predominantly relate to:
– £22.9 million related to the reorganisation of the Bury 
site and residual retained business following the sale 
of Equanet whereby the main charges are onerous 
lease costs; and
– £64.6 million in respect of reorganisation activities 
within PIXmania. Charges comprise mainly asset 
write downs and redundancy costs associated with 
the exit of certain activities and reductions in the cost 
base of the business.
• Business impairments relate mainly to PIXmania 
whereby, given the longer term outlook for PIXmania and 
the markets in which it operates, a more conservative 
stance has been taken by fully impairing the PIXmania 
acquisition goodwill by £45.2 million and the brand name 
by £25.1 million.
• Loss on sale of business relates to the disposal 
of Equanet, the Group’s main non-store UK B2B 
operations.
• The financing charge comprises the following elements:
– £4.3 million of charges associated with the 
redemption of the 2015 Notes and 2012 Bonds which 
occurred in September 2012.
– £1.9 million of net fair value remeasurement losses 
of financial instruments as required by IAS 32 and 
39.
– £7.4 million of net pension interest costs which are 
shown as part of non-underlying charges for the first 
time this year owing to their non-cash nature and 
volatility to ‘point in time’ remeasurement which are 
akin to the fair value remeasurements of financial 
instruments described above.
Property losses
Underlying property losses were £25.2 million (2011/12 loss 
of £13.6 million). These comprise mainly store re-site and 
store asset disposal costs associated with the Renewal and 
Transformation plan, predominantly in the UK and Nordics. 
They have increased as we took the opportunities to exit 
sites.
Underlying net finance costs
Underlying net finance costs were £41.5 million (2011/12 
£39.2 million). The increase in costs was primarily due 
to the net effect of issuance of the 2017 Notes, partial 
redemption of the 2015 Notes and full redemption of the 
2012 Bonds and associated hedging instruments.
Tax
The Group’s underlying tax charge equates to an effective 
rate of 52% (2011/12 51%). The increase in the tax rate 
has, in particular, been affected by the non-recognition of 
benefit for current year losses in PIXmania. Excluding the 
effects of this non-recognition, the effective rate of taxation 
on full year earnings is 38%.
Pensions
The IAS 19 accounting deficit of the defined benefit 
section of the UK pension scheme amounted to £406.4 
million compared to £261.9 million at 28 April 2012. The 
assumptions used for determining the accounting valuation 
use a consistent basis to that adopted at 28 April 2012 
which build from the most recent actuarial valuation as at 
31 March 2010.
The overall increase arises mainly from a decrease in 
the discount rate applied to the liabilities and a higher 
expectation of long term inflation (both of which increase 
the liabilities), partly offset by an improved asset valuation. 
The next triennial valuation as at 31 March 2013 has 
commenced with the results expected in early 2014. Dixons Retail plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Corporate Responsibility Report
Dixons Retail takes its responsibility to its stakeholders 
and the environment seriously. We believe that good 
sustainability practices make sound business sense, 
not only to benefit the environment, stakeholders and 
the communities in which we operate, but also to help 
us achieve our corporate objectives, fulfill our business 
plan and reduce costs. During the year the Corporate 
Responsibility (CR) Committee initiated a sustainability 
review looking at the current practices and reporting 
mechanisms of the Group. The review is not yet complete 
and will be reported on in the next annual CR report 
alongside any improvements made.
Corporate responsibility management framework
The Group Finance Director, Humphrey Singer, is the 
Board member responsible for corporate responsibility 
matters. He is supported by the CR Committee, which 
comprises senior executives from key business areas and 
is chaired by Helen Grantham, the Company Secretary and 
General Counsel. The Committee met five times during the 
period under review and a summary of some of the key 
matters discussed are listed below:
• Conducting a sustainability review.
• Consideration of the new mandatory carbon reporting 
requirements and the compliance mechanisms required.
• Monitoring key performance indicators at each meeting.
• Ongoing evaluation of the Group’s risks and opportunities 
and identification of areas where the Committee can 
enhance reporting or control mechanisms already in place.
• Reviewing the Group Health and Safety Policy.
•	 Supply chain risks and social and ethical auditing.
Our approach to corporate responsibility
In accordance with the approach to corporate responsibility 
contained within the Association of British Insurer’s 
Guidelines, Dixons Retail seeks to identify the risks and 
opportunities which are most significant and relevant to its 
business rather than addressing a standardised agenda. 
Accordingly, the Committee maintains a matrix of risks and 
opportunities that are specific to its business. The principal 
risks to the Company as a whole are outlined in the 
Principal Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives section. 
The monitoring of the risks and opportunities allows the 
identification of our main exposures and most significant 
opportunities. A plan is then produced to mitigate / exploit 
those exposures in line with the risk appetite of the Group. 
Our priorities continue to be:
• to provide a safe and healthy environment for customers, 
colleagues and visitors to our stores and other locations;
• to engage colleagues through the provision of rewarding 
workplace environments and careers, whilst assisting in 
the ongoing improvement of customer service levels;
• to improve operational energy efficiency and forward 
planning;
• to reduce our impact on the environment and to reduce 
costs and raise revenue through improved waste recycling;
• the monitoring and reduction of our main carbon emissions;
• the provision of safe and reliable own-brand products, 
achieved as a result of our expert technical knowledge with 
products sourced from manufacturers which are audited 
against our ethical requirements; and
•	 to add to and promote the customer proposition in 
relation to product reuse and recycling.
Members of the Committee have been identified as 
accountable for each of these priorities and the main areas 
of the Committee’s responsibilities are set out below.
Business ethics
The way we do business is important to us and forms 
part of our corporate responsibility objectives. Our shared 
values are to:
• operate with honesty and integrity;
• give outstanding service to our customers;
• respect our colleagues;
• treat suppliers with respect and to check the ethical values 
of the businesses we intend to deal with;
• continually seek ways to improve performance; and
•	 work together to beat our competition.
The Dixons Retail Ethical Conduct Policy applies to all 
employees and all employees at managerial level must sign 
an annual statement to confirm that the policy is adhered to.
Customer services
We are proud to serve many customers every year in 
our stores, over the telephone and on-line. In the tough 
economic environment of the last few years, our customers 
have looked to us to provide greater value, choice and 
service and we have reinvigorated our business model 
accordingly.
We engage with our customers in a variety of ways and 
listen to their feedback from mystery shopping and exit 
surveys. In the UK, one of the main statistics we monitor is 
whether our customers are likely to recommend us.
Customer satisfaction in the UK continues to improve, with 
93% of customers likely or very likely to recommend us 
to friends and family. Satisfaction with staff and purchase 
conversion continued to maintain a high level across the 
year.
The customer satisfaction measures are combined with key 
performance indicators from across operations, people and 
finance to form our scorecard. This provides a balanced 
view of how we are doing and is reviewed regularly by the 
Committee and the Board.
As part of our commitment to delivering customer service 
to the highest standards, our colleagues work to ensure 
that our communications with customers are clear and that 
the information we present to them is accurate and not 
misleading. We maintain compliance with trading standards 
and legal requirements. Our policies and procedures 
integrate those standards into our daily work. Dixons Retail plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Corporate Responsibility Report (continued)
Supplier relationships
Many of our electrical products are sourced through major 
international brands, which have their own strong ethical 
and environmental policies in place.
The Group operates its own Ethical Sourcing Policy based 
on the Social Accountability 8000 criteria. We have our own 
social and ethical auditing team and audit suppliers of our 
own brand products prior to selection against strict trading 
terms and operating procedures. Included within these 
terms are minimum standards in respect of health and 
safety, wages, working hours, equal opportunities, freedom 
of association, collective bargaining and disciplinary 
procedures. It is also against our terms of operation to 
employ any forced or child labour. Once the audits are 
complete, suppliers are rated on a traffic light basis. 
Green status on an audit indicates that a supplier meets 
or exceeds all of our standards. Amber status indicates 
that some of the standards required have not been fully 
met. Red status means that some significant failures were 
identified against our Ethical Sourcing Policy standards. 
Suppliers are approved if they reach either green or amber 
status in our audits. Once suppliers have been approved 
they remain subject to regular checks and audits and their 
status may be adjusted according to the findings of these 
further audits.
These supplier audits are carried out with a view to 
assisting them in improving their working practices and we 
work with factories where failures have been identified. 
Where this is not possible or no improvements are made, 
they will not be approved as a supplier, or will be delisted 
as appropriate. During the year under review ten suppliers 
were classified as red, failed to make improvements and 
therefore the Company did not approve them to supply our 
branded products or were delisted.
The results of ethical supply chain audits carried out during 
the period under review are detailed below:
Performance Indicators 2012/13 2011/12
Green 0 0
Amber 74 90
Red 25 51
Total factories audited 99 141
Delisted / Not approved 10 26
Environment
Dixons Retail recognises that it has a responsibility to 
manage the impact of its business on the environment both 
now and in the future. Key areas of focus continue to be:
• energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, 
distribution centres and offices;
• fuel emissions from the transportation of products to either 
stores or customers’ homes;
• waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres 
and offices; and
•	 unwanted electrical equipment collected for recycling.
Carbon management
Dixons Retail is committed to a carbon management 
programme throughout its major international businesses 
which aims to reduce the Group’s carbon footprint and 
this area is monitored by the CR Committee. Along with 
other large UK businesses, we reported our Scope 2 
emissions as part of the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
(CRC) Energy Efficiency Scheme. As part of an ongoing 
UK & Ireland energy strategy (Energy ABC – Automation, 
Behaviour and Control) we have been able to reduce 
consumption on a like for like basis by just over 13%, 
reducing the impact of our operations on the environment 
whilst improving efficiency and comfort in stores and saving 
money that can be used to fund future energy efficiency 
works. This programme will continue into 2013/14.
Energy management
We continue to work on reducing our environmental impact 
and improving energy efficiency in our operations. As part 
of our UK Energy ABC strategy we have rolled out our 
energy reduction initiatives programme to 220 stores over 
the past three years. We will continue this programme 
through 2013/14. In addition, there is a large programme of 
initiatives in our main distribution centre and our customer 
service centre that receive a similar focus on efficiency. 
A large part of this year’s strategy was to have remote 
connectivity to stores to establish faults on site and any 
out of hours consumption above profiled set points. Trials 
for newer technology continue and in 2013/14 we are 
evaluating opportunities to use LED lighting across the 
estate as well as other efficiency initiatives.
Over 75% of UK Dixons Retail store colleagues have 
now undergone energy awareness training to help them 
better control and reduce their energy usage. We are also 
scoping further improvements in reporting through the store 
management structures.
Waste management
In addition to being good for the environment, managing 
waste in the most efficient way is an opportunity for our 
business. We backhaul recyclable waste from our largest 
stores to our distribution centres, where it is then processed 
and collected by our waste management supplier.
We take seriously our responsibility for the electrical products 
that we place on the market, especially when consumers 
no longer require their products. In the UK, in accordance 
with the WEEE Regulations, we provide an in-store take-
back service to the public. We also collect and recycle old 
equipment, free of charge, from our customers’ homes whilst 
delivering new products. Last financial year Dixons Retail 
collected and recycled over 50,000 tonnes of unwanted 
electronic equipment, which was up 15% on the last financial 
year.
Waste recycled as a percentage of total waste
†
2012/13 2011/12
UK 77% 65%
Nordics 95% 95%
† Not including WEEE. Dixons Retail plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Corporate Responsibility Report (continued) 
Transport and distribution
Keeping our stores stocked with the thousands of products 
we sell, and delivering to our customers’ homes, means 
our fleet of commercial vehicles is constantly transporting 
products around the country. The Group seeks to reduce 
the environmental impact of delivering its products by 
efficient route planning to avoid unnecessary mileage, 
using rail freight where appropriate, increasing vehicle load 
and making use of empty vehicles on return journeys. We 
have increased our miles per gallon and a reduction in the 
CO
2
 produced per vehicle year-on-year.
Fleet carbon emissions
Tonnes of CO
2
 produced 2012/13 2011/12
UK home delivery fleet 9,855 8,660
UK retail fleet 12,933 15,278
Nordics delivery fleet 12,065 11,775
Total 34,853 35,713
Workplace
Our colleagues
Our people are at the heart of our business and they are 
the key to delivering excellent customer service. They are 
the face of our business and truly understand our customers 
and what they want from our company. We want them to 
flourish and we are committed to providing them with 
development opportunities to reach their potential.
We value and respect each colleague and endeavour to 
engage their talents and abilities to the fullest extent. We 
want to be recognised as an employer of choice and aim to 
reward colleagues fairly, to provide equality of opportunity, 
personal development and training. Our culture supports 
the discovery of new and better ways of working, two-way 
communication and the speedy resolution of any concerns 
or queries. We monitor our staff turnover rates regularly.
We also regularly review our benefits offering to colleagues 
to ensure these are attractive and conducive to the 
recruitment and retention of talented people. Through a 
range of share plans, we encourage all colleagues to build 
a personal stake in the business.
We work to achieve high standards in employment 
practices. We have a comprehensive suite of employment 
policies and procedures, which we review regularly. These 
policies include guidance on family friendly procedures 
through to colleague dispute management and, of course, 
diversity and equal opportunities.
Equal opportunities
The Group is committed to equality of opportunity across all 
of its employment practices throughout the Group. We strive 
to prevent unlawful discrimination in the workplace on the 
grounds of sex, race, disability, sexual orientation, religion 
or religious belief, age, marriage and civil partnership, 
gender reassignment, pregnancy and maternity. To that 
extent, we promote an open and honest environment and 
encourage colleagues with concerns to report issues to us 
either directly through line managers or via the independent, 
confidential integrity line.
Disability
We encourage applications from individuals with disabilities 
who can do the job, and all candidates will be considered 
for any roles they apply for. We are committed to providing 
colleagues with equal opportunities, from recruitment 
to training and development. We make every effort to 
retain disabled colleagues in our employment including 
any reasonable adjustment to their jobs, workplace or 
environment.
Employee diversity
Colleague diversity in terms of age and gender remains a key 
performance indicator of ours and we report on these below:
2012/13 2011/12
Female 32% 32%
Male 68% 68%
Full-time 54% 58%
Part-time 46% 42%
Aged over 50 8% 8%
We have removed the KPI relating to ethnic minority / 
non-national as this information is no longer required to 
be given by employees in all jurisdictions and therefore 
any data could not be produced accurately, however we 
continue to encourage diversity in our workforce.
Training and development
Each of our international businesses has their own method 
of performance development. In the UK our personal and 
career development processes are designed to ensure 
all our people have the skills to meet the requirements 
of their roles. Each person has a personal appraisal 
and development plan, including an assessment of their 
performance, together with their line manager on at least 
a twice-annual basis. We also encourage all of our office 
based employees to work in store over the Peak period 
to support our sales colleagues and to increase their 
understanding of the Group’s operations.
Employee communications
In the UK we have a comprehensive engagement 
programme. During the year a full anonymous colleague 
engagement survey was conducted using an external 
provider. As a result of these several initiatives have been 
set in motion to confirm our drive to make Dixons a great 
place to work. Dixons plans to repeat this survey every 
year, with pulse surveys in between to check on progress.
We also engage our colleagues through executive 
blogs, employee forums and regular Q&A sessions. Our 
Business Improvement Group is an employee forum which 
represents head office colleagues by facilitating effective 
two-way communication between business leaders and 
head office colleagues. Dixons Retail plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Performance Review
Corporate Responsibility Report (continued)
Health and Safety
It is the policy of the Group to comply with relevant Health 
and Safety and Fire Safety legislation and to take all 
reasonably practicable steps to ensure the health, safety 
and welfare of all employees, visitors and members of the 
public who are or may be affected by our activities.
Dixons Retail engenders a positive health and safety 
culture throughout the business, taking measures to 
maintain a safe environment for our customers and 
colleagues. A comprehensive safety management system 
is operated throughout the business to ensure legislative 
requirements and best practice, are adhered to. This is 
supported by Group Standards that the business units 
formally confirm compliance with.
In the past year we have undertaken a number of initiatives 
related to key priorities, including:
• Prevention – training programmes focused on addressing 
key root causes and investigations into equipment that 
could generate more effective risk mitigation.
• Engagement – improved engagement with the senior 
management of the businesses, supported by a 
performance dashboard that drives clear actions.
• Accountability – a clear RASCI (Responsible, Accountable, 
Support, Consulted, Informed) has been developed to 
ensure that the matrix management structure in place is 
fully understood and that all parties are executing their 
responsibilities.
•	 Compliance – a consequence model has now been 
implemented across all areas of the UK business to 
ensure that key policies are complied with and that 
reporting is accurate, timely and of sufficient depth.
These initiatives have resulted in reducing employee 
accidents in UK Supply Chain by 34% and reducing 
accidents per 100,000 customers in the UK Retail by 18%.
Health and Safety performance is reviewed by the CR 
Committee on a quarterly basis, with an in-depth review 
annually. The Group Health and Safety Policy, KPI 
performance in the preceding 12 months, and priorities for 
the year ahead are reviewed and approved by the Board 
annually. The next review is scheduled for July 2013.
Health and Safety: employee accidents and injuries
(1)
2012/13 2011/12
Number of accidents or injuries reported
(2)
876 869
Rate of accidents per 1,000 employees
(2)
43 42
(1) Data for UK & Ireland.
(2) Reduction targeted for 2013/14 based on root cause analysis of accident 
kinds in each business unit.
Community and charitable donations
During the year colleagues and businesses across the 
Group have been encouraged to support charities of their 
choice. The amount of charitable donations made by the 
Group is set out in the Statutory Information section of this 
Annual Report and Accounts and examples of some of the 
key initiatives are set out below.
UK & Ireland
In the UK, under the Switched on Communities 
programme, the Group continued its support of Lifelites 
and the e-Learning Foundation in the UK & Ireland, who 
work locally with colleagues to support their fundraising 
efforts. Additionally, the Group is supporting the ‘Tablets for 
Schools’ campaign. This is a joint initiative with Carphone 
Warehouse that aims to give all 11 year olds access to 
tablet computers at school. It is currently undergoing trials 
and we look forward to developing this initiative further in 
the year ahead.
In 2012 we decided to support the UK’s Children in Need 
event enabling our colleagues across our store, service 
and logistics networks to get behind fundraising efforts 
for a nationally branded fundraising event that supports 
causes across the UK. In a relatively short period of time 
our fundraising efforts resulted in a donation of £102,740, 
including a donation of £8,000 from the Group.
The total charitable donations made by the DSG 
international Foundation in 2012/13 were £1,350 (2011/12 
£5,000).
For the 2013/14 financial year in the UK we have decided 
to continue our support for Children in Need with an 
emphasis on each of our business locations and stores 
engaging directly with beneficiaries of funds raised local to 
them.
Outside the UK
Elkjøp continues to support the Red Cross Water for Life 
(Vann for Livet) project. Various fundraising activities raised 
approximately NOK 3.75 million, including a NOK 1 million 
donation by the Company.
Other charitable initiatives have also taken place across our 
operating regions, such as in Denmark and Italy.
Key performance indicators
The performance criteria reported above are largely 
focused on the Group’s UK & Ireland and Northern 
European businesses which represent 83% of Group 
revenues in the period.
Humphrey Singer 
Executive Director with responsibility for 
Corporate Responsibility Dixons Retail plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors  
At 20 June 2013
Committee Membership
Audit Nominations Remuneration
John Allan 
†

Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen   
Tim How   
†
Andrea Gisle Joosen   
Jock Lennox 
†
 
Dharmash Mistry   
† Denotes the chair of the committee.
John Allan CBE, Chairman
John Allan joined the Board on 23 June 2009 and was 
appointed chairman on 2 September 2009. He is chairman 
of the Nominations Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. He is also chairman of WorldPay, 
Care UK Health & Social Care Holdings Limited, the DHL 
UK Foundation, non-executive director of Royal Mail Group 
and a senior advisor to Alix Partners. He is a non-executive 
member of the Home Office Supervisory Board and a 
regent of the University of Edinburgh. He was previously 
Chief Executive of Exel plc and, following its acquisition by 
Deutsche Post, a member of its management board and 
subsequently Chief Financial Officer of Deutsche Post. He 
has extensive board experience having been chairman 
of Samsonite Corporation, a director of BET Plc and a 
non-executive director of PHS Group plc, ISS A/S, National 
Grid plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc, 3i plc and Connell 
plc. He has also served on the supervisory boards of both 
Lufthansa AG and Deutsche Postbank. His early career was 
with Lever Brothers, Bristol-Myers Company Ltd and Fine 
Fare Ltd.
Sebastian James, Group Chief Executive
Sebastian James joined the Board on 20 February 2012. 
Sebastian joined the Group in April 2008 and held various 
roles before his appointment to the Board including Group 
Operations Director. He is chairman of INK Publishing 
(Holdings) Limited and an advisor to the government on 
the building and maintenance of schools. Prior to joining 
the Group he was Chief Executive of Synergy Insurance 
Services Limited, a private equity backed insurance 
company. He has wide retail experience and was Strategy 
Director responsible for developing and implementing the 
turnaround strategy at Mothercare plc in 2003. He started his 
career at The Boston Consulting Group having completed an 
MBA at INSEAD and an MA at Oxford University.
Humphrey Singer, Group Finance Director
Humphrey Singer joined the Board on 1 July 2011. 
Humphrey joined Dixons Retail in 2007 and has held 
a number of finance roles, namely Finance Director of 
Currys, Group Financial Controller and Finance Director 
of the UK & Ireland division. Prior to joining Dixons Retail, 
Humphrey was Finance Director of Coca Cola Enterprises 
(UK) Ltd and prior to that also held a number of finance 
roles at Coca Cola Enterprises (UK) Ltd and Cadbury 
Schweppes plc.
Katie Bickerstaffe, Chief Executive UK & Ireland
Katie Bickerstaffe joined the Board on 20 February 2012. 
She joined the Group as Director of Marketing, People and 
Property in June 2008. In addition to her executive position 
she is also non-executive director of Scottish and Southern 
Energy plc. Previously, Katie was Managing Director of 
Kwik Save Ltd and Group Retail Director and Group HR 
Director at Somerfield plc. Her earlier career included roles 
at Dyson Ltd, PepsiCo Inc. and Unilever PLC.
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen, Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Utho Creusen joined the Board on 1 February 2010. He 
is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees. He is a member of the supervisory board of 
Praktiker AG, a German DIY retailer, and non-executive 
director of Unternehmensgruppe Theo Muller. He is owner 
of Positive Leadership (a management consultancy) and 
co-owner of Grid-International, non-executive director of 
M.Video (the leading Russian electrical retailer), chairman 
of the Jury of the European Retail Institute, vice-president 
of Modern Market-Methods Association in Germany, and 
honorary professor at both Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität 
Münster and the Catholic University, Eichstätt-Ingolstadt. 
He has extensive international retail experience and was 
previously Human Resources Director of Media-Saturn 
Holding GmbH and co-owner of Alpha tecc (the German 
consumer electronics chain). He spent 22 years with OBI 
AG, a leading European DIY retailer, where he rose to 
become a member of its executive board and chairman of 
OBI Franchise GmbH.
Tim How, Senior Independent Director
Tim How joined the Board on 8 September 2009. He took 
on the role of Senior Independent Director on 9 May 2012 
and he is chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a 
member of both the Audit and Nominations Committees. He 
is chairman of Rayner and Keeler Limited, Downing Income 
VCT 4 plc, Enotria Wine Group Ltd and Woburn Enterprises 
Limited; a non-executive director of Henderson Group plc, 
Peabody Capital plc and Wine and Spirit Education Trust; 
and a governor of the Peabody Trust. He was formerly 
Chief Executive of Majestic Wine plc, where he led the 
management buy-out of the business and subsequent 
Alternative Investment Market (AIM) flotation. Prior to this, he 
was Managing Director of Bejam Group plc.
Andrea Gisle Joosen, Independent Non-Executive Director
Andrea Gisle Joosen joined the Board as a non-executive 
director on 1 March 2013. Andrea is a member of the 
Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees. She 
is currently Chief Executive of Boxer TV Access AB in 
Sweden and is a non-executive director of ICA Gruppen 
AB and Neopitch AB. She was formerly Managing Director 
(Nordic Region) of Panasonic, Chantelle AB and Twentieth 
Century Fox. Her early career involved several senior 
marketing roles with Procter & Gamble and Johnson 
& Johnson. Dixons Retail plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors (continued)
Jock Lennox, Independent Non-Executive Director
Jock Lennox joined the Board on 10 January 2012. He is 
chairman of the Audit Committee and is also a member 
of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees. Jock 
is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive accounting 
and finance experience having worked for over 30 years 
for Ernst & Young (20 years as a partner) where he led a 
number of relationships with international clients and held 
a number of leadership positions in the UK and globally. 
Jock retired from Ernst & Young in 2009 and subsequently 
has acted as a non-executive director of a number of 
companies and was formerly a council member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. He is 
currently a trustee of the Tall Ships Youth Trust and non-
executive director and chairman of the Audit Committee 
of A&J Mucklow Group plc, Enquest plc, Hill and Smith 
Holdings plc and Oxford Instruments plc.
Dharmash Mistry, Independent Non-Executive Director
Dharmash Mistry joined the Board on 27 September 
2010. He is a member of the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees and is currently a non-
executive director of Hargreaves Landsdown plc and MVF 
Global. He was formerly a partner at Venture Capital firm 
Balderton Capital (UK) LLP and served on a number of 
boards including Lovefilm, Achica Limited, KupiVIP.re, 
My-Wardrobe, Adjug, MOG and ewise. Prior to joining 
Balderton Capital, he was part of the executive team at 
Emap plc, as Group Managing Director of Emap Consumer 
Media and Emap Performance, and has also been part of 
Boston Consulting Group. He started his career as a brand 
manager at Procter & Gamble. Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Overview
Dixons Retail plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Your Board is focused on shaping and preparing the business for the opportunities ahead. It is my pleasure to give you my own 
view on how the Board and its committees have served and led the Group in creating sustainable shareholder value.
The Board
Over the past few years, the Board has experienced substantial change in both its executive and non-executive directors. 
During the last year we saw the resignation of Rita Clifton who had been a valued member of the Board for just over nine years. 
In her place as non-executive director we have appointed Andrea Gisle Joosen, who has received a formal induction process 
as per the Company’s policy. Andrea is an executive with extensive international business and marketing experience with an 
in-depth knowledge of the Nordic region. This leaves us with a relatively refreshed board with no director having served longer 
than four years. Every member of the Board has been dedicated during this period to the task of running the business for our 
stakeholders and facing the challenges which arose. We are now looking forward to a period of stability in order to build on the 
successes achieved over the past few years.
As a unitary board, the directors acknowledge their collective responsibility for the success of the Company. The roles are clear 
with the executive management running the business and the non-executive members providing an appropriate level of scrutiny 
and challenge. The Board believes that, in this way, it can work together to challenge and interrogate as well as support each 
other to ensure effective decision making and implementation, leadership and accountability in all aspects of the business. In 
order to encourage an open working relationship, various non-executive director dinners are held throughout the year.
Board effectiveness and skills
Each year, the Nominations Committee reviews the blend of skills that are necessary to effectively run the business. When 
recruiting new directors an important part of the process is to identify any skill gaps which are then taken into account in the 
candidate search. This process was undertaken in the appointment of Andrea Gisle Joosen and the Board is confident that it 
continues to have the necessary skills and experience to effectively lead the Group and drive shareholder value.
Governance and risk
Effective governance is at the core of any well run business and your board takes governance processes very seriously. We 
strive to embed good governance in the day to day management of the business believing that governance should not be an 
overlay of control but should simply be how we do business. The Group Board is served by three main board committees:
Dixons Retail plc Group Board
Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee
The operations of each of these three committees are outlined in detail in their respective sections later in this report but this is 
only the tip of our governance structure. Each of our international and UK & Ireland businesses have their own management 
board and systems in place to effectively manage the business locally in response to local demands and differences in culture 
and ways of working. All of this is overseen by the Group Board which regularly receives updates on the performance of local 
businesses through specific board reports or more widely in reports from internal audit / finance or other departments monitoring 
Group activity. This allows our risks to be managed and controlled but it gives the local businesses the flexibility they need in 
order to effectively react to the local environment. More information on our control and risk management systems is contained 
within the Corporate Governance and Audit Committee sections of this Report.
Board support
The Board has access to and receives support from the company secretarial team in the performance of its duties. The 
agenda for Board meetings is agreed in advance between me and the Company Secretary and General Counsel to ensure 
optimum information is provided to the Board in a timely manner. The Company Secretary then ensures that papers submitted 
to the Board are of a sufficient quality and adhere to agreed guidelines to ensure the provision of accurate, timely and clear 
information.
I believe that we have a strong Board with sound procedures and look forward to the opportunities that the future will bring. 
I look forward to meeting you, along with my fellow directors, at this year’s AGM.
John Allan 
Chairman
20 June 2013 Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Statutory Information
Dixons Retail plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
The directors present their report and audited financial 
statements for the year ended 30 April 2013.
The Business Review, which provides a comprehensive 
review of the development, performance and future 
prospects of the Group’s operations for the year ended 
30 April 2013, includes the following:
• Business Overview, including principal activities;
• Strategic Summary;
• Performance Review, including the Corporate 
Responsibility Report; and
• Corporate Governance.
These sections are incorporated by reference and are 
deemed to form part of this report.
Changes in composition of the Group
On 10 August 2012 the Company announced that it had 
acquired a further 22% stake in PIXmania S.A.S. bringing 
its shareholding to 99%.
Directors
The names, biographies and dates of appointment of the 
Board of directors are provided on pages 27 and 28.
In line with best practice and the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code), all directors will retire and 
offer themselves for re-election at the 2013 AGM. The 
Remuneration Report in sections (II)(f) and (III) provides 
details of applicable service agreements for executive 
directors and terms of appointment for non-executive 
directors. The Board is satisfied that each director 
is qualified for reappointment by virtue of their skills, 
experience and contribution to the Board.
During the year, no director had any material interest in 
any contract of significance to the Group’s business. Their 
interests, including those of any connected persons, in the 
shares of the Company are outlined in sections (IV), (IX) 
and (X) of the Remuneration Report.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of 
directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of 
Association, the Code, the Companies Act and related 
legislation. The Articles themselves may be amended by 
special resolution of the shareholders.
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association 
and to the extent permitted by law, the Company may 
indemnify its directors out of its own funds to cover 
liabilities incurred as a result of their office. The Group 
holds Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance cover for 
any claim brought against directors or officers for wrongful 
acts in connection with their positions. The insurance 
provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud 
or dishonesty.
Subject to the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of 
Association, the Companies Act and any directions given 
by the Company by special resolution, the business of the 
Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise 
all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the 
management of the business of the Company or not. The 
matters reserved for the Board are detailed in a specific 
schedule, which is reviewed annually and details are 
provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
Directors’ responsibilities
The directors’ responsibilities for the financial statements 
contained within this Annual Report and the directors’ 
confirmations required under Disclosure and Transparency 
Rule 4.1.12 are set out on page 53.
Employees and employee share schemes
A commentary on the Group’s role as an employer is 
included in the Corporate Responsibility Report and details 
of employee involvement through share participation are 
contained in the Remuneration Report.
Details of the Group’s employee share plans and long-term 
incentive plans are contained in the Remuneration Report 
and note 25 to the Financial Statements.
Share capital
The Company’s only class of share is ordinary shares. 
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, 
together with any shares issued during the period, is set out 
in note 23 to the Financial Statements. The voting rights of 
all Dixons Retail plc shares are identical, with each share 
carrying the right to one vote. Dixons Retail plc holds no 
shares in Treasury and did not make any market purchases 
of its own shares during the period under review.
Restrictions on transfer of securities of the Company
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding 
nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by 
the general provisions of the Articles of Association and 
prevailing legislation. The directors are not aware of any 
agreements between holders of the Company’s shares that 
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on 
voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the 
Company’s share capital and all issued shares are 
fully paid.
Change of control – significant agreements
The Company does not have any significant agreements 
which contain change of control clauses other than for its 
borrowings. Further details are disclosed in note 17 to the 
Financial Statements.
In addition, provisions under the rules of the Company’s 
share incentive schemes may cause options and awards 
granted under these schemes to vest and become 
exercisable in the event of a change of control. Dixons Retail plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Statutory Information (continued)
Major shareholders
As at 19 June 2013, the Company has been notified in 
accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the 
voting rights of the Company:
Direct / Indirect No. of shares
†
%
†
 
UBS Global 
Asset Management
Direct and  
Indirect 400,763,593 11.10
Schroders Plc Indirect 334,607,256 9.23
Standard Life  
Investments Ltd
Direct and 
Indirect 289,695,534 7.98
Majedie Asset 
Management Ltd Indirect 198,905,419 5.50
Invesco Limited Indirect 178,859,553 4.94
Capital Research & 
Management Company Indirect 175,071,032 4.85
Letko, Brosseau & 
Associates Inc. Indirect 143,756,201 3.98
† Represents shareholdings on the date on which the notification of interest 
was made to the Company.
Issue of shares
In accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, 
Shareholders can authorise the directors to allot shares in 
the Company up to one third of the issued share capital of 
the Company. Accordingly, at the 2012 AGM, shareholders 
approved a resolution to give the directors authority to allot 
shares up to an aggregate nominal value of £30,091,896. 
The directors have no present intention to issue ordinary 
shares, other than pursuant to obligations under employee 
share schemes. This resolution remains valid until the 
conclusion of this year’s AGM when a resolution will be 
proposed to renew the authority.
Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions undertaken during the 
year are contained in note 31 to the Financial Statements.
Political and charitable donations
The Group engages in various charitable activities as set 
out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 26. 
During the period under review, the Group made donations 
of £308,000 (2011/12 £657,000) to local charities serving 
the communities in which the Group operates.
At the 2012 AGM, the shareholders of the Company 
adopted a resolution authorising the Board to incur 
political expenditure up to an aggregate amount not 
exceeding £25,000 during 2012/13. Notwithstanding 
this, the Company made no political donations during the 
year under review (2011/12 £nil). The Company has no 
present intention to make contributions to political parties 
but while the legislation is drafted with a wide definition of 
political donations, it feels that it is in the best interests of 
shareholders that the directors are authorised to engage 
with people in the political arena on issues that are 
important to the Company. A resolution will therefore be 
presented to the 2013 AGM to renew this authority.
Payment of suppliers
It is the Group’s policy to agree terms of payment with its 
suppliers on a case by case basis prior to commencing 
trade with them. Payments are made in accordance with 
these terms provided the supplier has complied with 
relevant contractual obligations. Trade creditors as at 
30 April 2013 represent 52 days of annual purchases made 
during the period (28 April 2012 54 days).
Going concern
In considering the going concern basis for preparing 
the financial statements, the directors have considered 
the Company’s objectives and strategy, the risks and 
uncertainties to achieving the objectives and the review 
of business performance, all of which are set out in the 
Business Overview, Strategic Summary and Performance 
Review sections of this Annual Report and Accounts. The 
Group’s liquidity and funding arrangements are described in 
notes 17 and 22(f) to the Financial Statements as well as in the 
funding section of the Performance Review and the directors 
consider that the Group has significant covenant and liquidity 
headroom in its borrowing facilities for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, after reviewing the Company’s expenditure 
commitments, current financial projections and expected 
future cash flows, together with the available cash resources 
and undrawn committed borrowing facilities, the directors have 
considered that adequate resources exist for the Company to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Post balance sheet events
Particulars of any important events affecting the Group 
since 30 April 2013 are described in note 32 to the 
Financial Statements.
Corporate governance compliance
The statement on compliance with the Financial Reporting 
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) for 
the reporting period is contained on page 32 of this report.
Audit information
So far as each person who is a director at the date of 
approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information, being information needed by the auditor 
in connection with their report, of which the auditor is 
unaware. Having made enquiries of fellow directors, each 
director has taken all the steps that he / she is obliged to 
take as a director in order to make himself / herself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
auditor is aware of that information. This information is 
given and should be interpreted in accordance with the 
provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to be 
reappointed as auditor of the Company. Upon the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to 
reappoint them as auditor and to authorise the directors 
to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM will be held on 5 September 2013 at Holiday 
Inn London – Bloomsbury, Coram Street, Russell Square, 
London, WC1N 1HT at 11.30am. The Notice of Meeting, 
together with full details of the business to be conducted, 
are included as a separate document.
Helen Grantham
Company Secretary 
20 June 2013 Dixons Retail plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report
Corporate Governance Report
The Board confirms that during the year ended 30 April 
2013, and as at the date of this Annual Report and 
Accounts, the Company has been in compliance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code). This 
report, together with the Statutory Information, the Audit 
Committee Report, the Nominations Committee Report, 
and the Remuneration Report, provides details of how the 
Company has applied the principles and complied with the 
provisions of the Code during the year.
The Board
At 30 April 2013, the Board of Directors was made up of 
nine members, comprising the Chairman, three executive 
directors and five non-executive directors. There have been 
no changes to the Board since this date. The Board has 
reconfirmed that all the non-executive directors continue 
to be considered as independent and each brings their 
own senior level of experience. Andrea Gisle Joosen was 
considered to be independent in character and judgement 
upon joining the Board. Upon appointment, the Chairman 
was also deemed to be independent.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and 
the Group Chief Executive is formally defined, set out in 
writing and reviewed by the Board on a regular basis. 
The Chairman is responsible for the overall operation, 
leadership and governance of the Board. The Group Chief 
Executive is responsible for the executive management 
of the Group’s business and for implementing the Group’s 
strategic and commercial objectives.
Andrew Lynch performed the role of Senior Independent 
Director until his resignation from the Board on 9 May 
2012, at which point Tim How took over the role. As such, 
Tim How now supports the Chairman and is available for 
approach or representation from shareholders who feel 
they are unable to raise issues with the Chairman directly. 
The Senior Independent Director also discusses, on an 
individual basis, the performance of the Chairman with 
each director and provides feedback on these discussions 
to the Chairman. The role of the Senior Independent 
Director is clearly defined, set out in writing and reviewed 
regularly by the Board.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its 
decision. This schedule was reviewed during the year and 
includes, but is not limited to:
• approval of Group strategy and the annual budget;
• overseeing the Group’s operations and review of 
its performance;
• changes relating to the Company’s share capital or 
corporate structure;
• communications with shareholders including approval 
of the Interim Statement, Annual Report and Accounts 
(including the review of critical accounting policies and 
judgements and assessment of going concern) and other 
major public announcements;
• maintenance and monitoring the Group’s system of internal 
control and risk management;
• approval of major capital expenditure, material acquisitions 
and divestments and material contracts; and
• appointment and remuneration of the external auditor on 
the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Helen Grantham, Company Secretary and General 
Counsel, acts as Secretary to the Board and its 
committees. She is also responsible for ensuring that 
correct Board procedures are followed and advises the 
Board on legal and corporate governance matters. All 
directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary and may also take independent 
professional advice at the expense of the Company in 
furtherance of their duties. The appointment and removal of 
the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for 
the Board.
Board attendance
The Board held a separate strategy day in addition to 
meeting on seven occasions during the year under review, 
all of which were scheduled Board meetings.
Member Attendance
Current directors
John Allan 7 of 7
Sebastian James 7 of 7
Katie Bickerstaffe 7 of 7
Humphrey Singer 7 of 7
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen
(1)
6 of 7
Andrea Gisle Joosen
(2)
1 of 1
Tim How 7 of 7
Jock Lennox 7 of 7
Dharmash Mistry 7 of 7
Former directors
Rita Clifton
(3)
4 of 4
Andrew Lynch
(4)
1 of 1
(1) Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen was unable to attend one Board meeting due a 
prior commitment.
(2) Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2013.
(3) Resigned from the Board on 6 September 2012.
(4) Resigned from the Board on 9 May 2012.
Committees of the Board
The Board has three main committees: Audit, Nominations 
and Remuneration. Individual reports on the work of these 
Committees and their membership and attendance are set 
out separately in this Annual Report and Accounts.
Dixons Retail is dependent on its senior management to 
operate its business and execute its strategies. The Group 
has a decentralised management structure with many 
high-level management decisions delegated to divisional 
or country management. These regional managers report 
back to the Board and the Managing Directors of the 
Group’s major operating businesses present a business 
review to the Board on an annual basis. Dixons Retail plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
Board information and development
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors 
are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and 
that they have full and timely access to relevant information. 
The quality and supply of information provided to the Board 
is reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise. This 
year the Company has introduced the use of electronic board 
papers, enabling the fast dissemination of quality information 
in a safe and secure manner. It has also developed 
guidelines on the form and content of board papers to 
ensure that the information presented to the Board is clear, 
informative and concise. The directors have the opportunity 
to request further information if they feel it necessary.
It is Board policy that wherever possible, a formal agenda 
and written reports be issued to the directors on the 
Wednesday of the week prior to the Board meeting, 
allowing time for detailed review before the meeting. 
Formal minutes of Board and Committee meetings are 
prepared by the Company Secretary and approved by the 
Board / Committees at the next meeting.
The Chairman holds regular meetings with the 
non-executive directors without the executive directors 
being present to discuss, amongst other matters, corporate 
strategy, business performance and the performance of the 
executive team. There is frequent contact between directors 
outside formal meetings to progress the Group’s business 
and to promote open communication and team working.
The Board holds meetings at a variety of the Group’s 
business locations to help all Board members gain a 
deeper understanding of the business. This also provides 
senior management from across the Group with the 
opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the 
directors on more informal occasions. All Board directors 
are encouraged to attend external seminars relevant to 
the retail industry and corporate governance matters in 
order to refresh and update their knowledge and skills. The 
Chairman discusses any professional development needs 
with each director as part of the performance evaluation and 
actions are agreed following these discussions. The Board 
also receives bi-monthly updates on legal matters affecting 
the Group and wider corporate governance best practice.
New directors appointed to the Board receive a tailored 
induction programme together with guidance and training 
as appropriate to their level of previous experience. Each 
director is given the opportunity to meet with the members 
of senior management and store colleagues, and to visit 
the Group’s sites both in the UK and overseas in order 
to familiarise themselves with the Group’s businesses, 
operations, systems and the markets in which they operate. 
New directors are also encouraged to meet with the 
Group’s auditors and other advisors.
Board evaluation
In 2011/12, in accordance with the Code, the Board 
undertook its first externally facilitated performance 
evaluation which was conducted by Independent Board 
Evaluation, who had no other connection to the Company. 
Given this recent and valuable external effectiveness review, 
the 2012/13 review was conducted internally involving:
• A meeting between the Company Secretary and Board 
Directors to review progress with the actions following 
the 2011/12 review (largely focusing on the improvement 
of Board papers and ensuring that Board meetings 
were as effective as possible) and to obtain any further 
views or guidance. A summary of these discussions was 
circulated initially to the Chairman and then to the Board 
and actions discussed at a Board meeting. The Chairman 
also arranged individual meetings with each Board 
member to discuss their performance and the Senior 
Independent Director led an evaluation of the performance 
of the Chairman.
• In addition to the above process, each committee 
performed a self evaluation of its performance on the 
basis of a detailed questionnaire relating to the areas of 
responsibility for that particular committee and provided 
feedback to the Board. No major areas for action 
were identified.
Authorisation of conflicts of interest
The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise 
and manage conflicts of interest which have operated 
effectively during the year. Potential conflicts are approved 
by the Board or by two independent directors where an 
authorisation is needed quickly (then reported to the main 
Board at its next meeting for ratification). A register of 
directors’ conflicts is maintained and is reviewed by the 
Audit Committee on an annual basis.
Internal control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system 
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, 
whilst senior management is responsible and accountable 
for internal control and effective risk management at an 
operational level.
The Board confirms that the Group has established and 
maintained a process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant risks faced by the Group and this 
has been in place throughout the year ended 30 April 2013, 
up to the date of approval of the financial statements, and 
that this process accords with the Turnbull guidance and 
the Code. This process is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Certain of the Board’s responsibilities have been 
delegated to the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control (including 
material financial, operational and compliance controls) 
and risk management for the year under review. The Audit 
Committee has ensured that any required remedial action 
has or is being taken. This has included regular reporting 
from PIXmania management (together with attendance 
at the Audit Committee) on the progress of key internal 
financial control projects, including those relating to certain 
sales processes and resolving historical issues arising 
from weaknesses in controls over supplier receivables. 
Other areas of focus have included participation of 
internal audit in key control projects in certain business 
units, increased structure and resource applied by Group 
Finance and Internal Audit in carrying out formal business 
unit balance sheet reviews, and development of financial 
control frameworks, against which all business units are 
being assessed. Dixons Retail plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
The system of internal control and the process for 
managing risk include the following elements:
• discussion and approval by the Board of the Group’s 
strategic direction, plans and objectives, and the risks to 
achieving them;
• the Board and management committees meet regularly to 
monitor progress against the targets set out in the Group’s 
budget and strategic five year plan;
• the defined levels of authority established by the 
Board ensure that significant decisions are taken at an 
appropriate level, supported by a group wide delegation of 
authority process;
• each business function has established procedures and 
controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the 
Group’s assets;
• policies, procedures and governance structures to 
ensure capital investment is appropriately approved and 
subsequently monitored;
• policies, controls and procedures have been established 
over the security of data held on, and functionality provided 
by, the Group’s business systems, including disaster 
recovery arrangements;
• business continuity plan;
• the Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to 
enable them to discharge the duties and responsibilities of 
the roles assigned to them to minimise operational risk;
• the Group has implemented appropriate strategies to 
deal with each significant risk that has been identified. 
These strategies include insurance, treasury policies 
and operational framework, and common standards of 
internal control;
• all employees in subsidiaries within the Group have 
the opportunity to make confidential disclosures about 
suspected impropriety or wrongdoing to a hotline run and 
monitored by a third party;
• policies and procedures covering financial reporting;
• local management at each business unit and in those 
functions of the Group requiring greater overview have 
responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant 
risks to their business areas together with design of 
mitigating controls; and
• the Company Code of Ethics.
The Group’s approach to managing risk has been reviewed 
and improved. Risk and Opportunity Radars (Radars) have 
been established for each business in the Group to identify, 
assess and monitor key risks, and the most significant of 
these have been consolidated into a Group level Radar for 
Board review. Each risk is being monitored by an executive 
owner and will be included on business unit leadership 
team agendas on a regular basis. A more formal cycle has 
been established for business management across the 
Group to review key business risks twice per annum, to 
be followed by Board reviews. Group Board Directors and 
business management teams will be interviewed by the 
risk management team in alternate years, to refresh and 
develop the Radars.
There are clear processes for monitoring the system of 
internal control and reporting any significant corrective 
control weaknesses, together with corrective action. These 
include reports to the Audit Committee from assurance 
providers, periodic certification from business units, reviews 
by Group and regional management, whistleblowing 
facilities and independent assurance from both internal and 
external audit. The latter of these are described in more 
detail below.
Internal audit
The Internal Audit department is fully independent of 
business operations and has a group-wide mandate. Its 
work is driven by a risk-based methodology ensuring that 
the controls to mitigate the Group’s key risks are audited 
on a regular basis. Third parties may be engaged to 
support audit work as appropriate. Its plans are approved 
by the Audit Committee, which also receives reports on its 
findings and progress of related actions at each meeting. 
The department also works with the businesses to promote 
and further develop effective risk management within their 
operations. The Director of Internal Audit and Risk attends 
all Audit Committee meetings.
External auditor
The external auditor provides further independent 
observations of certain elements of the internal financial 
controls as part of their audit of the financial statements. 
Their findings are presented to the Audit Committee with 
updates on progress against the recommendations being 
made throughout the year.
Whistleblowing policy
The Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a 
confidential helpline operated by a third party. This can 
be used to report, anonymously if so wished, on matters 
of concern to employees. This can range from unethical 
behaviour, such as fraud, to practices that might endanger 
the health of customers and colleagues.
Bribery Act
The Bribery Act came into force on 1 July 2011. As a 
result, the Group reviewed and enhanced its policies and 
procedures to help prevent individuals associated with 
the Group from committing acts of bribery. These policies 
and procedures include training for individuals to ensure 
awareness of acts that might be construed as contravening 
the new regulations. The Group’s Anti-Bribery Policy is 
included on the Investors section of the corporate website. Dixons Retail plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
Relations with shareholders
The Company supports the initiatives set out in the Code 
and the Stewardship Code and actively encourages 
engagement with major institutional shareholders and 
other stakeholders.
Effective two-way communication with institutional 
investors, brokers and analysts is established through 
regular presentations and meetings in the UK and 
overseas, usually by the Group Chief Executive, Group 
Finance Director and Investor Relations & Corporate 
Affairs Director. The Chairman holds occasional meetings 
with major shareholders to discuss matters of mutual 
interest including corporate strategy and governance. 
Where appropriate, the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee communicates with major shareholders to 
canvass opinion when deciding remuneration policy. The 
Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive 
directors are also available to attend meetings with major 
shareholders if requested. Any issues of importance arising 
from these meetings are reported to the Board at the 
next meeting. The Board also receives a regular investor 
relations report at each of its scheduled meetings, in 
addition to a detailed annual review of the perception of the 
Company amongst stakeholders.
The Company is committed to communication with all of 
its members, whether institutional investors, private or 
employee shareholders. The Company reports formally 
to shareholders when its full year and half year results 
are published. These results are posted on the investor 
section of the Company’s corporate website. Regular 
trading updates are also posted on the corporate website 
in addition to other external announcements and press 
releases made by the Company. In accordance with the 
Listing Rules, formal notification of the Company’s AGM is 
sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance 
of the meeting. The directors, including the respective 
chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees, are available for questions formally during 
the AGM and informally afterwards, although unfortunately 
Dharmash Mistry was unable to attend the 2012 AGM due 
to family commitments.
The AGM of the Company is due to take place on 
5 September 2013 at the Holiday Inn London - Bloomsbury, 
Coram Street, London WC1N 1HT. Further details of the 
AGM are set out in the Notice of Meeting accompanying 
this Annual Report.
John Allan
Chairman 
20 June 2013 Dixons Retail plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Audit Committee Report
Chairman’s Overview
The significance of our role has been cemented by the 
publication of Guidance on Audit Committees by the Financial 
Reporting Council (FRC) in September 2012. I have worked 
to ensure that we are compliant with this guidance.
This report sets out the key activities undertaken during the 
past financial year, including significant matters considered 
in relation to the financial statements, as well as ensuring 
the independence and effectiveness of the external 
auditors. The Committee has reviewed risk management 
processes and supported the development of assurance 
and financial controls frameworks.
The assurance framework is a structured model to capture 
assurance activity across the Group. This has helped guide 
internal audit and control work this year, and will continue to 
do so in future years as the model is refined. We have also 
undertaken structured assessments of the Group’s core 
financial controls to give a clear understanding of control 
effectiveness across finance functions. Both initiatives 
provide clear focus for effective and efficient risk and 
control activities, at Group and business unit level, thereby 
improving the control environment.
We have also refreshed our risk management approach this 
year with the objective of embedding the processes within 
the day to day operations of each business unit and ensuring 
the executive directors challenge and then take ownership 
of the agreed risks and the actions to mitigate them. As 
part of this process, each business unit identifies key risks 
to their businesses and these are then supplemented with 
broader Group risks identified by the executive directors to 
create the Group Risk Radar. The risks are prioritised by the 
executive directors and their assessment is then presented 
to the Board. These risks are debated, agreed and mitigating 
action validated. Monitoring these agreed risks, along with 
identifying any emerging risks, takes place on an ongoing 
basis at all levels of the business and progress on mitigating 
actions are tracked via their allocated owner.
The implementation of these processes has led to a clearer 
understanding of the key risks facing the business and 
greater clarity on the risk appetite of the business unit 
management. In addition, it will enable closer oversight by 
the Committee of the mitigation of key risks through the 
tracking of key risk indicators.
Over the coming year, the main areas of focus will be:
• improving the financial control environment in PIXmania, 
by supporting local management in the development and 
enhancement of processes and controls;
• building on the framework developed to drive new policies 
and obtain assurance through internal audit that the 
framework is functioning effectively;
• embedding our enhanced enterprise risk management 
policies and activities through ongoing work with business 
unit management and tighter integration between 
management monitoring activities and risk management 
procedures; and
• undertaking an independent review of the effectiveness of 
Internal Audit in line with good practice guidance.
Jock Lennox
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
20 June 2013
Audit Committee
Main Objective: To assist the Board in fulfilling its 
corporate governance obligations relating to the Group’s 
financial reporting practices; internal control and risk 
management framework, and its internal and external 
audit processes.
Chairman: Jock Lennox, appointed Chairman 9 May 2012
Number of meetings: 4
Member Attendance
Current directors
Jock Lennox 4 of 4
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 4 of 4
Tim How 4 of 4
Andrea Gisle Joosen
(1)
0 of 0
Dharmash Mistry 4 of 4
Former directors
Andrew Lynch
(2)
1 of 1
Rita Clifton
(3)
3 of 3
(1) Appointed 1 March 2013.
(2) Resigned 9 May 2012.
(3) Resigned 6 September 2012.
Committee membership and attendance
The Committee comprises exclusively non-executive 
directors in compliance with the Code. The members are 
set out in the table above along with their attendance for 
the year under review. The biographical details of the 
current members are set out on pages 27 and 28.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the Committee, 
a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
Scotland, meets the requirement for recent and relevant 
financial experience. The Company Secretary and General 
Counsel acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends 
all meetings.
The Committee’s deliberations are reported by its Chairman 
to the following Board meeting and the minutes of each 
meeting are circulated to all members of the Board.
Role
The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight 
responsibilities by acting independently from the 
executive directors in order to ensure that the interests of 
shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial 
reporting and internal control.
There is an annual schedule of items for each meeting to 
ensure the Committee fully covers its terms of reference, 
including standing agenda items as follows:
• update on corporate governance, risk management and 
finance developments;
• review accounting and control findings from the external 
audit and the status and progress on recommendations 
arising from these;
• review progress against the Internal Audit plan and 
revised plans; Dixons Retail plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Audit Committee Report (continued)
• review Internal Audit reports and findings and status and 
progress on action plans arising from Internal Audit reports;
• review risk management papers;
• review and approval of audit fees;
• review of fees paid to our auditor for non-audit services;
• review tax matters; and
• conduct special investigations and perform other activities 
as appropriate.
These are supplemented by key matters arising through 
the course of the year. The Committee’s terms of reference 
are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by 
the Board. A copy of the terms of reference, approved 
on 5 September 2012, is available on the Group’s 
corporate website.
Attendance at meetings
The Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Group 
Chief Accountant and Head of Tax, Director of Internal 
Audit and Risk, Deputy Company Secretary and external 
auditors were invited by the Chairman of the Committee to 
attend meetings during the year. Other members of senior 
management were also invited during the year if the subject 
under discussion fell within their remit.
Each time the Committee convenes, it meets with external 
auditors without the presence of management in order to 
allow private discussion of any matters that the auditors 
wish to raise without management or the Company 
Secretary being present. Occasionally a private discussion 
is also held between the members of the Committee, the 
external auditors and the Director of Internal Audit and Risk 
without management present.
In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the 
services of the Group Finance Director and the Company 
Secretary and General Counsel, as well as access to 
external professional advice.
Key matters considered
During the period, the Committee reviewed the following:
Financial Reporting
• The carrying value of certain assets in the Group, in 
particular goodwill and acquired intangible assets;
• the classification of items between underlying 
and non-underlying;
• tax matters; and
• the integrity and sufficiency of information disclosed in 
the Annual Report and Accounts in order to ensure that 
sufficient information has been included for an adequate 
understanding for shareholders and other stakeholders 
about the performance, business model and strategy of 
the Group.
Internal Control and Risk Management
• Progress against the improvement plan in place for 
PIXmania following the identification in prior years of 
historical under-estimated purchase accruals. Progress 
against this plan was being closely monitored by Group 
Finance and Internal Audit. The Committee received 
regular updates throughout the period under review;
• progress of key internal financial control projects 
in PIXmania, including those relating to certain 
sales processes;
• the lessons learnt from any incidents of fraud detected 
within the Group;
• the proposed financial control framework and its 
subsequent assessment by Internal Audit;
• the status of PCI (Payment Card Industry) Standard 
compliance across all markets; and
• the proposed enhanced approach to risk management and 
the outcome of the risk work with the respective business 
units and Group.
Compliance
• Monitoring compliance activity in relation to the terms of the 
Group’s financing; and
• reports on the Anti-Bribery policy and procedures and 
compliance therewith.
Internal Audit
• The effectiveness of Internal Audit and the adequacy of its 
resources; and
• significant issues arising from Internal Audit reports.
External Audit
• Significant issues and areas of judgement arising from 
reports from the external auditor which in addition to those 
matters referred to above under Financial Reporting and 
Internal Control and Risk Management, included revenue 
recognition relating to customer support agreements, 
defined benefit pension assumptions, taxation, non-
underlying items and an assessment of the quality of 
earnings reported;
• the effectiveness of the external auditors through a survey 
of key stakeholders and consideration of their responses;
• the annual audit fee, which is set out in note 3 to the 
Financial Statements, with due regard to the balance 
between audit and non-audit fees and the policy for 
approval of non-audit fees paid to the Group’s auditor; and
• fees paid to the auditor for non-audit services.
Other Matters
• The Audit Committee’s performance and terms 
of reference;
• the Company's whistleblowing policy and its 
implementation across the international jurisdictions of the 
Group; and
• the expenses of all Board members.
Policy on the use of the external auditor for 
non-audit services
The Audit Committee has approved a policy for the use 
of our external auditor for non-audit purposes. The policy 
allows the auditor to perform other services for specific 
reasons such as where:
• it is a statutory or contractual requirement; or
• significant historical knowledge may place the auditor in 
the best position to perform such non-audit work. Dixons Retail plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Audit Committee Report (continued)
The auditor is specifically not permitted to undertake the 
following services:
• bookkeeping or similar services related to the preparation 
of financial statements;
• internal audit; and
• any other assignment which would place the auditor in a 
position of conflict with its duties as external auditor.
To ensure this policy is applied appropriately, the 
Committee monitors quarterly all fees paid to the external 
auditor. All fees paid to the auditor in respect of non-audit 
work above £50,000 require pre-approval of the Audit 
Committee Chairman. These are then reported back to the 
Committee as part of the Committee agenda.
During 2012/13 the auditor has performed non-audit work 
which has been almost entirely in relation to statutory or 
contractually mandated areas. For example, providing an 
interim review report on the Group’s Interim Statement, 
reporting work in capacity as auditor in relation to the 
Guaranteed Notes 2017 which were issued during the year 
and providing auditor opinions on tax returns where local 
legislation requires this.
The Committee is satisfied that the policy is conducive 
to retaining auditor independence and objectivity and is 
satisfied with the operation of the policy during the year. 
The level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditor is 
set out in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
External Auditor
Deloitte LLP have been the auditor of the Company for a 
number of years and the current lead partner has acted 
for the Company for four years. The Audit Committee 
acknowledges the new requirements, which apply to the 
Group for the first time in 2013/14, whereby FTSE 350 
companies should put out to tender the external audit 
every ten years. The Committee is considering the most 
appropriate point to invite tenders for its audit, taking into 
account the FRC’s transitional provisions and also the 
provisional findings of the Competition Commission in 
respect of the statutory audit services for large companies’ 
market inquiry.
The Committee, having considered the results of the annual 
performance review, the policies and procedures applied by 
the Group and the internal policies and representations of 
Deloitte LLP, remains satisfied with the auditor’s objectivity 
and independence and the effectiveness of the audit 
process. Accordingly, the Committee has recommended 
to the Board that a resolution for their reappointment be 
proposed at the AGM. Dixons Retail plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Nominations Committee Report
Chairman’s Overview
The Nominations Committee reports directly to the Board of 
the Company and is made up of a majority of non-executive 
directors as required by the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the Code).
The Committee has dealt with two main priorities during the 
year under review:
• the departure of Rita Clifton and her replacement; and
• succession planning.
More information on how the Committee has addressed 
these issues are shown later in this report.
John Allan
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
20 June 2013
Nominations Committee
Main Objective: To monitor the size and composition 
of the Board and its Committees and ensure a formal, 
rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment 
of new directors and to plan for succession.
Chairman: John Allan
Number of Meetings: 4
Member Attendance
Current directors
John Allan 4 of 4
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 3 of 4
Tim How 4 of 4
Andrea Gisle Joosen
(1)
1 of 1
Jock Lennox 4 of 4
Dharmash Mistry 4 of 4
Former directors
Rita Clifton
(2)
2 of 2
Andrew Lynch
(3)
0 of 0
(1) Appointed 1 March 2013.
(2) Resigned 6 September 2012.
(3) Resigned 9 May 2012.
Committee membership and attendance
The members of the Nominations Committee are shown 
in the table opposite along with their attendance for the 
year under review. At least half of the Board of Directors 
are independent non-executive directors as required by 
the Code.
The biographical details of the members of the Committee 
are set out on pages 27 and 28. The Company Secretary 
and General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee’s deliberations are reported by its chairman 
to the following Board meeting and the minutes of each 
meeting are circulated to all members of the Board.
Role
The principal duties of the Committee are to:
• review the structure, size and composition of the 
Board and its committees and to recommend changes 
as necessary;
• review the leadership needs of the organisation, both 
executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the 
continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively;
• be responsible for the succession planning for Board 
members and, in so doing, other senior management of 
the organisation;
• identify, evaluate and nominate candidates to fill vacancies 
on the Board; and
• make recommendations to the Board regarding the 
continuation in office of a director upon the expiry of any 
specified terms of appointment.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed 
annually and are available on the Group’s website.
Key matters considered
During the year, the principal matters considered by the 
Committee were as follows:
• the recruitment of a new non-executive director to succeed 
Rita Clifton and the subsequent appointment of Andrea 
Gisle Joosen;
• consideration of the succession planning process;
• an evaluation of the size, composition and structure of the 
Board and its committees; and
• a review of the Committee’s performance and terms 
of reference.
The Nominations Committee keeps itself up to date on 
best practice through a combination of private research 
and briefings by internal and external advisors on key 
developments relevant to the Company.
Board review
The Board has been refreshed over the past few years as 
a number of long serving directors have stepped down. 
On 9 May 2012, Andrew Lynch retired from the Board 
and was replaced by Jock Lennox as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and Rita Clifton retired from the Board 
on 6 September 2012. Dixons Retail plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Nominations Committee Report (continued)
Board tenure
The chart below shows Board tenure in years:
Board Tenure (years)
  0
11%
  3
33%
  1
45%
  2
11%
Appointments to the Board
The Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new directors which it 
followed in relation to the appointment of Andrea Gisle 
Joosen. Appointments are made on merit, against objective 
criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity and 
the leadership needs of the Company.
The Inzito partnership, an independent firm specialising 
in non-executive recruitment, assisted with the search. 
Potentially suitable candidates were selected against 
key requirements identified by the Board which included 
a marketing background and knowledge of the Nordic 
consumer electronics sector. A formal and objective 
process then took place resulting in Andrea Gisle Joosen 
being recommended to the Board for appointment.
Terms of Reference
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee were 
reviewed during the year and re-approved.
Succession planning
Succession planning was mentioned in the 2012 externally 
facilitated Board effectiveness review as an area for 
improvement and this is an area which the Committee will 
continue to focus on in 2013/14.
Diversity
The Board recognises the importance of diversity, including, 
but not restricted to, gender diversity on the Board and 
in its senior management team and the important role 
that diversity plays in achieving the right mix of skills, 
knowledge and experience in order to help the organisation 
reach its potential.
The Board continues to believe that individuals should 
be appointed on merit. We are committed to increasing 
boardroom and senior management diversity as suitable 
candidates present themselves. The Board has two 
directors (22%) who are not from the UK believing that 
international diversity is important in an international 
business. Currently 22% (two out of nine) of the Company’s 
Board are female as are 29% of the Group’s senior 
management team. Further information on this and the 
Company’s monitoring of staff diversity is contained in the 
Corporate Responsibility Report.
Re-election
All directors will seek election or re-election at the 2013 
AGM. Each of the directors are being unanimously 
recommended by the other members of the Board due 
to the directors’ individual experience and knowledge 
and wider management and industry experience, 
continued effectiveness and commitment to their role. The 
independent non-executive directors were re-affirmed by 
the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
The executive directors’ service contracts and non-
executive directors’ letters of appointment are available for 
inspection by prior arrangement, during normal business 
hours, at the Company’s registered office. They will also 
be available for inspection at the venue, prior to the AGM, 
details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting. Dixons Retail plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report
Chairman’s Overview
I am pleased to introduce this report to you as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. A key part 
of the Remuneration Committee’s role is to determine 
remuneration policy for key directors and senior managers 
of the business. This report aims to summarise the 
Company’s remuneration policy for the 2013/14 financial 
year and to report on the implementation of the policy in the 
2012/13 financial year. 
During 2012/13 the Company’s remuneration strategy 
concentrated on the retention of the new executive team 
having gone through a complete change of executive 
directors over the previous year. The new executive 
directors are now firmly in their roles and the challenge for 
the Committee remains to ensure that remuneration policy 
is structured in such a way that executives are rewarded for 
exceptional performance and the achievement of business 
strategy and objectives. The reward packages also need to 
provide adequate reward to retain the executives and act 
as an incentive to elicit outstanding performance.
The incentives during the year under review were 
structured in such a way as to achieve these objectives.  
The bonuses paid to executives were just over 95% of 
opportunity. This achievement was duly earned, 80% 
of which having been based on clear financial targets 
which were set with reference to the Company’s plan 
at the beginning of the year. The remaining 20% was 
based on the achievement of personal objectives. The 
LTIPs due to vest during the year have however failed 
to meet their performance criteria over the three year 
performance period and have now lapsed. The salary 
sacrifice arrangement implemented in 2009 has now 
vested, allowing senior management who entered into this 
arrangement to exercise their options.
2013/14
The Remuneration Committee have again reviewed the 
reward structure which, for 2013/14, will comprise of the 
following elements:
Base Pay
Executive directors and senior management pay rises 
will be made based on the average pay increase for 
the whole of the workforce in the country in which the 
individuals operate. 
Bonus
The annual bonus remains unchanged except that the 20% 
of annual bonus which is payable upon the achievement 
of personal objectives will, for 2013/14, be replaced for 
executive directors and key senior management with the 
same proportion of bonus being payable based on return 
on capital employed.  This, together with Group underlying 
operating profit and adjusted Free Cash Flow, provides a 
package of measures that underpins Group strategic goals, 
drives shareholder value and operational efficiency whilst 
also being more transparent.  
LTIP
As disclosed in last year’s report, it was felt appropriate 
for a one off exceptional long term incentive award to be 
made in 2012/13 in order to retain the new leadership 
team and that normal award levels would apply in 2013.  
In formulating the remuneration strategy for 2013/14, the 
Remuneration Committee has taken this into consideration 
and also the need for a simple structure that is transparent 
and which provides stretching targets to drive an 
increase in shareholder value and the achievement of 
company results. 
For 2013/14, we have returned to LTIP levels awarded to 
the executive directors during the 2011/12 financial year. 
There will be no grants to executive directors under the 
Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP); rather awards will 
be made under the Performance Share Plan (PSP), which 
is considered to be more motivational, as the participant 
receives the full value of the shares and less shares 
are awarded. Awards at executive director level will be 
subject to challenging performance targets which will 
deliver significant value to shareholders if met. Succession 
planning and performance considerations will be taken into 
account when deciding the level of awards throughout the 
organisation. 
Save As You Earn (SAYE or Sharesave)
I am very pleased to say that we will again be offering a 
Sharesave scheme in which our UK & Ireland employees 
are entitled to participate. We believe that this scheme is 
an important part of the benefit structure of the Group and 
enables all staff to build up a shareholding and share in the 
Company’s success.
The Committee is considering the remuneration reporting 
regulations proposed by the department for Business 
Innovation & Skills (BIS proposals) and has made some 
amendments to its reporting this year with this in mind.  
From the 2014 Annual General Meeting (AGM) the 
legislation would give shareholders the opportunity to vote 
independently on the Company’s policy (binding vote) and 
then its implementation of that policy (advisory vote) at the 
AGM. The Company supports the BIS proposals and will 
continue to monitor developments, seeking to comply fully 
once the final regulations are finalised.
I very much hope that you will support the proposals 
outlined in this report at the AGM.  We firmly believe that 
these proposals are right for the Company, that they will 
motivate and incentivise our senior team, and that they are 
an integral part of achieving the Company’s strategy going 
forward.
Tim How
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
20 June 2013 Dixons Retail plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report (continued)
Remuneration Committee
Main Objective: T o determine and agree remuneration 
policy for executive directors and senior management and to 
monitor and report on it.
Chairman: Tim How
Number of Meetings: 5
Member Attendance
Current Directors
Tim How 5 of 5
John Allan 5 of 5
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen
(1)
3 of 5
Andrea Gisle Joosen
(2)
1 of 1
Jock Lennox 5 of 5
Dharmash Mistry 5 of 5
Former Directors
Rita Clifton
(3) 
3 of 3
Andrew Lynch
(4)
1 of 1
(1) Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen was absent from two meetings due to prior 
commitments.
(2) Appointed 1 March 2013.
(3) Resigned 6 September 2012.
(4) Resigned 9 May 2012.
Introduction
The purpose of this report is to inform shareholders of 
the Company’s policies on directors’ remuneration for the 
year ended 30 April 2013 and the remuneration policy for 
subsequent years. Shareholders will be asked to approve 
the report by way of an advisory ordinary resolution at the 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 5 September 2013.
The role of the Committee is to determine on behalf of the 
Board a remuneration policy for executive directors and 
senior management in order to attract and retain executives 
who have the ability and experience, and are adequately 
incentivised, to deliver the Company’s strategic objectives. 
The Committee has adopted the principles of good 
governance relating to directors’ remuneration as enshrined 
within section D of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and has complied with those principles during the year 
under review.
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration 
Committee on behalf of the Board in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium 
Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 (Schedule 8) and the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. This report is divided into two 
sections:
• Remuneration policy (not subject to audit) and as set 
out in sections (I) to (V) which details the role of the 
Committee, the principles of remuneration and other 
matters; and
• Remuneration review (audited) and as set out in sections 
(VI) to (X) which details directors’ and former directors’ 
emoluments, share awards, share options and pension 
arrangements.
Remuneration policy (not subject to audit)
(I) Role of the Remuneration Committee
Role
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee 
responsibility for determining policy in relation to 
the remuneration packages for directors and senior 
management. This delegation includes the terms and 
conditions of employment of each of the executive directors 
and other senior management in addition to the operation 
of the Group’s share-based employee incentive schemes.
Membership and attendance
Membership of the Committee currently comprises the five 
independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of 
the Company.  Their names and attendance at meetings 
are set out in the table opposite and their biographies and 
qualifications are set out on pages 27 and 28.  Unless 
otherwise noted in the table, members served throughout 
the year under review. In line with the Code, the Chairman 
is a member of the Committee but is not its Chair. The 
Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
corporate website. 
Outside of scheduled meetings, there is a formal process 
agreed by the Committee and the Board for urgent issues 
to be dealt with at either ad-hoc meetings or by discussion 
with the Chair and other members of the Committee.
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and 
Chief Executive UK & Ireland attended meetings of the 
Committee by invitation and in an advisory capacity only. 
Meetings are also attended by the Company Secretary 
and General Counsel (who acts as Committee Secretary), 
Group HR Director and the Head of Group Reward. 
No executive participates in discussions about their 
own remuneration.
Advice
The Committee keeps itself fully informed with best practice 
in the field of executive remuneration and it seeks advice 
from internal and external advisors as appropriate. 
The Committee has retained the services of New Bridge 
Street (NBS), a subsidiary of Aon Hewitt Limited, as their 
external advisor throughout the year. Fees paid to NBS 
were £22,000 (2011/12: £64,000) both of which represent 
a full year’s appointment. NBS provided no other services 
to the Company. The Committee has on occasion received 
legal advice from Linklaters LLP in respect of the operation 
of the Company’s share plans. Dixons Retail plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report (continued)
(II) Remuneration Objectives
The objectives of the Company’s remuneration policy are to: 
• facilitate the building and retention of a high calibre and 
focused team which will work effectively to achieve the 
Group’s longer term strategic objectives and enhance 
shareholder value; 
• ensure that the remuneration structure motivates the 
directors and senior management to succeed and 
appropriately rewards them for their contribution to the 
attainment of the Group’s short and long term results;
• maintain, via an appropriate level of base salary and 
incentive structure, a competitive package of pay 
and benefits which provides the motivation for future 
achievement whilst discouraging inappropriate risk taking;
• align the directors’ interests with those of shareholders by 
offering participation in reward schemes which provide 
opportunities to build shareholdings in the Company; and
•	 avoid reward for failure.
In developing its policy the Committee has regard to:
• the performance, roles and responsibilities of each 
executive director or member of senior management;
• arrangements which apply below senior management 
level, including average base salary increases;
• information and surveys from internal and independent 
sources; and
•	 the economic environment and financial performance of 
the Group.
Remuneration packages
The core focus of our remuneration strategy for executive 
directors is designed to ensure that a substantial proportion 
of remuneration opportunity is performance related.
100 % 51 % 38%
100 % 53 % 40%
100 % 53 % 40 %
29%
31% 
26% 
28% 26%
28 %
20 %
31 %
21 %
32%
21 %
32 %
£0 
£250 
£ 500 
£750
£’000
 
£1,000 
£1,250 
£1,500 
£1,750 
£2,000 
Min Target
Sebastian James Humphrey Singer Katie Bickerstaffe
Max Min Target Max Min Target Max
PSP*
Bonus
Fixed
* No share price growth has been assumed 
The assumptions underlying the chart in respect of the 
percentage of maximum opportunity payable are set out 
below:
Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum
Bonus 0% 25% 70% 100%
PSP 0% 25% 50% 100%
Guidelines of Responsible Investment Disclosure
In line with the ABI Guidelines on Responsible Investment 
Disclosure, the Committee is satisfied that the incentive 
structure and targets shown above for executive directors 
do not raise any environmental, social or governance 
risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible or reckless 
behaviour. The Committee considers that no element of the 
remuneration package will encourage inappropriate risk 
taking by any member of senior management.
As part of the overall system of governance and the 
evaluation of the performance of the business, the Board 
evaluates annually the Group’s corporate responsibility 
performance. Further information is set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility Report. Dixons Retail plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report (continued)
Remuneration Components
Set out below is a summary of core remuneration components proposed for directors for 2013/14, further detail is set out as 
referred to in the subsections which follow:
Remuneration 
component Ref Purpose and link to strategy 
Determination of remuneration 
element Performance targets 2013/14 Changes vs 2012/13
Base Salary (a) To attract and retain 
executive directors 
with the appropriate 
experience and 
knowledge to 
deliver the strategic 
objectives of the 
business.
Reviewed annually, 
effective August.
In normal circumstances  
salary rises for executive 
directors and senior 
management are to be 
based on the average 
rate of salary increase 
across the country in 
which the individual 
works.
n/a Group Chief 
Executive: 
£612,000.
Group Finance 
Director: 
£367,200.
Chief Executive 
UK & Ireland: 
£408,000.
The directors’ 
pay will be 
increased 
based on 
the average 
rate of salary 
increases 
across the 
UK (2%). 
No increase 
was made in 
2012/13.
Cash bonus (b) To appropriately 
incentivise directors 
to achieve short term 
annual objectives 
and targets that 
support the Group’s 
strategic goals.
High potential 
rewards for reaching 
stretching targets.
Reviewed annually. 
Targets are based on the 
Group Budget.
Non pensionable – paid 
in cash.
Clawback provisions 
apply.
Components of bonus as 
follows:
55% – Group underlying 
operating profit
25% – adjusted free cash 
flow 
20% – return on capital 
employed (ROCE).
A ‘gateway’ for each 
element is set, below 
which no bonus is paid.  
Once the gateway is 
achieved, a sliding scale 
determines payment 
between minimum 
and maximum bonus 
payable.
Group Chief 
Executive: 
100% of base 
salary.
Group Finance 
Director: 
85% of base 
salary.
Chief Executive 
UK & Ireland: 
85% of base 
salary.
20% ROCE 
element 
replaces 
personal 
objectives.
Discretionary 
share plans
(b) Incentivise the 
achievement of 
long-term growth and 
profitability objectives.
Align interests with 
those of shareholders.
Annual grant of 
performance shares or 
share options.
Performance targets 
aligned with the Group’s 
strategic objectives.
Performance measured 
over three years.
Performance 
Share Plan 
(PSP) 100% of 
salary granted 
for each 
director.
Vesting for each 
component 
varies between 
25% for 
threshold 
performance 
rising to 100% 
maximum 
with straight 
line vesting 
between the 
two.
50% of award 
based on 
relative TSR 
performance vs 
FTSE 250.
50% of award 
based on EPS.
2013/14, only 
PSP awards 
granted.
2012/13 also 
contained an 
ESOP award.
Targets for PSP 
and ESOP in 
2012/13 based 
on share price 
and EPS, 
respectively. Dixons Retail plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report (continued)
Remuneration 
component Ref Purpose and link to strategy 
Determination of remuneration 
element Performance targets 2013/14 Changes vs 2012/13
Pension and 
life insurance
(e) Provide competitive 
retirement benefits 
and the opportunity 
for executives to 
contribute to their own 
retirement plan.
Defined contribution plan 
offered to all employees 
above a certain grade.
Specific contributions 
for directors are 
predetermined and 
therefore set on 
appointment to the 
Board.
n/a Defined 
contribution 
scheme.  
Company’s 
contribution is 
20% of base 
salary per 
director up to 
an earnings 
cap.
A 20% salary 
supplement 
over and above 
the earnings 
cap is provided.
Life cover of 
four times 
salary.
None
Other taxable 
benefits
(d) Provide a competitive 
package consistent 
with other companies 
which aids retention. 
Specific level of 
benefits for directors 
is predetermined and 
therefore set upon 
appointment to the 
Board.
n/a Provision of 
company car 
or allowance in 
lieu.
Private medical 
insurance.
None
Non- 
executive 
director 
(NED) fees
(III) To provide a 
competitive fee for 
the performance of 
NED duties, sufficient 
to attract high calibre 
individuals to the role.
Fees are set in 
conjunction with the 
duties undertaken. NEDs 
are currently expected 
to be members of all 
main Board committees, 
and additional fees 
are payable for acting 
as chair of either the 
Remuneration or 
Audit Committee or for 
acting as the Senior 
Independent Director. 
n/a £51,500 NED fee review 
takes place 
in September 
each year. 
For 2012 an 
increase of 3% 
was applied. Dixons Retail plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report (continued)
Remuneration Components 
(a) Fixed remuneration – base salary
As a general policy the Committee sets base salaries at a 
level sufficient to attract and retain executive directors with the 
appropriate experience and knowledge to drive the business 
forward. Any salary that is offered is adjusted based on the 
individual’s experience, performance and added value to 
the business. This assessment takes into account external 
information and advice provided to the Committee by NBS. 
Increases in base salaries across the Group are also taken 
into account when determining any increase for the directors.
The Committee acknowledges the ABI and NAPF 
remuneration guidance and believes that whilst 
benchmarking is a useful tool for establishing a point of 
reference for like salaries available in the marketplace for 
similar roles, it does not simply use this information to apply 
a median to its salary recommendations. 
When looking at base salaries, the Committee also takes 
into consideration the potential multiplier effect of base 
salary increases on the package as a whole, as bonuses 
and discretionary share plans are generally worked out 
based on a percentage of salary.  Taking this into account, 
the Committee has approved an overall average increase 
to base salaries across the UK workforce effective August 
2013 of 2% with individual increases varying between 0% 
and 4% based on individual performance.  The Committee 
has agreed that the executive directors’ salaries will 
increase in line with the average wage increase across the 
UK business of 2%. The salaries of the executive directors 
are set out in the remuneration components table above.
(b) Performance-related remuneration
The performance-related elements of remuneration are 
designed to drive Company performance and to strengthen 
the alignment between the interests of the Company’s 
shareholders and its senior management, whilst encouraging 
management retention. No aspect of performance-related 
remuneration is pensionable and the components of 
performance-related remuneration are as follows:
(i) Annual cash bonus
2013/14
There will be no change in the existing bonus potential 
for the executive directors for the cash bonus earned in 
2013/14; this shall remain 100% of salary for the Group 
Chief Executive and 85% of salary for the Group Finance 
Director and Chief Executive UK & Ireland. The bonus paid 
will depend upon underlying Group operating profit (55% of 
bonus), Group Free Cash Flow (25% of bonus) and Return 
on Capital Employed (ROCE) (20% of bonus). Bonus targets 
for 2013/14 have been set at levels using benchmarks 
that reflect both internal business objectives and external 
expectations and the Committee is satisfied that the targets 
are sufficiently challenging relative to company performance 
in 2012/13 and are also satisfied that the targets will 
not encourage irresponsible behaviour. The cash bonus 
plan includes clawback provisions for material adverse 
misstatement, error in determining the extent to which the 
target has been satisfied and misconduct.
No bonus is payable for below threshold performance.  At 
threshold, 25% of the bonus is payable rising on a straight 
line basis to 70% for target performance and again on a 
straight line basis up to 100% for maximum performance.  
This is unchanged from 2012/13.
2012/13
Performance-related remuneration for the executive 
directors included an annual cash bonus plan based on the 
achievement of the Group’s targets (80%) and personal 
objectives (20%).  All personal targets were set at the 
beginning of the year and they relate to the achievement 
of business objectives. For example, agreeing the 
amended Revolving Credit Facility in May 2012, issuing the 
£150 million 2017 Notes in September 2012, e-commerce 
initiatives such as ‘pay&collect’ and on-line in store, and 
cost reductions.
The table below shows the extent to which targets were 
met and accordingly the aggregate cash bonus as a 
percentage of opportunity by each director:
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Opportunity Achieved Opportunity Achieved Opportunity Achieved
Sebastian James Humphrey Singer Katie Bickerstaffe
2013 Annual Bonus 
(as a % of salary)
Underlying Group operating profit Free Cash Flow Personal objectives
The table below shows performance against the financial 
elements of the Group’s annual bonus targets that applied 
to the executive directors in 2012/13:
Measure
Bonus 
proportion
Summary of 
targets £million
Percentage of  
maximum 
opportunity 
paid
†
Underlying Group 
operating profit
55% Threshold:
Maximum:
110.0
140.0
91.6%
Free Cash Flow 25% Threshold:
Maximum:
25.0
65.0
100%
†  Underlying Group operating profit achieved was £136.0 million and Free 
Cash Flow achieved was £153.4 million.
In light of the above, cash bonuses were awarded to the 
Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the 
Chief Executive UK & Ireland of £572,280, £291,863 
and £324,292, respectively (of which £120,000, £61,200 
and £68,000, was paid in respect of achievement of 
personal objectives).
(ii) Discretionary Share Plans
The Company operates two main share plans which are 
used for annual long-term incentive arrangements.  These 
are the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and an Executive 
Share Option Plan (ESOP) (the Plans), both of which were 
approved by shareholders at the 2008 AGM. 
For 2013/14 the Company intends to grant awards to 
executive directors solely under the PSP. This follows the 
exceptional grant made under the Plans during 2012/13.  
The table below shows the performance criteria which the 
Committee has attached to share awards or option grants 
to executive directors over the past three years, and those 
it intends to apply to the grants in 2013/14. Dixons Retail plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report (continued)
Performance Criteria
Measurement criteria 
(1)
PSP ESOP
2013/14 
proposed
(2)
TSR vs FTSE 250
(3)
EPS 
3p – 4p
(5)
–
2012/13 Share price
25p – 35p
(4)(5)
– EPS
2.5p – 3.5p
(5)
2011/12
(2)
TSR vs FTSE 250
(3)
EPS 
2p – 4p
(5)
–
2010/11 TSR vs FTSE 250
(3)(6)
– EPS 
4p – 6p
(5)
(1) TSR and EPS are as defined in the Key Performance Indicators section of 
this report.  FTSE 250 excludes investment trusts. 
(2)  Award split 50:50 between the two elements.
(3)  25% vesting at median, 100% vesting at upper quartile.
(4)  Subject to underpin of average EPS growth of RPI+5% per annum over the 
performance period. If over 75% vests, 75% partial vesting will be released 
in June 2015, with anything over 75% being released in June 2016.
(5)  25% vesting at lower limit, 100% vesting at upper limit. 
(6)  Subject to underpin of EPS growth over the performance period of at least 
RPI+2% per annum over the performance period.
Performance Share Plan
The plan provides for the provision of shares to participants 
up to a maximum of 100% salary (200% in exceptional 
circumstances) subject to the attainment of stretching 
performance targets.
The performance targets applying to particular awards under 
the PSP are determined by the Remuneration Committee 
at the time of grant based upon the strategic priorities of the 
Group. For the recent awards to executive directors in office 
at the time, a summary is set out in the table above.
2013/14 awards
The Committee has agreed that the executive directors will 
receive an award equivalent to 100% of salary under the 
PSP in 2013/14. The award will vest based 50% on TSR 
performance and 50% on EPS performance as outlined in 
the table below:
TSR v FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) Percentage of award to vest
Below median No award
Median 25%
Median to upper quartile 25% – 100%
Upper quartile 100%
Earnings Per Share
Below 3p No award
3p 25%
3 – 4p 25% – 100%
4p 100%
The number of shares awarded will be based on a three 
month average share price to the grant of the award. 
The total number of shares capable of vesting will be 
determined at the end of the three year performance period 
subject to the Committee considering that the financial 
performance of the Group supports vesting. 
2012/13 and previous awards
Vesting of the awards granted to the executive directors 
in office at the time of grant during 2010/11, 2011/12 and 
2012/13 are subject to the criteria in the performance 
criteria table above with straight line vesting between the 
lower and upper limits. 
With regards to the awards made in 2010/11, for which the 
performance period ended in April 2013, the Committee 
has determined that the TSR performance condition 
has not been met and the awards have therefore lapsed 
subsequent to the period under review.
Any outstanding awards under this plan held by the 
executive directors are shown in the table in section (IX) of 
this Report.
Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP)
The performance targets applying to particular option 
grants under the ESOP are determined by the Committee 
at the time of grant based upon the strategic priorities of 
the Group and, for the recent awards, are set out in the 
performance criteria table above.
Awards under the ESOP may be income tax approved, up 
to an aggregate limit of £30,000. The ESOP permits making 
an award with a market value on the date of grant of not 
more than 200% of the recipient’s base salary. However, 
in exceptional circumstances this limit may be exceeded. 
Options are generally exercisable between three and ten 
years from the date of grant, subject to the performance 
conditions being met.
The Committee has determined that there shall be no 
grants to executive directors under the ESOP in 2013/14.
2012/13 and previous awards
Vesting of the awards granted during 2010/11 and 2012/13 
are subject to the criteria in the earlier table, with straight 
line vesting between the lower and upper limits. 
With regards to the awards made in 2010/11, for which the 
performance period ended in April 2013, the Committee 
has determined that the EPS performance condition 
has not been met and the awards have therefore lapsed 
subsequent to the period under review.
Any outstanding awards under this plan held by the executive 
directors are shown in the table in section (X) of this Report.
Reward Sacrifice Scheme
In 2009 certain executive directors and senior management 
were offered the choice to sacrifice part of their salary for 
a share award. For every £1 of salary sacrificed a £3 face 
value of share options was received. The shares would 
vest after a three year retention period with no further 
performance conditions. 60 executives decided to participate 
with 11,902,439 share options being granted to the 
applicants at an exercise price of 28.43p. Given the sacrifice 
of base salary necessary to participate in this scheme, 
leavers are able to keep their share option award on leaving, 
with the number of options being pro-rated for the portion of 
the retention period for which they were employed. 
Any options held by the executive directors are shown in 
the section (X) of this report. There are no plans to make 
any more share awards under this scheme. 
Retention and Recruitment Share Plan
This share plan is used mainly to recruit key individuals 
into the Company where they are losing the benefit 
of share options or awards from previous employers. 
In 2012/13 358,809 shares were awarded to one 
participant (2011/12 619,813 shares to four participants).  Dixons Retail plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report (continued)
879,964 shares were released to participants during the 
period. Market purchase shares will be used to satisfy 
outstanding obligations under this share plan. It is the 
current intention not to issue any awards under this plan 
to executive directors.
(iii) All Employee Share Plans
Save As You Earn Scheme (SAYE or Sharesave)
The Company believes in offering its employees a chance 
to build up a shareholding in the Company. It therefore 
operates a Sharesave plan in which executive directors are 
entitled to participate on the same basis as other employees. 
This HMRC approved scheme allows participants to enter 
into a savings contract and in return receive a share option 
granted at up to 20% discount to market price at the time 
of invitation.  Currently the Company only operates a three 
year scheme and the Remuneration Committee reviews the 
monthly contribution cap annually.  
During the year, 2,435 employees applied to join the 
Company’s Sharesave plan (2011/12 2,518) and options 
were granted over 19.6 million shares (2011/12 22.1 million 
shares). It is the current intention to invite UK & Ireland 
employees to participate in a SAYE grant during 2013/14.
Details of the executive directors’ holdings under SAYE are 
shown in the table in section (X) of this report. 
(iv) Outstanding performance criteria review – all schemes
The status of the provisional awards and options under the 
outstanding share plans which are subject to performance 
conditions are reviewed regularly. At the last review in June 
2013, the status of the awards and options as at 30 April 
2013 was as follows:
Period in  
which 
provisional 
award made Scheme Outcome of test Status
Award  
if status maintained
2010/11 PSP TSR below median lapsed
†
No award
2010/11 ESOP EPS below target lapsed
†
No award
2011/12 PSP TSR above median Full vesting
2011/12 PSP EPS below target No award
2012/13 PSP Share price above 
target
Full vesting
2012/13 ESOP EPS below target No award
† Lapsing occurred subsequent to the year end following review by the 
Remuneration Committee.
The full performance criteria are shown above and in the 
narrative in section (II)(b)(ii).
At the end of the performance period for both the PSP and 
the ESOP, the awards will vest subject to the Committee 
determining that the performance conditions have been 
met. There is no re-testing of performance conditions. All 
share options lapse on the earlier of ten years from the 
date of grant or, as with the PSP awards, where either the 
participant leaves the Company or on the date on which the 
Remuneration Committee determines that the performance 
conditions have not been met. 
(c) Dilution
A combination of both newly issued shares and shares 
bought in the market are to be used to satisfy awards under 
the Group’s employee share incentive arrangements. 
The Committee is aware of and supports the ABI guidelines 
regarding dilution and monitors regularly the Company’s 
compliance with these requirements.  In line with these 
guidelines, at the 2008 AGM the Committee included 
provisions in the Scheme rules which limit the number of 
newly issued shares which can be granted to 10% of the 
issued share capital in ten years under all of the Company’s 
share schemes and 5% for the executive directors and 
senior management under discretionary share schemes.
(d) Taxable benefits
Each of the executive directors receives a company car or 
cash payment in lieu and is a member of the non-contributory 
Dixons Retail medical expenses plan which provides benefits 
similar to those applicable in comparable companies. 
Further information on taxable benefits relating to senior 
management is given in note 31 to the Financial Statements.
(e) Pensions and related benefits
All of the current executive directors are members of the 
defined contribution section of the Company’s pension 
scheme (pensionbuilder) which provides for a pension 
at normal retirement age of 65.  Each executive director 
contributes 5% of salary up to the earnings cap via Pay 
Exchange, a salary sacrifice arrangement. In addition, the 
Company’s contribution for each executive director is 20% 
up to the earnings cap (which is currently £141,600).  In 
addition the Company provides each executive director with 
a salary supplement above the earnings cap. Sebastian 
James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe all receive 
a 20% salary supplement for the amount of their salary 
above the earnings cap.
(f) Service agreements
Each of the executive directors’ service contracts provides for:
•	 the payment of base salary;
•	 a company car or cash allowance in lieu;
•	 private medical insurance; 
•	 employer’s contribution to the Company’s defined 
contribution pension scheme and a non-pensionable 
salary supplement above the scheme’s earnings cap; and
•	 life assurance (linked to Company’s pension scheme) of 
four times basic salary.
Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe 
have service agreements with Dixons Retail plc which 
may be terminated at any time by 12 months’ notice by the 
Company and six months’ notice by the director. Service 
agreements contain neither a liquidated damages nor a 
change of control clause. It is the Company’s policy to 
ensure that any payments made to a director in the event 
of the early termination of a service agreement reflect 
the circumstances giving rise to termination and, where 
considered appropriate, the obligation of the outgoing 
director to mitigate his loss. Accordingly, consideration is 
given to making compensation payments in instalments 
and payments being conditional on the leaver’s 
employment and earnings status. 
The date at which the executive directors entered into their 
service agreements are shown below: 
Date of service agreement
Sebastian James 29 Mar 2012
Humphrey Singer 2 Sep 2011
Katie Bickerstaffe 29 Mar 2012 Dixons Retail plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report (continued)
(g) External directorships
Executive directors are permitted to accept non-executive 
directorships in external companies and to retain the 
fees which they receive in such roles. The Company 
recognises that such roles can broaden the executive’s 
experience and knowledge which is of benefit to their role 
with the Company. Under the policy approved by the Board 
such additional roles are restricted to one non-executive 
directorship in a FTSE 350 company.
Katie Bickerstaffe is a non-executive director of Scottish 
and Southern Energy plc and is paid a fee of £57,300 per 
annum. Sebastian James is chairman of INK Publishing 
(Holdings) Limited and is paid a fee of £12,000 per annum. 
(III) Non-executive directors
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for three 
year terms, although appointments vary depending on 
length of service and succession planning considerations. 
Appointments are reviewed annually by the Nominations 
Committee based on effectiveness reviews and 
recommendations made to the Board accordingly.
Letters of appointment for the non-executive directors 
are available on application to the Company Secretary 
and will also be available at the Company’s AGM. The 
remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by 
the Board upon the recommendation of the Group Chief 
Executive and the Group Finance Director. The Chairman 
is not involved in the setting of his own salary which is dealt 
with by the Remuneration Committee annually without 
his participation.
The Chairman’s fee is £264,282 per annum and the other 
non-executive directors receive a fee of £51,500 per annum 
or euro equivalent.  These fees are reviewed annually with 
amendments being effective in August of each year.  
The chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 
receive an additional fee of £10,000 and £12,500 per 
annum, respectively.  The Senior Independent Director 
receives a further fee of £5,000 per annum. 
The terms of engagement of the Chairman and the non-
executive directors are regulated by letters of appointment, 
the key terms of which are as follows:
Date of 
Appointment
Expiry of Current 
Term
†
Length of
Service
John Allan 23 Jun 2009 2 Sep 2015 3yr 11m
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 1 Feb 2010 1 Feb 2016 3yr 4m
Tim How 8 Sep 2009 7 Sep 2015 3yr 9m
Andrea Gisle Joosen 1 Mar 2013 28 Feb 2016 0yr 3m
Jock Lennox 10 Jan 2012 9 Jan 2015 1yr 5m
Dharmash Mistry 27 Sep 2010 26 Sep 2016 2yr 8m
† Each of the non-executive directors’ notice periods comprises one month 
by either the Company or the individual with the exception of the Chairman 
whose notice period is six months given by the Company or the individual.
Non-executive directors derive no other benefits from their 
office and are not eligible to participate in the Company’s 
pension scheme. It is company policy not to grant share 
options or share awards to non-executive directors or to 
require part of their fees to be paid in the form of shares.
(IV) Directors’ share interests 
The Company has a policy of encouraging directors to 
build shareholdings in the Company. Executive directors 
are required to retain 50% of the net of tax outturn from the 
vesting of future awards under the Company’s share plans 
until a shareholding with a minimum value equivalent to 
their base salary is achieved.
Unrestricted beneficial and family interests 30 April 2013
(1)
28 April 2012
Executive directors
Sebastian James 109,072 109,072
Humphrey Singer 80,395 55,627
Katie Bickerstaffe 196,557 171,789
Non-executive directors
John Allan 1,180,818 921,428
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 97,071 97,071
Tim How 80,000 80,000
Andrea Gisle Joosen
(2)
– –
Jock Lennox 75,000 75,000
Dharmash Mistry 267,382 173,626
(1) Or date of appointment.
(2) Appointed 1 March 2013.
There were no changes in the directors’ restricted or 
unrestricted share interests between 30 April 2013 and the 
date of this report. 
In addition to the share interests disclosed above, John 
Allan holds £556,000 8.75% 2015 Guaranteed Notes (the 
2015 Notes) and £250,000 8.75% 2017 Guaranteed Notes 
(the 2017 Notes) issued by the Company. Also, in addition 
to the share interests shown above, Tim How and his 
connected interests also own £100,000 2017 Notes.
Full details of the 2015 Notes and the 2017 Notes are 
shown in note 17 to the Financial Statements.
(V) Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
The graph below shows the Company’s performance 
measured by TSR on a holding of £100 in the Company’s 
shares over the five years since 3 May 2008 compared 
to the same amount invested in the FTSE 250 Index 
(excluding investment trusts). 
The other points plotted are values at intervening financial 
year ends. This index has been selected as the Company 
is a constituent of this index and, with the exception of the 
PSP awards in 2012/13, the vesting of PSP awards is partly 
dependent on the Company’s TSR Performance compared 
to the constituents of this index.
 
0
20
40
60
80
100 
120 
140 
160 
180 
Val ue (£)
Source: Thomson Reuters
Total shareholder return
Dixons Retail plc FTSE 250 Index (excl. Investment Trusts)
28 Apr 2012 3 May 2008 2 May 2009 1 May 2010 30 Apr 2011 30 Apr 2013  Dixons Retail plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report (continued)
Remuneration review (audited) 
(VI) Directors’ remuneration
The following table shows an analysis of the emoluments of individual directors:
2012/13 2011/12
Basic salary 
and fees  
£’000
Pension 
contributions 
£’000
Cash  
bonus  
£’000
Taxable 
benefits 
 £’000
Total  
£’000
Basic salary 
and fees  
£’000
Pension  
contributions  
£’000
Cash 
bonus
 £’000
Taxable 
benefits 
 £’000
Total  
£’000
Executive
Current directors
Sebastian James
(1)
600 120 572 28 1,320 114 23
(2)
79 2 218
Humphrey Singer
(1)
360 72 292 13 737 264 52
(2)
146 11 473
Katie Bickerstaffe
(1)
400 84 324 11 819 76 30
(2),(3)
43 2 151
Former directors
John Browett
(1)
– – – – – 561 180
(4)
– 12 753
Nicholas Cadbury
(1)
– – – – – 137 38
(2)
– 4 179
1,360 276 1,188 52 2,876 1,152 323 268 31 1,774
Non-executive
Current directors
John Allan 263 – – – 263 258 – – – 258
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 51 – – – 51 50 – – – 50
Tim How 68 – – – 68 60 – – – 60
Andrea Gisle Joosen
(1)
8 – – – 8 – – – – –
Jock Lennox
(1)
61 – – – 61 15 – – – 15
Dharmash Mistry 51 – – – 51 50 – – – 50
Former directors
Rita Clifton
(5)
18 – – – 18 50 – – – 50
Andrew Lynch
(5)
2 – – – 2 65 – – – 65
522 – – – 522 548 – – – 548
1,882 276 1,188 52 3,398 1,700 323 268 31 2,322
(1) Basic salary and fees relate to periods in office as directors.  2012/13  Andea Gisle Joosen:  1 March 2013 to 30 April 2013.  2011/12 Sebastian James: 
20 February 2012 to 28 April 2012, Humphrey Singer: 1 July 2011 to 28 April 2012, Katie Bickerstaffe: 20 February 2012 to 28 April 2012, Jock Lennox: 
10 January 2012 to 28 April 2012, John Browett: 1 May 2011 to 20 February 2012, Nicholas Cadbury: 1 May 2011 to 1 September 2011.
(2) Pension contributions comprise the Company’s contribution together with the salary supplement which is based on the difference between basic salary and 
the scheme earnings cap set by the Company. This additional amount was 20% for Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe and 30% for 
Nicholas Cadbury.
(3) A transitional arrangement from Katie Bickerstaffe’s previous pension arrangements of 30% above the scheme earnings cap to her new package as an executive 
director of 20% above the scheme earnings cap operated during 2011/12. This arrangement resulted in compensating payments of £19,000 and no corresponding 
payments were paid in 2012/13.
(4) John Browett’s pension contribution payable to him represented an amount calculated as a percentage (32.1%) of basic salary to fund his own retirement 
arrangements.
(5) Rita Clifton and Andrew Lynch resigned with effect from 6 September 2012 and 9 May 2012, respectively.
(VII) Directors’ pensions
No directors accrued benefits under a defined benefit pension scheme. 
Further details of the directors’ pension arrangement are shown in section (II)(e). 
(VIII) Former executive director
Pursuant to an agreement dated 1 October 2002, Lord Kalms, the former Chairman, was appointed President of the Company 
for an initial period ending on 16 September 2012 which has subsequently been automatically renewed.  He received £33,533 
(2011/12  £32,895) for his services as President during the year. His remuneration is subject to annual review in line with RPI. 
He was provided with benefits amounting to £43,215 (2011/12 £35,647) comprising membership of the non-contributory Dixons 
Retail medical expenses plan and a car in addition to office facilities. He is not eligible to participate in discretionary share 
schemes or in any bonus arrangements. Dixons Retail plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report (continued)
(IX) Directors’ PSP awards 
The directors’ restricted beneficial interests shown in the table below represent the maximum number of shares which may vest 
under the PSP. Further details of the PSP are described in section (II)(b)(ii), above.
Reference  
market
price
(1)
At  
29 April
2012
Awarded  
in the  
period
Vested  
in the  
period
Lapsed  
in the  
period
At  
30 April 
2013
End of 
performance 
period 
Vesting  
date
Market  
price on  
grant date
Current directors
Sebastian James
2009/10
(2), (3)
25.22p 237,906 – – (237,906) – Apr 2012 Jul 2012 24.75p
2010/11
(2), (4)
27.59p 500,000 – – – 500,000 Apr 2013 Aug 2013 27.56p
2011/12
(2), (6)
15.99p 1,555,191 – – – 1,555,191 N/A Aug 2014 13.44p
2012/13
(8)
17.50p – 6,857,142 – – 6,857,142 Apr 2015 Jun 2015
(7)
18.32p
2,293,097 6,857,142 – (237,906) 8,912,333
Humphrey Singer
2011/12
(5)
15.99p 1,876,173 – – – 1,876,173 May 2014 Aug 2014 13.44p
2012/13
(8)
17.50p – 4,114,285 – – 4,114,285 Apr 2015 Jun 2015
(7)
18.32p
1,876,173 4,114,285 – – 5,990,458
Katie Bickerstaffe 
2009/10
(2), (3)
25.22p 249,802 – – (249,802) – Apr 2012 Jul 2012 24.75p
2010/11
(2), (4)
27.59p 405,406 – – – 405,406 Apr 2013 Aug 2013 27.56p
2011/12
(2), (6)
15.99p 1,260,967 – – – 1,260,967 N/A Aug 2014 13.44p
2012/13
(8)
17.50p – 4,571,428 – – 4,571,428 Apr 2015 Jun 2015
(7)
18.32p
1,916,175 4,571,428 – (249,802) 6,237,801
(1)  The number of LTIP and PSP shares granted was usually calculated by reference to the share price averaged over a specified period prior to the date of the award.
(2) Award made prior to joining the Board.
(3) The 2009/10 PSP award which was dependent on the Company’s TSR performance, failed to meet its performance condition and has therefore lapsed. 
(4) PSP awards made in 2010/11 were subject to TSR performance relative to the FTSE 250 Index (comprising FTSE 101-350 companies), excluding investment trusts, 
at the start of the performance period. Full vesting would occur for upper quartile performance with 25% vesting for median performance with straight line vesting 
between the two. No award vests for below median performance. Since 30 April 2013, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed this performance condition and has 
determined that it has not been met. Accordingly, these awards have now lapsed
(5) PSP awards made in 2011/12 to Humphrey Singer are subject to both TSR performance as described in note (4) above, as well as EPS performance whereby 25% of 
the award vests for an EPS of 2p and full vesting occurs at an EPS of 4p with straight line vesting between the two results. 
(6) Awards made prior to joining the Board with no performance condition other than continued service during the three year vesting period. 
(7) If more than 75% of the award vests then there will be a partial vesting of 75% in June 2015, anything over 75% will vest in June 2016, subject to continued 
employment.
(8) PSP awards made in 2012/13 are subject to a performance condition whereby 25% vests for a share price of 25p, 100% vests for a share price of 35p with straight 
line vesting between the two results.  Dixons Retail plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report (continued)
(X) Directors’ share options 
Date of  
grant
Exercise  
price
At 
29 April 
2012 
Awarded 
in the 
period
Lapsed or 
forfeited in 
the period
Exercised in 
Period
At
 30 April 
2013
Date from 
which first 
exercisable
Expiry of  
the exercise
 period
Current directors
Sebastian James
Discretionary
(1)
23 Jul 2009
(2)
23.95p 1,189,532 – (1,189,532) – – 23 Jul 2012 22 Jul 2019
3 Aug 2010
(4)
27.59p 3,000,000 – – – 3,000,000 3 Aug 2013 2 Aug 2020
29 Jun 2012 17.51p – 2,571,428
(5)
– – 2,571,428 29 Jun 2017 28 Jun 2022
4,189,532 2,571,428 (1,189,532) – 5,571,428
Humphrey Singer
Discretionary
(1)
11 Jul 2008 27.63p 386,415 – – – 386,415 11 Jul 2011 10 Jul 2018
23 Jul 2009
(2)
23.95p 300,000 – (300,000) – – 23 Jul 2012 22 Jul 2019
3 Aug 2010
(4)
27.59p 300,000 – – – 300,000 3 Aug 2013 2 Aug 2020
29 Jun 2012 17.51p – 1,542,857
(5)
– – 1,542,857 29 Jun 2017 28 Jun 2022
Reward Sacrifice 28 Sep 2009 28.43p 101,110 – – – 101,110 28 Sep 2012 27 Sep 2019
Sharesave
(1), (3)
24 Jul 2009 18.32p 24,768 – – (24,768)
(6)
– 1 Oct 2012 31 Mar 2013
3 Aug 2010 20.23p 12,100 – – – 12,100 1 Oct 2013 31 Mar 2014
22 Jul 2011 13.01p 9,711 – – – 9,711 1 Oct 2014 31 Mar 2015
24 Jul 2012 14.18p – 8,885 – – 8,885 1 Oct 2015 31 Mar 2016
1,134,104 1,551,742 (300,000) (24,768) 2,361,078
Katie Bickerstaffe
Discretionary
(1)
23 Jul 2009
(2)
23.95p 1,249,009 – (1,249,009) – – 23 Jul 2012 22 Jul 2019
3 Aug 2010
(4)
27.59p 2,432,434 – – – 2,432,434 3 Aug 2013 2 Aug 2020
29 Jun 2012 17.51p – 1,714,285
(5)
– – 1,714,285 29 Jun 2017 28 Jun 2022
Reward Sacrifice 28 Sep 2009 28.43p 299,762 – – – 299,762 28 Sep 2012 27 Sep 2019
Sharesave
(1), (3)
24 Jul 2009 18.32p 24,768 – – (24,768)
(6)
– 1 Oct 2012 31 Mar 2013
3 Aug 2010 20.23p 12,100 – – – 12,100 1 Oct 2013 31 Mar 2014
 22 Jul 2011 13.01p 9,711 – – – 9,711 1 Oct 2014 31 Mar 2015
24 Jul 2012 14.18p – 8,885 – – 8,885 1 Oct 2015 31 Mar 2016
4,027,784 1,723,170 (1,249,009) (24,768) 4,477,177
(1) Discretionary and Sharesave options are granted for nil consideration. 
(2) Options granted on 23 July 2009 which had EPS performance conditions failed to meet the performance condition and have therefore lapsed. 
(3) Awards granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in the six month period following the date of maturity of the savings contracts which have terms of 
three years.
(4) Options granted on 3 August 2010 are subject to an EPS performance condition whereby 25% of the options vest for EPS in 2012/13 of 4p. 100% of the options 
vest for EPS in 2012/13 of 6p, options will vest on a straight line basis between 25% and 100% of the award. Since 30 April 2013, the Remuneration Committee has 
reviewed this performance condition and has determined that it has not been met. Accordingly, these awards have now lapsed.
(5) Options granted on 29 June 2012 are subject to an EPS performance condition whereby 25% of the options vest for EPS in 2014/15 of 2.5p. 100% of the options vest 
for EPS in 2014/15 of 3.5p, options will vest on a straight line basis between 25% and 100% of the award.
(6) The sharesave awards exercised by Katie Bickerstaffe and Humphrey Singer had a market price of 24.60p and 27.60p, respectively on the date of exercise. 
The share price on 30 April 2013 was 35.10p and closing prices ranged between 37.50p and 12.67p during the year.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Tim How
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
20 June 2013 Directors’ Report
Corporate Governance
Directors’ Responsibilities
Dixons Retail plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and Accounts in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations. English company law requires the directors to 
prepare financial statements for each financial year and 
under that law, the directors have prepared the Group 
and the Company financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for the 
period. In preparing the financial statements, the directors 
are also required to:
•	 Properly select and apply accounting policies;
•	 Present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; and
•	 Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the financial position and 
financial performance.
In preparing both the Group and the Company financial 
statements, suitable accounting policies have been used 
and applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent 
judgements and estimates have been made. Applicable 
accounting standards have been followed. The financial 
statements have been prepared on the going concern basis 
as disclosed in the Statutory Information section of the 
Directors’ Report and Business Review.
The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate 
accounting records and sufficient internal controls 
to safeguard the assets of the Company and to take 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
or any other irregularities and for the preparation of a 
directors’ report and directors’ remuneration report which 
comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation. The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial 
information included on the Company’s website. Legislation 
in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other 
jurisdictions. 
Each of the directors confirm that to the best of their 
knowledge:
•	 The Group and Company financial statements give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit / (loss) of the Group and Company, respectively; and
•	 The business and financial review contained in this 
Annual Report and Accounts includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Group and Company together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties they 
face.
By Order of the Board 
Sebastian James Humphrey Singer
Group Chief Executive 
20 June 2013
Group Finance Director 
20 June 2013 Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Dixons Retail plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
We have audited the financial statements of Dixons Retail 
plc for the year ended 30 April 2013 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income and expense, the consolidated 
and company balance sheets, the consolidated and 
company cash flow statements, the consolidated and 
company statement of changes in equity and the related 
notes 1 to 32 and C1 to C17. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and 
as regards the Company financial statements as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, 
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and 
the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
mis-statements or inconsistencies, we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinions
Financial statements 
In our opinion the financial statements:
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and 
of the Company’s affairs as at 30 April 2013 and of the 
Group’s loss for the year then ended;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements 
of the Companies Act 2006 and as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
IFRSs issued by the IASB
As explained in notes 1.1 and C1 to the Group and 
Company financial statements, respectively, the Group and 
Company in addition to complying with its legal obligation to 
apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also 
applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB). In our opinion the financial 
statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the 
financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
•	 the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
•	 the Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•	 the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ 
Report and Business Review in relation to going concern;
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; 
and
•	 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on directors’ remuneration.
Nicola Mitchell FCA  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor  
London, United Kingdom 
20 June 2013 Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement 
Dixons Retail plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
 
Year ended 30 April 2013
 
52 weeks ended 28 April 2012
Re-presented
 †
Non-underlying * Non-underlying *
Note
Underlying 
£million
* 
Businesses 
exited / to 
be exited
£million
** Other 
 £million
Total  
£million
Underlying 
£million
* 
Businesses 
exited / to be 
exited
£million
** Other 
£million
Total  
£million
Revenue 2,3 8,213.9 225.4 – 8,439.3 7,910.2 283.0 – 8,193.2
Profit / (loss) from operations before 
associates 136.0 (8.0) (178.9) (50.9) 120.7 (9.0) (181.2) (69.5)
Share of post-tax results of associates 12 – – – – 0.6 – – 0.6
Operating profit / (loss) 2,3 136.0 (8.0) (178.9) (50.9) 121.3 (9.0) (181.2) (68.9)
Loss on sale of business – – (9.6) (9.6) – – – –
Finance income 7.2 0.3 46.5 54.0 11.8 0.6 51.1 63.5
Finance costs (48.7) – (60.1) (108.8) (51.0) (0.1) (62.3) (113.4)
Net finance costs 5 (41.5) 0.3 (13.6) (54.8) (39.2) 0.5 (11.2) (49.9)
Profit / (loss) before tax 94.5 (7.7) (202.1) (115.3) 82.1 (8.5) (192.4) (118.8)
Income tax expense 7 (49.2) (0.5) (3.1) (52.8) (37.3) (0.5) (6.3) (44.1)
Profit / (loss) after tax for the period 45.3 (8.2) (205.2) (168.1) 44.8 (9.0) (198.7) (162.9)
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent  
company 54.2 (7.4) (205.0) (158.2) 50.6 (7.9) (197.0) (154.3)
Non-controlling interests (8.9) (0.8) (0.2) (9.9) (5.8) (1.1) (1.7) (8.6)
45.3 (8.2) (205.2) (168.1) 44.8 (9.0) (198.7) (162.9)
Total loss per share (pence) 8
Basic (4.4)p (4.3)p
Diluted (4.4)p (4.3)p
Underlying earnings per share (pence) 1,8
Basic 1.5p 1.4p
Diluted 1.5p 1.4p
* Underlying figures exclude the trading results of businesses exited / to be exited, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment 
charges and other one off, non-recurring items, profits / losses on sale of investments or businesses, expected return and interest on defined benefit pension 
schemes, net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations. Such excluded items are described as ‘Non-
underlying’. Further information on these items is shown in notes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 27.
†
 Underlying figures for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012 have been re-presented to exclude the trading results of businesses exited / to be exited for which the 
decisions were made or executed in 2012/13 and in respect of finance income and costs, to exclude the expected return and interest in respect of defined benefit 
pension schemes.
**  Businesses exited / to be exited comprise businesses which have either been sold, were sold post 30 April 2013, or have been closed or the decision to close 
the businesses was taken during the period. Such businesses do not meet the definition of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5 and accordingly the 
disclosures within non-underlying items differ from those for applicable discontinued operations.  Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expense
Dixons Retail plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Note
Year  
ended  
30 April 2013 
 £million
52 weeks  
ended  
28 April 2012 
 £million
Loss for the period (168.1) (162.9)
Actuarial (losses) / gains on defined benefit pension schemes – UK 21 (157.2) (28.2)
– Overseas 1.6 (1.9)
Cash flow hedges 22
Fair value remeasurement (losses) / gains (12.7) 3.3
Losses transferred to carrying amount of inventories 5.4 4.7
Losses / (gains) transferred to income statement (within cost of sales) 3.4 (5.3)
Net investment hedges 22
Fair value remeasurement gains 0.9 15.6
Investments 
Fair value remeasurement gains / (losses) 0.4 (0.1)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 33.8 1.0
Currency translation movements 31.9 (93.8)
Net expense recognised directly in equity (92.5) (104.7)
Total comprehensive expense for the period (260.6) (267.6)
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the parent company (250.4) (257.2)
Non-controlling interests (10.2) (10.4)
(260.6) (267.6) Financial Statements
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Dixons Retail plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Note
30 April 2013 
£million
28 April 2012 
£million
Non-current assets
Goodwill 9 704.2 740.7
Intangible assets 10 66.4 98.1
Property, plant & equipment 11 434.0 480.4
Investments in associates 12 0.5 3.5
Trade and other receivables 14 20.6 23.6
Deferred tax assets 7 150.9 155.2
1,376.6 1,501.5
Current assets
Inventories 13 895.4 874.2
Trade and other receivables 14 304.5 343.9
Income tax receivable 5.4 2.7
Short term investments 15 2.4 7.3
Cash and cash equivalents 16 405.3 316.8
1,613.0 1,544.9
Assets held for sale 27 15.1 –
Total assets 3,004.7 3,046.4
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 17 (17.7) (15.8)
Borrowings 17 (4.5) (162.5)
Obligations under finance leases 18 (2.0) (3.1)
Trade and other payables 19 (1,667.7) (1,579.0)
Income tax payable (70.4) (55.7)
Provisions 20 (36.8) (18.6)
(1,799.1) (1,834.7)
Net current liabilities (186.1) (289.8)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 17 (245.4) (147.8)
Obligations under finance leases 18 (96.0) (98.9)
Retirement benefit obligations 21 (409.1) (266.0)
Other payables 19 (262.5) (255.2)
Deferred tax liabilities 7 (11.3) (20.2)
Provisions 20 (26.1) (19.6)
(1,050.4) (807.7)
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 27 (7.9) –
Total liabilities (2,857.4) (2,642.4)
Net assets 147.3 404.0
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 90.7 90.3
Share premium account 172.7 169.5
Other reserves 23 (520.9) (521.0)
Retained earnings 405.6 652.6
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 148.1 391.4
Equity non-controlling interests (0.8) 12.6
Total equity 147.3 404.0
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 20 June 2013 and signed on their behalf by: 
Sebastian James  
Group Chief Executive
Humphrey Singer 
Group Finance Director Financial Statements
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Dixons Retail plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Note
Year  
ended 
30 April 2013 
£million
52 weeks  
ended 
28 April 2012 
£million
Operating activities – continuing operations
Cash generated from operations
* 26
365.2 231.3
Special contributions to defined benefit pension scheme 
21
(20.0) (16.0)
Income tax paid
*
(11.8) (26.8)
Net cash flows from operating activities 333.4 188.5
Investing activities – continuing operations
Purchase of property, plant & equipment and other intangibles
*
(92.4) (101.5)
Purchase of subsidiaries (8.3) (1.2)
Sale of business 3.4 –
Interest received
*
16.8 12.6
Decrease in short term investments 5.3 3.1
Disposals of property, plant & equipment and other intangibles
*
– 70.2
Dividend received from associate 0.4 –
Net cash flows from investing activities (74.8) (16.8)
Financing activities – continuing operations
Issue of ordinary share capital 3.6 –
Purchase of own shares (0.3) –
Additions to finance leases 
  
0.9 2.8
Capital element of finance lease payments (4.7) (4.4)
Interest element of finance lease payments 
*
(6.3) (6.4)
Decrease in borrowings due within one year (155.5) (130.0)
Increase in borrowings due after more than one year 97.1 –
Interest paid
*
(118.1) (49.1)
Investment from minority shareholder 2.9 –
Net cash flows from financing activities (180.4) (187.1)
Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
(i)
Continuing operations 78.2 (15.4)
Discontinued operations 27 (0.9) (1.5)
77.3 (16.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
(i) 26
301.0 329.1
Currency translation differences 9.3 (11.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (i) 26 387.6 301.0
Free Cash Flow (ii) 153.4 130.3
(i) For the purposes of this cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise those items disclosed as ‘cash and cash equivalents’ on the face of the balance 
sheet, less overdrafts, which are classified within current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet. A reconciliation to the balance sheet amounts is shown in note 26.
(ii) Free Cash Flow comprises those items marked * and comprises cash generated from / (utilised by) continuing operations before special pension contributions, 
less net finance expense, less income tax paid and net capital expenditure. The directors consider that ‘Free Cash Flow’ provides additional useful information to 
shareholders in respect of cash generation and is consistent with how business performance is measured internally. Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Dixons Retail plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Share  
capital 
 £million
Share  
premium  
£million
Other 
 reserves 
 £million
Retained  
earnings  
£million
Sub-total  
£million
Non-controlling 
interests  
£million
Total equity 
£million
At 1 May 2011 90.3 169.5 (537.7) 931.4 653.5 23.0 676.5
Loss for the period – – – (162.9) (162.9) – (162.9)
Other comprehensive income and expense  
recognised directly in equity – – 16.7 (111.0) (94.3) (10.4) (104.7)
Total comprehensive income and expense  
for the period – – 16.7 (273.9) (257.2) (10.4) (267.6)
Share-based payments – – – (4.9) (4.9) – (4.9)
At 28 April 2012 90.3 169.5 (521.0) 652.6 391.4 12.6 404.0
Loss for the period – – – (168.1) (168.1) – (168.1)
Other comprehensive income and expense  
recognised directly in equity – – (1.9) (80.4) (82.3) (10.2) (92.5)
Total comprehensive income and expense  
for the period – – (1.9) (248.5) (250.4) (10.2) (260.6)
Reduction in non-controlling interests – – – (2.0) (2.0) (6.1) (8.1)
Non-controlling interests – increase in capital – – – – – 2.9 2.9
Ordinary shares issued 0.4 3.2 – – 3.6 – 3.6
Investment in own shares – – (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.3)
Transfer – – 2.3 (2.3) – – –
Share-based payments – – – 4.0 4.0 – 4.0
Tax on share-based payments – – – 1.8 1.8 – 1.8
At 30 April 2013 90.7 172.7 (520.9) 405.6 148.1 (0.8) 147.3
Non-controlling interests (minority interests) comprise shareholdings in Pixmania S.A.S. (PIXmania), Electroworld Iç ve Dis 
Ticaret AS (ElectroWorld Turkey) and Dixons South-East Europe A.E.V.E. (Kotsovolos).
On 10 August 2012 the Group announced that it had acquired a further 22% of PIXmania indirectly held by the founders of the 
business, Steve and Jean-Emile Rosenblum, for €10.4 million (£8.1 million) in cash, bringing its stake in PIXmania to 99.2%. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Dixons Retail plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
1 Accounting policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, IFRS issued by 
the International Accounting Standards Board and those 
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to those 
companies reporting under IFRS, and have been prepared 
on a going concern basis as disclosed in the going concern 
statement in the Statutory Information section of the 
Directors’ Report on page 31.
Historically, the Group has prepared its financial statements 
to the Saturday closest to its accounting reference date 
of 30 April, meaning that financial periods have been 
for 52 week periods and occasionally 53 week periods. 
For 2012/13, the Group has drawn up its accounts to 
30 April 2013 and future accounting periods will also end on 
30 April.
The Group’s income statement and segmental analysis 
identify separately underlying performance measures and 
non-underlying items. Underlying performance measures 
reflect an adjustment to total performance measures to 
exclude the impact of businesses exited / to be exited 
and other non-underlying items. Underlying performance 
measures comprise profits and losses incurred as part of 
the day-to-day ongoing retail activities of the Company 
and include profits and losses incurred on the disposal 
and closure of owned or leased properties that occur 
as part of the Group’s annual retail churn. The profits or 
losses incurred on disposal or closure of owned or leased 
properties as part of a one off restructuring programme 
are excluded from underlying performance measures 
and are therefore included, among other items, within 
non-underlying items as described below. The directors 
consider ‘underlying’ performance measures to be a more 
accurate reflection of the ongoing trading performance 
of the Group and believe that these measures provide 
additional useful information for shareholders on the 
Group’s performance and are consistent with how business 
performance is measured internally.
Non-underlying items comprise trading results of 
businesses exited / to be exited, amortisation of acquired 
intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment 
charges and other one off, non-recurring items, 
profits / losses on sale of investments or businesses, net 
interest on defined benefit pension schemes, fair value 
remeasurements of financial instruments and, where 
applicable, discontinued operations. Businesses exited / 
to be exited are those which do not meet the definition of 
discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5. Items 
excluded from underlying results can evolve from one 
financial year to the next depending on the nature of 
reorganisation or one off type activities described above.
Underlying performance measures may not be directly 
comparable with other similarly titled measures or ‘adjusted’ 
revenue or profit measures used by other companies.
There are no new accounting standards, amendments 
to standards or IFRIC interpretations which are effective 
for the Group for the first time during the current financial 
period which have had an impact on the Group’s results or 
net assets.
The principal accounting policies are set out below:
1.2 Accounting convention and basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the 
financial statements of the Company and entities controlled 
by the Company. Control is achieved where the Company 
has the power to control the financial and operating policies 
of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired are included from the 
date on which power to control passes. The net assets of 
subsidiaries acquired are recorded at their fair values. The 
results of subsidiaries disposed of are included up to the 
effective date of disposal.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of 
accounting from the date on which the power to exercise 
significant influence passes.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and 
expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
1.3 Revenue
Revenue comprises sales of goods and services excluding 
sales taxes. Revenue from sales of goods is recognised 
at the point of sale or, where later, upon delivery to the 
customer and is stated net of returns. Revenue earned 
from customer support agreements is recognised as such 
over the life of the agreement by reference to the stage of 
completion of the transaction at the balance sheet date.
1.4 Other income, including non-operating income
Other income, which is incidental to the Group’s principal 
activities of selling goods and services and accordingly is 
not recorded as part of revenue, is recognised when the 
Group obtains the right to consideration by performance of 
its contractual obligations. Interest income is accrued on 
a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and 
at the effective interest rate applicable. Dividend income 
from investments is recognised when the right to receive 
payment has been established.
1.5 Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group 
which represents a significant separate line of business 
which has been sold. Classification as a discontinued 
operation occurs upon disposal or earlier if beneficial title 
and risk has transferred to the purchaser and in the case of 
a business acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent 
disposal, on the date of acquisition.
Where the sale of a component of the Group is considered 
highly probable and the business is available for immediate 
sale in its present condition, it is classified as held for sale. 
Assets and liabilities held for sale are measured at the 
lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
1.6 Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the 
terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership to the lessee. The determination of 
the classification of property leases is made by reference to 
the land and buildings elements separately. All leases not 
classified as finance leases are operating leases. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Finance leases
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at their fair 
value on acquisition or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception 
of the lease and depreciated over their estimated useful lives 
or the lease term if shorter. The corresponding obligation 
to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a liability. 
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges 
and reduction of the lease obligation. Finance charges are 
charged to the income statement over the period of the lease 
in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating property leases are 
charged to the income statement on a straight line basis 
over the fixed term of the lease. At the end of the fixed 
term of leases, rental payments are reset to market rates, 
typically on an upwards only basis.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter 
into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line 
basis over the lease term.
Where a lease forms part of a separate cash generating 
unit (CGU), such as a store or group of stores, and 
business indicators exist which could lead to the conclusion 
that the carrying value of the CGU is not supportable, 
the recoverable amount of the CGU is determined 
by calculating its value in use. The value in use is 
calculated by applying discounted cash flow modelling 
to management’s projection of future profitability. If an 
impairment of a CGU has been identified such that the 
value in use is negative and a lease exists in that CGU, a 
provision for the onerous portion of the lease is made equal 
to the lower of the outstanding lease commitment and the 
negative present value of the CGU.
1.7 Translation of foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded 
at the rate of exchange prevailing at the transaction date. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are retranslated at the rates of exchange ruling 
at the balance sheet date. Exchange gains and losses 
arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary assets 
and liabilities are included in the income statement.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated 
at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. 
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are 
translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange 
during the period. Exchange differences resulting from the 
translation of the results and balance sheets of overseas 
subsidiary undertakings are charged or credited directly 
to retained earnings. Such translation differences become 
recognised in the income statement in the period in which 
the subsidiary undertaking is disposed.
As the cumulative translation differences for all foreign 
subsidiaries were deemed to be zero at the transition 
date to IFRS on 2 May 2004, upon disposal of a foreign 
subsidiary, any gain or loss arising will include only those 
foreign exchange gains or losses attributable  
to periods after that date.
1.8 Goodwill
On acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, the fair value 
of the consideration is allocated between the identifiable 
net tangible and intangible assets / liabilities on a fair value 
basis, with any excess consideration representing goodwill. 
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is capitalised as goodwill 
on the balance sheet; goodwill relating to associates is 
capitalised in investments in associates as part of the 
carrying value of the associate.
Goodwill is not amortised, but instead is reviewed annually 
for impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately 
in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate the attributable 
amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the 
gain or loss on disposal.
1.9 Intangible assets
Acquired intangibles
Acquired intangibles comprise brands and customer lists 
purchased as part of acquisitions of businesses and are 
capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives 
on a straight line basis. Acquired intangibles are stated at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and, where appropriate, 
provision for impairment in value or estimated loss on 
disposal. Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of 
assets on a straight line basis between three and 30 years.
Other intangible assets: computer software
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs 
incurred both to acquire and bring into use the specific 
software. Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of 
assets on a straight line basis over their estimated useful 
lives of between three and seven years. Costs associated 
with developing or maintaining computer software are 
recognised as an expense as incurred unless they increase 
the future economic benefits of the asset, in which case they 
are capitalised. Computer software is stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and, where appropriate, provision 
for impairment in value or estimated loss on disposal.
Internally generated computer software is capitalised at cost 
if the project is technically and commercially feasible and 
the economic benefits which are expected to be generated 
exceed one year. The expenditure capitalised includes the 
cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion 
of overheads. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only 
when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in 
the specific asset to which it relates. Amortisation is provided 
to write off the cost of assets on a straight line basis between 
three and seven years.
1.10 Property, plant & equipment
Property, plant & equipment are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and, where appropriate, 
provision for impairment in value or estimated loss on 
disposal. Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of 
the assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful 
lives. The rates used are:
Short leasehold 
property – over the term of the lease
Freehold and long 
leasehold buildings – between 1⅔% and 2½% per annum
Fixtures, fittings 
and equipment – between 10% and 33⅓% per annum Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
No depreciation is provided on freehold and long leasehold 
land or on assets in the course of construction.
Property, plant & equipment are assessed on an ongoing 
basis to determine whether circumstances exist that 
could lead to the conclusion that the net book value is not 
supportable. Where assets are to be taken out of use, 
an impairment charge is levied. Where useful lives of 
assets are shortened, an estimate is made of their new 
lives and an accelerated depreciation charge is levied. 
Where the property, plant & equipment form part of a 
separate cash generating unit (CGU), such as a store 
or group of stores, and business indicators exist which 
could lead to the conclusions that the net book value is 
not supportable, the recoverable amount of the CGU is 
determined by calculating its value in use. The value in use 
is calculated by applying discounted cash flow modelling 
to management’s projection of future profitability and any 
impairment is determined by comparing the net book value 
with the value in use.
1.11 Investments and other financial assets
The Group’s financial assets comprise cash and cash 
equivalents, short term investments and those receivables 
which involve a contractual right to receive cash from 
external parties. Financial assets comprise all items shown 
in notes 14, 15 and 16 with the exception of prepayments. 
Under the classifications stipulated by IAS 39, short term 
investments and trade and other receivables (excluding 
derivative financial assets) are classified as ‘available for 
sale’ and ‘loans and receivables’, respectively. Cash and 
cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments, 
which are further described in notes 1.14 and 1.16, are 
classified as ‘loans and receivables’ and ‘held for trading 
unless designated in a hedge relationship’, respectively.
All purchases and sales of investments and other financial 
assets are recognised on the date that the Group becomes 
committed to make such purchase or sale (‘the trade date’).
Investment in associates
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of 
accounting from the date on which the power to exercise 
significant influence passes and are stated net of any 
impairment charges.
Short term investments
Investments are initially measured at fair value and then 
subsequently remeasured to fair value at each balance 
sheet date owing to occasional sales of such investments. 
The fair value of unlisted investments is estimated either 
by comparing recent arm’s length transactions or by 
using discounted cash flow analysis or other modelling 
techniques. Gains and losses arising from revaluation at 
the balance sheet date are recognised directly in equity. For 
unlisted investments a significant or prolonged decline in 
the fair value of the investment below its cost is considered 
evidence of impairment.
To the extent that any fair value losses are deemed 
permanent, such impairment is recognised in the income 
statement. Upon sale or impairment of the investments, any 
cumulative gains or losses held in equity are transferred to 
the income statement.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables (excluding derivative 
financial assets) are recorded at cost less an allowance 
for estimated irrecoverable amounts and any other 
adjustments required to align cost to fair value. The 
carrying amount of trade receivables is reduced through 
the use of a provision account. A provision for bad and 
doubtful debts is made for specific receivables when there 
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to 
collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of 
the invoice. Receivables that are not assessed individually 
for impairment are assessed for impairment on a collective 
basis using ageing analysis to determine the required 
provision. Bad debts are written off when identified.
1.12 Taxation
Current taxation
Current taxation is the expected tax payable on the taxable 
income for the period, using prevailing tax rates and 
adjusted for any tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities 
are not recognised if the temporary difference arises 
from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than 
in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities 
in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the 
accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the 
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
No provision is made for tax which would have been 
payable on the distribution of retained profits of overseas 
subsidiaries or associated undertakings where it has been 
determined that these profits will not be distributed in the 
foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each 
other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same 
tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its 
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income 
statement, except when it relates to items charged or 
credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is 
also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that 
are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing 
differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates 
and laws that have been enacted, or substantially enacted 
by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax balances are 
not discounted. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
1.13 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost and net 
realisable value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and 
those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the 
inventories to their present location and condition, both 
types of cost being measured using a weighted average 
cost formula. Net realisable value represents the estimated 
selling price less all estimated and directly attributable 
costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, 
selling and distribution.
1.14 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in 
hand, bank overdrafts and short term highly liquid deposits 
with a maturity of three months or less and which are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank 
overdrafts, which form part of cash and cash equivalents 
for the purpose of the cash flow statement, are shown 
under current liabilities.
1.15 Borrowings and other financial liabilities
The Group’s financial liabilities are those which involve a 
contractual obligation to deliver cash to external parties at 
a future date. Financial liabilities comprise all items shown 
in notes 17, 18 and 19 with the exception of other taxation 
and social security, deferred income from customer support 
agreements, other deferred income and other non-financial 
creditors. Under the classifications stipulated by IAS 39, 
borrowings, finance lease obligations and trade and other 
payables (excluding derivative financial liabilities) are 
classified as ‘financial liabilities measured at amortised 
cost’. Derivative financial instruments, which are described 
further in note 1.16 below, are classified as ‘held for trading 
unless designated in a hedge relationship’.
Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recorded at the consideration 
received less directly attributable transaction costs. 
Transaction costs are amortised through the income 
statement using the effective interest method and the 
unamortised balance is included as part of the related 
borrowing at the balance sheet date. A fair value adjustment 
is made to the borrowing where hedge accounting, as 
described in note 1.16 below, has been applied.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables (excluding derivative financial 
liabilities) are recorded at cost. Derivative financial 
instruments, which includes put options over equity held 
by minority shareholders, are initially recorded at fair value 
and then subsequently remeasured to fair value at each 
balance sheet date and are held within assets or liabilities 
as appropriate. Gains and losses arising from revaluation 
at the balance sheet date are recognised in the income 
statement unless the derivatives are designated as hedges 
and such hedges are proved to be effective.
1.16 Derivative financial instruments and hedge 
accounting
Derivative financial instruments held by the Group are 
initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value within 
assets or liabilities as appropriate and then subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date. Gains 
and losses arising from revaluation at the balance sheet 
date are recognised in the income statement unless the 
derivatives are designated as hedges and such hedges are 
proved to be effective.
Derivatives are classified as non-current assets or liabilities 
where a hedge relationship is identified and the remaining 
maturity of the hedged item is greater than 12 months 
from the balance sheet date. Derivatives are classified as 
current assets or liabilities in all other circumstances.
Fair values are derived from market values. The fair value 
of financial instruments traded in active markets is based 
on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Hedge accounting
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial 
risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign 
currency exchange rates. The Group uses derivative 
financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, options, 
cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts to 
hedge these risks. The Group does not use derivative 
financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Where hedge accounting is to be applied, the Group 
formally designates and documents the hedge relationship 
to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and 
the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking 
the hedge.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no 
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting.
The accounting treatment of derivatives that qualify 
for hedge accounting is dependent on how they are 
designated. The different designations and accounting 
treatments are explained below:
Fair value hedges
The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge the exposure 
to changes in the fair value of recognised assets and 
liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments that meet the ‘fair value’ 
hedging requirements are recognised in the balance sheet 
at fair value with corresponding fair value movements 
recognised within finance income / costs in the income 
statement. For an effective fair value hedge, the hedged 
item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to 
the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in 
the income statement. To the extent that the designated 
hedge relationship is effective, such amounts in the income 
statement offset each other. As a result, only the ineffective 
element of any designated hedging relationship impacts 
the income statement. If the hedge no longer meets the 
criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying 
amount of the hedged item for which the effective interest 
method is used is amortised to the income statement over 
the period to maturity.
Cash flow hedges
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to 
hedge the foreign currency exposure on inventory ordered 
and purchased and certain sales of inventory. It is Group 
policy to hedge between 80% and 100% of committed 
purchase orders and sales. At any point in time the Group 
also hedges up to 80% of its estimated foreign currency 
exposure in respect of forecast purchases and sales for 
the subsequent 12 months. Orders and purchases as well 
as sales are each considered to be separately hedged 
transactions. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Derivative financial instruments that qualify for such cash 
flow hedging are initially recognised on the balance sheet 
with gains and losses relating to the remeasurement of the 
effective portion of the hedge being deferred in equity. To 
the extent that such items are ineffectively hedged, gains or 
losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the 
income statement. Amounts taken to equity are transferred 
to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects 
profit or loss (i.e. when a purchase or sale is made). For 
inventory purchases, the associated gains or losses on the 
derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are 
included in the initial measurement of inventory. For sales, 
the gains or losses on the derivative that had previously 
been recognised in equity are included in the income 
statement in the period in which the sale is made.
Net investment hedges
The Group uses cross currency forward contracts and 
cross currency swaps to hedge its currency risk on the 
translation of net investments in foreign entities. Gains and 
losses arising on the retranslation of the investments and 
the related derivatives are recognised in equity. However, 
this is on the basis that the hedging requirements of IAS 
39 are met and the hedging relationship is effective. To 
the extent that such items are ineffectively hedged, gains 
or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised 
within the income statement.
1.17 Retirement benefit obligations
Company contributions to defined contribution pension 
schemes and contributions made to state pension schemes 
for certain overseas employees are charged to the 
income statement on an accruals basis as contributions 
become payable.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the regular service 
cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during 
the period, together with the cost of any benefits relating to 
past service is charged to operating results in the period. 
A credit representing the expected return on assets of the 
retirement benefit schemes during the period is included 
within other finance income. This is based on the market 
value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the 
financial period. A charge is included within other finance 
costs, representing the expected increase in the liabilities 
of the retirement benefit schemes during the period. The 
difference between the market value of the assets and the 
present value of the accrued pension liabilities is shown 
as an asset or liability in the balance sheet. Differences 
between the actual and expected returns on assets during 
the period are recognised in the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income and expense, together with 
differences arising from changes in actuarial assumptions.
For reasons described further in note 4, the Group has for 
the first time in 2012/13 treated the net financing cost on 
defined benefit pension schemes as a non-underlying item. 
Prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
1.18 Share-based payments
The Group issues equity settled share-based payments 
to certain employees which are measured at fair value at 
the date of grant. This fair value is expensed in the income 
statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, 
based on an estimate of the number of shares that will 
eventually vest as adjusted for any non-market conditions.
A liability equal to the portion of services received 
from employees is recognised at the current fair value 
determined at each balance sheet date for cash settled 
share-based payments.
1.19 Estimates, judgements and critical accounting 
policies
The preparation of financial statements in conformity 
with generally accepted accounting principles requires 
management to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the 
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Significant 
items subject to such assumptions and estimates include 
the useful lives of assets; the measurement and recognition 
of provisions; the recognition of deferred tax assets; and 
liabilities for potential corporation tax. Actual results could 
differ from these estimates and any subsequent changes 
are accounted for with an effect on income at the time such 
updated information becomes available. The most critical 
accounting policies in determining the financial condition 
and results of the Group are those requiring the greatest 
degree of subjective or complex judgements. These relate 
to revenue recognition, inventory valuation, onerous lease 
costs, the valuation of goodwill, acquired intangible assets 
and property, plant & equipment, share-based payments, 
post-retirement benefits and taxation, and are set out below.
Revenue recognition
Revenue earned from the sale of customer support 
agreements is recognised over the term of the contracts 
when the Group obtains the right to consideration as 
a result of performance of its contractual obligations. 
Revenue in any one year is therefore recognised to match 
the proportion of the expected costs of fulfilling the Group’s 
total obligations under the agreements. An estimate of the 
degree of performance of these contractual obligations is 
determined by reference to extensive historical claims data. 
Reliance on historical data assumes that current and future 
experience will follow past trends. The directors consider 
that the quantity and quality of data available provides an 
appropriate proxy for current trends.
Inventory valuation
Inventories are valued at the lower of average cost and 
net realisable value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost 
and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing 
the inventories to their present location and condition, both 
types of cost being measures using a weighted average 
cost formula. Net realisable value represents the estimated 
selling price less all estimated and directly attributable 
costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, 
selling and distribution. Net realisable value includes, 
where necessary, provisions for slow moving and damaged 
inventory. The provision represents the difference between 
the cost of stock and its estimated net realisable value, 
based on ageing. Calculation of these provisions requires 
judgements to be made which include forecast consumer 
demand, the promotional, competitive and economic 
environment and inventory loss trends. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Provisions and accruals for onerous leases
If the Group vacates a store or other property prior to 
the expiry of the related lease, or a lease forms part of a 
separate CGU whereby the carrying value of that CGU 
is not considered supportable, it records a provision or 
accrual for the expected lease payments that the Group 
will incur prior to assignment or sublease of the property. 
Such a calculation requires a judgement as to the timing 
and duration of the expected vacant periods and the 
amount and timing of future potential sublease income. 
When making these judgements, the directors consider a 
number of factors, including the landlord, the location and 
condition of the property, the terms of the lease, the specific 
marketplace demand and the economic environment.
Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant & 
equipment impairment reviews
Goodwill is required to be valued annually to assess the 
requirement for potential impairment. Other assets are 
assessed on an ongoing basis to determine whether 
circumstances exist that could lead to the conclusion that 
the net book value of such assets is not supportable. 
Impairment testing on goodwill is carried out in accordance 
with the methodology described in note 9. Such 
calculations require judgement relating to the appropriate 
discount factors and long term growth prevalent in a 
particular market as well as short and medium term 
business plans. The directors draw upon experience as 
well as external resources in making these judgements.
In assessing impairment of intangible assets and property, 
plant & equipment, discounted cash flow methods are 
used as described in note 1.10. Judgement is required in 
determining the appropriate discount factors as well as the 
short and medium term business plans. As for goodwill, the 
directors draw upon experience and external resources in 
making these judgements.
Share-based payments
The charge for share-based payments is calculated by 
estimating the fair value of the award at the date of grant 
using either the Binomial or Black Scholes option pricing 
model or the Monte Carlo simulation. The option valuation 
models used require highly subjective assumptions to be 
made including the future volatility of the Company’s share 
price, expected dividend yields, risk-free interest rates, 
expected staff turnover and the likelihood of non-market 
vesting conditions being met. The directors draw upon a 
variety of external sources to aid in the determination of the 
appropriate data to use in such calculations.
Defined benefit pension schemes
The surplus or deficit in the UK defined benefit pension 
scheme that is recognised through the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income and expense is 
subject to a number of assumptions and uncertainties. 
The calculated liabilities of the scheme are based on 
assumptions regarding salary increases, inflation rates, 
discount rates, the long term expected return on the 
scheme’s assets and member longevity. Such assumptions 
are based on actuarial advice and are benchmarked 
against similar pension schemes.
Taxation
Tax laws that apply to the Group’s businesses may be 
amended by the relevant authorities, for example as a 
result of changes in fiscal circumstances or priorities. Such 
potential amendments and their application to the Group 
are monitored regularly and the requirement for recognition 
of any liabilities assessed where necessary. The Group 
is subject to income taxes in a number of different 
jurisdictions and judgement is required in determining the 
appropriate provision for transactions where the ultimate 
tax determination is uncertain. In such circumstances, the 
Group recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes due based 
on best information available and where the anticipated 
liability is probable and estimable. Where the final outcome 
of such matters differs from the amounts initially recorded, 
any differences will impact the income tax and deferred 
tax provisions in the period to which such determination 
is made. Where the potential liabilities are not considered 
probable, the amount at risk is disclosed unless an adverse 
outcome is considered remote.
Deferred tax is recognised on taxable losses based on the 
expected ability to utilise such losses. This ability takes 
account of the business plans for the relevant companies, 
potential uncertainties around the longer term aspects of 
these business plans, any expiry of taxable benefits and 
potential future volatility in the local tax regimes.
1.20 New accounting standards and interpretations
The following new standards, and amendments to existing 
standards, which are applicable to the Group have been 
published, but do not become effective until 2013/14:
•	 IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’. This standard is the 
first step in the process to replace IAS 39 ‘Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. IFRS 9 
introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring 
financial assets and is likely to affect the Group’s 
accounting for its financial assets.
•	 Amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. The 
amendment replaces interest cost and expected return on 
plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by 
applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability. 
This will impact the Group’s non-underlying interest income 
in respect of its defined benefit pension scheme.
•	 IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’. This standard aims to 
improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing 
a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair 
value measurement and disclosure requirements for use 
across IFRSs.
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ and IFRS 12 
‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ will also become 
effective for the Group for 2013/14. At the present time 
these new standards are not expected to have any material 
effect, however may impact acquisitions in the future.
Certain other amendments to existing standards and 
interpretations were issued during the period which either 
do not apply to the Group or are not expected to have any 
material effect. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
2 Segmental analysis
The Group’s operating segments have been determined 
based on the information reported to the Board. This 
information is predominantly based on geographical areas 
which are either managed separately or have similar 
trading characteristics such that they can be aggregated 
together into one segment and, in the case of PIXmania, as 
a business area with geographical territories aggregated. 
Accounting policies for each operating segment are the 
same as those for the Group as described in note 1. 
The Group evaluates each operating segment based on 
underlying operating profits which excludes those items 
described in note 1.1.
On 22 April 2013 and 7 May 2013, the Group announced 
that it had agreed to dispose of its Webhallen and PLS 
operations in Sweden and France, respectively and 
accordingly has classified their assets and liabilities as held 
for sale owing to the sale being highly probable under the 
definitions stipulated in IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for 
Sale and Discontinued Operations’. As a result of the sales, 
the businesses have been classified as ‘to be exited’ and 
the prior periods have been re-presented on a consistent 
basis. Both PLS and Webhallen were previously shown 
within the PIXmania division.
All segments are involved in the multi-channel sale 
of high technology consumer electronics, personal 
computers, domestic appliances, photographic equipment, 
communication products and related financial and 
after-sales services. The principal categories of customer 
are retail, business to business (B2B) and on-line.
The Group’s reportable segments have been identified as 
follows:
•	 UK & Ireland comprises electrical and computing retail 
chains as well as in-store B2B activities. The division 
is engaged predominantly in multi-channel retail sales, 
associated peripherals and services and related financial 
and after sales services. During the period, the division’s 
main B2B activities of Equanet were disposed as described 
further in note 4.
•	 Northern Europe operates in Norway, Sweden, Finland, 
Denmark, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Iceland, 
Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The division engages 
in multi-channel retail sales and provides related product 
support services to its customers. It also engages in B2B 
sales of computer hardware, software and services. Across 
the region, the division operates a successful franchise 
business, typically in smaller markets.
•	 Southern Europe comprises operations in Italy, Greece, 
Turkey and the closed business in Spain which is excluded 
from underlying results. The division engages in retail 
sales (including multi-channel sales in some countries) and 
provides related product support services to its customers 
in all of its markets. It also engages in B2B sales of 
computer hardware, software and services in Italy and 
Greece and has franchise operations in Italy, Greece and 
Turkey.
•	 PIXmania is a pure play on-line retailer and operates in 
14 countries across Europe.
During the year, management responsibility for Dixons 
Travel stores operating in the Northern Europe and 
Southern Europe divisions was transferred to the UK 
& Ireland Division. Comparative figures have been 
re-presented to reflect this change in responsibility.
Businesses exited / to be exited comprises the trading 
results of businesses sold, to be sold, closed and to 
be closed and includes the activities of PC City Spain, 
Equanet, Webhallen and PLS. Further information on these 
businesses is provided in note 4. In respect of the sold / 
to be sold businesses, owing to their relative scale, they 
do not meet the definition of discontinued operations as 
stipulated by IFRS 5. In respect of closed / to be closed 
businesses, owing to their closure rather than disposal, 
these operations also do not meet the definition of 
discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
(a) Income statement
2012/13
 
External 
revenue 
 £million
Inter- 
segmental 
revenue  
£million
Total
revenue  
£million
Underlying 
profit / (loss) 
£million
Total  
profit / (loss) 
£million 
UK & Ireland 4,096.0 47.3 4,143.3 113.3 82.5
Northern Europe 2,876.3 5.4 2,881.7 120.5 118.0
Southern Europe 966.7 – 966.7 (24.4) (25.0)
PIXmania 500.3 6.7 507.0 (31.3) (182.4)
Eliminations – (59.4) (59.4) – –
8,439.3 – 8,439.3 178.1 (6.9)
Share of post-tax results of associates – –
Operating profit / (loss) before central costs and property losses 178.1 (6.9)
Central costs (16.9) (18.8)
Property losses (25.2) (25.2)
Operating profit / (loss) 136.0 (50.9)
Loss on sale of business – (9.6)
Finance income 7.2 54.0
Finance costs (48.7) (108.8)
Profit / (loss) before tax for the year 94.5 (115.3)
External revenue for UK & Ireland, Southern Europe and PIXmania includes £81.5 million, £1.1 million and £142.8 million, 
respectively relating to the businesses exited / to be exited.
Reconciliation of underlying profit / (loss) to total profit / (loss)
2012/13
Underlying 
 profit / 
(loss)  
£million
Businesses 
exited / to be 
exited  
£million
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles 
£million
Net 
restructuring 
charges  
£million
 Business 
impairment 
charges 
 £million
Other items 
£million
Non-
operating  
items 
 £million
 Total  
profit / (loss) 
£million
UK & Ireland 113.3 (1.9) (0.3) (22.9) (6.6) 0.9 – 82.5
Northern Europe 120.5 – – – (2.5) – – 118.0
Southern Europe (24.4) 1.5 (0.7) – – (1.4) – (25.0)
PIXmania (31.3) (7.6) (3.2) (64.6) (70.3) (5.4) – (182.4)
Operating profit / (loss) before central 
costs and property losses 178.1 (8.0) (4.2) (87.5) (79.4) (5.9) – (6.9)
Central costs (16.9) – – (1.9) – – – (18.8)
Property losses (25.2) – – – – – – (25.2)
Operating profit / (loss) 136.0 (8.0) (4.2) (89.4) (79.4) (5.9) – (50.9)
Loss on sale of business – – – – – – (9.6) (9.6)
Finance income 7.2 0.3 – – – – 46.5 54.0
Finance costs (48.7) – – – – – (60.1) (108.8)
Profit / (loss) before tax for the year 94.5 (7.7) (4.2) (89.4) (79.4) (5.9) (23.2) (115.3) Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
2011/12
Re-presented
 
External  
revenue 
£million
Inter-
segmental 
revenue  
£million
 Total
revenue
£million
Underlying
profit / (loss) 
£million
Total  
profit / (loss) 
£million 
UK & Ireland 3,854.2 50.5 3,904.7 81.5 66.8
Northern Europe 2,619.3 28.6 2,647.9 113.1 151.9
Southern Europe 1,054.7 0.3 1,055.0 (31.3) (202.5)
PIXmania 665.0 6.0 671.0 (15.2) (58.2)
Eliminations – (85.4) (85.4) – –
8,193.2 – 8,193.2 148.1 (42.0)
Share of post-tax results of associates 0.6 0.6
Operating profit / (loss) before central costs and property losses 148.7 (41.4)
Central costs (13.8) (14.0)
Property losses (13.6) (13.5)
Operating profit / (loss) 121.3 (68.9)
Finance income 11.8 63.5
Finance costs (51.0) (113.4)
Profit / (loss) before tax for the period 82.1 (118.8)
External revenue for UK & Ireland, Southern Europe and PIXmania includes £102.9 million, £6.5 million and £173.6 million, 
respectively relating to the businesses exited / to be exited.
Reconciliation of underlying profit / (loss) to total profit / (loss)
2011/12
Re-presented
Underlying 
profit / (loss) 
£million
Businesses 
exited / to be 
exited
£million
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles 
£million
Net  
restructuring 
charges 
 £million
 Business 
impairment 
charges  
£million
Other
items
£million
Non-
operating
items 
 £million
 Total  
profit / (loss) 
£million
UK & Ireland 81.5 (1.6) (0.4) (9.5) – (3.2) – 66.8
Northern Europe 113.1 – – – – 38.8 – 151.9
Southern Europe (31.3) (2.9) (0.7) – (167.6) – – (202.5)
PIXmania (15.2) (4.6) (3.4) (6.6) (28.4) – – (58.2)
148.1 (9.1) (4.5) (16.1) (196.0) 35.6 – (42.0)
Share of post-tax results of associates 0.6 – – – – – – 0.6
Operating profit / (loss) before central 
costs and property losses 148.7 (9.1) (4.5) (16.1) (196.0) 35.6 – (41.4)
Central costs (13.8) – – (0.2) – – – (14.0)
Property losses (13.6) 0.1 – – – – – (13.5)
Operating profit / (loss) 121.3 (9.0) (4.5) (16.3) (196.0) 35.6 – (68.9)
Finance income 11.8 0.6 – – – – 51.1 63.5
Finance costs (51.0) (0.1) – – – – (62.3) (113.4)
Profit / (loss) before tax for the period 82.1 (8.5) (4.5) (16.3) (196.0) 35.6 (11.2) (118.8)
Share of post-tax results of associates relates to Northern Europe. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
(b) Geographical analysis 
Revenues are allocated to countries according to the entity’s country of domicile. Revenue generated by the UK business was  
£3,949.6 million (2011/12 £3,704.7 million). Revenue by destination is not materially different to that shown by domicile. There 
was no revenue from discontinued operations (2011/12 £nil).
Non-current assets comprise property, plant & equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, investments in associates and non-
current trade and other receivables. Non-current assets held by the UK were £318.8 million (2012 £367.6 million). Non-current 
assets held by Northern Europe were £770.7 million (2012 £748.8 million) and comprised predominantly goodwill (as disclosed 
in note 9) which has not been allocated to individual countries.
(c) Balance sheet 
2013
Segment 
 assets 
£million
Investment 
 in associates 
£million
Total  
segment assets 
 £million
Segment 
liabilities 
 £million
 Net assets / 
(liabilities) 
 £million
UK & Ireland 1,927.7 – 1,927.7 (1,268.9) 658.8
Northern Europe 1,199.7 0.5 1,200.2 (518.9) 681.3
Southern Europe 396.9 – 396.9 (408.9) (12.0)
PIXmania 58.3 – 58.3 (174.7) (116.4)
Central 883.7 – 883.7 (1,947.5) (1,063.8)
Eliminations (1,462.1) – (1,462.1) 1,462.1 –
Continuing operations 3,004.2 0.5 3,004.7 (2,856.8) 147.9
Discontinued operations – – – (0.6) (0.6)
3,004.2 0.5 3,004.7 (2,857.4) 147.3
2012
Re-presented
Segment  
assets  
£million
Investment 
 in associates 
£million
Total  
segment assets 
 £million
Segment  
liabilities  
£million
 Net assets / 
(liabilities)
£million
UK & Ireland 1,755.4 – 1,755.4 (1,177.4) 578.0
Northern Europe 1,129.5 3.5 1,133.0 (383.0) 750.0
Southern Europe 374.5 – 374.5 (408.4) (33.9)
PIXmania 187.9 – 187.9 (117.7) 70.2
Central 661.0 – 661.0 (1,619.8) (958.8)
Eliminations (1,065.4) – (1,065.4) 1,065.4 –
Continuing operations 3,042.9 3.5 3,046.4 (2,640.9) 405.5
Discontinued operations – – – (1.5) (1.5)
3,042.9 3.5 3,046.4 (2,642.4) 404.0
Central assets and liabilities predominantly comprise intersegment balances, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, net 
retirement benefit obligations, derivative financial instruments and tax assets and liabilities.  Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
(d) Other information
2012/13
Additions
Intangible 
assets  
£million
Property,
 plant & 
equipment 
£million
Depreciation 
£million
Amortisation 
£million
Share-based 
payments 
£million
UK & Ireland 5.9 46.8 69.5 8.6 2.3
Northern Europe 7.0 24.7 27.2 4.7 0.6
Southern Europe 1.9 7.4 15.1 2.6 0.5
PIXmania 3.2 3.5 4.6 5.8 –
Central – 0.1 0.1 – 0.7
Continuing operations 18.0 82.5 116.5 21.7 4.1
2011/12
Re-presented
Additions
Intangible  
assets  
£million
Property,  
plant & 
equipment 
£million
Depreciation 
£million
Amortisation 
£million
Share-based 
payments  
£million
UK & Ireland 1.8 47.2 72.6 10.6 (1.0)
Northern Europe 5.1 22.3 28.3 4.4 (1.2)
Southern Europe 2.0 7.3 18.1 2.0 (1.1)
PIXmania 4.3 3.8 4.4 5.9 –
Central – 0.2 0.4 – (1.4)
Continuing operations 13.2 80.8 123.8 22.9 (4.7) Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
3 Revenue and operating profit / (loss) 
2012/13 2011/12
Re-presented
Non-underlying Non-underlying
Underlying 
£million
Businesses 
exited / to be 
exited
 £million
Other  
£million
Total  
£million
Underlying 
£million
Businesses  
exited / to be 
exited
 £million
Other  
£million
Total  
£million
Revenue 8,213.9 225.4 – 8,439.3 7,910.2 283.0 – 8,193.2
Cost of sales (7,666.1) (212.0) (41.5) (7,919.6) (7,396.8) (255.3) (14.4) (7,666.5)
Gross profit / (loss) 547.8 13.4 (41.5) 519.7 513.4 27.7 (14.4) 526.7
Distribution costs (133.3) (8.6) (0.9) (142.8) (154.3) (9.0) – (163.3)
Administrative expenses (253.2) (12.8) (136.5) (402.5) (224.8) (27.8) (166.8) (419.4)
Other operating  
(charge) / income (25.3) – – (25.3) (13.6) 0.1 – (13.5)
Profit / (loss) from operations 
before associates 136.0 (8.0) (178.9) (50.9) 120.7 (9.0) (181.2) (69.5)
Share of post-tax results 
of associates – – – – 0.6 – – 0.6
Total operating profit / (loss) 136.0 (8.0) (178.9) (50.9) 121.3 (9.0) (181.2) (68.9)
Non-underlying items comprise amortisation of acquired intangibles of £4.2 million (2011/12 £4.5 million), included within 
administrative expenses. Such items are described further in note 4. Included within underlying cost of sales, distribution costs 
and administrative expenses is amortisation of other intangibles of £8.5 million, £1.5 million and £7.5 million, respectively 
(2011/12 £9.8 million, £1.6 million and £7.0 million, respectively).
2012/13 2011/12
Re-presented
Underlying 
£million
Businesses 
exited / to be 
exited 
 £million
 Total  
£million
Underlying  
£million
Businesses  
exited / to be 
exited 
 £million
 Total  
£million
Sale of goods 7,759.5 220.6 7,980.1 7,443.9 274.3 7,718.2
Revenue from services 454.4 4.8 459.2 466.3 8.7 475.0
8,213.9 225.4 8,439.3 7,910.2 283.0 8,193.2
Revenue from services predominantly comprises those relating to customer support agreements, delivery and installation, 
product repairs and product support.  Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
3 Revenue and operating profit / (loss) (continued)
2012/13 2011/12
Re-presented
Underlying 
£million
Businesses  
exited / to be 
exited
 £million
Total
£million
Underlying 
£million
Businesses  
exited / to be  
exited
 £million
Total
 £million
Inventories recognised as an expense 6,266.5 195.0 6,461.5 5,796.7 240.6 6,037.3
Cost of inventory write-down 26.2 0.5 26.7 26.1 0.4 26.5
Rentals paid under operating leases:
Plant and machinery 10.0 – 10.0 10.6 – 10.6
Property – non-contingent rent 348.0 2.0 350.0 359.6 3.4 363.0
Property – contingent rent 15.8 – 15.8 13.3 – 13.3
Rentals received under operating leases:
Property – subleases (5.6) – (5.6) (5.0) – (5.0)
2012/13
£million
2011/12
 £million
Auditor’s remuneration 
Audit services – Group financial statements 0.5 0.5
– Subsidiary financial statements 0.6 0.6
Total audit fees 1.1 1.1
Non-audit services pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.2
Other – 0.2
Total fees paid to the auditor 1.4 1.5 Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
4 Non-underlying items
2012/13 2011/12 
Re-presented
Note
Businesses 
exited / to be 
exited  
£million
Other 
£million
Total 
£million
Businesses 
exited / to be 
exited  
£million
 Other 
£million
Total 
£million
Included in operating profit / (loss): 
Businesses exited / to be exited (i) (8.0) – (8.0) (9.0) – (9.0)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles – (4.2) (4.2) – (4.5) (4.5)
Net restructuring charges (ii) – (89.4) (89.4) – (16.3) (16.3)
Business impairment charges (iii) – (79.4) (79.4) – (196.0) (196.0)
Other items (iv) – (5.9) (5.9) – 35.6 35.6
  (8.0) (178.9) (186.9) (9.0) (181.2) (190.2)
Loss on sale of business (v) – (9.6) (9.6) – – –
Included in net finance costs:
Businesses exited / to be exited (i) 0.3 – 0.3 0.5 – 0.5
Net non-cash finance costs on defined benefit 
pension schemes (vi) – (7.4) (7.4) – (5.7) (5.7)
Net fair value remeasurements of 
financial instruments (vii) – (1.9) (1.9) – (2.8) (2.8)
2012 Bonds and 2015 Notes redemption costs (viii) – (3.2) (3.2) – – –
Accelerated amortisation of bond / facility fees (ix) – (1.1) (1.1) – (2.7) (2.7)
0.3 (13.6) (13.3) 0.5 (11.2) (10.7)
Total impact on profit / (loss) before tax (7.7) (202.1) (209.8) (8.5) (192.4) (200.9)
Included in income tax expense:
Businesses exited / to be exited (0.5) – (0.5) (0.5) – (0.5)
Tax on other non-underlying items – 18.4 18.4 – 9.7 9.7
Non-underlying: tax specific items (x) – (21.5) (21.5) – (16.0) (16.0)
 (0.5) (3.1) (3.6) (0.5) (6.3) (6.8)
Total impact on profit / (loss) after tax (8.2) (205.2) (213.4) (9.0) (198.7) (207.7)
(i)  Businesses exited / to be exited: comprises the trading results of businesses sold, to be sold, closed and to be closed and 
includes the activities of:
•	 Equanet, which was sold during the year and which constituted the majority of the B2B activities of the UK & Ireland division; 
•	 Webhallen, a media and games multi-channel retailer which was also sold during the year although has not yet completed;
•	 PLS, a small photo processing operation which was sold on 7 May 2013; 
•	 PIXmania stores which were closed during the year; and 
•	 PC City Spain which was closed in June 2011 whereby these activities comprise the unwinding of residual deferred income 
and related costs.
(ii) Net restructuring charges:
2012/13 
£million
2011/12
£million
Asset impairments (35.1) (8.8)
Property charges (18.2) (2.9)
Other charges (36.1) (4.6)
(89.4) (16.3) Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
4 Non-underlying items (continued)
2012/13:
Charges related predominantly to the reorganisation of the PIXmania business and the remaining retained UK B2B operations 
following the sale of Equanet for which the charges are £64.6 million and £22.9 million, respectively. For PIXmania, such 
charges comprise mainly asset write offs arising from property restructuring, lease provisions, employee severance and 
inventory write downs following on from the exit from certain markets. In addition, following the acquisition of full control of 
the PIXmania business in August 2012 and against the backdrop of especially challenging trading and increasingly difficult 
markets in which PIXmania operates, the carrying value of certain assets has been written down. In respect of the UK B2B 
operations, the charges relate mainly to an onerous lease in respect of the former Equanet operations and related fixed asset 
write offs.
2011/12:
Charges related predominantly to the renewal and transformation of the UK & Ireland business which has been focused 
mainly on the reformatting and reorganisation of the store portfolio and the reorganisation of the service offering as well as a 
reorganisation of the PIXmania photo processing operations.
In the UK, asset impairments related mainly to items of property, plant & equipment, some of which comprised incremental 
accelerated depreciation charges which arose from restructuring initiatives which commenced in 2007/08. Property charges 
comprised onerous lease costs and charges related to vacating properties. Other charges predominantly comprised employee 
severance.
The PIXmania restructuring charges amounted to £6.6 million and related to the closure and ensuing reorganisation of its 
photo processing operations. The charge comprised £1.7 million for asset impairments, £1.7 million for onerous property 
charges and £3.2 million of other charges.
(iii) Business impairment charges:
2012/13
Goodwill  
impairment  
£million
Other assets  
impairment 
£million
Property 
charges  
£million
Other  
charges 
£million
Total  
£million
PIXmania (45.2) (25.1) – – (70.3)
Other businesses (6.6) (2.5) – – (9.1)
(51.8) (27.6) – – (79.4)
2011/12
Goodwill  
impairment  
£million
Other assets  
impairment 
£million
Property 
charges  
£million
Other  
charges 
£million
Total  
£million
Italian business (109.4) (5.6) (15.1) (1.0) (131.1)
PIXmania (28.4) – – – (28.4)
Greek business (36.5) – – – (36.5)
(174.3) (5.6) (15.1) (1.0) (196.0)
2012/13:
• PIXmania business: Following on from the weaknesses identified for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012, a lower than 
anticipated result in the first part of the year together with a change in management control from 77.1% to 99.2% during the 
period which caused a strategic review to be undertaken for this business, this led to the conclusion that both the acquisition 
goodwill and the brand name of PIXmania should be fully impaired to £nil.
• Other businesses: This relates to the impairment of goodwill of a small UK B2B operation following the re-organisation and 
significant reduction in the UK & Ireland’s B2B operations following the sale of Equanet as well as the full write down of the 
investment in an associate following continued declining results, further information of which is shown in note 12.
2011/12:
• Italian business: The increased macro-economic uncertainties, which contributed to further weakness in the Italian economy 
which was particularly evident over the Peak trading period, together with an expectation that growth in the Italian economy 
would be significantly less than previously forecast, led to an impairment to the goodwill of Unieuro, as well as impairment 
charges to property, plant & equipment and property charges comprising onerous lease costs.
• PIXmania and Greek business: Continuing weakness in the Southern European economies in which PIXmania operates, 
which includes Greece, and which was again particularly evident over the Peak trading period, together with further delays 
to anticipated economic recovery, resulted in profit performance continuing to fall further behind that envisaged in the prior 
period’s forecasts. This therefore led to an impairment to the goodwill in these businesses. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
4 Non-underlying items (continued)
(iv) Other items comprise the following:
2012/13 
£million
2011/12  
£million
Exceptional provisions and charges (6.8) –
Profit on disposal of property – 37.2
UK Riot related income / (net costs) 0.9 (3.2)
Revaluation of associate shares – 1.6
(5.9) 35.6
2012/13:
Exceptional provisions and charges relate predominantly to claims for certain investment initiatives in PIXmania, whereby 
retrospective changes in the authorities’ interpretations of legislation have resulted in uncertainty regarding the funding 
previously agreed and/or received in prior years.
UK Riot related income comprises insurance recoveries in respect of charges incurred in 2011/12.
2011/12:
• Profit on disposal of property related to the sale and leaseback of the Group’s Nordic distribution centre in Jönköping in 
Sweden. The sale completed on 23 June 2011 for SEK 602 million (£58.1 million). Owing to the size of the gain as well as the 
significance of the property in relation to the Group’s operations, the profit was treated as a non-underlying item.
• UK Riot related net costs comprised mainly inventory write offs and reinstatement costs together with certain other 
incremental costs arising from the riots which occurred in August 2011 and which amounted to £3.5 million. These amounts 
were offset by insurance recoveries received of £0.3 million.
• Revaluation of associate shares: Related to gain arising on the revaluation of a previous small associate shareholding 
following the acquisition of the remaining shares during the period.
(v)  Loss on sale of business:
On 28 March 2013, the Group completed the disposal of its Equanet B2B operations (Equanet) to Kelway (UK) Limited for 
consideration of £4.2 million. The loss on disposal is analysed as follows:
 £million
Net assets disposed:
Goodwill 10.7
Other assets 1.7
12.4
Loss on disposal (9.6)
Consideration and costs 2.8
Consideration 4.2
Disposal fees and exit costs (1.4)
Consideration and costs 2.8
(vi)  Net non-cash financing costs on defined benefit pension schemes: Under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’, the cost of providing 
defined benefit pension benefits in the future is discounted to a present value at the corporate bond yield rates applicable on 
the last day of the previous financial year and the effects of this discounting are charged into finance costs. Corporate bond 
yield rates vary over time which in turn creates volatility in the income statement and balance sheet. In respect of scheme 
assets, a finance income is generated in the income statement based on the expected rate of return on scheme assets 
again determined on the last day of the previous financial year. The sum of these two effects is a non-cash remeasurement 
cost which can be volatile due to corporate bond yield rates prevailing on a particular day and is also unrepresentative 
of the actual investment gains or losses made or the liabilities paid and payable. Starting in the current year (with 
comparatives being re-presented) and consistent with a number of other companies, the accounting effects of these non-
cash revaluations of assets and liabilities have been excluded from underlying earnings. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
4 Non-underlying items (continued)
(vii)  Net fair value remeasurement gains and losses on revaluation of financial instruments: Items excluded from underlying 
finance income and expense represent the gains and losses arising from the revaluation of derivative financial instruments 
under methodologies stipulated by IAS 39 compared with those on an accruals basis (the basis upon which all other items 
in the financial statements are prepared). Such a treatment is a form of revaluation gain or loss created by an assumption 
that the derivatives will be settled before their maturity.
  Such gains and losses are unrealised and in the directors’ view also conflict with both the commercial reasons for entering 
into such arrangements as well as Group Treasury policy whereby early settlement in the majority of cases would amount to 
speculative use of derivatives.
(viii)  On 20 September 2012, the Group repurchased £15.6 million in nominal amount of its 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds due 
November 2012 (the 2012 Bonds) as well as £49.4 million in nominal amount of its 8.75% Guaranteed Notes due August 
2015 (the 2015 Notes). The latter repurchase was funded by part of a new issue of £150 million 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 
due September 2017 (the 2017 Notes) and for which the proceeds were received on the same date. The issue of the 2017 
Notes has resulted in the Group’s revolving facility agreement being reduced from £300 million down to £225 million as part 
of the terms of this facility whereby if new debt financing was raised, a reduction in the amount of this facility would ensue.
(ix)  2012/13: As a result of the repurchases of the 2012 Bonds and 2015 Notes on 20 September 2012, charges have been 
incurred relating to the acceleration of the amortisation of fees from the 2012 Bonds and the 2015 Notes which would 
otherwise have been charged evenly over the period to the 2012 Bonds’ maturity in November 2012 and the 2015 Notes’ 
maturity in August 2015, together with a redemption premium.
  2011/12: On 24 May 2012, the Group signed an amendment and restatement agreement implementing a revised revolving 
facility agreement (the Amended Facility) for £300 million. This agreement is described further in note 17. The renegotiation 
of this facility triggered the acceleration of the amortisation of fees for the £360 million revolving credit facility (the 
£360 million Facility) which would otherwise have been charged evenly over the period to the pre-existing facility’s maturity 
in August 2013 and which were therefore charged in 2011/12.
(x)  2012/13: Such items relate to the impairment of net deferred tax assets in PIXmania following the strategic review of the 
business described in note (iii) where such impairment represents the prudent assessment of the ability to utilise tax losses 
within an appropriate timeframe.
  2011/12: Tax specific non-underlying items comprise adjustments in respect of prior years which relate mainly to the 
recognition and remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities on historical acquisitions in the Northern Europe division for 
which differences between the tax written down value and the book value of goodwill from acquisition have been identified 
and for which IAS 12 requires such recognition. Because these items relate to historical acquisitions from prior years 
and the liabilities created will not give rise to any actual payment of tax either in the current or future periods in any of 
the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, the ensuing charge required to create the liability has been treated as non-
underlying. The liability which has been recorded and which arises due to accounting standard requirements is expected to 
remain for the foreseeable future. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
5 Net finance costs
Note 
2012/13
 
 £million
2011/12
Re-presented
 £million
Bank and other interest receivable:
 Non-underlying: businesses exited / to be exited * 0.3 0.6
 Underlying (ii) 7.2 11.8
Expected return on pension scheme assets * 43.5 44.8
Fair value remeasurement gains on financial instruments * (iv) 3.0 6.3
Finance income 54.0 63.5
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 interest and related charges (4.9) (9.3)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 interest and related charges (11.4) (14.0)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 interest and related charges (8.5) –
Bank loans, overdrafts and other interest payable:
 Non-underlying: businesses exited / to be exited * – (0.1)
 Underlying (iii) (17.6) (21.3)
Finance lease interest payable (6.3) (6.4)
Interest on pension scheme liabilities * (50.9) (50.5)
Fair value remeasurement losses on financial instruments * (iv) (4.9) (9.1)
Accelerated amortisation of bond / facility fees * (1.1) (2.7)
2012 Bonds and 2015 Notes redemption costs * (3.2) –
Finance costs (108.8) (113.4)
Total net finance costs (54.8) (49.9)
Underlying total net finance costs (i) (41.5) (39.2)
(i)  Underlying total net finance costs exclude items marked *. See note 4 for a description of such items. Net finance costs for 
the businesses exited / to be exited comprise bank and other interest receivable and interest on bank loans and overdrafts. 
(ii) Bank and other interest receivable comprise:
2012/13
 
£million
2011/12
Re-presented
 £million
Interest on cash and cash equivalents and short term investments 1.7 1.5
Derivative interest income 5.5 10.3
7.2 11.8
  Derivative interest income includes amounts relating to the remeasurement of financial instruments on an accruals basis. 
Included within derivative interest income is income of £2.8 million (2011/12 £5.3 million) from financial instruments not in a 
designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
5 Net finance costs (continued) 
(iii)  Bank loans, overdrafts and other interest payable comprise:
2012/13
£million
2011/12
£million
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (11.7) (11.4)
Exchange losses (2.5) (5.3)
Derivative interest expense (3.4) (4.6)
(17.6) (21.3)
  Included within exchange losses are losses of £8.0 million (2011/12 losses of £11.9 million) which is a natural offset for gains 
arising from financial instruments not in a formal designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
  Derivative interest expense includes amounts relating to the remeasurement of financial instruments on an accruals basis. 
Included within derivative interest expense is a £3.4 million charge (2011/12 £4.6 million) from financial instruments not in a 
designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
(iv)  Fair value remeasurement gains and losses on financial instruments include losses of £2.4 million (2011/12 £3.4 million) 
which are not in a designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39.
(v)   Interest income of £2.0 million (2011/12 £2.1 million) and expense of £38.9 million (2011/12 £36.0 million) is included within 
net finance costs relating to financial assets and liabilities, respectively not held at fair value through the Income Statement.
6 Employees
Staff costs for the period were:
2012/13 
 £million
2011/12 
 £million
Wages and salaries 742.7 719.9
Social security costs 102.2 105.2
Other pension costs 23.3 17.0
868.2 842.1
The average number of employees, including part time employees, was:
2012/13 
 
Number
2011/12
Re-presented 
Number
UK & Ireland 20,461 20,934
Northern Europe 9,092 8,716
Southern Europe 4,676 5,163
PIXmania 1,281 1,402
Corporate centre and shared services 382 370
35,892 36,585
The average number of employees for UK & Ireland, Southern Europe and PIXmania includes 299 (2011/12 406), 
1 (2011/12 139) and 269 (2011/12 306), respectively relating to the businesses exited / to be exited. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
7 Tax 
(a) Income tax expense 
2012/13  
 
£million
2011/12  
Re-presented 
£million
Current tax 
UK corporation tax at 23.92%
(ii)
 (2011/12 25.85%) 0.3 –
Overseas taxation – underlying 32.3 28.6
– businesses exited / to be exited * 0.5 0.5
Adjustment in respect of earlier periods: 
Overseas taxation – underlying (0.9) 4.4
– non-underlying: tax specific * – 4.1
32.2 37.6
Deferred tax 
Current period – underlying 14.8 10.1
– non-underlying: other * (18.4) (9.7)
Adjustment in respect of earlier periods:
 UK corporation tax – underlying 6.5 (1.7)
– non-underlying: tax specific * – 2.5
 Overseas taxation – underlying (3.8) (4.1)
– non-underlying: tax specific * 21.5 9.4
20.6 6.5
Income tax expense 52.8 44.1
Underlying income tax expense (i) 49.2 37.3
(i)  Underlying income tax expense excludes those items marked *. Further information on these items is shown in note 4. 
(ii)  The UK corporation tax rate for the period was 24% for the period up to 31 March 2013 and 23% thereafter (2011/12 26% for the period up to 31 March 2012 and 
24% thereafter). Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
7 Tax (continued)
A reconciliation of the notional to the actual income tax expense is set out below:
2012/13 2011/12  
Re-presented
Non-underlying* Non-underlying*
Underlying 
£million
Businesses 
exited / to  
be exited
£million
Other  
£million
Total
 £million
Underlying
£million
Businesses 
exited / to
 be exited
£million
Other  
£million
Total
 £million
Loss before tax 94.5 (7.7) (202.1) (115.3) 82.1 (8.5) (192.4) (118.8)
Tax on loss at UK statutory rate of 23.92%  
(2011/12 25.85%) 22.6 (1.8) (48.4) (27.6) 21.2 (2.2) (49.7) (30.7)
Non-qualifying depreciation 2.8 – – 2.8 2.8 – 0.2 3.0
Differences in effective overseas taxation rates 0.6 (0.2) (13.6) (13.2) – (0.3) (2.1) (2.4)
Non-deductible charges 1.2 – 19.6 20.8 1.0 – 47.2 48.2
Non-taxable losses / (gains) on property disposals 0.5 – – 0.5 0.7 – (10.3) (9.6)
Overseas deferred tax not recognised 15.2 2.2 23.0 40.4 6.2 1.7 6.0 13.9
Adjustment in respect of earlier periods 1.7 – 21.5 23.2 (1.4) – 16.0 14.6
Effect of change in UK statutory tax rate 1.7 – (0.2) 1.5 4.1 – – 4.1
Other differences 2.9 0.3 1.2 4.4 2.7 1.3 (1.0) 3.0
Income tax expense 49.2 0.5 3.1 52.8 37.3 0.5 6.3 44.1
The effective tax rate on underlying earnings of 52% (2011/12 51%) is expected to fall in future periods due mainly to 
unrecognised losses and non-deductible items starting to form a lower proportion of net profits.  The rate has increased year 
on year owing to the non-recognition of current year losses in PIXmania owing to prudence taken in the longer term outlook 
for trading for this business.  Excluding the effects of this non-recognition, the effective rate of taxation on full year earnings 
would have been 38%.  The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses of £207.7 million (2011/12 
£128.6 million) of which £151.5 million (2011/12 £76.9 million) have no time restriction over when they can be utilised. The 
Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to time restricted tax losses of £56.2 million (2011/12 £51.7 million) for 
which the weighted average period over which they can be utilised is eight years (2011/12 seven years). 
(b) Deferred tax 
Accelerated 
capital 
 allowances 
£million
Retirement  
benefit  
obligations 
£million
Losses  
carried  
forward
£million
Other 
 timing  
differences 
£million
 Total  
£million
At 1 May 2011 47.2 64.8 24.3 9.5 145.8
(Charged) / credited to income statement (13.4) (2.6) 10.1 (0.6) (6.5)
Credited / (charged) to equity – 2.5 – (1.5) 1.0
Disposals – – (3.6) – (3.6)
Currency retranslation (0.9) (0.2) (0.7) 0.1 (1.7)
At 28 April 2012 32.9 64.5 30.1 7.5 135.0
(Charged) / credited to income statement (15.5) (2.8) (15.8) 13.5 (20.6)
Credited to equity – 33.0 – 2.6 35.6
Disposals 0.3 – (10.9) 0.6 (10.0)
Currency retranslation (0.5) – 0.3 (0.2) (0.4)
At 30 April 2013 17.2 94.7 3.7 24.0 139.6 Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
7 Tax (continued)
Summary of assets and liabilities as disclosed:
2013  
£million
2012  
£million
Deferred tax assets 150.9 155.2
Deferred tax liabilities (11.3) (20.2)
139.6 135.0
Analysis of deferred tax relating to items credited / (charged) to equity in the period:
2012/13  
£million
2011/12  
£million
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 33.0 2.5
Net gains on revaluation of cash flow hedges 0.9 (0.6)
Net gains on hedges of net investments (0.1) (0.9)
Credited to comprehensive expense 33.8 1.0
Share-based payments 1.8 –
35.6 1.0
The recognition of trading losses carried forward is considered supportable due to the ability to offset losses against future 
profits. 
As a result of share disposals, allowable losses have been incurred which are available for offset against certain future 
chargeable gains. 
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as it is considered that there is insufficient evidence that 
chargeable gains will arise. The deferred tax asset not recognised, measured at the standard rate of 23% (2012 24%), is not 
less than £288.0 million (2012 £301.8 million). Where permitted, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset for 
financial reporting purposes. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
8 Earnings per share 
2012/13 
 
£million
2011/12 
Re-presented 
£million
Basic and diluted loss (158.2) (154.3)
Adjustments (non-underlying)
Loss from businesses exited / to be exited 7.7 8.5
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4.2 4.5
Net restructuring charges 89.4 16.3
Business impairment charges 79.4 196.0
Other items 5.9 (35.6)
Loss on sale of business 9.6 –
Net finance costs 13.6 11.2
209.8 200.9
Attributable to non-controlling interests (1.3) (3.5)
Attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 208.5 197.4
Tax on adjustments (17.9) (9.2)
Tax specific non-underlying items 21.5 16.0
Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.3 0.7
Tax on adjustments attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 3.9 7.5
Total adjustments (net of taxation) 212.4 204.9
Underlying basic and diluted earnings 54.2 50.6
 Million Million
Weighted average number of shares for:
Basic and underlying basic (loss) / earnings 3,616.5 3,608.7
Diluted loss
†
3,616.5 3,608.7
Underlying diluted earnings 3,696.4 3,620.2
Potentially dilutive shares under employee share option and ownership schemes
†
79.9 11.5
 Pence Pence
Basic (loss) / earnings per share
Total (4.4) (4.3)
Adjustments (net of taxation) 5.9 5.7
Underlying basic earnings per share 1.5 1.4
Diluted (loss) / earnings per share
Total (4.4) (4.3)
Adjustments (net of taxation) 5.9 5.7
Underlying diluted earnings per share 1.5 1.4
† In accordance with IAS 33, the weighted average number of shares for the calculation of diluted (loss) / earnings per share does not include potentially dilutive shares 
if they would decrease the loss per share.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are based on the profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders. Underlying 
earnings per share are presented in order to show the underlying performance of the Group. Adjustments used to determine 
underlying earnings are described further in note 4. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
9 Goodwill
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
Cost 
At beginning of period 1,443.8 1,538.1
Additions 1.1 5.1
Disposals (12.7) (0.2)
Currency retranslation 57.6 (99.2)
At end of period 1,489.8 1,443.8
Impairment 
At beginning of period 703.1 567.3
Non-underlying impairment 51.8 174.3
Currency retranslation 30.7 (38.5)
At end of period 785.6 703.1
Net book value at the end of period 704.2 740.7
(a) Carrying value
The carrying value of goodwill is made up of the following businesses:
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
Elkjøp Nordic AS (Elkjøp) 676.5 650.9
Unieuro S.p.A. (Unieuro) 27.7 26.6
PIXmania S.A.S. (PIXmania) – 46.1
Others – 17.1
704.2 740.7
The non-underlying impairment charges predominantly comprise PIXmania (2011/12 PIXmania, Unieuro and Kotsovolos).
Further details of impairment charges are shown in note 4.
2012/13: 
In respect of PIXmania, the macro-economic uncertainties which continue in southern Europe together with a further 
underperformance in the current period, coupled with a strategic review being undertaken at PIXmania following the change in 
management control in August 2012, have led to the conclusion that the more conservative outlook for the business now causes 
the original acquisition goodwill from 2006/07 to be fully impaired.
The disposals predominantly comprise the Equanet business which is described further in note 4. 
2011/12: 
For all three businesses impaired, increasing weaknesses in the Southern European economies which were particularly evident 
over the Peak trading period, together with the ensuing expectations that the achievability of targets will be considerably less 
than previously forecast and recovery may be prolonged, caused the directors to revise projections for the five year period 
referred to below significantly downwards when compared to previous periods, thereby giving rise to impairment charges.
The revised projections for Unieuro incorporated management’s actions on costs as well as improving the estate and 
competitiveness in the market. In respect of PIXmania, this business had been evolving its business model through growth in 
new product categories, its E-merchant e-commerce platform, as well as other initiatives. Such actions were considered by 
management, through the impairment modelling described below, to appropriately support the remaining carrying value of the 
goodwill for Unieuro and PIXmania.
The projections for Kotsovolos demonstrated a robust market position, however, the uncertainty concerning the outlook for the 
economy in Greece had suppressed the projections such that the remaining value of goodwill was impaired down to £nil.
Further details of these charges is shown in note 4 and the methodology used in their calculation is set out below. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
9 Goodwill (continued)
(b) Impairment testing
As required by IAS 36, goodwill is subject to annual impairment reviews. These reviews are carried out using the following criteria:
•	 business acquisitions generate an attributed amount of goodwill; 
•	 the manner in which these businesses are run and managed is used to determine the ‘Cash Generating Unit’ (CGU) grouping as 
defined in IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’;
•	 the recoverable amount of each CGU group is determined based on calculating its value in use (VIU);
•	 the VIU is calculated by applying discounted cash flow modelling to management’s own projections covering a five year period;
•	 cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated using a long term growth rate equivalent to the relevant market’s Gross 
Domestic Product (GDP); and
•	 the VIU is then compared to the carrying amount in order to determine whether impairment has occurred. 
The key assumptions used in calculating value in use are:
•	 management’s five year projections;
•	 the growth rate beyond five years; and 
•	 the pre-tax adjusted discount rate. 
The five year projections, which have been approved by management, have been prepared using risk adjusted strategic plans 
which have regard to the relative performance of competitors and knowledge of the current market together with management’s 
views on the future achievable growth in market share and impact of the committed initiatives. The cash flows which derive from 
these five year projections include ongoing capital expenditure required to develop and upgrade the store network in order to 
maintain and operate the businesses and to compete in their markets. In forming the five year projections, management draws 
on past experience as a measure to forecast future performance.
Key assumptions used in determining the five year projections comprise the growth in sales and costs over this period. The 
compound annual growth rate in sales and costs can rise as well as fall year on year depending not only on the year five 
targets, but also on the current financial year base. These targets, when combined, accordingly drive the resulting profit margins 
and the profit in year five of the projections which is in turn used to calculate the terminal value in the VIU calculation. Historical 
amounts for the businesses under impairment review as well as from other parts of the Group are used to generate the values 
attributed to these assumptions.
The growth rate beyond five years is based on the GDP for the territories in which these businesses operate. The discount rates 
applied to cash flows are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital having regard to the strategic five year plans 
themselves already being risk adjusted to take account of specific risks in the relevant market or region. 
The values attributed to these assumptions are as follows:
2013 2012
Compound  
annual growth 
in sales
Compound 
 annual growth 
 in costs
Growth rate 
beyond  
five years
Pre-tax 
discount rate
Compound  
annual growth 
 in sales
Compound  
annual growth 
 in costs
Growth rate 
beyond  
five years
Pre-tax 
discount rate
Elkjøp 6.6% 6.6% 2.5% 10.7% 6.1% 6.1% 2.5% 11.4%
Unieuro 10.0% 9.5% 1.2% 11.8% 6.9% 6.0% 1.5% 11.8%
PIXmania n/a n/a n/a n/a 10.5% 9.4% 2.0% 11.1%
Kotsovolos n/a n/a n/a n/a 3.1% 1.8% 1.5% 10.7%
(c) Sensitivities
A sensitivity analysis had been performed on each of the base case assumptions used for assessing the goodwill with other 
variables held constant. Consideration of sensitivities to key assumptions can evolve from one financial year to the next. 
The directors have concluded that in the case of Elkjøp there are no reasonably possible changes in any key assumption which 
would cause the carrying amount of goodwill to exceed its value in use. In the case of Unieuro it is reasonably possible that a 
change in a key assumption could occur despite the continuing improvements in performance as referred to in the Performance 
Review section of the Directors’ Report. The following sensitivities are therefore presented, which are calculated independently, 
leaving all other variables constant:
•	 decrease in the compound annual growth rate in sales; 
•	 increase in the compound annual growth rate in costs; 
•	 decrease in the growth rate beyond five years; and 
•	 increase in the pre-tax discount rate.
In addition to the above, a further sensitivity is presented which shows the effect of a decrease in the compound annual growth 
rate in sales combined with an equivalent reduction in the compound annual growth rate in costs in order to reflect how sales 
and costs are interconnected. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
9 Goodwill (continued)
2013
Change required for surplus of value in use over carrying value to erode to £nil
Surplus of 
value in use  
over carrying 
value 
£million
Decrease in 
compound  
annual growth  
in sales
Increase in 
compound 
 annual growth  
in costs
Decrease in 
compound  
annual growth  
in sales and 
costs
Decrease in 
growth rate 
beyond 
five years
Increase  
in pre-tax 
discount rate
Unieuro 28.0 (0.08)% 0.08% (8.9)% (10.7)% 5.2%
2012
Amount of further impairment determined by further changes in key assumptions
Surplus of 
value in use 
over carrying 
value
Decrease in 
compound  
annual growth  
in sales
Increase in 
compound 
annual growth  
in costs
Decrease in 
compound 
annual growth 
in sales and 
costs
Decrease in 
growth rate 
beyond 
five years
Increase  
in pre-tax  
discount rate
Percentage change (0.05)% 0.05% (1.0)% (0.1)% 0.5%
£million £million £million £million £million £million
Unieuro – 17.0 16.9 3.0 0.9 5.6 Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
10 Intangible assets
Other intangibles
Acquired 
intangibles 
£million
Software 
(externally 
acquired) 
£million
Software 
(internally 
generated) 
£million
Sub-total 
£million
Total 
£million
Cost
At 1 May 2011 88.8 139.4 74.6 214.0 302.8
Additions – 9.5 3.7 13.2 13.2
Disposals – (3.8) (1.8) (5.6) (5.6)
Currency retranslation (6.5) (3.5) (1.2) (4.7) (11.2)
At 28 April 2012 82.3 141.6 75.3 216.9 299.2
Additions – 12.4 5.6 18.0 18.0
Disposals (3.5) (0.4) (4.8) (5.2) (8.7)
Transfer to assets held for sale (3.3) – – – (3.3)
Currency retranslation 3.1 2.4 0.7 3.1 6.2
At 30 April 2013 78.6 156.0 76.8 232.8 311.4
Amortisation
At 1 May 2011 36.3 99.8 53.6 153.4 189.7
Charge for the period – regular – 10.4 8.0 18.4 18.4
– non-underlying 4.5 – – – 4.5
Disposals – (3.8) (1.6) (5.4) (5.4)
Currency retranslation (2.5) (2.7) (0.9) (3.6) (6.1)
At 28 April 2012 38.3 103.7 59.1 162.8 201.1
Charge for the period – regular – 10.8 6.7 17.5 17.5
– non-underlying 4.2 – – – 4.2
Non-underlying impairment 25.1 – 1.9 1.9 27.0
Disposals (3.5) (0.2) (3.9) (4.1) (7.6)
Transfer to assets held for sale (1.5) – – – (1.5)
Currency retranslation 1.5 2.1 0.7 2.8 4.3
At 30 April 2013 64.1 116.4 64.5 180.9 245.0
Net book value
At 30 April 2013 14.5 39.6 12.3 51.9 66.4
At 28 April 2012 44.0 37.9 16.2 54.1 98.1
Acquired intangibles predominantly comprise brand names. The non-underlying impairment relates to the PIXmania brand name 
as described in note 4. 
The transfer to assets held for sale relates to the Group’s sale of Webhallen as discussed further in notes 4 and 27.
Included within the carrying amount of brand names is £14.5 million relating to the Kotsovolos brand name (2012 £27.2 million, 
£14.6 million relating to the PIXmania and Kotsovolos brand names, respectively) and for which the remaining life of this asset is 
21 years. Included in net book value of other intangibles are assets under construction of £16.1 million (2012 £15.8 million). Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
11 Property, plant & equipment
2013 2012
Land and  
buildings  
£million
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£million
Total 
£million
Land and 
buildings  
£million
Fixtures,  
fittings and 
equipment 
£million
Total 
£million
Cost
At beginning of period 153.1 1,202.2 1,355.3 209.6 1,327.9 1,537.5
Additions – 82.5 82.5 2.1 78.7 80.8
Disposals (1.2) (114.0) (115.2) (56.9) (166.0) (222.9)
Transfer to assets held for sale – (2.0) (2.0) – – –
Currency retranslation 0.3 21.1 21.4 (1.7) (38.4) (40.1)
At end of period 152.2 1,189.8 1,342.0 153.1 1,202.2 1,355.3
Depreciation
At beginning of period 57.4 817.5 874.9 64.4 889.4 953.8
Charge for the period – regular 5.5 111.0 116.5 5.8 114.6 120.4
– non-underlying: accelerated – – – – 3.4 3.4
Non-underlying impairment 7.9 4.2 12.1 3.7 6.4 10.1
Reclassification – – – 13.3 (13.3) –
Disposals (0.6) (108.5) (109.1) (29.7) (160.2) (189.9)
Transfer to assets held for sale – (1.0) (1.0) – – –
Currency retranslation (0.1) 14.7 14.6 (0.1) (22.8) (22.9)
At end of period 70.1 837.9 908.0 57.4 817.5 874.9
Net book value at end of period 82.1 351.9 434.0 95.7 384.7 480.4
Included in net book value
Land not depreciated 6.5 – 6.5 9.5 – 9.5
Assets in the course of construction – 17.7 17.7 – 14.5 14.5
Assets held under finance leases 59.7 3.0 62.7 69.8 4.8 74.6
£0.9 million of additions related to finance leases (2011/12 £4.8 million). Legal title for these leased assets remains with the lessor.
The transfer to assets held for sale relates to the Group’s sale of Webhallen as discussed further in notes 4 and 27. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
12 Investments in associates
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
At beginning of period 3.5 3.4
Share of profit after tax – 0.6
Acquisitions – 0.1
Non-underlying impairment (2.5) –
Transfer of associate to subsidiary undertakings (0.3) (0.5)
Dividend (0.4) –
Currency retranslation 0.2 (0.1)
At end of period 0.5 3.5
Comprising:
F-Group (40%) – 2.7
Other 0.5 0.8
0.5 3.5
The Group’s share of post-tax results of associates is recorded as a single line in the income statement within operating results. 
Investments in other associates comprise shareholdings in several different enterprises in the Nordic region, none of which are 
significant.
2012/13: The non-underlying impairment relates to weakness in the results and long term outlook for F-Group such that the 
directors have concluded that a full impairment is required. 
In 2012/13 and 2011/12 the transfer of associate to subsidiary undertakings relates to previous small associate shareholdings 
which became subsidiaries following the acquisition of the remaining shares during the period.
13 Inventories
2013  
£million
2012  
£million
Finished goods and goods for resale 928.7 908.6
Provision for obsolete and slow moving goods (33.3) (34.4)
895.4 874.2 Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
14 Trade and other receivables
2013 2012
Note
Current  
£million
Non-current 
£million
Current  
£million
Non-current 
£million
Trade debtors 197.6 4.6 220.4 5.7
Provision for bad and doubtful debts (25.0) – (24.8) –
172.6 4.6 195.6 5.7
Derivative financial instruments 22 4.3 – 13.0 –
Other debtors 40.7 15.7 47.2 16.9
Prepayments 63.3 0.3 65.4 1.0
Accrued income 23.6 – 22.7 –
304.5 20.6 343.9 23.6
The majority of trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 day terms. The balance 
comprises both B2B receivables and consumer credit receivables with no material individual balances. The total financial assets 
included within trade and other receivables are £261.5 million (2012 £301.1 million). The carrying amount of trade and other 
receivables approximates fair value with no concentration of credit risk. 
The Group’s trade debtors included the following amounts which are past due at the end of the period and for which the Group 
has not provided for owing to the amounts being considered recoverable:
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
Up to six months past due 24.9 34.1
Six to 12 months past due 1.4 1.3
Over 12 months past due 0.2 –
26.5 35.4
Movements on the provision for bad and doubtful debts are as follows:
2013  
£million
2012  
£million
At beginning of period 24.8 25.9
Charge for the year 5.6 6.5
Utilisation of provision (5.3) (6.5)
Currency retranslation (0.1) (1.1)
At end of period 25.0 24.8
The Group does not hold any collateral as security over receivables balances.
15 Short term investments
2013  
£million
2012  
£million
Floating rate notes 2.4 2.3
Money market deposits – 5.0
2.4 7.3
Floating rate notes have a nominal value of £2.5 million (2012 £2.8 million) and have an average expected maturity of 
13.8 years (2012 12.9 years). During 2011/12 money market deposits were made for varying periods of 90 to 180 days. At 
28 April 2012 the outstanding deposits had an average maturity of 118 days. The carrying amount of money market deposits 
approximates their fair value. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
16 Cash and cash equivalents
2013  
£million
2012  
£million
Cash at bank 107.3 199.3
Money market deposits 298.0 117.5
405.3 316.8
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. Money 
market deposits are made for varying periods of up to 90 days with an average maturity of 31 days (2012 17 days). The carrying 
amount of money market deposits approximates their fair value.
17 Borrowings
2013  
£million
2012  
£million
Current 
Bank overdrafts 17.7 15.8
Other borrowing 4.5 –
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 – 162.5
22.2 178.3
Non-current 
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 98.8 147.8
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 146.6 –
245.4 147.8
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand.
On 24 May 2012, the Group signed an amendment and restatement agreement implementing a revised revolving facility 
agreement for £300 million (the Amended Facility). This Amended Facility, which has a maturity date of 30 June 2015, amended 
the previous £360 million revolving credit facility (the £360 million Facility) and the terms and covenants attaching to the 
Amended Facility are substantially the same as that for the £360 million Facility. In September 2012, the Amended Facility 
reduced to £225 million upon issue of the 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 (under the terms stipulated in the Amended Facility 
concerning the issuance of new borrowings) and will reduce further to £200 million in August 2013. The available amount of 
the Amended Facility is reduced by any pre-designated funds. As at 30 April 2013 there were no drawings under the Amended 
Facility and the available amount was £205.7 million (2012 no drawings under the £360 million Facility with an available 
undrawn amount of £360 million). The £225 million Facility is described further in note 22(d).
Current borrowings include loans in Turkey with an average maturity of 84 days at a rate of 8.1% which cover credit card 
receivables.
The carrying amount of current borrowings approximates their fair value.
On 20 September 2012, the Group repurchased £49.4 million in nominal amount of its 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (the 2015 
Notes). This repurchase was funded by part of a new issue of £150 million 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 (the 2017 Notes) and 
for which the proceeds were received on 19 September 2012.
The remaining 2015 Notes are denominated in sterling with a nominal value of £100.6 million (2012 £150 million), paying 
interest semi-annually, and are guaranteed by a number of UK and Irish subsidiary undertakings of the Group, including DSG 
Retail Limited. The 2015 Notes are listed on the London Stock Exchange. Unless previously redeemed or purchased and 
cancelled the 2015 Notes will be redeemed at par on 3 August 2015. The 2015 Notes may be redeemed in whole or in part at 
their principal amount plus accrued interest by providing 30 to 60 days’ notice to the Noteholders. The 2015 Notes may also be 
purchased in the open market by any company within the Group. In either circumstance, the 2015 Notes and any unmatured 
coupons will be cancelled and may not be re-issued or re-sold. In the event of a specific change of control event, each 
Noteholder has an option to require Dixons Retail plc to redeem or, at the option of Dixons Retail plc, purchase (or procure the 
purchase of) any of the 2015 Notes held by such Noteholder at a cash price equal to 101% of their principal amount together 
with interest accrued. The value of the 2015 Notes excludes accrued interest of £2.2 million (2012 £3.2 million), included in 
trade and other payables. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
17 Borrowings (continued)
The 2017 Notes are denominated in sterling with a nominal value of £150 million, paying interest semi-annually, and are 
guaranteed by a number of UK and Irish subsidiary undertakings of the Group, including DSG Retail Limited. The 2017 Notes 
are listed on the London Stock Exchange. Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled the 2017 Notes will be 
redeemed at par on 15 September 2017. The 2017 Notes may be redeemed in whole or in part at their principal amount plus 
accrued interest by providing 30 to 60 days’ notice to the Noteholders. The 2017 Notes may also be purchased in the open 
market by any company within the Group. In either circumstance, the 2017 Notes and any unmatured coupons will be cancelled 
and may not be re-issued or re-sold. In the event of a specific change of control event, each Noteholder has an option to require 
Dixons Retail plc to redeem or, at the option of Dixons Retail plc, purchase (or procure the purchase of) any of the 2017 Notes 
held by such Noteholder at a cash price equal to 101% of their principal amount together with interest accrued. The value of the 
2017 Notes excludes accrued interest of £1.6 million, included in trade and other payables.
The 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (the 2012 Bonds) were redeemed on 15 November 2012. At 28 April 2012, the value of 
the 2012 Bonds excluded accrued interest of £4.4 million, included in trade and other payables.
Further information concerning fair value, hedging and ensuing interest rate and currency profiles relating to the 2012 Bonds, 
the 2015 Notes and the 2017 Notes is included in note 22.
18 Obligations under finance leases
2013 2012
Minimum lease 
payments 
£million
Present value 
of minimum 
lease 
payments 
£million
Minimum lease 
payments 
£million
Present value 
of minimum 
lease 
payments 
£million
Amounts due:
Within one year 9.0 8.3 10.1 9.2
In more than one year and not more than five years 34.6 27.9 34.8 28.2
In more than five years 130.7 61.8 139.7 64.6
174.3 98.0 184.6 102.0
Less future finance charges (76.3) – (82.6) –
Present value of lease obligations 98.0 98.0 102.0 102.0
Less amounts due within one year (2.0) (2.0) (3.1) (3.1)
Amounts due after more than one year 96.0 96.0 98.9 98.9
The majority of finance leases relate to properties in the UK where obligations are denominated in sterling and remaining lease 
terms vary between 12 and 23 years. The effective borrowing rate on individual leases ranged between 5.51% and 8.15% 
(2012 between 5.51% and 8.15%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no 
arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
19 Trade and other payables
2013 2012
Note
Current 
 £million
Non-current 
£million
Current 
 £million
Non-current 
£million
Trade creditors 1,064.0 – 961.1 –
Other taxation and social security 138.6 – 133.5 –
Derivative financial instruments
22
5.5 – 67.2 –
Other creditors 64.7 21.8 36.5 21.8
Accruals 245.0 85.5 230.2 83.6
Deferred income – customer support agreements 116.3 154.5 120.5 147.0
Deferred income – other 33.6 0.7 30.0 2.8
1,667.7 262.5 1,579.0 255.2
Included in other creditors and accruals is £60.0 million (2012 £60.4 million) relating to other non-financial liabilities. The total 
financial liabilities included in trade and other payables are £1,426.5 million (2012 £1,340.0 million). The carrying amount of 
trade and other payables approximates their fair value. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
20 Provisions
2013 2012
Property  
related  
£million
Severance  
and other 
£million
 Total  
£million
Property  
related  
£million
Severance  
and other 
£million
 Total  
£million
At beginning of period 31.1 7.1 38.2 38.4 21.9 60.3
Additions 18.5 25.7 44.2 17.5 5.5 23.0
Transfer to liabilities held for sale – (0.4) (0.4) – – –
Utilisation (10.0) (9.8) (19.8) (23.6) (20.2) (43.8)
Currency retranslation 0.5 0.2 0.7 (1.2) (0.1) (1.3)
At end of period 40.1 22.8 62.9 31.1 7.1 38.2
Analysed as:
Current 14.0 22.8 36.8 11.5 7.1 18.6
Non-current 26.1 – 26.1 19.6 – 19.6
40.1 22.8 62.9 31.1 7.1 38.2
Additions during the period relate to restructuring and business impairment charges which are described further in note 4. 
Property related provisions mainly comprise onerous lease contracts.
Of the amounts included within non-current liabilities remaining at 30 April 2013, the majority are expected to be utilised within 
the next ten years.
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
Retirement benefit obligations – UK (406.4) (261.9)
– Northern Europe (2.7) (4.1)
(409.1) (266.0)
The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes.
The principal scheme which operates in the UK includes a funded defined benefit section whose assets are held in a separate 
trustee administered fund. The scheme is valued by a qualified actuary at least every three years and contributions are 
assessed in accordance with the actuary’s advice so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives 
of members. Since 1 September 2002, the defined benefit section of the scheme has been closed to new entrants and on 
30 April 2010 was closed to future accrual with automatic entry into the defined contribution section being offered to those 
active members of the defined benefit section at that time. Membership of the defined contribution section is offered to eligible 
employees.
In the Northern Europe division, the Group operates two funded secured defined benefit pension schemes with assets held by 
a life insurance company as well as an unsecured pension arrangement. In addition, contributions are made to a state pension 
scheme. The net movement in the obligation comprises a charge to operating profit of £0.9 million (2011/12 £0.6 million) with 
the remaining movements relating to the benefits paid in the period, actuarial gains / (losses) and currency retranslation.
In other territories, the Group also provides other post-employment benefits which are largely governed by statute, in particular 
in Italy and Greece. These benefits are unfunded.
(a) Defined contribution pension schemes
The pension charge in respect of defined contribution schemes was £16.9 million (2011/12 £12.6 million). Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations (continued)
(b) UK Defined benefit pension scheme – actuarial valuation and assumptions
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was last carried out as at 31 March 2010 and showed a shortfall of assets compared with 
liabilities of £239.0 million. A ‘recovery plan’ based on this valuation, agreed with the trustee, commenced in 2010/11 with special 
contributions of £12.0 million, which rose to £16.0 million and £20.0 million in 2011/12 and 2012/13 respectively. Contributions 
will remain at £20.0 million for 2013/14 and will rise approximately annually thereafter to £35.0 million by 2020/21. The next 
triennial valuation has commenced and will be as at 31 March 2013.
The principal actuarial assumptions as at 31 March 2010 were:
Rate per annum
Discount rate for accrued benefits – Pre-retirement 6.4% 
– Post-retirement 5.1% – 5.3% 
Rate of increase to pensions – Guaranteed Minimum Pension 0% – 2.8% 
– Pension in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pension 2.4% – 4.1% 
Inflation 3.7% 
Expected return on assets 6.6%
At 31 March 2010, the market value of the scheme’s investments was £672.0 million and, based on the above assumptions, 
the value of the assets was sufficient to cover 74% of the benefits accrued to members with the liabilities amounting to 
£911.0 million.
(c) UK Defined benefit pension scheme – IAS 19
The following summarises the components of net benefit expense recognised in the consolidated income statement, the funded 
status and amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. The methodologies set out in IAS 19 are different from those 
used by the scheme actuaries in determining funding arrangements.
(i) Principal assumptions adopted
The assumptions used in calculating the expenses and obligations are set by the directors after consultation with the 
independent actuaries.
2013 2012
Rates per annum
Discount rate 4.3% 5.2%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment / deferred pensions (pre / post April 2006 accrual) 3.2% / 2.1% 3.1% / 2.1%
Inflation 3.3% 3.2%
The Group uses certain demographic assumptions when calculating scheme obligations which are those underlying the last 
formal actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 31 March 2010. In particular, post-retirement mortality has been assumed 
to follow the standard mortality tables ‘S1’ All Pensioners tables published by the CMI, based on the experience of Self-
Administered Pension Schemes (SAPS) from 2000 to 2006 with medium cohort improvements up to 2009 and multipliers of 
105% for males and 110% for females. In addition, an allowance has been made for future improvements in longevity by using 
the new CMI 2009 Core projections with a long term rate of improvement of 1.5% per annum for men and 1.0% per annum 
for women. Applying such tables results in an average expected longevity of between 87.2 years and 88.8 years for men and 
between 88.6 years and 89.7 years for women (2012 between 87.1 years and 88.7 years for men and between 88.5 years and 
89.6 years for women) for those becoming 65 at the measurement date.
(ii) Amounts recognised in consolidated income statement
2012/13
£million
2011/12
£million
Expected return on plan assets 43.5 44.8
Interest cost on benefit obligations (50.8) (50.5)
Net other finance costs (7.3) (5.7) Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations (continued)
(iii) Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet
2013  
£million
2012  
£million
2011 
 £million
2010  
£million
2009 
 £million
Present value of defined benefit obligations (1,225.2) (991.8) (949.7) (929.4) (693.3)
Fair value of plan assets 818.8 729.9 705.7 665.9 544.5
Net obligation (406.4) (261.9) (244.0) (263.5) (148.8)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation:
 
2013  
£million
2012  
£million
Opening obligation 991.8 949.7
Interest cost 50.8 50.5
Actuarial loss 211.6 24.6
Benefits paid (29.0) (33.0)
Closing obligation 1,225.2 991.8
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets:
2013 
 £million
2012 
 £million
Opening fair value 729.9 705.7
Expected return 43.5 44.8
Employer special contributions 20.0 16.0
Actuarial gain / (loss) 54.4 (3.6)
Benefits paid (29.0) (33.0)
Closing fair value 818.8 729.9
Analysis of scheme assets:
2013 2012
Long term 
expected rate of 
return £million
% of fair value 
of total  
scheme 
 assets
Long term  
expected rate of 
return £million
% of fair value
 of total  
scheme 
 assets
Equities (UK / Overseas) 7.0% / 7.6% 539.7 65.9% 7.0% / 7.6% 481.7 66.0%
Property 4.9% 33.4 4.1% 5.2% 32.9 4.5%
Bonds / gilts 2.8% 238.5 29.1% 3.4% 205.8 28.2%
Cash 3.3% 7.2 0.9% 3.2% 9.5 1.3%
818.8 729.9
The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, 
applicable to the period over which the obligation is to be settled. Actual return on the scheme assets was a gain of £97.9 million 
(2011/12 gain of £41.2 million). The actual return on other post-employment benefit scheme assets was not significant.
(iv) Experience adjustments recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense:
2012/13 
 £million
2011/12 
 £million
2010/11 
 £million
2009/10 
 £million
2008/09 
 £million
(Loss) / gain on scheme liabilities (211.6) (24.6) 3.7 (241.4) 81.8
Gain / (loss) from actual less expected return on assets 54.4 (3.6) 9.4 85.4 (196.1)
Actuarial (losses) / gains (157.2) (28.2) 13.1 (156.0) (114.3)
Cumulative actuarial (loss) / gain (433.8) (276.6) (248.4) (261.5) (105.5) Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations (continued)
(d) Sensitivities 
The value of the UK defined benefit pension scheme assets is sensitive to market conditions, particularly equity values. Changes 
in assumptions used for determining retirement benefit costs and liabilities may have a material impact on the 2012/13 income 
statement and the balance sheet. The main assumptions are the discount rate, the rate of inflation and the assumed mortality 
rate. The following table provides an estimate of the potential impacts of each of these variables if applied to the current period 
consolidated income statement and balance sheet. 
Net finance costs Net deficit
2012/13
£million
2011/12
£million
2013  
£million
2012  
£million
Positive / (negative) effect:
Discount rate: 0.25% increase 0.2 0.2 62.5 53.3
Inflation rate: 0.25% increase
†
(2.4) (2.4) (53.5) (47.6)
Mortality rate: 1 year increase (1.4) (1.3) (36.2) (25.8)
†
 The increase in scheme benefits provided to members on retirement is subject to an inflation cap. 
(e) Other post-employment benefits – IAS 19
The Group offers other post-employment benefits to employees in overseas locations. At 30 April 2013 the net obligation in 
relation to these benefits was £12.6 million (2012 £11.1 million). The net movement in the obligation comprises a charge to 
operating profit of £5.5 million (2011/12 £3.8 million) with the remaining movements relating to the benefits paid in the period, 
actuarial gains / (losses) and currency retranslation.
22 Financial instruments
(a) Financial risk management objectives and policies 
Treasury operations are managed centrally within policies approved by the Board and are subject to periodic independent 
internal and external reviews. Group Treasury reports regularly to the Tax & Treasury Committee and as required, to the Board. 
The major treasury risks to which the Group is exposed relate to market risks (movements in foreign exchange and interest 
rates), liquidity risk and credit risk. Areas where risks are most likely to occur are evaluated regularly. The Group uses financial 
instruments and derivatives to manage these risks in accordance with defined policies. Throughout the period under review, in 
accordance with Group policy, no speculative use of derivatives, foreign exchange or other instruments was permitted.
The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in note 1.16.
Exchange rate risk
The Group is exposed to exchange movements on recognised assets and liabilities, overseas earnings and translated values 
of foreign currency assets and liabilities. The Group’s principal translation currency exposures are the euro and Norwegian 
krone. Taking into account the cost of hedging, the Group’s policy is to match, in whole or in part, currency earnings with related 
currency costs and currency assets with currency liabilities through the use of appropriate hedging instruments.
The Group is also exposed to certain transactional currency exposures. Such exposures arise from purchases in currencies 
other than in the functional currency of the entity. The Group’s principal transactional currency exposures are the US dollar 
and euro. It is Group policy to minimise the currency exposures on such purchases through the use of appropriate hedging 
instruments such as forward exchange contracts. Such contracts are designed to cover exposures ranging from one month to 
one year.
Interest rate risk
The principal interest rate risks of the Group arise in respect of sterling cash, investments and euro and sterling borrowings. 
Potential exposure to interest rate movements is mitigated by the Group’s policy to match to the extent possible the profile of 
interest payments with that of its interest receipts. 
Liquidity risk
It is Group policy to maintain a balance of funds, borrowings, committed bank and other facilities sufficient to meet anticipated 
short term and long term financial requirements. In applying this policy the Group continuously monitors forecast and actual 
cash flows against the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Uncommitted facilities are used if available on 
advantageous terms. It is Group Treasury policy to ensure that a specific level of committed facilities is always available based 
on forecast working capital requirements. 
Cash forecasts identifying the Group’s liquidity requirements are produced and are stress tested for different scenarios 
including, but not limited to, reasonably possible decreases in profit margins and increases in interest rates on the Group’s 
borrowing facilities and the weakening of sterling against other functional currencies within the Group. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
22 Financial instruments (continued)
Credit risk
The Group’s exposure to credit risk on liquid funds, investments (mainly bank deposits and floating rate notes) and derivative 
financial instruments arises from the risk of non-performance of counterparties, with a maximum exposure equal to the book 
value of these assets. The Group limits its exposure to credit risk through application of Group Treasury policy which limit the 
credit exposure to counterparties with a Moody’s long term credit rating below A1, bank financial strength rating below C and 
short term credit rating below P1. The Group also has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any single financial 
institution. The Group continuously reviews the credit quality of counterparties, the limits placed on individual credit exposures 
and categories of investments. The Group does not anticipate non-performance of counterparties and believes it is not subject 
to material concentration of credit risk given the policies in place. 
The Group’s receivable balances comprise a large number of individually small amounts from unrelated customers, spread 
across diverse industries and geographical areas. Concentration of risk is therefore limited and maximum exposure is equal to 
the book value of receivables. Sales to retail customers are made predominantly in cash or via major credit cards. It is Group 
policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. New credit customers 
are assessed using an external rating report which is used to establish a credit limit. Such limits are reviewed periodically on 
both a proactive and reactive basis, for example, when a customer wishes to place an order in excess of their existing credit 
limit. Receivable balances are monitored regularly with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. 
Management therefore believe that there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for 
doubtful receivables.
Capital risk management
It is the Group’s policy to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to 
sustain the future development of the business. The Group is subject to certain externally imposed capital requirements in the 
form of banking covenants involving borrowing ratios which it met throughout the period.
The Board has delegated responsibility for routine capital expenditure to a Capital Committee, which has approval responsibility 
for: Group long term and budgeted capital spend, setting capital assessment criteria, new store capital approval, subsidiary 
company funding, business acquisitions, business disposals and contingent liabilities such as guarantees. The Committee also 
approves routine statutory and internal delegated powers of authority in relation to capital expenditure.
The Group considers the manner in which funds are distributed to shareholders by assessing the performance of the business, 
the level of available net funds and the short to medium term strategic plans concerning future capital spend as well as the 
need to meet banking covenants and borrowing ratios. Such assessment will influence the level of dividends payable as well as 
consideration from time to time of market purchases of the Group’s own shares.
The Group monitors available net funds on a regular basis and this is affected by Free Cash Flow, one of the Group’s key 
performance indicators as defined further in the Strategic Summary section of the Directors’ Report.
(b) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
For receivables and payables classified as financial assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 32, fair value is estimated to 
be equivalent to book value. These values are shown in notes 14 and 19, respectively. The categories of financial assets and 
liabilities and their related accounting policy are set out in notes 1.11 and 1.15. 
For those financial assets and liabilities which bear either a floating rate of interest or no interest, fair value is estimated to be 
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in note 22(d). 
The 2012 Bonds were repurchased during the year. At 28 April 2012, the fair value of the 2012 Bonds was £160.4 million and 
they were carried at amortised cost, plus a fair value adjustment, as a result of the fair value hedge discussed below. Excluded 
from the fair value was £4.4 million of accrued interest which was included in trade and other payables.
The fair value of the 2015 Notes is £112.4 million (2012 £147.4 million). The 2015 Notes are carried at amortised cost. Excluded 
from the fair value is £2.2 million (2012 £3.2 million) of accrued interest which is included in trade and other payables. 
The 2017 Notes were issued during the period and the fair value is £169.1 million. The 2017 Notes are carried at amortised 
cost. Excluded from the fair value is £1.6 million of accrued interest which is included in trade and other payables. 
Fair value of derivatives is predominantly determined using observable market data such as interest rates and foreign exchange 
rates. As such, derivatives are classified as ‘Level 2’ under the requirements of IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’.  Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
22 Financial instruments (continued)
Fair values of derivatives by designation 
2013
Trade and other 
receivables - current 
£million
Trade and other 
payables - current 
£million 
Total  
£million
Derivatives held to:
Manage the currency exposure of:
Financial assets and liabilities 2.9 (1.9) 1.0
Future transactions occurring within one year 1.4 (3.6) (2.2)
Total derivatives 4.3 (5.5) (1.2)
2012
Trade and other 
receivables - current 
£million
Trade and other 
payables - current 
£million
Total  
£million
Derivatives held to:
Hedge interest rate risk 9.0 – 9.0
Manage the currency exposure of:
Financial assets and liabilities 1.5 (3.9) (2.4)
Net investments in overseas subsidiaries – (62.6) (62.6)
Future transactions occurring within one year 2.5 (0.7) 1.8
Total derivatives 13.0 (67.2) (54.2)
Included in derivative financial instruments are forward foreign currency contracts, options, interest rate swaps and currency swaps. 
(c) Hedging activities
The Group manages exposures that arise on purchases and sales denominated in foreign currencies predominantly by entering 
into forward foreign exchange currency contracts. It also uses swaps and options to manage its interest rate and foreign 
exchange translation exposure. 
During the year, the Group had interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges for the 2012 Bonds with a notional amount 
of £125 million whereby it received a fixed interest rate of 6.125% and paid a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR, which 
matured in November 2012. The Group also had interest rate swaps in place with a notional amount of £125 million whereby the 
Group received a fixed interest rate of 6.125% and paid a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR, and which acted as a hedge 
for the 2015 Notes until August 2012. These swaps were not designated as hedges under IAS 39.
During 2011/12 forward foreign exchange contracts were entered into which reduced the hedge against euro denominated net 
investments to €100 million at 28 April 2012. These derivative contracts matured in November 2012.
The Group designates financial instruments as hedges under IAS 39 as follows:
Cash flow hedges
At 30 April 2013 the Group had forward foreign exchange contracts in place with a notional value of £381.3 million (2012 £415.5 million) 
that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges. These contracts are expected to cover exposures ranging from one month to 
one year. The fair value movement on these currency derivatives which has been taken to equity in the year amounts to a £12.7 million 
loss (2011/12 £3.3 million gain). In respect of contracts which matured during the period, losses of £5.4 million and losses of £3.4 million 
have been transferred out of equity into inventory and out of equity into operating profit, respectively (2011/12 losses of £4.7 million and 
gains of £5.3 million). 
No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in the income statement (2011/12 £0.2 million gain).
Fair value hedges
As mentioned above the Group had interest rate swaps in place for the 2012 Bonds whereby it received a fixed interest rate 
of 6.125% and paid a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR. The interest rate swaps were used to hedge the exposure to 
changes in the fair value of £125 million of the 2012 Bonds and had the same critical terms. At 28 April 2012, the fair value of 
interest rate swaps entered into as fair value hedges was an asset of £5.3 million. These swaps matured in November 2012.
A fair value loss on the interest rate swaps of £2.4 million (2011/12 loss of £4.4 million) has been recognised in the income 
statement and offset by an equivalent fair value gain on the 2012 Bonds. Hedge ineffectiveness of £0.2 million loss was 
recorded in the income statement (2012 £0.6 million gain). Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations
The Group had forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps in place which matured in November 2012 with 
a notional value of €100 million which were designated as a hedge of the net investments in foreign operations. Gains and 
losses on the retranslation of these derivatives were transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net 
investments in the foreign operations. At 28 April 2012, the fair value of currency derivatives entered into as net investment 
hedges was a £62.6 million liability.
No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in the income statement (2011/12 £nil).
(d) Interest rate profile of financial assets and financial liabilities by currency
The following table sets out the interest rate exposure of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group. The financial 
instruments not included in the table are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
2013
Sterling 
£million
Euro 
£million
US dollar 
£million
Other 
currencies 
£million
Total 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents and short term investments:
Floating rate 55.2 55.8 21.2 36.4 168.6
Fixed rate 239.1 – – – 239.1
294.3 55.8 21.2 36.4 407.7
Borrowings:
Floating rate – (6.1) – (11.6) (17.7)
Fixed rate (245.4) – – (4.5) (249.9)
Obligations under finance leases:
Fixed rate (95.3) (1.2) – (1.5) (98.0)
(340.7) (7.3) – (17.6) (365.6)
Net funds (46.4) 48.5 21.2 18.8 42.1
2012
Sterling 
£million
Euro 
£million
US dollar 
£million
Other 
currencies 
£million
Total 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents and short term investments:
Floating rate 106.2 35.9 33.7 27.7 203.5
Fixed rate 111.0 4.2 – 5.4 120.6
217.2 40.1 33.7 33.1 324.1
Borrowings:
Floating rate (50.0) (206.6) – (9.4) (266.0)
Fixed rate (60.1) – – – (60.1)
Obligations under finance leases:
Fixed rate (97.5) (3.2) – (1.3) (102.0)
(207.6) (209.8) – (10.7) (428.1)
Net debt 9.6 (169.7) 33.7 22.4 (104.0)
Floating rate cash and cash equivalents and short term investments relates to cash at bank and floating rate notes. Cash at 
bank earns interest at floating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. Floating rate notes 
have an effective yield of 0.99% (2012 1.19%).
Fixed rate cash and cash equivalents and short term investments are predominantly money market deposits (as shown in 
note 16) and earn interest at an average effective rate of 0.42% (2012 0.80%).
Floating rate borrowings include bank overdrafts and fixed rate bonds after taking into account the effect of interest rates swaps 
entered into by the Group. The weighted average effective interest rate on bank overdrafts approximates 5.7% (2012 9.9%). At 
28 April 2012, the Group’s interest rate swaps (which related to the 2012 Bonds and the 2015 Notes) had a nominal value of 
£250 million. During the period to maturity of these swaps in November 2012, the Group received fixed interest rates of 6.125% 
(2011/12 6.125%) and paid floating rates of LIBOR plus margins which ranged from 1.68% to 2.37% (2011/12 1.76% to 2.37%). 
At 28 April 2012, the Group’s currency swaps had a nominal value of £200 million, received LIBOR plus a margin and paid 
EURIBOR plus a margin. During the period to maturity of these swaps in November 2012, the sterling floating rates ranged from 
1.58% to 2.06% (2011/12 1.78% to 2.06%) and the euro floating rates ranged from 1.31% to 2.14% (2011/12 2.13% to 2.62%).
22 Financial instruments (continued) Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
The other major component of floating rate borrowings is drawings under the Amended Facility (2011/12 the £360 million 
Facility). Interest on drawn amounts on the Amended Facility is payable at LIBOR plus a margin of 3.75%. The commitment fee 
on undrawn amounts is 1.6875%. A utilisation fee of 0.25% is payable on drawings greater than one third of the maximum but 
less than two thirds of the maximum and a rate of 0.5% on drawings greater than two thirds of the maximum. The Amended 
Facility is guaranteed by a number of UK and Irish subsidiary undertakings of the Group, including DSG Retail Limited. In 
the event of a change of control, the syndicated banks have the option to terminate the Amended Facility. The terms of the 
£360 million Facility were similar and further information on both the Amended Facility and the £360 million Facility are shown in 
note 17.
At 28 April 2012, sterling fixed rate borrowings related to £35 million of the 2012 Bonds and £25 million of the 2015 Notes 
whereby the remainder had been swapped into floating rate borrowings as described in note 22(c).
Amounts in respect of other currencies relate to funds held within subsidiary companies, operating in the Nordic region and 
Central Europe.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial 
instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
(e) Sensitivity analysis
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, shows the sensitivity of profit before tax and total equity to changes in specified 
market variables on monetary assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments as listed below. As a consequence, 
the sensitivity reflects the position as at 30 April 2013 and 28 April 2012, and is not necessarily representative of actual or 
future outcomes.
Changes in exchange rates affect the Group’s profit before tax due to changes in the value of monetary assets and liabilities 
and derivative financial instruments. Changes in exchange rates affect the Group’s total equity due to changes in the fair value 
of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and net investment hedges. The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to 
a reasonably possible change in the Group’s key currencies of US dollar, euro and Norwegian krone with other variables held 
constant. A 10% decrease would have an equal and opposite effect.
2013 2012
Effect on 
underlying  
profit before  
tax increase / 
(decrease) 
£million
 Effect on  
total equity 
increase / 
(decrease) 
£million
Effect on 
underlying  
profit before  
tax increase / 
(decrease) 
£million
 Effect on  
total equity 
increase / 
(decrease) 
£million
Change in exchange rates:
US dollar + 10% (0.3) 1.6 0.9 3.5
Euro + 10% (18.5) – (11.8) 5.8
Norwegian krone + 10% – (7.9) (0.2) (10.2)
Changes in interest rates affect the Group’s profit before tax, mainly due to the impact of floating rate borrowings, cash and 
derivative financial instruments. The Group’s principal floating rate interest rate exposures are based on LIBOR and EURIBOR. 
The numbers below shows the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates (uniform across all currencies), with 
other variables held constant. A 1% decrease would have an equal and opposite effect. A 1% increase in interest rates would 
increase profit before tax and equity by £0.5 million (2011/12 a £2.3 million decrease in profit before tax and equity).
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis:
•	 The balance of borrowings, investments and the derivative portfolio are all held constant for the whole year.
•	 All net investment, fair value and cash flow hedges are assumed to be highly effective.
•	 The effect of changes in interest rates on fixed rate bonds is calculated after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps. In 
combination these financial instruments are floating in nature.
•	 Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges arising from movements in 
interest rates are recorded in the income statement. The impact of movements in exchange rates is recorded directly in equity.
•	 Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments that are not in hedging relationships arising from movements 
in interest rates and exchange rates only affect the income statement to the extent that they are not offset by changes in an 
underlying transaction.
22 Financial instruments (continued) Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
(f) Liquidity risk
The tables below analyse the Group’s contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities (excluding finance 
lease liabilities, which are shown in note 18) and derivative assets and liabilities into their maturity groupings. The tables include 
both principal and interest flows.
2013
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
Within 
one year 
£million
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million
In more than 
five years 
£million
Total 
£million
Carrying 
value 
£million
Non derivative financial liabilities:
Bank overdrafts (17.7) – – (17.7) (17.7)
Other borrowings (4.5) – – (4.5) (4.5)
Trade and other payables (1,352.9) (43.2) (21.1) (1,417.2) (1,421.0)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (8.8) (118.2) – (127.0) (98.8)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 (13.1) (196.0) – (209.1) (146.6)
(1,397.0) (357.4) (21.1) (1,775.5) (1,688.6)
Derivative contracts:
Inflows 912.9 – – 912.9 911.6
Outflows (914.1) – – (914.1) (912.8)
(1.2) – – (1.2) (1.2)
2012
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
Within 
one year 
£million
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million
In more than 
five years 
£million
Total 
£million
Carrying 
value 
£million
Non derivative financial liabilities:
Bank overdrafts (15.8) – – (15.8) (15.8)
Trade and other payables (1,206.0) (36.3) (22.9) (1,265.2) (1,272.8)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (169.8) – – (169.8) (162.5)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (13.1) (182.9) – (196.0) (147.8)
(1,404.7) (219.2) (22.9) (1,646.8) (1,598.9)
Derivative contracts:
Inflows 1,471.3 – – 1,471.3 1,466.8
Outflows (1,526.9) – – (1,526.9) (1,521.0)
(55.6) – – (55.6) (54.2)
The carrying value of trade and other payables includes accrued interest on the 2012 Bonds of £nil (2012 £4.4 million), interest 
on the 2015 Notes of £2.2 million (2012 £3.2 million), interest on the 2017 Notes of £1.6 million (2012 £nil) and interest on other 
borrowings of £nil (2012 £nil).
The Group reviews regularly its available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing facilities required to fulfil its 
objectives and strategy. Cash flow forecasts are prepared covering a five year period and these are updated annually. Shorter 
term forecasts are reviewed and monitored on a regular basis in varying degrees of granularity including, in some cases, daily 
review. These forecasts are used in determining both the level of borrowings required for funding purposes as well as planning 
for repayments of borrowings either at their maturity or sooner where practical. An appropriate level of headroom is maintained 
to provide against unexpected outflows or an unforeseen downturn in trading.
Further details of committed borrowing facilities are shown in note 17.
22 Financial instruments (continued) Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
23 Share capital and reserves
(a) Called up share capital
2013  
£million
2012  
£million
Authorised
4,980,252,496 (2012 4,980,252,496) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 124.5 124.5
Allotted and fully paid
3,629,747,975 (2012 3,610,386,607) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 90.7 90.3
During the year 19,361,368 shares (2011/12 36,532) were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share option 
and ownership schemes.
(b) Other reserves
Merger 
reserve 
£million
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£million
Investment 
in own shares 
£million
Hedging 
reserve 
£million
Revaluation 
reserve 
£million
Total 
£million
At 1 May 2011 (386.1) 5.0 (2.3) (152.0) (2.3) (537.7)
Other comprehensive income and expense recognised 
directly in equity – – – 16.8 (0.1) 16.7
At 28 April 2012 (386.1) 5.0 (2.3) (135.2) (2.4) (521.0)
Other comprehensive income and expense recognised 
directly in equity – – – (2.2) 0.3 (1.9)
Investment in own shares – – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Transfer to retained earnings – – 2.3 – – 2.3
At 30 April 2013 (386.1) 5.0 (0.3) (137.4) (2.1) (520.9)
The balance shown on the merger reserve arose on the group reconstruction which occurred during 1999/00. The group 
reconstruction took the form of introducing a new parent company above the existing group and the merger reserve represents 
the difference between the capital structure of the new parent company and that of the former parent company.
Own shares held by the Group represent shares in the Company held by Dixons Retail Employee Share Trust (the Trust), 
further details of which are given in note 24. The transfer to retained earnings relates to shares subsequently issued to 
employees by the Trust.
(c) Cumulative foreign exchange reserves within retained earnings
Included within retained earnings are exchange differences resulting from the translation of the results and balance sheets 
of overseas subsidiary undertakings, which have been charged or credited directly to equity. The following table shows a 
reconciliation of such amounts:
2013  
£million
2012 
£million
At beginning of period 274.0 366.0
Currency translation movements 32.2 (92.0)
At end of period 306.2 274.0
24 Employee share ownership trusts
The trustee of Dixons Retail Employee Share Trust (the Trust) is the Sanne Trust Company Limited.
Historically the Trust has held shares in the Company for the purposes of satisfying potential awards to specified executive 
directors and senior employees under the Group’s share plans. Details of the Group’s share plans are given in the 
Remuneration Report in section (II) (b) (ii) of the Remuneration Report. The number of shares held by the Trust, which are 
shown in the table below, remain held for potential awards under outstanding plans.
The costs of funding and administering the Trust are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate. 
Shareholders’ funds are reduced by the net book value of shares held in the Trust.
2013 2012
Market value  
£million
Nominal value 
 £million Number
Market value  
£million
Nominal value 
 £million Number
Investment in own shares 0.5 0.1 1,332,769 0.3 0.1 1,470,419
Sanne Trust Company Limited has waived all dividends except for a total payment of 1 penny at the time any dividend is paid. 
The mid-market price of a share as at 30 April 2013 was 35.1 pence (2012 18.0 pence). Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
25 Share-based payments
Note
2012/13
£million
2011/12
£million
Amounts charged / (credited) to operating profit
Share-based payments – equity settled (a) 4.1 (4.7)
(a) Equity settled
Share option plans
Employee Share Option Scheme (ESOS) and Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP)
Options have historically been granted to executive directors and other employees on the basis of management grade. In 
September 2008, the Group adopted a new share option plan (ESOP) which replaced the existing ESOS. Options granted after 
this date have only been granted under the new ESOP. The ESOS and ESOP permit making awards with a market value on 
the date of grant of not more than twice the recipients’ salary and three times in exceptional circumstances. Vesting of options 
is based upon remaining in service with the Group over a three year period, unless specific circumstances apply to a participant 
as determined by the Remuneration Committee. Depending on grade, vesting may also be dependent on various performance 
measures as agreed by the Remuneration Committee at the date of grant. Options are generally exercisable between three and 
ten years from the date of grant.
Reward Sacrifice Scheme
Reward Sacrifice options were offered to senior executives in September 2009 and do not have any performance conditions. 
11,902,442 options were granted at a fair value of £0.15. During the year, 2,474,998 (2011/12 803,421) options lapsed and 
2,405,149 (2011/12 none) options were exercised. The number outstanding at the end of the period is 4,952,183 (2011/12 
9,832,330). All (2011/12 none) options outstanding at 30 April 2013 have vested.
Save As You Earn (SAYE)
The Group offers to all of its UK and Irish employees, having completed the relevant period of service, share-based savings 
plans whereby amounts may be contributed up to a specified limit per plan and per employee. Three year plans have been 
offered annually, with exercise prices set at up to a 20% discount to the market share price on the date of grant. Exercise is 
conditional upon employees remaining employed by the Group for the full term of the plan unless specific circumstances apply 
to a participant as determined by the Rules of the Scheme. Employees can choose to withdraw their contributions in full from the 
plan at any time, together with any interest earned.
Details of equity settled share option plans outstanding during the year are as follows:
2012/13 2011/12
Note Number
Weighted average 
 exercise price Number
Weighted average 
 exercise price
At beginning of period 233,376,101 £0.25 306,913,017 £0.28
Granted during the period
(i)
25,759,726 £0.15 22,931,718 £0.13
Forfeited during the period (28,067,023) £0.23 (74,916,680) £0.25
Exercised during the period 
(ii)
(19,361,368) £0.19 (36,532) £0.11
Lapsed during the period (58,728,693) £0.28 (21,515,422) £0.51
At end of period (iii), (iv) 152,978,743 £0.23 233,376,101 £0.25
47,003,782 options were exercisable at 30 April 2013 (2012 48,782,982). 
2012/13 2011/12
(i) weighted average fair value of options granted during the period £0.07 £0.07
(ii) weighted average share price at the date of exercise £0.27 £0.19
(iii) weighted average remaining contractual life for options outstanding 5.5 years 5.9 years
(iv) range of exercise prices for options outstanding £0.09 – £0.45 £0.09 – £1.19 Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
25 Share-based payments (continued)
The fair value of equity settled share option plans granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Binomial or Black 
Scholes option pricing models taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The 
following table lists the inputs to the models used based on information prevailing at the date of grant:
2012/13 2011/12
Dividend yield 0% 0%
Historical and expected volatility 48% – 75% 79% – 80%
Risk-free interest rate 0.2% – 0.8% 1.0% – 1.1%
Expected remaining life of options 3.0 – 5.0 years 3.25 – 4.0 years
Weighted average share price £0.16 £0.13
The expected remaining life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of the actual exercise 
patterns that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends. 
Actual outcome may differ from these assumptions.
Other equity settled share plans
Performance Share Plan (PSP), Retention and Recruitment Share Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
Up to 2010/11, LTIP and PSP shares were provisionally awarded to executive directors and certain other participating senior 
executives and were based upon performance measured in terms of the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) achieved by the 
Company. For 2008/09 and 2009/10 TSR performance was based on a bespoke weighted index comprising UK and European 
retailers. For 2010/11 TSR performance was based on constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (comprising FTSE 101-350 
companies) excluding investment trusts. 
During 2011/12 and 2012/13, PSP shares were provisionally awarded to executive directors and other senior executives. 
Vesting of these awards is based upon remaining in service with the Group over a three or four year period. For awards to 
executive directors in 2011/12, vesting is also dependent on the level of EPS achieved at the end of a three year period and 
TSR performance on the same terms as the 2010/11 awards. In 2012/13, for all awards to executive directors and some awards 
to other senior executives, vesting is also dependent on absolute share price with an EPS underpin.
Details of LTIP and PSP equity settled share-based payments outstanding during the year are as follows:
Note
2012/13 
Number
2011/12 
Number
At beginning of period 39,583,061 15,588,155
Provisionally awarded during the period (i) 72,487,435 41,652,660
Forfeited during the period (8,063,566) (11,203,400)
Vested during the period (749,211) –
Released during the period (99,344) –
Expired during the period (1,645,478) (6,454,354)
At end of period (ii) 101,512,897 39,583,061
Outstanding awards vested at end of period – 99,344
2012/13 2011/12
(i) weighted average fair value of awards awarded during the period £0.13 £0.13
(ii) weighted average remaining contractual life for awards outstanding 2.0 years 2.1 years
Shares under the Retention and Recruitment Share Plan (Reward Shares) were granted to a limited number of executives 
in July 2008, August 2011, February 2012 and March 2013 and do not have any performance conditions. During the period 
358,809 (2011/12 619,813) shares were granted, no (2011/12 1,222,178) shares lapsed and 130,753 (2011/12 4,314,618) 
shares vested. The number outstanding at the end of the period is 562,971 (2011/12 334,915). Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
25 Share-based payments (continued)
The fair value of such other equity settled share plans granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the option pricing 
models listed below as well as taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The 
following table lists the inputs to the models used based on information prevailing at the date of grant:
2012/13 2011/12
PSP Reward Shares PSP Reward Shares
Option pricing model Monte Carlo Black Scholes Monte Carlo Black Scholes
Dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0%
Historical and expected volatility 45% – 46% N/A 72% N/A
Risk-free interest rate 0.2% – 0.6% N/A 1.0% N/A
Expected life of awards 3.0 – 4.0 years 3.0 years 3.0 years 1.2 – 2.0 years
Weighted average share price £0.18 £0.35 £0.13 £0.14
Further information concerning share-based incentive plans specific to directors is included in the unaudited section of the 
Remuneration Report in sections (II) (b) (ii) and (iii).
(b) Additional SAYE, ESOS, ESOP , LTIP and PSP information
During the period 25,759,726 options under the employee share option schemes were granted to 2,439 employees at exercise 
prices ranging between £0.14 and £0.27. In addition, 72,487,435 PSP shares were provisionally granted to 1,282 employees. 
At 30 April 2013 options outstanding for accounting purposes amounted to 152,978,743 shares (2012 233,376,101) and PSP 
shares outstanding amounted to 101,512,897 shares (2012 39,583,061), analysed as follows:
SAYE ESOS & ESOP PSP
Date of grant
Exercise price  
Pence Number Date of grant
Exercise price  
Pence Number Date of grant Number
26 Feb 2008 44.54 989,240 11 Jul 2008 27.63 36,049,365 3 Aug 2010 2,212,594
23 Jul 2009 18.32 24,768 16 Dec 2008 9.20 – 10.85 3,368,385 3 Aug 2011 29,138,528
3 Aug 2010 20.23 13,305,095 23 Jul 2009 23.95 1,619,841 8 Dec 2011 559,644
22 Jul 2011 13.01 16,226,870 28 Sep 2009 28.43 4,952,183 29 Jun 2012 26,713,979
23 Jul 2012 14.18 18,017,534 3 Aug 2010 27.59 47,687,413 16 Jul 2012 35,433,642
8 Dec 2010 25.51 – 25.70 3,680,000 10 Dec 2012 5,060,600
8 Dec 2011 11.53 863,445 24 Jan 2013 2,393,910
29 Jun 2012 17.51 5,828,570
20 Dec 2012 27.25 366,034
48,563,507 104,415,236 101,512,897
The performance conditions applicable to these schemes are set out in sections (II) (b) (ii) and (iii) of the unaudited section of 
the Remuneration Report. Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
26 Notes to the cash flow statement 
(a) Reconciliation of operating loss to net cash inflow from operating activities
2012/13  
£million
2011/12  
£million
Operating loss (50.9) (68.9)
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4.2 4.5
Amortisation of other intangibles 17.5 18.4
Depreciation 116.5 120.4
Share-based payment charge / (credit) 4.1 (4.7)
Share of post-tax results of associates – (0.6)
Underlying property loss 25.2 13.5
Profit on disposal of Jönköping – (37.2)
Increase in non-underlying provisions 40.8 23.0
Non-underlying impairments, other charges and accelerated depreciation 133.0 190.9
Utilisation of non-underlying provisions (19.8) (43.8)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 270.6 215.5
Movements in working capital:
(Increase) / decrease in inventories (11.3) 41.3
Decrease in trade and other receivables 27.6 29.6
Increase / (decrease) in trade and other payables 78.3 (55.1)
94.6 15.8
 
Cash generated from operations – continuing operations 365.2 231.3 Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
(b) Analysis of net debt
29 April 2012 
£million
Cash flow 
£million
Other non-cash 
movements 
£million 
Currency 
translation 
 £million
30 April 2013 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents
†
316.8 78.7 – 9.8 405.3
Bank overdrafts (15.8) (1.4) – (0.5) (17.7)
 301.0 77.3 – 9.3 387.6
Short term investments 7.3 (5.3) 0.4 – 2.4
Borrowings due within one year (162.5) 155.5 2.5 – (4.5)
Borrowings due after more than one year (147.8) (97.1) (0.5) – (245.4)
Obligations under finance leases (102.0) 4.7 (0.9) 0.2 (98.0)
 (412.3) 63.1 1.1 0.2 (347.9)
Net (debt) / funds (104.0) 135.1 1.5 9.5 42.1
1 May 2011 
£million
Cash flow 
£million
Other non-cash 
movements 
£million 
Currency 
translation 
£million
28 April 2012 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents
†
334.7 (6.9) – (11.0) 316.8
Bank overdrafts (5.6) (10.0) – (0.2) (15.8)
 329.1 (16.9) – (11.2) 301.0
Short term investments 10.5 (3.1) (0.1) – 7.3
Borrowings due within one year (130.0) 130.0 (162.5) – (162.5)
Borrowings due after more than one year (315.3) – 167.5 – (147.8)
Obligations under finance leases (101.1) 1.6 (2.0) (0.5) (102.0)
 (546.4) 131.6 3.0 (0.5) (412.3)
Net debt (206.8) 111.6 2.9 (11.7) (104.0)
Restricted funds, which predominantly comprise funds held under trust to fund potential customer support agreement liabilities 
were £110.2 million (2012 £114.0 million). Net debt excluding restricted funds totalled £68.1 million (2012 £218.0 million).
†
 Cash and cash equivalents are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the consolidated balance sheet. For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow, 
cash and cash equivalents comprise those amounts presented on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts (which are 
disclosed separately on the consolidated balance sheet and as disclosed in note 17). Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
27 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations
(a) Assets held for sale
2012/13: On 22 April 2013 and 7 May 2013, the Group disposed of its Webhallen operations in Sweden and PLS operations in 
France, respectively, although the Webhallen disposal has not yet completed. Accordingly, the related assets and liabilities have 
been classified as held for sale owing to the sale being highly probable under the definitions stipulated in IFRS 5 ‘Non-current 
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’. As a result of the sales, the trading activities of the businesses have been 
classified as ‘to be exited’ and the prior periods have been re-presented on a consistent basis. Both Webhallen and PLS are part 
of the PIXmania division.
The major classes of assets and liabilities at 30 April 2013 were as follows:
£million
Intangible assets 1.8
Inventories 10.2
Other assets 3.1
Total assets held for sale 15.1
Current liabilities (7.3)
Non-current liabilities (0.6)
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale (7.9)
 
Net assets held for sale 7.2
(b) Cash flows from discontinued operations
2012/13
£million
2011/12
£million
Operating activities (0.9) (1.5)
Cash flows relate to expenditure arising from the sale of the Group’s former operations in Hungary which were disposed 
in 2009/10.
28 Capital commitments
2012/13 
£million
2011/12 
£million
Contracted for but not provided for in the accounts 33.0 27.3
29 Contingent liabilities
2012/13 
£million
2011/12 
£million
Contingent liabilities 3.5 4.3
In addition to the figures shown in the table above, contingent liabilities also exist in respect of lease covenants relating to 
premises assigned to third parties.
30 Operating lease commitments
2013 2012
 
Land and 
buildings 
£million
Other  
assets  
£million
Land and 
buildings  
£million
Other  
assets  
£million
Total undiscounted future committed payments due:
Within one year 359.5 8.3 364.5 8.8
Between two and five years 1,266.3 6.1 1,265.2 8.5
After five years 1,275.7 – 1,417.5 –
2,901.5 14.4 3,047.2 17.3
Operating lease commitments represent rentals payable for retail, distribution and office properties, as well as vehicles, 
equipment and office equipment. Contingent rentals are payable on certain retail store leases based on store revenues. 
The above figures include committed payments under onerous lease contracts for which provisions or accruals exist on the 
balance sheet, including those for businesses exited / to be exited. 
Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases was £25.4 million (2012 
£28.3 million). Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
31 Related party transactions
Transactions between Group undertakings, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and accordingly 
are not disclosed.
Transactions between Group undertakings and associates comprised sales of goods of £11.2 million (2011/12 £17.1 million) and 
purchase of logistic services of £nil (2011/12 £4.1 million).
In addition to the charitable donations disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility Report, the Group via its registered charitable 
trust, the DSG international Foundation (the Foundation), also made charitable donations of £1,350 (2011/12 £5,000). The 
Company is the sole benefactor of the Foundation, the principal beneficiaries of which are concerned with education, community 
affairs, health and disabilities, heritage and the environment.
On 10 August 2012 the Group announced that it had acquired a further 22.0% of PIXmania, a company controlled by the Group, 
which was held by Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum together with close family members and companies controlled 
by them. Steve and Jean-Emile Rosenblum resigned on the date of the acquisition, and up until this point were the President 
and Vice President of PIXmania, respectively and until 2011/12 had also been members of the senior executive management 
team. In connection with their management roles with respect to PIXmania up to the date of the acquisition, Steve Rosenblum 
and Jean-Emile Rosenblum received management fees of €87,000 (£71,000) (2011/12 €260,000 (£223,000)).
Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum own buildings which are occupied and leased by PIXmania. During 2012/13, up 
until their exit from the business, total rental payments of €290,000 (£237,000) (2011/12 €706,000 (£605,000)) were charged in 
relation to these properties.
Remuneration of directors and key management personnel
The remuneration of non-executive directors, executive directors, and members of the senior management team, who are the 
key management personnel of the Group, is set out below. Further information about individual directors’ remuneration, share 
interests, share options, pensions and other entitlements, which form part of these financial statements, is given in sections (VI) 
to (X) of the directors’ Remuneration Report which are described as having been audited.
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
Short term employee benefits 5.8 5.9
Share-based payments 1.1 (1.7)
32 Post balance sheet event
On 7 May 2013, the Group sold PLS, a small photo processing operation which was part of PIXmania. Financial Statements
Company Balance Sheet
Dixons Retail plc 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Note
30 April 2013 
£million
28 April 2012 
£million
30 April 2011 
£million
Non-current assets
Investments C3 1,731.7 1,727.6 1,732.3
Property, plant & equipment C4 – – –
1,731.7 1,727.6 1,732.3
Current assets
Trade and other receivables C5 19.3 11.7 36.5
Cash and cash equivalents C6 161.4 72.9 10.3
180.7 84.6 46.8
Total assets 1,912.4 1,812.2 1,779.1
Current liabilities 
Bank overdrafts C7 (86.5) (86.0) (78.4)
Borrowings C7 – (162.3) (130.0)
Trade and other payables C8 (421.7) (381.2) (264.5)
Provisions C9 (3.0) – –
(511.2) (629.5) (472.9)
Net current liabilities (330.5) (544.9) (426.1)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings C7 (245.4) (147.8) (314.3)
(245.4) (147.8) (314.3)
Total liabilities (756.6) (777.3) (787.2)
Net assets 1,155.8 1,034.9 991.9
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital C10 90.7 90.3 90.3
Share premium account 172.7 169.5 169.5
Investment in own shares (0.3) (2.3) (2.3)
Capital redemption reserve 5.0 5.0 5.0
Profit and loss account 887.7 772.4 729.4
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,155.8 1,034.9 991.9
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 20 June 2013 and signed on their behalf by:
Sebastian James  
Group Chief Executive
Humphrey Singer 
Group Finance Director Financial Statements
Company Cash Flow Statement
Dixons Retail plc 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Note
Year 
 ended  
30 April 2013 
£million
52 weeks 
 ended  
28 April 2012 
£million
Operating activities 
Cash utilised by operations
C11
25.9 125.6
Net cash flows from operating activities 25.9 125.6
Investing activities 
Dividend received 175.0 100.0
Interest received 10.4 10.8
Net cash flows from investing activities 185.4 110.8
Financing activities 
Issue of ordinary share capital 3.6 –
Purchase of own shares (0.3) –
Decrease in borrowings due within one year (160.0) (130.0)
Increase in borrowings due after more than one year 97.1 –
Interest paid (63.7) (51.4)
Net cash flows from financing activities (123.3) (181.4)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents
†
C11
88.0 55.0
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
†
C11
(13.1) (68.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
†
C11
74.9 (13.1)
†
 For the purposes of this cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise those items disclosed as ‘cash and cash equivalents’ on the face of the balance 
sheet, less overdrafts, which are classified within current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet. A reconciliation to the balance sheet amounts is shown in note C11. Financial Statements
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
Dixons Retail plc 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Share 
capital 
£million
Share 
premium 
£million
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£million
Investment in 
 own shares 
£million
Retained 
earnings 
£million
Total 
equity 
£million
At 1 May 2011 90.3 169.5 5.0 (2.3) 729.4 991.9
Profit for the period – – – – 47.7 47.7
Share-based payments – – – – (4.7) (4.7)
At 28 April 2012 90.3 169.5 5.0 (2.3) 772.4 1,034.9
Profit for the period – – – – 113.5 113.5
Ordinary shares issued 0.4 3.2 – – – 3.6
Investment in own shares – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Transfer – – – 2.3 (2.3) –
Share-based payments – – – – 4.1 4.1
At 30 April 2013 90.7 172.7 5.0 (0.3) 887.7 1,155.8
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement for the Company is included in these financial 
statements. 
Own shares held by the Company represent shares in the Company held by Dixons Retail Employee Share Trust, further details 
of which are given in notes 23(b) and 24 to the Group Financial Statements. Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
Dixons Retail plc 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
C1 Accounting policies
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the EU, IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to those companies reporting under IFRSs. Accounting policies have been consistently applied throughout the current 
and preceding periods. 
Historically, the Company has prepared its financial statements to the Saturday closest to its accounting reference date of 
30 April, meaning that financial periods have been for 52 week periods and occasionally 53 week periods. For 2012/13, the 
Company has drawn up its accounts to 30 April 2013 and future accounting periods will also end on 30 April.
After making due enquiry, on the basis of current financial projections, the directors are satisfied that the Company has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the financial statements. 
The Company’s accounting policies in relation to operating leases, share-based payments, translation of foreign currencies, 
property, plant & equipment, taxation and derivative financial instruments are set out in note 1 to the Group Financial 
Statements. Other accounting policies which are specific to the Company are set out below. 
(a) Share-based payments 
Where the Company has granted rights to its equity to employees of subsidiary undertakings in relation to equity-settled, share-
based payment arrangements the contribution to the subsidiary undertakings is recognised as an additional investment.
(b) Investments
Investments are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value.
(c) Post-retirement benefits 
It is not practical to allocate the underlying assets and liabilities of the defined benefit section of the pension scheme to the 
Company on a consistent and reasonable basis. The Company has therefore accounted for its contributions to the defined 
benefit section of the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. 
The Company’s contributions to the defined contribution section of the pension scheme are charged to the income statement on 
an accruals basis as they become payable.
C2 Directors’ and auditor’s remuneration
Details of directors’ remuneration, share interests, share options, pensions and other entitlements, which form part of these 
financial statements, are given in the parts of the directors’ Remuneration Report which are described as having been audited. 
Fees paid to the auditor in respect of their audit of the Company were £0.1 million (2011/12 £0.1 million).
C3 Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
Cost
At beginning of period 1,727.6 1,732.3
Movement in the period 4.1 (4.7)
At end of period 1,731.7 1,727.6
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are set out in note C16.
C4 Property, plant & equipment 
Fixtures, fittings and equipment
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
Cost
At beginning and end of period 0.5 0.5
Depreciation
At beginning and end of period 0.5 0.5
Net book value
At beginning and end of period – – Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
C5 Trade and other receivables 
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 13.1 0.2 11.8
Derivative financial instruments – 9.0 18.3
Other debtors 0.2 0.5 0.1
Prepayments 6.0 2.0 6.3
19.3 11.7 36.5
Further information on derivative financial instruments is provided in note C13.
The majority of other receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 60 day terms. The total financial assets included 
within trade and other receivables are £13.3 million (2012 £9.7 million and 2011 £30.2 million). The carrying amount of trade and 
other receivables approximates fair value. There were no past due or impaired balances at the end of the period (2012 and 2011 
£nil). 
C6 Cash and cash equivalents 
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
Money market deposits 161.4 72.9 10.3
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. 
C7 Borrowings and overdrafts
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
Current 
Bank overdrafts 86.5 86.0 78.4
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 – 162.3 –
Other borrowing – – 130.0
86.5 248.3 208.4
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
Non-current 
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 – – 167.2
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 98.8 147.8 147.1
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 146.6 – –
245.4 147.8 314.3
Bank overdrafts are subject to a pooling arrangement with other Group companies and are repayable on demand. 
Other borrowings represent amounts which have been drawn down under the Amended Facility (2012 and 2011 the £360 million 
Facility). 
On 20 September 2012, the Company repurchased £15.6 million in nominal amount of the 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (the 
2012 Bonds). The remaining 2012 Bonds were repaid on the redemption date of 15 November 2012.
On 20 September 2012 the Group repurchased £49.4 million in nominal amount of its 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (the 2015 
Notes). This repurchase was funded by part of a new issue of £150 million 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 (the 2017 Notes) and 
for which the proceeds were received on the same date.
Further details on the Amended Facility, the 2012 Bonds, the 2015 Notes and the 2017 Notes are provided in notes 17 and 22 to 
the Group Financial Statements.  Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
Dixons Retail plc 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
C8 Trade and other payables
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 410.9 365.2 250.5
Accruals 10.8 16.0 14.0
421.7 381.2 264.5
The total shown equals the total financial liabilities. The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair 
value.
C9 Provisions
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
At beginning of period – – –
Additions 4.1 – –
Utilisation (1.1) – –
At end of period 3.0 – –
Additions during the year predominantly relate to restructuring charges which are described further in note 4 to the Group 
Financial Statements.
C10 Share capital
Called up share capital
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
Authorised
4,980,252,496 (2012 and 2011 4,980,252,496) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 124.5 124.5 124.5
Allotted and fully paid
3,629,747,975 (2012 3,610,386,607, 2011 3,610,350,075) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 90.7 90.3 90.3
During the year 19,361,368 shares (2011/12 36,532) were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share option 
and ownership schemes.
C10 Notes to the cash flow statement
(a) Reconciliation of operating loss to net cash inflow from operating activities
2012/13 
£million
2011/12 
£million
Operating loss (5.9) (5.6)
Increase in non-underlying provisions 4.1 –
Utilisation of non-underlying provisions (1.1) –
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (2.9) (5.6)
Movements in working capital:
(Increase) / decrease in trade and other receivables (18.0) 15.5
Increase in trade and other payables 46.8 115.7
28.8 131.2
Cash generated from operations 25.9 125.6 Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
Dixons Retail plc 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
C11 Notes to the cash flow statement (continued)
(b)  Analysis of net debt
29 April 2012 
£million
Cash flow 
£million
Other non-cash 
movements 
£million 
30 April 2013 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents
†
 72.9 88.5 – 161.4
Bank overdrafts (86.0) (0.5) – (86.5)
(13.1) 88.0 – 74.9
Borrowings due within one year (162.3) 160.0 2.3 –
Borrowings due after more than one year (147.8) (97.1) (0.5) (245.4)
(310.1) 62.9 1.8 (245.4)
Net debt (323.2) 150.9 1.8 (170.5)
1 May 2011 
£million
Cash flow 
£million
Other non-cash 
movements 
£million 
28 April 2012 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents
†
 10.3 62.6 – 72.9
Bank overdrafts (78.4) (7.6) – (86.0)
 (68.1) 55.0 – (13.1)
Borrowings due within one year (130.0) 130.0 (162.3) (162.3)
Borrowings due after more than one year (314.3) – 166.5 (147.8)
 (444.3) 130.0 4.2 (310.1)
Net debt (512.4) 185.0 4.2 (323.2)
†  Cash and cash equivalents are represented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet. For the purposes of the cash flow, cash and cash 
equivalents comprise those amounts represented on the balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts (which are disclosed separately on 
the balance sheet and as disclosed in note C7).
C12 Post-retirement benefits
The Company maintains a pension scheme for eligible employees in the UK comprising both a defined benefit and defined 
contribution section. The defined benefit section is a funded scheme with assets held in a separate trustee administered fund. 
The scheme is valued by a qualified actuary at least every three years and contributions are assessed in accordance with the 
advice of independent qualified actuaries so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members. 
Since 1 September 2002, the defined benefit section of the scheme has been closed to new entrants and on 30 April 2010 was 
closed to future accrual with automatic entry into the defined contribution section being offered to those active members of the 
defined benefit section at that time. Membership of the defined contribution section is offered to all eligible employees.
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was last carried out as at 31 March 2010 and showed a shortfall of assets compared 
with liabilities of £239.0 million. A ‘recovery plan’ based on this valuation has been agreed with the trustee and commenced 
in 2010/11 with special contributions of £12.0 million, which rose to £16.0 million and £20.0 million in 2011/12 and 2012/13 
respectively. Contributions will remain at £20.0 million for 2013/14 and will rise approximately annually thereafter to £35.0 million 
by 2020/21. The next triennial valuation has commenced and will be as at 31 March 2013.
At 31 March 2010, the market value of the scheme’s investments was £672.0 million and, based on the above assumptions, 
the value of the assets was sufficient to cover 74% of the benefits accrued to members with the liabilities amounting to £911.0 
million. The valuation of the defined benefit section for the purposes of IAS 19 showed a gross pension deficit (before deferred 
tax) of £406.4 million (2012 £261.9 million and 2011 £244.0 million). Further particulars of the scheme are disclosed in note 21 
to the Group Financial Statements. Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
Dixons Retail plc 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
C13 Financial instruments
(a) Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Company is exposed to liquidity, interest rate, exchange, credit and capital risks and adopts the same approach to the 
management of these risks as the Group as set out in the Directors’ Report and in note 22 to the Group Financial Statements.
(b) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
For receivables and payables classified as financial assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 32, fair value is estimated to 
be equivalent to book value. These values are shown in notes C5 and C8, respectively. The categories of financial assets and 
liabilities and their related accounting policy are set out in notes 1.11 and 1.15 to the Group Financial Statements.
For those financial assets and liabilities which bear either a floating rate of interest or no interest, fair value is estimated to be 
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in note C13 (d).
Included in trade and other receivables is £nil (2012 £9.0 million and 2011 £18.3 million) relating to interest rate swaps held to 
hedge fair value interest rate risk. See note C13 (c) for further details.
The Company has previously used swaps to manage its interest rate exposure. Further details on the Company’s interest rate 
swaps are included in note 22(d) to the Group Financial Statements.
(c) Hedging activities
The Company has previously managed exposures that arise on interest rates by entering into interest rate swaps. Further 
information on fair value hedging is set out in note 22(c) to the Group Financial Statements.
(d) Interest rate profile of financial assets and financial liabilities by currency
The following table sets out the interest rate exposure of the financial assets and liabilities of the Company:
2013 2012 2011
Sterling 
£million
Sterling 
£million
Sterling 
£million
Cash and cash equivalents:
Floating rate 28.4 72.9 10.3
Fixed rate 133.0 – –
161.4 72.9 10.3
Borrowings:
Floating rate (86.5) (336.1) (461.8)
Fixed rate (245.4) (60.0) (60.9)
(331.9) (396.1) (522.7)
Net debt (170.5) (323.2) (512.4)
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial 
instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Floating rate cash and cash equivalents relate to money market deposits (as shown in note C6).
Fixed rate borrowings comprise the 2015 Notes and the 2017 Notes (2012 and 2011 the unhedged part of the 2012 Bonds and 
the 2015 Notes). Floating rate borrowings include bank overdrafts, fixed rate bonds/notes after taking into account the effect of 
interest rates swaps entered into by the Company and drawings under the Amended Facility (2012 and 2011 the £360 million 
Facility). The weighted average effective interest rate on bank overdrafts approximated 1.5% (2011/12 1.5%). Further details on 
fixed and floating rate borrowings are shown in notes 17 and 22 to the Group Financial Statements.
(e) Sensitivity analysis
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, shows the sensitivity of profit before tax and total equity to changes in interest rates 
on derivative financial instruments and certain monetary items. The sensitivity analysis reflects the position as at 30 April 2013 
and 28 April 2012 respectively, and is not necessarily representative of actual or future outcomes.
Changes in interest rates affect the Company’s loss before tax, mainly due to the impact of floating rate borrowings, cash 
and derivative financial instruments. The Company’s principal floating rate interest rate exposures are based on LIBOR. The 
following sensitivity analysis shows a reasonably possible change in interest rates (uniform across all currencies), with other 
variables held constant and the corresponding decrease would have an equal and opposite effect. A 1% increase in interest 
rates would have a negative effect on profit before tax and equity of £3.2 million (2011/12 a £6.1 million negative effect on 
profit before tax and equity). Assumptions used in calculating the sensitivity analysis are set out in note 22(e) to the Group 
Financial Statements. Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
Dixons Retail plc 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
C13 Financial instruments (continued)
(f) Liquidity risk
The table below analyses the Company’s contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivative 
assets into their maturity groupings. The table includes both principal and interest flows:
2013
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
Within  
one 
year 
£million
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million
Total 
£million
Carrying 
value 
£million
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Bank overdrafts (86.5) – (86.5) (86.5)
Trade and other payables (417.9) – (417.9) (421.7)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (8.8) (118.2) (127.0) (98.8)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 (13.1) (196.0) (209.1) (146.6)
(526.3) (314.2) (840.5) (753.6)
2012
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
Within  
one year 
£million
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million
Total 
£million
Carrying 
value 
£million
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Bank overdrafts (86.0) – (86.0) (86.0)
Trade and other payables (373.5) – (373.5) (381.1)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (169.8) – (169.8) (162.3)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (13.1) (182.9) (196.0) (147.8)
(642.4) (182.9) (825.3) (777.2)
Derivative contracts:
Inflows 263.4 – 263.4 263.4
Outflows (254.4) – (254.4) (254.4)
9.0 – 9.0 9.0 Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
Dixons Retail plc 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
C13 Financial instruments (continued)
2011
Contractual undiscounted cash flows
Within  
one year 
£million
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million
Total 
£million
Carrying 
value 
£million
Non-derivative financial liabilities:
Bank overdrafts (78.4) – (78.4) (78.4)
Borrowings (131.6) – (131.6) (130.0)
Trade and other payables (255.2) – (255.2) (264.5)
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (9.8) (169.8) (179.6) (167.2)
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (13.1) (195.9) (209.0) (147.1)
(488.1) (365.7) (853.8) (787.2)
Derivative contracts:
Inflows 16.1 262.6 278.7 278.4
Outflows (5.8) (254.4) (260.2) (260.1)
10.3 8.2 18.5 18.3
The carrying value of trade and other payables includes accrued interest on the 2012 Bonds of £nil (2012 £4.4 million and 2011 
£4.5 million), accrued interest of £2.2 million on the 2015 Notes (2012 £3.2 million and 2011 £3.2 million), accrued interest 
of £1.6 million on the 2017 Notes (2012 and 2011 £nil) and accrued interest on other borrowings of £nil (2012 £nil and 2011 
£0.1 million).
(g)  Credit risk
The Company’s exposure to credit risk is discussed in note 22 (a) to the Group Financial Statements. The Company’s 
receivable balances mainly consist of amounts due from subsidiary undertakings. Further information on the Company’s 
exposure to significant concentration of credit risk on receivables from subsidiary undertakings is set out in note C15.
C14 Contingent liabilities
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
Contingent liabilities 1.9 2.3 3.1
C15 Related parties
During the period the Company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties 
as follows:
2012/13 
£million
2011/12 
£million
Subsidiary undertakings: 
Recharge of costs 12.8 12.1
Interest paid (17.9) (7.8)
Dividends received 175.0 100.0
Recharge of costs relates to management charges for services provided to other Group companies.
Included within amounts repayable to subsidiaries are loans of £395.2 million (2012 £351.0 million and 2011 £234.2 million) with 
maturity of one month but renewable on a rolling basis which bear interest at 4.25% (2011/12 4.25%). The Company also has 
fixed loans of £14.2 million (2012 £14.2 million and 2011 £14.2 million) which have no maturity date and bear no interest. Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
Dixons Retail plc 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
C16 Principal subsidiary undertakings
The directors consider that to give full particulars of all Group undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. 
A full list of Group undertakings is attached to the latest annual return. The following information relates to those subsidiary 
undertakings, all of which are engaged in retail activities, whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, 
principally affect the consolidated financial statements of the Group at 30 April 2013:
DSG international Holdings Limited – UK
†
El-Giganten AS – Denmark
DSG Retail Ireland Limited – Ireland El-Giganten AB – Sweden
DSG Retail Limited – UK e-Merchant SAS – France (99.2%)
Dixons South-East Europe A.E.V.E. – Greece (99.2%) Elkjøp Nordic AS – Norway
Electro World lç ve Dış Ticaret A.Ş – Turkey (60%) Gigantti OY – Finland
Electro World s.r.o. – Czech Republic Pixmania S.A.S. – France (99.2%)
Electro World s.r.o. (Slovak Republic) – Slovak Republic Unieuro S.p.A. – Italy
† A direct subsidiary undertaking of Dixons Retail plc and a holding company.
Unless otherwise indicated, principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly-owned. All Group undertakings operate in their country 
of incorporation.
C17 Post-balance sheet event
On 7 May 2013, the Group sold PLS, a small photo processing operation which was part of PIXmania. Investor Information
Five Year Record 
Dixons Retail plc 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Consolidated Income Statement
2012/13 
£million
2011/12 
£million
2010/11 
£million
2009/10 
£million
2008/09 
£million
Underlying revenue
(1)
8,213.9 7,910.2 7,916.4 8,045.7 7,613.2
Percentage change 3.8% (0.1)% (1.6)% 5.7%
Underlying operating profit / EBIT
(2)
136.0 121.3 127.6 132.7 102.7
Underlying net finance costs
(1)
(41.5) (39.2) (37.1) (34.4) (25.5)
Underlying profit before tax
(1)
94.5 82.1 90.5 98.3 77.2
Percentage change 15.1% (9.3)% (7.9)% 27.3%
Businesses exited / to be exited (7.7) (8.5) (8.1) – (35.8)
Acquired intangibles amortisation (4.2) (4.5) (4.5) (4.6) (4.9)
Net restructuring charges (89.4) (16.3) (17.1) (5.6) (59.1)
Business impairment charges (79.4) (196.0) (251.6) – (96.1)
Changes in pension benefits – – – 33.4 –
Other items (5.9) 35.6 (24.9) – 1.9
Loss on sale of business (9.6) – – – –
Non-underlying financing items (13.6) (11.2) (8.4) (8.8) (6.8)
(Loss) / profit before tax – continuing operations (115.3) (118.8) (224.1) 112.7 (123.6)
Income tax expense (52.8) (44.1) (19.1) (46.7) (56.8)
(Loss) / profit after tax – continuing operations (168.1) (162.9) (243.2) 66.0 (180.4)
Loss after tax – discontinued operations – – (2.1) (8.7) (38.9)
(Loss) / profit for the period (168.1) (162.9) (245.3) 57.3 (219.3)
Underlying diluted earnings per share (pence)
(1)
1.5p 1.4p 1.8p 1.7p 1.6p 
Percentage change 7.1% (22.2)% 5.9% 6.3%
Consolidated Cash Flow
2012/13 
£million
2011/12 
£million
2010/11 
£million
2009/10 
£million
2008/09 
£million
Underlying profit before tax
(1)
94.5 82.1 90.5 98.3 77.2
Businesses exited / to be exited loss before tax (7.7) (8.5) (8.1) – (35.8)
Depreciation and amortisation 134.0 138.8 139.4 128.6 134.7
Working capital movements 92.3 15.8 40.4 39.7 (285.4)
Taxation (11.8) (26.8) (26.2) (31.9) (35.7)
Net capital expenditure (92.4) (31.3) (221.2) (164.6) (129.9)
Other (incl. settlement of historical currency hedges) (35.7) 4.0 24.1 (42.0) (65.1)
Free Cash Flow before restructuring items
(3)
173.2 174.1 38.9 28.1 (340.0)
Net restructuring and other one off items (19.8) (43.8) (28.9) (45.7) (64.2)
Free Cash Flow
(4)
153.4 130.3 10.0 (17.6) (404.2)
Closing net debt 42.1 (104.0) (206.8) (220.6) (477.5)
Less restricted funds
(5)
(110.2) (114.0) (120.3) (78.9) (67.6)
Unrestricted net debt
(5)
(68.1) (218.0) (327.1) (299.5) (545.1)
Notes:
(1) Underlying figures exclude the effects of trading results of businesses exited / to be exited, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business 
impairment charges and other one off, non-recurring items, profits / losses on sale of investments or businesses, net interest on defined benefit pension schemes, net 
fair value remeasurements of financial instruments, and where applicable, discontinued operations.
(2) EBIT equates to underlying operating profit.
(3) Free Cash Flow before restructuring items includes dividend payments to non-controlling interests (minority shareholders).
(4) Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash flow generated from operations before special pension contributions, less net finance 
expense, less income tax and net capital expenditure.
(5) Unrestricted net debt comprise cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and borrowings and exclude restricted funds which predominantly comprise funds 
held under trust to fund potential customer support agreement liabilities. Investor Information
Five Year Record (continued)
Dixons Retail plc 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Consolidated Balance Sheet
2013 
£million
2012 
£million
2011 
£million
2010 
£million
2009 
£million
Non-current assets
Goodwill 704.2 740.7 970.8 1,116.5 1,069.1
Intangible assets 66.4 98.1 113.1 130.7 148.4
Tangible assets 434.0 480.4 583.7 541.0 489.6
Other non-current assets 172.0 182.3 216.4 253.8 248.6
1,376.6 1,501.5 1,884.0 2,042.0 1,955.7
Current assets
Inventories 895.4 874.2 960.9 972.6 971.9
Other current assets 309.9 346.6 387.3 397.0 516.5
Short term investments 2.4 7.3 10.5 8.5 9.0
Cash and cash equivalents 405.3 316.8 334.7 295.7 192.6
1,613.0 1,544.9 1,693.4 1,673.8 1,690.0
Assets held for sale 15.1 – – – 13.2
Total assets 3,004.7 3,046.4 3,577.4 3,715.8 3,658.9
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts (17.7) (15.8) (5.6) (4.9) (4.8)
Other borrowings (4.5) (162.5) (130.0) (98.5) (250.1)
Obligations under finance leases (2.0) (3.1) (3.1) (2.4) (2.8)
Other current liabilities (1,738.1) (1,634.7) (1,692.7) (1,652.9) (1,722.5)
Provisions (36.8) (18.6) (44.4) (22.3) (72.1)
(1,799.1) (1,834.7) (1,875.8) (1,781.0) (2,052.3)
Net current liabilities (186.1) (289.8) (182.4) (107.2) (362.3)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (245.4) (147.8) (315.3) (321.4) (322.5)
Obligations under finance leases (96.0) (98.9) (98.0) (97.6) (98.9)
Retirement benefit obligations (409.1) (266.0) (247.3) (266.8) (153.0)
Other non-current liabilities (273.8) (275.4) (348.6) (344.4) (392.5)
Provisions (26.1) (19.6) (15.9) (29.5) (40.4)
(1,050.4) (807.7) (1,025.1) (1,059.7) (1,007.3)
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale (7.9) – – – (14.4)
Total liabilities (2,857.4) (2,642.4) (2,900.9) (2,840.7) (3,074.0)
Net assets 147.3 404.0 676.5 875.1 584.9
Equity shareholders’ funds 148.1 391.4 653.5 846.5 558.9
Equity non-controlling interests (0.8) 12.6 23.0 28.6 26.0
Total equity 147.3 404.0 676.5 875.1 584.9 Investor Information
Other Shareholder Information
Dixons Retail plc 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
Registered office
Maylands Avenue, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire 
HP2 7TG UK (United Kingdom). Registered in England, 
company no. 3847921. www.dixonsretail.com
Registrars and transfer office
Capita Registrars Limited, The Registry, 34 Beckenham 
Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU. Tel: 0871 664 0300 
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are 
open 8.30am – 5.30pm Monday to Friday). If calling from 
abroad the number is +44 20 8639 3399. The website 
address is: www.capitaregistrars.com
Joint brokers
Citigroup Global Markets, Barclays.
Shareholder enquiries
Shareholders can access shareholding details over 
the internet via our Registrar’s secure portal at 
www.capitashareportal.com.
As well as checking name, address and shareholding 
details in the Shareholder Help section, you can download 
change of address, dividend mandate and stock transfer 
forms. This is a secure site and you will need to register 
first. Please follow the simple instructions on the website. 
So that the system can validate your enquiries an Investor 
Code is required.
This is a numerical account number and can be found on 
your share certificate.
Share dealing service
On-line and telephone share dealing services are available 
to shareholders through our Registrars, providing easy 
access and simple to use services. There is no need to 
pre-register and the facilities allow you to trade in ‘real time’ 
and at a known price which will be given to you at the time 
you give your instruction.
In order to deal via these facilities you will need your 
Investor Code (see above) as well as stating your surname, 
full postcode and date of birth. Details of the on-line 
dealing service are available on www.capitadeal.com and 
the telephone dealing service is on 0871 664 0384 (calls 
cost 10p per minute plus network extras; lines are open 
8.00am – 4.30pm Monday to Friday).
Unsolicited mail
The Company is obliged to make its share register 
available to third parties on payment of a prescribed fee. 
This may result in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail. 
If you wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited mail you should 
write to: The Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 29, 
LON20771, London, W1E 0ZT or register on their website 
at www.mpsonline.org.uk
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share 
donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of 
shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them. 
Details of the scheme are available on the ShareGift 
internet site: www.sharegift.org.
Financial calendar
Annual General Meeting 5 Sep 2013
2013/14 Interim results announcement 17 Dec 2013
2013/14 Interim statement publication Jan 2014
Alternative Format
If you would like this Annual 
Report and Accounts or any 
other shareholder documentation 
in an alternative format, 
please send a request to 
corporate.affairs@dixonsretail.com 
or telephone 00 44 (0)844 800 2030 Index
Dixons Retail plc 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2012/13
A
Accounting policies 60 - 65
Accounting estimates and judgements 64, 65
Acquired intangibles 61, 86
Amortisation 70, 86
Assets held for sale 107
Associates 88
Audit Committee Report 36 - 38
Auditor’s remuneration 72
Auditor’s Report 54
B
Balance Sheet (Consolidated) 57
Board of directors 27, 28
Borrowings and borrowing facilities 90, 91
Brands 2, 86
Business Model 8
C
Capital commitments 107
Capital expenditure 70, 86, 87
Cash and cash equivalents 58, 90, 105, 106
Cash Flow Statement (Consolidated) 58
Charitable donations 26, 31
Community 26
Contingent liabilities 107
Corporate Governance Report 32 - 35
D
Deferred tax 80, 81
Depreciation 70, 87
Directors’ remuneration 50
Directors’ interests 49, 51, 52
Discontinued operations 107
E
Earnings / (loss) per share 82
Employee numbers 2, 78
Employees 25, 78
Environment 24, 25
Executive Share Option Plan 47, 52, 102 - 104
F
Finance costs / income 77, 78
Finance leases 91
Financial instruments 95 - 100
Five Year Record 120, 121
Free Cash Flow 21, 58
Funding 21, 90, 91, 106
G
Going concern 31
Goodwill 83 - 85
H
Health and Safety 26
I
Impairment 73, 74, 83 - 85, 88
Income Statement (Consolidated) 55
Intangible assets 86
Inventories 88
Investor Information 120 - 122
K
Key Performance Indicators 11
L
Looking forward 5
M
Markets 6
N
Nominations Committee Report 39, 40
Non-underlying items 60, 67, 68, 73 - 76
O
Operating lease charges 72
Operating lease commitments 107
P
Pensions 22, 48, 92 - 95
PSP / Performance Share Plan 47, 51, 103, 104
Post balance sheet event 108
Property losses 22, 67, 68
Property, plant & equipment 87
Provisions 92
R
Related party transactions 108
Resources 9, 10
Remuneration Report 41 - 52
Retention and Recruitment Share Plan 47, 48, 103, 104
Reward Sacrifice Scheme 47, 102
Risk factors 12 - 15
S
Segmental analysis 66 - 70
Selling space 2
Share-based payments 102 - 104
Share capital 101
Short term investments 89
Sharesave plan 48, 52, 102 - 104
Statement of Changes in Equity (Consolidated) 59
Statement of Comprehensive Income 
and Expense (Consolidated) 56
Strategy 7, 8
Store numbers 2
Subsidiary undertakings 119
T
Tax 79 - 81
TSR (Total Shareholder Return) 11, 49
Trade and other payables 91
Trade and other receivables 89
Treasury policy 95, 96
U
Underlying definition 60 Printed by DG3 Group (Holdings) Ltd on FSC
®
 certified paper.
DG3’s Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001. 100% of 
the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for 
further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production 
will be recycled.
This document is printed on Horizon Offset which is manufactured at an 
ISO14001 certified paper mill. Chlorine free. Dixons Retail plc
Maylands Avenue 
Hemel Hempstead 
Hertfordshire 
HP2 7TG 
United Kingdom
T el: 0844 800 2030 
www.dixonsretail.com
