 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Dixons Retail plc
Maylands Avenue 
Hemel Hempstead 
Hertfordshire 
HP2 7TG 
United Kingdom
T el: 0344 800 2030 
www.dixonsretail.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 
  
 
www.dixonsretail.com 
 
@DixonsRetail 
  Produced by Whitehouse Associates London
Printed by DG3 Group (Holdings) Ltd on FSC
®
 certified paper.
DG3’s Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001. 100% of 
the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for 
further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production 
will be recycled.
This document is printed on Horizon Offset which is manufactured at an 
ISO14001 certified paper mill. Chlorine free.
 
 
 
 
“This has been a great year for the Group with some excellent performances across our multi-channel businesses, together with the 
achievement of a number of important strategic objectives. Our profits are up 76% from those we reported a year ago and up 10%  
on a restated basis. This not only reflects the fact we have now exited all of our non-core markets, meaning we are now a leader in 
all our core markets, but is also a testament to the creativity and hard work of our teams. The Group is in robust financial health with 
further cash generation resulting in a strong net cash position even after the costs incurred in exiting the non-core businesses.  
Best of all, our customer service metrics have again reached new records. 
All of this all means that the Group is stronger – both commercially and financially – than it has been for a number of years and  
we are well positioned to set sail into new waters. I am very excited about the opportunities that the proposed merger with  
Carphone Warehouse offers for the Group. We will build what I hope will be the first and best truly multi-channel proposition that 
allows customers not only to buy and experience the explosion of new connected products that are emerging, but to also get the 
advice, connectivity and services that will allow them to use technology as it should be used – to make their lives better. In turn,  
this will allow us profoundly to change the nature of what we do: we will move from a transactional to a lifelong relationship with 
customers everywhere.  
In the meantime the new financial year has started well, with an uplift in TV sales driven by the World Cup, but we also believe we 
are seeing the early glimmers of a consumer recovery. On this there is no certainty just yet, but what we know for sure is that if we 
maintain a tight rein on costs, our pricing sharp – against all comers – and our service levels high, customers will continue to choose 
us over others.” 
 
 
 
Sebastian James 
Group Chief Executive 
25 June 2014 
 
 
 
Cautionary statement 
Certain statements made in this Annual Report and Accounts are forward looking. 
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to a number 
of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from 
any expected future events or results referred to in these forward looking 
statements. Unless otherwise required by applicable laws, regulations or 
accounting standards, we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise  
any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future 
developments or otherwise. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should 
be regarded as a profit forecast. 
 
 
 
 
   
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 1 
 
 
Contents 
 
 
Directors’ Report and Business Review 
Business Overview 
2 Group at a Glance and Five Year Highlights 
3 Chairman’s Statement  
4 Group Chief Executive’s Statement 
Strategic Summary 
6 Our Markets 
7 Strategy and Business Model 
10 Our Resources 
13 Key Performance Indicators 
14 Principal Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives 
Performance Review 
18 Overview 
20 Divisional Summary 
22 Group Financial Summary 
24 Corporate Responsibility Report 
Corporate Governance 
29 Board of Directors 
31 Corporate Governance Overview 
32 Statutory Information 
34 Corporate Governance Report 
37 Audit Committee Report  
40 Nominations Committee Report 
42 Remuneration Report 
59 Directors’ Responsibilities 
 
 
 
Financial Statements 
60 Independent Auditor’s Report 
63 Consolidated Income Statement 
64 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income and Expense 
65 Consolidated Balance Sheet 
66 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
67 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
68 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
115 Company Balance Sheet 
116 Company Cash Flow Statement 
117 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 
118 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
Investor Information 
126 Five Year Record 
128 Other Shareholder Information 
 
 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 2 
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview 
Group at a Glance 
We are a leading European specialist electrical retailing and services company. We trade through over 900 
stores and on-line. We operate three divisions as follows: 
 
 UK & Ireland Nordics Greece 
 
Currys and PC World are the 
largest specialist electrical 
retailing and services operators 
in the UK and Ireland. 
KNOWHOW is our market 
leading services brand.  
Dixons Travel operates in all 
major UK airports as well as 
Dublin, Copenhagen, Rome, 
Milan and Brussels. 
PC World Business provides 
computing products and 
services to business to  
business customers. 
The Elkjøp Group is the leading 
specialist electrical retailer 
across the Nordics.  
Elkjøp and Lefdal stores operate 
in Norway, El Giganten in 
Sweden and Denmark and 
Gigantti in Finland.  
 
Kotsovolos is Greece’s leading 
specialist electrical retailer. 
 
Brands Currys, PC World, 
KNOWHOW, Dixons Travel, 
PC World Business 
Elkjøp, El Giganten, Gigantti, 
Lefdal 
Kotsovolos 
Underlying sales 
(£million) 
4,148.6 2,789.8 279.2 
Underlying operating 
profit  / (loss) 
(£million) 
141.0 116.9 (10.5) 
Number of  
stores 
524 294 99 
Average number of 
employees 
21,420 8,798 1,750 
Selling space 
(‘000 sq ft) 
7,480 4,639 1,018 
Average selling area 
per store (sq ft) 
14,275 15,779 10,283 
Websites www.currys.co.uk 
www.pcworld.co.uk 
www.knowhow.co.uk 
www.currys.ie  
www.pcworld.ie 
www.pcworldbusiness.co.uk 
www.elkjop.no 
www.elgiganten.se 
www.elgiganten.dk 
www.gigantti.fi 
www.lefdal.com 
 
www.kotsovolos.gr 
 
 
Five Year Highlights 
 
Underlying Group revenues* 
£million 
EBIT* 
£million 
Underlying profit before tax* 
£million 
Underlying diluted earnings per share* 
Pence 
2013/14 7,217.6 202.8 166.2 3.0p 
2012/13
†
 7,026.6 186.4 151.0 2.6p 
2011/12
†
 6,521.4 158.1 124.7 2.2p 
2010/11
†
 6,393.9 142.8 109.3 2.1p 
2009/10
†
 6,506.0 154.2 117.9 2.5p 
 
* Underlying performance measures are as defined in the Performance Review. 
† Underlying figures for 2012/13 and prior years have been re-presented to exclude the results of discontinued operations. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 3 
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview 
Chairman’s Statement 
Your Group has made considerable progress this year in 
delivering our key priorities. We also announced a proposed 
merger with Carphone Warehouse Group plc (Carphone) to 
take us on the next phase of growth. 
On top of this, the fundamentals of the business have become 
stronger than ever. Customers are increasingly recognising our 
improved offer and our financial position continues to be 
strengthened through good cash generation. 
I am confident that the Group is now in a better position than  
it has been for a number of years, and I am again pleased  
that these actions are being reflected in the overall value of  
our shares. 
The Group is now focused on those markets where it has a 
leadership position. Sebastian James and his team have ably 
negotiated transactions that have seen us exit from Turkey, 
Italy, Central Europe and the pure play business of PIXmania. 
All operations which we couldn’t see a clear economic path to 
leadership and which were a drag on the overall performance  
of the Group. We have also put our UK & Ireland, Nordics and 
Greek operations on the road to delivering a sustainable 
business for the long term. Our suppliers, customers and 
colleagues all recognise the improvements we have made and 
we are leading the field in how a specialist electrical retailing 
and services company should operate. 
In the UK & Ireland, Katie Bickerstaffe and her team have 
delivered another strong performance with market share gains 
and improvement in profitability of the division, which grew  
24% year on year. This reflects the hard work being done that 
continues to deliver an improved offer for customers which is 
being recognised with another year of record advocacy scores. 
Katie and her team are now exploring new ways to excite and 
engage with customers with trials of new store formats and  
new categories, such as the connected world trials in five large 
stores. I look forward to seeing how this division delivers 
another year of progress in the year ahead. 
Our Nordics business, which has been a stalwart in our group 
for a number of years, continues to deliver a solid set of results. 
In his first full year Jaan Ivar Semlitsch has consolidated 
Elkjøp’s postion in each of its markets, faced into some tough 
competitive positions and embraced being a part of the Group 
that will see all our businesses benefit properly from shared 
expertise. We have, during the year, rolled our KNOWHOW 
services into the Nordics delivering a market leading range of 
services to Elkjøp’s customers. With new customer 
measurement tools, the team is responding dynamically to 
customer needs with improving satisfaction scores being 
delivered. 
The economic environment in Greece remains tough, but we 
did see some modest signs of stabilisation towards the end of 
the financial year. Kotsovolos has a great reputation amongst 
customers and is benefiting from market share gains. As a 
result the business is well placed to benefit from any 
improvement in the Greek economy.
In streamlining the Group and disposing of non-core businesses 
we did incur non-underlying charges and with other items  
these totalled £186.0 million, resulting in a total loss after tax  
of £70.3 million. However, underlying Group profit before tax  
of £166.2 million was a significant improvement year on year 
and enabled us to enjoy another year of cash generation.  
While net cash was positive in the year we remain focused on 
reducing the financial leverage of the Group to improve the 
balance sheet as well as returns for shareholders. 
This puts the Group in a strong and healthy financial position 
from which to embark on our next phase of growth. With the 
products we sell becoming increasingly connected, the internet 
of things is upon us and rapidly evolving. With this in mind one 
of our objectives has been to bring a market leading mobile  
and connectivity offer to our customers. While we have good 
positions in the Nordics and Greece, we need to strengthen  
our position in the UK & Ireland. The proposed merger with 
Carphone, if completed, will bring two market leading 
businesses together with an unrivalled offer for this new 
connected world for customers, not just in products and 
connectivity, but in the great service platforms we both have. 
Documentation giving details of the proposed merger and 
seeking your approval is being sent out on or around 26 June. 
During the year the Group continued to raise money for various 
charities in the countries in which our businesses operate. In the 
UK, donations totalling £233,800 were made including £150,000 
to Children in Need. In the Nordics, we continued our support 
for the Red Cross Water for Life project with donations totalling 
NOK 1.9 million.  
The Board, through its various committees, continues to ensure 
that the requisite controls are in place across the business and 
that the highest possible principles of corporate governance are 
adhered to. 
We can all reflect on what I believe has been a successful year 
for the Group and I would like to thank all our colleagues and 
congratulate the leadership team for their part in delivering this.  
I look forward to the exciting developments the year ahead will 
bring for the Group. 
 
 
John Allan 
Chairman 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 4 
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview 
Group Chief Executive’s Statement 
I am delighted to be reporting another year of significant 
progress for the Group. When taking on this role a little over  
two years ago I recognised that to be successful and to best 
reward our shareholders we needed to focus on those markets 
where we have a leadership position. So I am very pleased to 
report that we are now delivering on that promise with our UK  
& Ireland, Nordics and Greek operations all leaders in their 
markets delivering great service for our customers each and 
every day. In a busy year we disposed of our businesses in 
Italy, Turkey, Czech Republic and Slovakia, as well as exiting 
the PIXmania operations, thereby streamlining and focusing  
the Group. 
A leadership position is important in our industry as it makes us 
the most relevant place to go for customers as well as the most 
relevant outlet for our suppliers. It is this for which suppliers 
reward us, and is a key factor in ensuring we have a sustainable 
business in a multi-channel world. These key factors put us 
firmly in control of our own destiny. Our colleagues can serve 
our millions of customers with the confidence that we have the  
best offer in each of our markets. 
As a more streamlined and focused group we are able to free 
up capital enabling investment in our stores, colleague training, 
our websites and importantly our service offering. Continuously 
improving our business for customers and colleagues has 
contributed to further improvements in our already impressive 
customer satisfaction scores with, for example 88% of 
customers in the UK highly likely to recommend us to friends 
and family. In fact during the year 319 stores in the UK scored 
100% at least once on this metric. 
Having delivered on one of our key objectives I see the three 
things we now need to focus on to drive further returns for our 
shareholders as: 
1. Continue to enhance and drive a successful and sustainable 
business model in a multi-channel world. 
2. Leverage our national and pan-European scale, our 
knowhow, and our unique asset base to drive growth in new 
product areas including growth in services – both to our 
retail and business customers. 
3. Become a major player in connectivity and associated 
services and so be uniquely positioned to benefit from 
technology changes as the majority of devices become 
connected. 
These are discussed in more detail under the Strategy section 
of this report, but I’d like to dwell on the last of these three. 
You will no doubt have seen that we have announced a 
proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse. We have a  
great offer for customers across all our businesses, but as  
the technology we use evolves and becomes increasingly 
connected we need to have a fully integrated offering across 
electricals, mobiles and connectivity. While we have this to 
some extent in the Nordics and Greece, Carphone Warehouse 
would clearly bring further expertise in mobiles and connectivity 
across the Group, but most particularly to our UK & Ireland 
business. I am incredibly excited about the opportunities that 
this proposed combination would bring to the Group. Our two 
businesses are coming together from positions of strength 
which will enable us to focus on adding value – the opportunities 
for which I see as being the following. 
Firstly, in bringing two sizeable companies together we can 
leverage significant synergies from the combination. We believe 
that we can deliver at least £80 million of synergies on a 
recurring basis, with delivery expected in the 2017/18 financial 
year. These are a combination of costs, revenue opportunities 
from putting a Carphone Warehouse mobile offering in all of our 
stores as well as some benefits from having increased scale in 
administrative purchasing, such as marketing. We confirm that 
the synergy statements that were set out in our joint merger 
announcement with Carphone Warehouse on 15 May 2014 
remain valid. Deloitte LLP and Deutsche Bank AG, London 
Branch reported on these synergy statements in that joint 
announcement and we expect them to confirm to Carphone 
Warehouse on publication of the shareholder documentation 
relating to the merger that their reports continue to apply. If the 
transaction successfully completes, I look forward to updating 
you on what further opportunities we can deliver in enjoining  
our two businesses together.  
In addition, by being a unique place for customers to experience 
new products that will make up the connected world as well as 
get advice from our highly trained colleagues, we can truly be 
the go to expert for this new, exciting and complex world for 
customers. Not only can we help them in navigating their way to 
a truly connected home, we can bring existing and new services 
to them to keep their world functioning and connected. This will 
not only open up new products and services for us, but can take 
our relationship with our customers from a transactional one, to 
a longer term relationship. 
Further, both we and Carphone Warehouse have started to 
explore how we can leverage the platforms we have created 
that support our core retailing and services expertise to further 
benefit our shareholders. Carphone Warehouse has made great 
strides in this field with its Connected World Services business 
that provides a selection of services to support retailers wishing 
to add connectivity to their offering. We already provide two man 
delivery logistics for certain manufacturers  
in the UK and are in discussions to leverage our Hong Kong 
white label product sourcing operations for other retailers 
around the world. Together we can offer a full range of  
services to business customers with the potential to build a 
significant operation across the globe, adding real value for  
our shareholders. 
Turning to the performance of our underlying operations, the  
UK & Ireland has had another strong year. An increase in like 
for like sales of 5% across the year ensured we gained further 
market share. Profitability grew by 24% to £141 million, 
delivering a 3.4% return on sales. This performance reinforces 
the fact that we have built a market leading, economically robust 
business – one that is delivering great service each and every 
day. As I mentioned earlier this is being increasingly reflected in 
the record customer advocacy scores. But also because we 
believe that we have to earn a conversation with a customer 
through great advice, prices and service. Katie Bickerstaffe has 
ably led her team in delivering a truly transformed business that 
stands shoulder to shoulder with our customers. The team 
vigorously grasped the opportunity provided by consolidation in 
the UK market over the last two years, significantly increasing 
our market share and thereby our relevance to both customers 
and suppliers. This gain has been most significant in white 
goods where we have grown market share faster than our peers 
and established a market leading position across both large and 
small kitchen appliances, all supported by our leading services 
offering incorporating delivery, installation, repair and recycling. 
Indeed we are trialling a new kitchen department as we look to 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 5 
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Group Chief Executive’s Statement (continued) 
deepen our offer for customers in this area. The year ahead is 
an exciting one for CurrysPCWorld and KNOWHOW, 
particularly as we combine the business with Carphone 
Warehouse to deliver an unrivalled offer for customers. 
Our Nordics business had another successful year with like for 
like sales up 2%. Jaan Ivar Semlitsch and his team have risen 
to face a few challenges this year while also continuing to 
improve the offer for customers, service levels and growing 
market shares. 
In the Spring of 2013 we introduced ‘Happy or Not’ kiosks into 
the stores across the region, this enables the store to monitor 
customer satisfaction scores in real time and make dynamic 
adjustments in response, such as adjusting shift patterns. 
Encouragingly we have seen a steady improvement in these 
scores through the year with 85% of customers in April 2014 
saying they were happy with their store visit. 
Our business in Greece has weathered the storm of the 
economic crisis well. It at last looks like there may be some 
glimmers of improvement on the horizon. With powerful brand 
positioning and strong relationships with suppliers, Kotsovolos 
has gained further market share and can at last look forward 
with some confidence. While the economy still has some way  
to go, Kotsovolos is well positioned to help customers as the 
recovery takes shape. 
Our Group is in the best shape it has been for a number of 
years. Net cash of £70.9 million at the year end means we are 
in robust financial health and have clarity on being able to 
redeem our 2015 and 2017 bonds as they fall due. With the 
proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse I am delighted that 
we will be able to return to paying a dividend, a milestone that 
underpins the financial robustness of a successful business, 
and will enable us to further reward our loyal shareholders. 
As ever I remain indebted to my colleagues across the Group,  
in particular those out in our shops, call centres, service labs, 
warehouses and delivery services helping, surprising and 
delighting our customers every day. It is they that enable us to 
make this a truly great business and I thank them for their hard 
work and dedication. We embark on a new chapter in the year 
ahead and I know I can rely on them for their continued support. 
 
 
Sebastian James 
Group Chief Executive 
25 June 2014
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 6 
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Our Markets 
Specialist electrical retailers are the predominant destination  
for customers in the European market. Buying groups, general 
merchants and independents also have a retail presence 
through stores and / or on-line in most European markets.  
The market is served by a relatively small number of global 
manufacturers supplying goods to local, regional, national  
and international electrical retailers. 
The electrical retail market can be split between specialist 
electrical retailers, such as Dixons Retail, and general retailers 
which sell certain electrical goods as part of a wider offering, 
such as catalogue retailers, department stores, large 
supermarket chains and single channel internet retailers. The 
market can also be broken down into two distinct distribution 
channels: ‘assisted’ and ‘unassisted’. In the assisted channel, 
specialist retailers, such as us, help customers through the 
buying process in the form of product advice, add-on services, 
delivery and installation. The unassisted channel, which 
includes single channel internet retailers as well as general 
retailers, tends not to offer all of these services. 
We are one of the largest specialist electrical retailing and 
services companies in Europe and with leading market shares 
in the UK, Ireland, the Nordic region and Greece we benefit 
from long established and widely recognised brands. In each  
of our markets there are varying numbers of specialist retailers 
who compete in the assisted market. While we do compete 
against general retailers, this is generally limited to certain lower 
unit price product categories as these operators do not offer  
the full range of products, assisted sale or associated ancillary 
services we are able to provide. 
We have seen some significant shifts in capacity in many of  
our markets over the last 12 to 24 months with some mass 
merchandisers reducing space for electrical products, some 
single channel internet operators, as well as some specialists, 
exiting the market. These shifts have helped us gain market 
share and it underpins our view that a strong service led multi-
channel operation satisfies both customer and supplier needs 
while delivering a sustainable business as customer shopping 
habits continue to evolve. We believe further consolidation will 
occur in some of our markets going forward. 
The internet has established itself as an integral part of the retail 
landscape. It brings enhanced product information as well as 
price comparability for consumers. It is therefore becoming an 
important part of the shopping trip for customers combining the 
internet with stores as they consider their purchase, particularly 
for high ticket discretionary products such as electricals. Larger 
retailers with an integrated multi-channel offer with scalable 
distribution and systems, together with proven after sales 
service and support are increasingly attractive to customers. 
Our collect@store service, where customers can order on the 
internet and collect from a convenient store at a time to suit 
them, and our pay&collect service, where customers can 
access a wider range of products than is typically available  
in their local store for either home delivery or later collection 
from the store, are both proving to be increasingly popular. 
The UK and Nordic markets have high broadband penetration 
and a maturing on-line sales platform. The increase in on-line 
penetration provides us with the opportunity to increase both  
the range of goods on offer and the availability of product 
information. Our multi-channel approach is well placed to  
exploit synergies between our internet sites and stores. 
Innovation brings new products and products with improved 
functionality, such as Ultra High Definition and Smart TVs, 
Apple’s iPad, and other tablets, as well as converging products 
that combine the flexibility of a tablet with a keyboard in turn 
driving sales growth. New content, such as social media, apps, 
digital media and cloud computing, also help to drive hardware 
innovation and replacement. Product sales are also driven by 
structural shifts, such as analogue to digital and standard format 
through to Ultra HD television. In addition, innovation drives new 
service requirements, such as TV installation, data backup, 
computer set up and instructional Showhow teach-ins. In this 
increasingly complex world we believe our assisted sales model 
is best placed to help customers navigate the products available 
and to help them choose a complete solution that best meets 
their needs. 
Electrical products, and in particular brown goods, are 
predominantly discretionary purchases. However, increasing 
penetration of digital technology in the home drives replacement 
cycles as these products become less discretionary. The 
economic backdrop also determines whether customers buy  
up or down price points. Accordingly, the electrical market tends 
to grow at a rate which is at or exceeding the economy during 
boom years. While the opposite can be true during a downturn, 
this may be influenced by new innovation and products. 
The rapid innovation cycle leads to price deflation in brown 
goods and computing, but also drives volume as products 
become more affordable and replacement cycles accelerate. 
For larger ticket items, the low frequency of purchases limits  
the impact of price deflation on total market sales as consumers 
typically trade up to higher specification products. Our 
‘Customer Journeys’ are designed to explain the features  
and benefits of the latest technology to customers and  
help them understand the reasons for trading up to the  
newer technologies. 
The sale of white goods is underpinned by the replacement 
cycle. Due to higher costs of repair, it often makes better 
economic sense for consumers to replace white goods outright 
rather than to arrange for their repair. The sale of white goods  
is also driven by the dynamics of the housing market as new 
construction, house sales and refurbishment trigger new 
purchases.  
Technology and the digitised world increasingly embed 
themselves into our customers’ lives, whether it be keeping up 
with friends and family through social media, on-line gaming, 
watching movies on the move, sharing pictures with others or 
across different technologies in the home, backing up precious 
memories in the cloud or through energy efficiency. The latest 
technology allows our customers to do all this and more with 
tablets, Smart TVs and apps. The ecosystems behind the 
current digital revolution are simplifying our customers’ lives. 
Customers come to us not just for the enabling technology,  
but to find a solution. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 7 
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Strategy and Business Model 
Strategy 
Over the last two years the Group has made very significant 
progress on delivering against our key priorities, and we have 
seen the benefits of this in our financial performance. By 
changing the pricing model, driving service and the selling  
of complete solutions, by embracing and driving a true multi-
channel proposition and by leveraging our ability to tell 
suppliers’ stories better, we have built what we believe to  
be a business model that will flourish in an internet world.  
In addition, we have been relentless in managing our portfolio  
so that we are now the market leader, and growing market 
share in all of our key markets. 
This enables us to drive the Group forward from a position  
of strength with a focus on the three strategic priorities as set 
out below. By focusing on these we can deliver not only a better 
business for our customers and colleagues, but also better 
returns for shareholders. In delivering each of these priorities 
the proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse will add 
additional strength as well as a new category of products and 
services across which these benefits can be brought to bear. 
The three strategic priorities are: 
1. Continue to enhance and drive a successful and sustainable 
business model in a multi-channel world. 
2. Leverage our national and pan-European scale, our 
knowhow, and our unique asset base to drive growth in  
new product areas including growth in services – both to  
our retail and business customers. 
3. Become a major player in connectivity and associated 
services and so be uniquely positioned to benefit from  
major technology changes as the majority of devices 
become connected. 
Looking at each of these in turn: 
1. Continue to enhance and drive a successful and 
sustainable business model in a multi-channel world 
The way in which a customer shops continues to evolve. Our 
customers tell us that they want advice, to experience products 
and to ensure they are making the right choices, particularly as 
these are often major purchases that they will own for several 
years. The internet empowers customers with lots of information 
including product knowledge and price transparency. Single 
channel internet operators have a different model whose 
principal advantage is structurally lower costs and which have 
historically been able therefore to offer competitive prices versus 
store based operators. By focusing on those aspects that we,  
as a multi-channel specialist, can offer customers and suppliers 
we can eliminate the cost advantage that pure play internet 
operators have historically enjoyed. As a result we are able  
to offer customers very competitive prices against all our 
competitor set and still be more profitable.  
There are four distinct activities that we believe are the key 
strengths of our multi-channel, service-based model and which 
will support our competitive advantage going forward:
 
i. Work closely with suppliers to harness benefits available  
to our business model: Suppliers want to ensure that 
customers not only choose their brands, but also experience 
the benefits of the latest products they have developed  
to meet customers’ needs. As a multi-channel operator  
we work with our suppliers to ensure we can explain  
the benefits of these products and demonstrate them to 
customers in our stores and our suppliers support us in  
this work in a variety of tangible ways. 
ii. Focus on complete solutions for customers: Customers buy 
products in order to achieve something, such as washing 
clothes, or entertaining the children. This does not just mean 
buying the hardware, but increasingly includes delivery, 
explanation and peace of mind through product support and 
after sales services, as well as accessories and eventually, 
recycling. The conversations our colleagues have in store 
with customers gives us an opportunity to explain the 
benefits of these solutions and sell more of them than  
our single-channel competition.  
iii.  Drive our service proposition: We need to be able to stand 
shoulder to shoulder with our customers and for them to 
know they can come to our stores and get knowledgeable 
advice and great service to help them buy the right product. 
They need to be confident that we will solve their problem 
for them quickly and efficiently. KNOWHOW in the UK offers 
customers one cohesive services brand that can help them 
with their product throughout its life from purchase, help and 
support, repair and through to disposal. When we get this 
right we know that customers are prepared to pay us for  
this service. 
iv. Reduce costs: The scale of our operations across stores, 
ranges, logistics, distribution, repairs and services means 
that we can continually improve processes to reduce costs. 
We have removed a considerable amount of cost from the 
business over the last few years by making the business 
simpler, easier to operate and more efficient and we remain 
relentlessly focused on managing costs to make our 
business more efficient. 
The proposed merger allows us to further expand and 
strengthen our proposition to customers, our service capability 
and our relationship with suppliers to underpin and drive even 
greater advantage in the markets in which we operate. 
2. Leverage pan-European scale and knowhow, including 
growth in services 
The Group has many best practices in each of its business 
divisions. Some work has taken place to align these and share 
them across the Group, such as the new store formats, supplier 
relationships and, to a limited degree, own brands. However, 
there remain many opportunities to share knowledge, expertise 
and best practice across the Group. For example Our Experts 
Love model that aligns recommendations for customers with 
suppliers’ new technology operates in some form in each of  
our key markets. 
  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 8 
Directors’ Report 
Business Overview 
Strategy and Business Model (continued) 
Growing complexity and interconnectivity of products means 
that customers are increasingly demanding help and support, 
not just in choosing the right product, but also installation, 
connection, support and repair. Our KNOWHOW services are  
at the forefront of this in the UK and we have started to roll out 
our KNOWHOW services across the Nordics. In Greece we  
are rolling out services under the Support360 brand. We can 
and will do more to make sure that innovation in local markets  
is rewarded and rolled back to other territories. 
We must continue to innovate new services to help customers 
and to remain relevant to the way products and connectivity is 
evolving. Behind our end to end service operation we have a 
comprehensive infrastructure, including technical phone 
support, delivery, installation, repair and recycling. We can 
leverage this infrastructure to widen our customer base either  
to customers who bought their products through a third party 
(for example, our fault&fix computer service), or for business 
customers (for example deliveries for Beko and Bosch 
Siemens) for products bought directly. By doing this we can 
lower the cost density of utilising this infrastructure and deliver 
even better value services for our customers. As we move 
forward with our proposed merger, this thinking has been  
further evolved and fits very neatly with Carphone Warehouse’s 
ambitions to grow its Connected World Services business. 
3. Drive a leadership position in mobile and connectivity 
in each of the markets in which the Group operates 
In the markets outside the UK & Ireland, we have successful 
mobile retailing operations within our specialist electrical stores. 
However, in the UK & Ireland we do not have our own mobile 
and connectivity offering. We currently operate a joint venture 
shop in shop offer in 160 stores with Phones4U under a 
contract that runs until May 2015. 
The consumer electronics and mobile phone retail landscapes 
have evolved significantly over the last few years. In particular, 
the growth of smartphones, tablets and speed of internet access 
both in and out of the home, together with an increasing number 
of connected devices, are altering the way people live their 
lives, communicate and use technology. This has made 
available to Dixons a number of markets, like health, security, 
content, home management and others in which we are not 
able to operate today but which are developing and will continue 
to develop into large connected markets in the next few years. 
Linked to this market development will be a need for a raft of 
new services that will ensure that these technologies work and 
are maintained and monitored so that they can achieve what 
they are supposed to achieve: They can make people’s lives 
better. 
It is for this reason we have announced the proposed merger 
with Carphone Warehouse. We believe that combined with their 
leading position in independent mobile retailing and connectivity 
we will be best placed to help customers navigate this 
increasingly complex matrix of device, connectivity and content 
in all the markets in which the Group operates. By combining 
these two already strong businesses, with industry-leading 
management teams, we can provide the opportunity to create  
a new retailer for the new digital age. 
Having set a clear view of the future and understood the actions 
that are required to deliver against this. We aim to ensure that 
the recognition and reward systems can accurately help to 
support these ambitions. As a result the Board measures  
a variety of metrics including profits, cash and return on capital 
employed (ROCE). 
Our UK & Ireland and Nordics divisions together delivered a 
3.7% EBIT return after associated central costs in the 2013/14 
financial year, in-line with our strategic objective of a 3 – 4% 
EBIT return. In Greece the economic backdrop remains 
challenging, but with a focus on costs and customer service 
management have been able to limit the impact of the downturn 
on bottom line performance. As the Greek economy shows 
early signs of a stability returning to the markets, Kotsovolos  
is well placed to see improvements in its returns in the  
medium term. 
Cash is an important part of this and the Group has been cash 
generative in each of the last four financial years. Indeed we 
ended the 2013/14 financial year with an improved net cash 
position for a second year of £70.9 million. As a Group we need 
to make the right choices as to how each of our divisions utilise 
or preserve cash, whether it be determining ranges and stock 
held in store, managing returns and related processes or 
improving working capital and stock turn. 
We must make sure we use capital efficiently and ensure we 
are making it work to the best advantage of shareholders which 
is why ROCE is an important KPI. ROCE for the financial year 
2013/14 was 16.3%, an improvement from the prior financial 
year figure of 14.9%. 
  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 9 
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Strategy and Business Model (continued) 
Business model 
Our business model, driven by customer insight, comprises 
three pillars of an integrated multi-channel offering including  
a wide range of products together with after sales service  
and support, underpinned by a low cost operating model.  
Customer insight 
In order to ensure we understand what products and services 
our customers want, how they use the products they buy from 
us and what they think of the service they get from us, we use 
extensive customer insight. This includes discussions at 
customer panels, interviews, home visits and detailed surveys. 
We use this information to build our ranges, improve our stores 
and services and other business decisions. This is supported by 
mystery shops in our own and competitor stores, exit surveys 
and customer feedback. During the year our UK and Nordics 
businesses made considerable progress in customer 
satisfaction metrics as we continue to improve the business. 
Taking each of the three pillars in turn, our model can be 
described as follows: 
Multi-channel 
The shopping trip for customers is constantly evolving.  
Our objective is to provide our customers with a seamless 
experience where convenience, ease of navigation and 
simplicity are key in attracting customers to shop with us 
whether it is on-line, in-store or a combination of both. We 
constantly aim to develop and improve our stores making them 
easier to shop with, for example, improved navigation, better 
signage, play tables to allow customers to interact with products 
before they buy, as well as good advice on features and 
benefits from our colleagues and our websites are an integral 
part of the customer shopping trip.  
In recognition of how customer trends are evolving we have 
made it easier for our colleagues to access products and 
extended ranges in store. For example, our store colleagues  
are rewarded for all sales in their catchment, whether it be on-
line or in store. We have also introduced pay&collect, alongside 
our existing collect@store service, where customers can buy 
products not immediately available in their local store for 
collection later. 
Our training programmes combined with our Product Learning 
Centres and Customer Journeys provide our colleagues with 
the right tools to really understand customers’ needs and to 
provide them with the complete solution to properly meet  
those needs. We will continue to improve the training of our 
colleagues and the ways in which we can really make them 
experts in the products we sell. 
Products 
Combining our customer insight with our market strength  
across Europe we can make sure we have the right range of 
products in our stores to suit customers’ needs. Our scale and 
relationships with suppliers means that we can work with them 
to showcase the latest technology and products in our stores 
with areas dedicated to key suppliers’ products. 
Own brand products enable us to offer customers greater 
choice and access to a range of products at competitive prices. 
We have defined a clear ‘good, better, best’ brand range of: 
Currys and PC World Essentials; Logik; iWantit; Advent; Goji; 
and Sandstrøm brands. We see particular opportunities in the 
area of accessories and essentials with, for example, our own 
range of Sandstrøm cables. 
After sales services and support 
Our customers need help with their products, whether it be 
delivery and installation, help keeping their products up and 
running or repair should things go wrong. Our business in the  
UK & Ireland sets the benchmark for our services infrastructure 
under our KNOWHOW brand, which we are now rolling out 
across the Nordics. 
We operate the largest network of two man deliveries in the  
UK with an average of 50,000 deliveries per week enabling us 
to provide customers with the convenience of next day delivery 
in a three hour time slot or the value of a free delivery later. 
Our KNOWHOW teams in stores, in our call centre and field 
technicians can provide set up and upgrade services as well as 
on-line fix and back up services. Our market leading range of 
help and support services ensure a customer has the backing  
of expertise and support that keeps their technology up and 
running. In the event that a customer has a problem with their 
product, we can fix it. For example, our state of the art repair 
facility in Newark is able to repair and return a laptop in seven 
days. Our network of field technicians offer white goods repair  
in a market we estimate to be worth around £500 million. We 
provide customers with a choice of support agreements such  
as ‘Premier’ services which provide customers with a loan TV, 
for example, if theirs needs to be taken away for repair. 
Through ownership of the service infrastructure we can ensure 
the quality of service delivered to customers. This, we believe, 
provides us with a significant competitive advantage in meeting 
the needs of our customers, as well as a revenue stream  
not readily available to single channel on-line and mass  
market competitors. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 10
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Our Resources 
• Customers 
• People 
• Suppliers 
• Distribution and logistics 
• Store portfolio 
• Intellectual property 
• Energy 
• Cash and capital 
Customers 
To deliver on our strategies and to ensure we continue to 
respond to customers’ needs, we must listen and respond 
effectively to them. We have comprehensive customer research 
programmes spanning a variety of tools including exit surveys, 
mystery shops, focus groups and effective data gathering 
through, for example, our ‘Happy or Not’ tools in our Elkjøp 
business. 
Through this research, managed internally, we have developed 
a clear and detailed understanding of what we are doing  
well and more importantly of where we can target further 
improvements. Customers tell us that they need us to deliver  
a strong combination of ‘Value, Choice and Service’ across all 
our shopping channels and it is clear from their feedback that 
more and more, they recognise that we are doing this. We will 
continue to deliver easier, more exciting places to shop for 
customers whether that be in store, on-line or a multi-channel 
combination of both.  
Listening to customers extends into how we approach the sales 
process in store. Our unique training programmes combined 
with our customer journeys are designed to ensure customers 
leave our stores with a complete solution that is right for them. 
Doing this is a key part of our ongoing strategy and delivery  
of a sustainable business model, as well as enabling us to 
differentiate our offer from competitors. 
By maintaining our absolute focus on the customer and 
delivering what they want in a retail environment that is 
constantly evolving, we will continue to attract new customers 
and retain existing ones. 
People 
Dixons Retail is an organisation spanning Europe, with over 
30,000 colleagues in over 900 stores, offices, call centres and 
distribution centres. For our colleagues, we believe there are 
four core values that constitute who we are, as individuals and 
as a team: 
• We love to make our customers happy. 
• We know our stuff. 
• We love to work here. 
• We deliver. 
To support this we have a comprehensive Customer Plan that 
involves improving every possible aspect of the shopping trip, 
whether that be in our exciting new stores, better ranges at 
great value, untangling the shopping trip, helping customers get 
their products up and working, or keeping them working as 
technology gets more and more embedded into daily lives. 
We continue to make huge progress each year, however,  
we must never be satisfied and we can and must make  
further improvements to delight customers and to outpace  
the competition. This year, the Customer Plan will remain  
our vehicle for demonstrating to the team what needs to be 
delivered, building on last year’s successes, introducing new 
work streams and sharing our practices across Europe.  
We are focusing on building a career development framework 
that rewards customer centric behaviour and instils a sense  
of pride in our colleagues. We now provide tailor-made 
development programmes and support further education 
qualifications for our colleagues throughout the business.  
Our development programmes use modules, training 
workshops and a dedicated e-learning intranet service that 
helps provide the skills colleagues need to succeed at every 
level and career stage. 
We use our sophisticated tracking and measuring processes, 
including regular mystery shops and exit surveys, to measure 
individual and store performance, and to ensure we reward 
appropriate behaviours. Each region within the Group defines  
its own reward system as is appropriate to local customers’ 
expectations and colleague behaviours. However, all these 
systems incentivise a combination of good customer service 
and contribution to a store or team’s performance.  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 11
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Our Resources (continued) 
Suppliers 
With our market leading positions, growing reputation and  
being increasingly seen as the ‘go to’ location for all the latest 
technology, our relationship with suppliers becomes ever more 
important as well as ever stronger. Product sourcing offices for 
each of the UK & Ireland division, Nordics and Greece 
continually monitor current and future product cycles with 
existing and potential suppliers. 
In a complex multi-channel environment, suppliers trust us  
with their new product releases and stock allocations, as they 
appreciate the superior service and advice offered by our stores 
and indeed our websites, as well as the exciting environments 
offered by our transformed stores in which customers can 
experience their brands and products. 
We work closely with suppliers of all sizes to help them deliver 
the right product for customers, through the forecasting and 
planning stages to ensure we deliver the right levels of stock  
for customers at the right time. The electrical and computing 
industry is characterised by a number of large global 
manufacturers, who account for a large proportion of our  
sales. However, we also source product from a large number  
of smaller suppliers. We seek to maintain strong relationships 
with all of these suppliers, not just to source the right product  
for customers, but also to ensure the Group can purchase  
the appropriate level of stock on favourable terms. While we 
leverage the Group’s scale and buying power through an 
international buying team, we also maintain strong relationships 
at a local level. 
We continue to refine our own-brand ranges to suit all budgets 
and tastes. Our most notable successes have been the launch 
of our own Sandstrøm cables brand alongside our Currys and 
PC World Essentials ranges as key entry level products in our 
‘good, better, best’ line-up. These products are sourced by the 
Group’s teams based in the UK and Hong Kong in collaboration 
with manufacturers in, for example, Asia. 
Distribution and logistics 
The Group sees distribution as one of the keys to success in 
maintaining highly competitive margins and delivering 
outstanding, market-beating service to customers. We operate  
a centralised system of distribution centres for each of the 
regions in which we operate. This delivers significant 
competitive advantages, including reduced operating costs, 
reduced supplier delivery costs, reduced stock volumes in store, 
increased flexibility as to where to deliver and when, and a more 
efficient home delivery network for both us and our customers. 
While continuing to reduce costs, we are also constantly raising 
the bar, both in terms of successful delivery and installation 
rates, but also the range and quality of services we offer 
customers nationwide. In our Nordic operations (Jönköping, 
Sweden) and the UK (Newark), we operate two of the largest 
distribution centres of their kind in Europe. In the UK alone we 
now make some 2.5 million deliveries, including some 500,000 
installations per year. 
Store portfolio 
We operate a wide variety of stores to suit the local customer 
demographics. We operate small, very popular outlets in airport 
locations up to ‘Megastores’ in out-of-town locations, up to 
60,000 square feet. 
We constantly review our store portfolio to ensure we have the 
right store for customers in the most competitive location and for 
the way shopping habits evolve. As part of this ongoing review 
in the UK, we are currently reducing our exposure to the High 
Street, only maintaining a presence in the most profitable 
locations. We are also transitioning stores to a 2-in-1 format in 
the UK & Ireland. These stores allow us to offer the best of both 
worlds to customers, attracting new footfall and often at a lower 
cost. 
In the Nordic region and Greece we also operate a number  
of franchise stores. This arrangement allows our brands to be 
present in a wider range of catchments, while increasing the 
volume of purchases and therefore buying power of the Group.  
 
  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 12
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Our Resources (continued) 
Intellectual property 
Dixons Retail is one of the largest electrical and computing 
specialist groups in Europe, and leads the market in a number 
of its operations, in the UK & Ireland through Currys and PC 
World, in the Nordics through its various Elkjøp brands and in 
Greece through Kotsovolos. These brands are extremely well-
established and respected in their markets. The Group is also 
building a strong service business (branded KNOWHOW) in the 
UK and Nordics, aiming to delight customers while generating 
significant new business opportunities. 
As well as our retail and service brands outlined above, we  
also sell a range of own brand products such as Sandstrøm, 
Goji, Logik, Essentials and Advent. Each of these brands have 
specific target markets defined in conjunction with our customer 
research findings.  
Energy 
Saving energy is good for the business, good for customers and 
of course good for the environment. We take energy efficiency 
extremely seriously and whilst we have already made progress 
in a number of areas, we are investing in a wider range of 
initiatives to significantly reduce our consumption going forward. 
Over the past four years we have developed an ongoing 
programme to reduce energy consumption throughout our 
estate through, for example, low energy lighting and centralised 
monitoring of consumption. 
Cash and capital 
It remains the Group’s policy to maintain a strong capital base 
so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and 
to sustain the future development of the business. Through 
careful working capital and balance sheet management, a focus 
on cost reduction as well as efficient use of capital management 
is focused on ensuring we deliver a sustainable business with 
strong cash generation. 
As a Group we need to make the right choices as to how each 
division utilises or preserves cash, whether it be in determining 
ranges and stock held in store or managing returns and related 
processes. This focus has enabled the Group to be cash 
generative in each of the last four financial years. The 
strengthening cash position of the Group has meant that the 
revolving credit facility has remained undrawn through the 
financial year. 
 
 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 13
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Key Performance Indicators 
Financial and operational 
 Definition Performance  
Total  
underlying  
sales* 
Growth in total underlying sales. The ability to grow sales is an important 
measure of a brand’s appeal to customers and its competitive position.  
2013/14  
£7,217.6m 
2012/13
† 
 
£7,026.6m 
Like for  
like sales 
The Board measures like for like sales based on underlying store and 
internet sales using constant exchange rates. New stores are included where 
they have been open for a full financial year both at the beginning and end of 
the financial period. Closed stores are excluded for any period of closure. 
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like 
calculations. Sales targets and growth are set relative to the market and 
expected economic conditions. 
2013/14  
3% 
2012/13
† 
 
9% 
Market  
position 
In line with the Group’s strategy to be the leading specialist electrical retailer  
in Europe, this is an important measure of how well customers are being 
engaged by the Group’s brands in each market. Retailing operations should 
be, or be capable of becoming, the number one or number two specialist 
electrical retailer in their market, measured by market share. 
Market leading positions in: 
UK & Ireland  
Nordics  
Greece 
Underlying 
operating  
profit / EBIT* 
Continued growth of underlying operating profit enables the Group to invest 
in its future and provide a return for shareholders. Earnings before interest 
and tax (EBIT) equates to underlying operating profit. Targets are set relative 
to expected market performance. 
2013/14  
£202.8m 
2012/13
†
 
£186.4m 
Underlying  
profit before  
tax* 
Continued growth of underlying profit before tax represents a measure of 
Group performance to external investors and shareholders. Targets are set 
relative to expected market performance. 
2013/14  
£166.2m 
2012/13
† 
 
£151.0m 
Free Cash  
Flow 
The Group defines Free Cash Flow as net cash generated from operations, 
less net finance costs, taxation and net capital expenditure and excluding 
certain discrete items such as special pension contributions. The 
management of cash usage, in particular working capital employed in the 
business, optimises resources available for the Group to invest in its future 
growth and to generate shareholder value. 
2013/14  
£200.5m 
2012/13
† 
 
£207.8m 
Return on  
Capital  
Employed  
(ROCE)  
The Group calculates ROCE on a pre-tax and lease adjusted basis. The 
return is based on underlying operating profit, adjusted to add back the 
estimated interest component associated with capitalising operating lease 
costs. Capital employed is based on net assets including capitalised leases, 
but excluding goodwill, cash, tax and the defined benefit pension obligations. 
The calculation is performed on a moving annual total in order to best match 
the return on assets in a year with the assets in use during the year to 
generate the return.  
2013/14  
16.3% 
2012/13
† 
 
14.9% 
 
Shareholder 
 Definition Performance  
Underlying 
diluted 
earnings per 
share* (EPS) 
The level of growth in EPS provides a suitable measure of the financial health 
of the Group and its ability to deliver returns to shareholders each year. The 
Group targets growth in EPS commensurate with growth in earnings.  
2013/14  
3.0p 
2012/13
† 
 
2.6p 
Total 
shareholder 
return (TSR) 
This metric provides a relative performance measure over the longer term of 
the Group’s ability to deliver returns for shareholders. From 2010/11, the base 
which the Group has used has been to measure against the FTSE 250 Index 
(comprising FTSE 101-350 companies), excluding investment trusts, over a 
three year period. 
3 Year Compound Annual Growth 
Dixons Retail plc  46.1% 
FTSE 250 Index 14.1% 
* Underlying performance measures are as defined in the Performance Review. 
† Underlying figures for the year ended 30 April 2013 have been re-presented to exclude the results of discontinued operations. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 14
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Principal Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives 
The Group recognises that taking risks is an inherent part of doing business and that competitive advantage can be gained through 
effectively managing risk. We continue to develop our risk management processes, integrating risk management into business 
decision making. 
The principal risks and uncertainties together with their impacts are set out in the tables below along with an illustration of what is 
being done to mitigate them. 
Context, specific risks and potential impacts 
 
 
Principal risk 
 
 
Specific risks 
 
 
Potential impacts 
1. Corporate 
strategy  
• We do not respond quickly or decisively enough to changing 
technology and consumer preferences  
Reduced revenue and profitability  
2. Sustainable 
business model  
• We fail to respond with a business model that enables us to 
compete against a broad range of competitors on price, range  
and / or quality of service 
• We fail to respond effectively to changes in the economic and / or 
competitor landscape 
• The UK economic recovery is slow and prolonged with increased 
volatility through 2014 and beyond 
• Stability of the economy in Greece is not sustained, leading to a 
further deterioration and challenge to our business 
Reduced revenue and profitability  
3. IT systems and 
infrastructure  
• A key system becomes unavailable for a period of time 
• We fail to invest adequately and appropriately in our IT systems and 
infrastructure, constraining our ability to grow and / or adapt quickly 
Reduced revenue and profitability  
4. Information 
security 
• We suffer a major loss / breach of customer, colleague or business 
sensitive data  
• Under investment in people, systems and processes leaves us 
vulnerable to attack 
Damage to our reputation  
Financial penalties 
Lost revenue and margin 
5. Organisational 
change and 
execution risk 
• The planned change programmes do not deliver the necessary 
benefits due to programme failure or not delivering to the  
required timescales 
Reduced revenue and profit 
Deteriorating cash flow 
Reduced customer satisfaction 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 15
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Principal Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives (continued) 
 
 
 
 
 
Example mitigating actions and related strategic priorities 
 
 
Principal risk 
 
 
Example mitigating actions 
 
 
Related strategic priorities 
1. Corporate 
strategy 
• Regular review of strategic matters by Board and Executive committees  
• Successful exit of loss making businesses of PIXmania, Italy and Turkey during the 
year and post year end agreement to sell Central European operations 
• Profit and cash flow scenario planning is performed to help the Group anticipate and 
manage the impact of a range of possible circumstances 
• Five year plans to deliver the strategy in place across the Group, which are monitored 
and managed against 
• Structured stakeholder engagement programme 
Sustainable business  
model 
2. Sustainable 
business model 
• Strategic and business planning takes into account varying economic scenarios,  
with ongoing monitoring by finance and senior executives 
• Close scrutiny of product performance, trading results, competitor activity,  
market share 
• Use of customer insight / advocacy to monitor success of initiative and actions  
• Continued focus on driving service and cost improvements 
• Ongoing evolution of our seamless multi-channel proposition with on-line price 
monitoring and matching 
• Strengthening of relationships with suppliers 
Leader in our markets 
Group leverage 
3. IT systems and 
infrastructure 
• Group-wide change programme initiated to provide simplified, well-supported and fit-
for-purpose systems  
• Individual recovery plans in place in the event of failure and are tested regularly 
Leader in our markets 
Group leverage 
4. Information 
security 
• Data and security governance committee responsible for oversight, co-ordination and 
monitoring of information security risk 
• Implementation of appropriate measures to secure key systems and data against 
malicious attack 
Leader in our markets 
5. Organisational 
change and 
execution risk 
• Senior management committee dedicated to governance and monitoring of major 
change programmes 
• Defined portfolio of programmes and projects with rolling plan process and  
quarterly reviews  
• Evaluation, planning and implementation analysis carried out throughout the  
project lifecycle 
• Training on change policies and practices across the Group 
Leader in our markets 
Sustainable business 
model 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 16
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Principal Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives (continued) 
 
 
 
 
 
Context, specific risks and potential impacts 
 
 
Principal risk 
 
 
Specific risks 
 
 
Potential impacts 
6. Colleague 
retention and 
capability 
• Our organisational structure limits our ability to adapt to  
market changes 
• We fail to attract, develop and retain quality and depth of necessary 
leadership and management talent for our business 
Reduced revenue and profit 
Deteriorating cash flow 
Reduced customer satisfaction 
 
7. Business 
continuity and 
major incident 
response  
• A major incident impacts the Group’s ability to trade Reduced revenue and profitability 
8. Health and 
safety 
• We fail to prevent injury or loss of life for customers and / or 
colleagues 
Employee / customer injury or loss of life  
Damage to our reputation  
Financial penalties 
9. Finance and 
treasury 
• We incur foreign exchange losses through supplier contracts being 
denominated in a foreign currency 
• An increase in the UK defined benefit pension scheme deficit 
requires higher deficit recovery payments 
• We fail to maintain the support of our credit insurers 
Reduced revenue and profit 
Deteriorating cash flow 
 
10. Governance, 
fraud and 
internal 
controls 
• We fail to comply with laws and regulations or suffer adverse rulings 
by regulatory authorities 
• Our actions result in disputes with third parties and / or business 
partners 
• We fail to maintain and develop processes and controls to support 
our business activities 
Reduced revenue and profitability 
Damage to our reputation 
Financial penalties 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 17
Directors’ Report 
Strategic Summary 
Principal Risks to Achieving the Group’s Objectives (continued) 
 
 
 
 
 
Example mitigating actions and related strategic priorities 
 
 
Principal risk 
 
 
Example mitigating actions 
 
 
Related strategic priorities 
6. Colleague 
retention and 
capability 
• Group-wide standardised performance management 
• Store structures which provide a clear career path for colleagues 
• Maintain Group talent and succession plans with improved ‘bench strength’ 
• Reward strategy aligned to retain the best talent  
• Bonus plans, which include components relating to business performance and, for 
levels below senior management, individual performance 
• Continued improvements in the quality of training courses and development 
programmes with specialist focus on service, product, commercial and technical 
Leader in our markets 
Sustainable business 
model 
 
7. Business 
continuity and 
major incident 
response 
• Appropriate business continuity and crisis management plans in place for key 
business locations 
• Disaster recovery plans in place for key IT systems and data centres 
• Crisis team appointed to manage response to significant events 
• Major risks insured 
Sustainable business 
model 
8. Health and 
safety 
• Dedicated team responsible for ensuring health and safety risks are understood, 
controlled and monitored against applicable regulations, who report on a regular basis 
to the Compliance Committee 
• Clear policies and procedures are in place detailing the controls required to manage 
health and safety risks across the business  
• Quality checks and factory audits for own brand products 
Leader in our markets 
9. Finance and 
treasury 
• Regular review of financial performance, gearing and net debt by management to 
maintain adequate headroom in revolving credit facility 
• Compliance Committee approves activity that may impact the terms of Group  
credit facilities 
• Treasury policies set out processes, controls and authority limits for financial 
instruments, liquidity and bank account management 
• Regular Tax & Treasury Committee reviews of cash and debt management, 
investment performance, credit risk and foreign exchange risk. 
• Proactive engagement with suppliers and credit insurers 
• Diversified pensions investment strategy in place with regular investment reviews  
by Trustee, external investment consultants and Group Treasury  
Sustainable business 
model 
10. Governance, 
fraud and 
internal 
controls 
• Established governance process in place to monitor and manage regulatory and 
reputational risk and monitor mitigating actions 
• In-house legal teams communicate on a frequent basis and legal reports are 
submitted to the Board 
• Group Ethical Conduct Policy supported by annual declaration of compliance  
• Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to discuss reputational and 
regulatory risks and monitor mitigating action 
• Active in-house group legal team monitoring changes in legislation / regulation and 
managing significant regulatory issues 
• Active group loss prevention and internal audit teams monitor the effectiveness of 
control compliance across the Group 
Sustainable business 
model 
Leader in our markets 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 18
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 
Overview 
Key highlights 
• Group underlying profit before tax increased by 76% to 
£166.2 million versus £94.5 million reported last year
(1)(2)
 and 
up 10% on a restated basis. 
– Further strong progress in the UK & Ireland with underlying 
operating profits up 24% 
– Elkjøp delivered another strong year with record profits 
growing in NOK, its local reporting currency 
– Greece delivered an improved performance with some 
signs of stability returning to the market 
• Another successful year for the Group, delivering on its  
key objectives: 
– Firm establishment of a sustainable business in a multi-
channel world 
– Disposals of all non-core operations, leaving the Group 
with leading positions in all our core markets 
• Proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse announced  
to develop a leading position across electricals, mobiles  
and connectivity. 
• Group on-line sales increased by 16% to £1 billion 
• Customer service metrics at their highest ever recorded 
levels in all markets 
• Return on capital employed of 16.3%, up from 14.9% in  
the prior year. 
• Group costs reduced by a further £45 million completing the 
two year £90 million cost reduction initiative. 
• Very strong cash generation with the Group ending the year 
with net cash increasing to £70.9 million. 
 
 
Financial highlights 
• Total underlying Group sales up 3% at £7.22 billion (2012/13 
£7.03 billion). 
• Group gross margins down 0.2% in the full year, with an 
improvement in the second half. 
• Total profit before tax after non-underlying items increased by 
53% to £132.9 million (2012/13 profit of £86.6 million)
(1)
. 
• Post tax non-underlying charges of £186.0 million, relating 
mainly to disposals of non-core operations. 
• Underlying diluted earnings per share 3.0 pence (2012/13 
earnings of 2.6 pence)
(1)
. Basic loss per share including 
discontinued operations of (1.9) pence (2012/13 loss per 
share of (4.5) pence). 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 19
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 
Overview (continued) 
Underlying sales and profit analysis 
  Underlying sales Underlying profit / (loss) 
 Note 
Year 
ended 
30 April 2014 
£million 
Year 
ended 
30 April 2013 
£million % change 
Like for  
like
(4)
% change 
Year 
ended 
30 April 2014 
£million 
Year 
ended 
30 April 2013
(5)
£million 
UK & Ireland (6) 4,148.6 4,014.5 +3% +5% 141.0 113.3 
Nordics (7) 2,789.8 2,733.3 +2% +2% 116.9 125.4 
Greece (8) 279.2 278.8 Flat (9)% (10.5) (11.0) 
Central costs      (19.2) (16.9) 
Total Group Retail  7,217.6 7,026.6 +3% +3% 228.2 210.8 
Property losses      (25.4) (24.4) 
EBIT (9)     202.8 186.4 
Underlying net finance costs      (36.6) (35.4) 
Group underlying profit before tax      166.2 151.0 
 
Notes 
(1) Throughout this Annual Report and Accounts, references are made to ‘underlying’ performance measures. Underlying results are defined as excluding trading results 
from businesses exited, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one off non-recurring items, profits / (losses) 
on sale of businesses, net interest on defined benefit pension schemes, net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued 
operations. These excluded items are described as ‘non-underlying’. The financial effect of these items is shown in the analyses on the face of the income statement 
and in note 4 to the Financial Statements. 
(2) Underlying Profit Before Tax originally reported for the year ended 30 April 2013 was £94.5 million, as reported on 20 June 2013. 
(3) Businesses exited comprise the operations of PC City Spain and Equanet. 
(4) Like for like sales are calculated based on underlying store and internet sales using constant exchange rates. New stores are included where they have been open for a 
full financial year both at the beginning and end of the financial period. Closed stores are excluded for any period of closure. Customer support agreement sales are 
excluded from all UK like for like calculations. 
(5) Underlying figures for the year ended 30 April 2013 have been re-presented to exclude discontinued operations. Discontinued operations comprise Electroworld in 
Turkey, Unieuro, PIXmania and Electroworld in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. 
(6) UK & Ireland comprises Currys, PC World, CurrysDigital, Dixons Travel, Harrods concession, operations in Ireland, PC World Business and KNOWHOW. Like for like 
sales exclude PC World Business. 
(7) Nordics comprises the Elkjøp group which operates in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. 
(8) Greece comprises Kotsovolos. 
(9) Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) equates to underlying operating profit and is defined as underlying earnings from retail operations, after property losses, before 
deduction of net finance costs and tax. 
(10) Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash flow from operating activities before special pension contributions, less net finance costs, less 
income tax paid and net capital expenditure. 
 
Group business performance 
Underlying Group sales were up 3% at £7,217.6 million (2012/13 £7,026.6 million) and up 3% on a like for like basis, outperforming 
local markets in general. Underlying Group sales were up 3% at constant exchange rates. Underlying profit before interest and tax 
was £202.8 million (2012/13 £186.4 million). Underlying profit before tax was up 10% year on year at £166.2 million (2012/13 £151.0 
million). Group gross margins were down 0.2% across the full year, with improvements in the second half. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 20
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 
Divisional Summary 
UK & Ireland 
• Underlying operating profit growth of 24% to £141.0 million 
• Strong market share gains, especially in white goods 
Total sales in the UK & Ireland division were up 3% to £4,148.6 
million (2012/13 £4,014.5 million) and like for like sales were up 
5%. Underlying operating profits increased 24% to £141.0 
million (2012/13 £113.3 million).  
The UK & Ireland division has delivered a strong performance 
across the year with significant growth in profitability delivering  
a 3.4% return on sales. With these results the division has firmly 
established a sustainable business model in a multi-channel 
world. In the early part of the year the business continued to 
take advantage of the exit of Comet, establishing itself as the 
leading service led multi-channel operator in electrical retailing. 
This benefit anniversaried out during the third quarter, and since 
then we have consolidated our market share gains and continue 
to trade ahead of the market. The establishment of ‘Black 
Friday’ as a new promotional period in the lead up to Christmas 
this year moved trading patterns around in the important 
Christmas period. However, these types of planned promotional 
periods are a particular strength of ours and enable us to 
perform ahead of the market, indeed, we experienced record 
trading on Boxing day and a strong sale in the period after 
Christmas. A shift in the Easter trading period year on year gave 
the business a challenging final quarter to anniversary, but with 
a strengthened market position and great offers for customers 
the out turn was better than we had anticipated. 
A continued focus on serving our customers with the best 
advice, expertise and help means that we have achieved even 
higher levels of advocacy. 96% of customers said they would be 
likely to recommend our stores following their shopping trip, 
while 88% said they were very likely to recommend. 319 stores 
recorded a 100% very likely to recommend score at least once 
during the year. This is a fantastic achievement and is a 
testament to our teams up and down the country who strive 
each and every day to make customers feel welcome and help 
them as best they are able whenever a customer comes into 
our stores. 
We continue to innovate our stores to make them even better 
places to showcase the exciting range of products we sell. 
During the year we opened new High Street formats in 
Bluewater and Canary Wharf and a new larger format 2-in-1 
store in Aylesbury. These stores trial a number of retailing 
innovations such as mobile and flexible fittings, new playtables, 
Showhow areas around the store, and tablets for colleagues to 
better help customers. We opened a new kitchen department in 
Thurrock which extends our traditional product range into other 
products for the kitchen such as cookware, utensils and cooking 
accessories. More recently we have opened Connected World 
departments in five megastores to showcase, amongst other 
things, home automation, such as heating, lights and security 
cameras, as well as some of the latest ‘wearable’ technology. It 
is early days for these trials, and we will develop them further as 
the range of products evolves further. The Connected World is a 
particularly exciting opportunity most notably in connection with 
the proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse, but as it takes 
us into new product areas and potentially new services. 
KNOWHOW, our market leading end to end services offering 
continues to perform strongly. During the year we made  
2.2 million two man deliveries achieving a 97.2% right first time, 
of which 230,000 involved gas and electric installations. In our 
state of the art repair facility we processed more than half a 
million repairs of laptops, tablets, PCs and flat panels.  
Added value services, such as Showhow, provide an exciting 
opportunity to help customers get the most out of their products 
as well as new revenue streams. In the year these added value 
services sales continued to grow strongly. 
During the year our IT teams successfully transferred  
the IT infrastructure supporting www.currys.co.uk and 
www.pcworld.co.uk to the UK, supported by our shared  
services centre in Brno, Czech Republic. This was a seminal 
development for our multi-channel offering as it puts us firmly in 
control of our IT platform. We are now focused on delivering a 
world class experience on-line experience for our customers. 
Nordics 
• Nordics delivered another year of record sales, growing  
by 2% to £2.79 billion 
• Delivered a 4.2% return on sales, in line with the Group’s 
objective 
The Elkjøp group in the Nordics continues to perform strongly. 
Sales grew by 3% at constant exchange rates, while in sterling, 
underlying sales grew by 2% to £2,789.8 million (2012/13 
£2,733.3 million). Like for like sales were up 2%. Underlying 
operating profits were £116.9 million (2012/13 £125.4 million). 
This has been another very satisfactory year for the Elkjøp 
business across the Nordics. It has consolidated its position as 
market leader, delivered record sales and improved its already 
very strong customer services. The electrical retailing landscape 
remains competitive, and Elkjøp continues to trade robustly 
against the competition supported by its low cost structure and 
its efficient sales and logistics platform, enabling it to deliver a 
4.2% return on sales. 
In the Spring of 2013 we introduced ‘Happy or Not’ kiosks into 
the stores across the region, this enables the store to monitor 
customer satisfaction scores in real time and make dynamic 
adjustments in response, such as adjusting shift patterns. 
Encouragingly we have seen a steady improvement in these 
scores through the year with 85% of customers in April 2014 
saying they were happy with their store visit. 
During the year, we rebranded the Elkjøp group’s brands with  
a new logo that underlines our commitment to our customers.  
In Denmark, El Giganten was recognised as the second 
strongest brand across all categories while in Norway, Elkjøp 
was ranked as one of the top 10 most recognised brands.  
We continue to embed the KNOWHOW services brand into the 
Nordics with KNOWHOW bars in all our megastores. Initial 
customer response to the range of KNOWHOW services has  
been very encouraging. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 21
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 
Divisional Summary (continued) 
Greece 
• Robust performance in difficult markets 
• Work ongoing to improve financial and strategic footings 
Total sales in Kotsovolos in Greece were down 3% at constant 
exchange rates and flat in sterling at £279.2 million (2012/13 
£278.8 million), with like for like sales down 9%, largely as a 
result of the weak economic environment being experienced  
in Greece coupled with a mild summer and the digital 
switchover benefit in the prior year. Underlying operating  
loss was £10.5 million (2012/13 loss of £11.0 million).  
Kotsovolos has proved to be incredibly robust in the face of a 
very challenging economic environment in Greece over the last 
few years. With a strong brand recognition amongst customers, 
a service led approach, learnings from its sister companies in 
the Group around accessories and services as well as a focus 
on managing costs stringently, the business has fared better 
than its peers. During the year Kotsovolos has been able to 
increase both its conversion rate as well as the number of 
transactions, despite continued weak markets through much of 
the year. In addition a number of weaker operators have exited 
the market, or are showing some signs of economic distress. In 
the last quarter of the year we saw some evidence that the 
economic environment is showing signs of stability. As the 
outlook has started to improve, management has initiated a 
number of actions to improve its offer for customers, particularly 
around services and multi-channel, by introducing new 
customer relationship tools that make the shopping trip even 
more integrated between the stores, sales colleagues and  
on-line. It is early days for this technology and process, but 
initial indications are positive and the tools that have been 
developed have the potential to be rolled out across the Group 
and are highly complementary to Carphone’s honeyBee 
platform. Alongside this Kotsovolos is improving the way it 
communicates with customers through, for example, its 
marketing. Management are also investigating and trialing a 
number of initiatives to deliver a wider range of services under 
its Support360 brand, as well as opportunities to extend its 
franchise network across Greece. We are confident,  
therefore, that the outlook for Kotsovolos is improving and  
the management team are focused on returning the business  
to profitability. 
Proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse 
Our proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse will bring 
together two strong businesses to provide customers with  
a great offer across electrical, mobile, connectivity and  
services for the connected world that is already upon us.  
Our two businesses are coming together from positions of 
strength which will enable us to focus on adding value in  
three clear ways. 
Firstly, in bringing two sizeable companies together we can 
leverage significant synergies from the combination. We  
believe that we can deliver at least £80 million of synergies on  
a recurring basis, with delivery expected in the 2017/18 financial 
year. These are a combination of costs, revenue opportunities 
from putting a Carphone Warehouse mobile offering in all of our 
stores as well as some benefits from having increased scale in 
administrative purchasing, such as marketing. We confirm that 
the synergy statements that were set out in our joint merger 
announcement with Carphone Warehouse on 15 May 2014 
remain valid. Deloitte LLP and Deutsche Bank AG, London 
Branch reported on these synergy statements in that joint 
announcement and we expect them to confirm to Carphone 
Warehouse on publication of the shareholder documentation 
relating to the merger that their reports continue to apply.  
In addition, by being a unique place for customers to experience 
new products that will make up the connected world as well as 
get advice from our highly trained colleagues we can truly be 
the go to expert for this new, exciting and complex world for 
customers. Not only can we help them in navigating their way to 
a truly connected home, we can bring existing and new services 
to them to keep their world functioning and connected. This will 
not only open up new products and services for us, but can take 
our relationship with our customers from a transactional one, to 
a longer term relationship. 
Further, both we and Carphone Warehouse have started to 
explore how we can leverage the platforms we have created 
that support our core retailing and services expertise to further 
benefit our shareholders. Carphone Warehouse have made 
great strides in this field with their Connected World Services 
business that provides a selection of services to support 
retailers wishing to add connectivity to their offering. We already 
provide two man delivery logistics for certain manufacturers in 
the UK and are in discussions to leverage our Hong Kong  
white label product sourcing operations for other retailers 
around the world. Together we can offer a full range of  
services to businesses customers with the potential to build  
a significant operation across the globe, adding real value  
for our shareholders. 
 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 22
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 
Group Financial Summary 
Financial position 
The Group has again delivered a very robust performance 
against the financial priorities of profitability and strengthening 
the balance sheet: 
• The Group delivered a £28.8 million increase in net funds  
at year end, to £70.9 million. 
• Exit of loss making businesses of Electroworld Turkey, 
Unieuro Italy and PIXmania completed, with disposal of 
Central Europe expected to complete around the end of  
the first quarter of 2014/15. 
• The increase in net funds was delivered after incurring cash 
costs of £156.6 million in respect of trading losses and exit 
costs of the discontinued operations. 
• Return on capital employed of 16.3%, up from 14.9% in  
the prior year. 
• Positive Free Cash Flow, before restructuring items, of 
£207.3 million was generated. 
• Costs reduced by £45 million in the year, as part of the  
two year £90 million cost reduction programme. 
• The RCF has remained undrawn since October 2011. 
Free Cash Flow 
 
 Year ended 
30 April 2014 
£million 
 Year ended 
30 April 2013 
£million 
Underlying profit before tax 166.2 151.0 
Depreciation and amortisation 116.4 114.0 
Working capital 41.3 104.9 
Taxation (49.0) (19.9) 
Capital expenditure (79.7) (75.9) 
Settlement of historical currency hedges – (62.6) 
Other items 12.1 2.1 
Free Cash Flow before restructuring items 207.3 213.6 
Net restructuring (6.8) (5.8) 
Free Cash Flow 200.5 207.8 
Free Cash Flow was £200.5 million (2012/13 £207.8 million). 
The working capital result in the prior year benefited from the 
timing of payments around year end as previously announced, 
and in this context the positive working capital result this year 
reflects a strong underlying performance. Cash tax costs 
increased mainly reflecting higher taxable profits. 
Funding 
At 30 April 2014 the Group had net funds of £70.9 million, 
compared with net funds of £42.1 million at 30 April 2013. 
  
Year ended 
30 April 
2014 
£million  
Year ended 
30 April 
 2013 
£million 
Opening net funds / 
(debt)  42.1  (104.0) 
Free Cash Flow  200.5  207.8 
Special pension 
contributions (20.0)  (20.0)  
Discontinued 
operations (156.6)  (60.5)  
Other items 4.9  18.8  
Other movements 
in net funds  (171.7)  (61.7) 
Closing net funds  70.9  42.1 
Net funds are stated inclusive of restricted funds of £103.3 million 
(2012/13 £110.2 million), which predominantly comprise funds 
held under trust for potential customer support agreement 
liabilities. The improvement in the net funding position was  
due to the Free Cash Flow generated, partly offset by the 
trading losses and exit costs associated with the discontinued 
operations, as well as the ongoing payments to the UK  
defined benefit pension scheme under the terms of the  
deficit reduction plan. 
Adjustments to underlying results 
Underlying profit before tax is reported before net non-
underlying charges before tax of £33.3 million. 
 
Year ended 
30 April 
2013 
£million 
Year ended 
30 April  
2013
(1)
£million 
Underlying profit before tax 166.2 151.0 
Add / (deduct) non-underlying items:   
Net restructuring charges
(2)
 (8.7) (24.8) 
Business impairments – (9.1) 
Other operating items (4.7) (1.9) 
Loss on sale of business – (9.6) 
Financing items:   
Bond redemption related costs – (4.3) 
Net pension interest (17.1) (13.1) 
Other financing items (2.7) (1.6) 
Total net non-underlying charges (33.3) (64.4) 
   
Profit before tax
(3)
 132.9 86.6 
 
(1) Underlying figures for the year ended 30 April 2013 have been restated for the 
impact of the amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ and represented to 
exclude discontinued operations. 
(2)  Net restructuring charges relate to the impairment of system costs following a 
revision in strategy following the business disposals. 
(3)  Continuing operations. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 23
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 
Group Financial Summary (continued) 
Discontinued operations 
During the year, the Group disposed of its Turkish and Italian 
operations as well as PIXmania. In addition, following the year 
end, the Group also announced the disposal of its Central 
European operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.  
All four businesses have been classified as discontinued and 
charges associated with these exits comprise the trading losses 
of £(42.1) million together with the loss incurred on the disposal 
transactions of £(116.0) million. 
Property losses 
Underlying property losses were £25.4 million (2012/13 loss  
of £24.4 million). These comprise mainly store re-site and store 
asset disposal costs, predominantly in the UK and Nordics. 
Underlying net finance costs 
Underlying net finance costs were £36.6 million (2012/13  
£35.4 million). The increase in costs was primarily due to the  
full year net effect of issuance of the 2017 Notes, partial 
redemption of the 2015 Notes and full redemption of the 2012 
Bonds and associated hedging instruments in the prior year. 
Tax 
The Group’s underlying tax charge equates to an effective rate 
of 30.4% (2012/13 35.8%). The decrease in the tax rate has,  
in the main, been affected by an increase in the proportion  
of taxable profits relative to the non-deductible expenses. 
Pensions 
The IAS 19 accounting deficit of the defined benefit section of 
the UK pension scheme amounted to £399.8 million compared 
to £406.4 million at 30 April 2013. The assumptions used for 
determining the accounting valuation use a consistent basis to 
that adopted at 30 April 2013 which build from the most recent 
actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2010. 
The deficit remains largely unchanged as a result of financial 
assumptions which determine liabilities and asset values 
remaining broadly the same from one year end to the next. The 
next triennial valuation as at 31 March 2013 has commenced 
with the results expected in the first half of 2014/15. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 24
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 
Corporate Responsibility Report 
Dixons Retail believes that it has a responsibility to its 
stakeholders and the environment to act as a socially 
responsible business. We believe that good sustainability 
practices make sound business sense, not only to benefit  
the environment, stakeholders and the communities in which  
we operate, but also to help us achieve our corporate 
objectives, fulfil our business plan and reduce costs.  
Corporate responsibility management framework 
Humphrey Singer, Group Finance Director, is the Board 
member responsible for corporate responsibility matters.  
He is supported by the Corporate Responsibility (CR) 
Committee, which comprises senior executives from key 
business areas. The Committee is chaired by Helen Grantham, 
Company Secretary and General Counsel and met three times 
during the period under review. A summary of the key matters 
discussed are listed below: 
• Reviewing the results of the completed sustainability review 
and identifying ways to implement the corporate responsibility 
priorities within the Group. 
• Consideration of the new mandatory carbon reporting 
requirements and the compliance mechanisms required. 
• Implementing processes and procedures to enable carbon 
reporting across the geographic regions as required for the 
Group’s reporting obligations. 
• Monitoring key performance indicators at each meeting. 
• Ongoing evaluation of the Group’s risks and opportunities 
and identification of areas where the Committee can enhance 
reporting or control mechanisms already in place. 
• Reviewing Group health and safety performance. 
• Supply chain risks and social and ethical auditing. 
Our approach to corporate responsibility 
In accordance with the approach to corporate responsibility 
contained within the Association of British Insurer’s Guidelines, 
Dixons Retail seeks to identify the risks and opportunities which 
are most significant and relevant to its business rather than 
addressing a standardised agenda. Accordingly, the Committee 
maintains a matrix of risks and opportunities that are specific  
to its business. The principal risks to the Group as a whole  
are outlined in the Principal Risks to Achieving the Group’s 
Objectives section. The monitoring of the risks and  
opportunities allows the identification of our main exposures  
and most significant opportunities. A plan is then produced to 
mitigate / exploit those exposures / opportunities in line with the 
risk appetite of the Group. Our priorities continue to be: 
• to provide a safe and healthy environment for customers, 
colleagues and visitors to our stores and other locations; 
• to engage colleagues through the provision of rewarding 
workplace environments and careers, whilst assisting in  
the ongoing improvement of customer service levels; 
• to improve operational energy efficiency and forward 
planning; 
• to reduce our impact on the environment and to reduce costs 
and raise revenue through improved waste recycling; 
• the monitoring and reduction of our main carbon emissions; 
• the provision of safe and reliable own-brand products, 
achieved as a result of our expert technical knowledge with 
products sourced from manufacturers which are audited 
against our ethical requirements; and 
• to add to and promote the customer proposition in relation  
to product reuse and recycling. 
Members of the Committee have been identified as accountable 
for each priority. The main areas of the Committee’s 
responsibilities are set out below. 
Business ethics 
The way we do business is important to us and forms part of our 
corporate responsibility objectives. Our shared values are to: 
• operate with honesty and integrity; 
• give outstanding service to our customers; 
• respect our colleagues; 
• treat suppliers with respect and to check the ethical values  
of the businesses we intend to deal with; 
• continually seek ways to improve performance; and 
• work together to beat our competition. 
The Dixons Retail Ethical Conduct Policy applies to all 
employees and all employees at managerial level must sign  
an annual statement to confirm that the policy is adhered to. 
Customer services 
We are proud to serve many customers every year in our 
stores, over the telephone and on-line. In the tough economic 
environment of the last few years, our customers have looked  
to us to provide greater value, choice, service and a high level 
of specialist advice, and we have reinvigorated our business 
model accordingly. 
Throughout the year we have spoken regularly to customers 
who have shopped in our stores, visited our websites and  
used our KNOWHOW services about their experiences, and 
this feedback has been used to drive continuous improvement 
across all areas of our business. We engage with our customers 
in a variety of ways including personal feedback from store  
exit surveys, telephone interviews, and on-line and mobile  
text surveys.  
One of the main statistics we monitor is whether our customers 
are likely to recommend us. The customer satisfaction measures 
are combined with key performance indicators from across 
operations, people and finance to form our scorecard. This 
provides a balanced view of how we are doing and is reviewed 
regularly by the Committee and the Board.  
As part of our commitment to delivering customer service  
to the highest standards, our colleagues work to ensure that  
our communications with customers are clear and that the 
information we present to them is accurate and not misleading. 
We maintain compliance with trading standards and legal 
requirements. Our policies and procedures integrate those 
standards into our daily work. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 25
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 
Corporate Responsibility Report (continued) 
Supplier relationships 
Many of our electrical products are sourced through major 
international brands, which have their own strong ethical and 
environmental policies in place. 
The Group operates its own Ethical Sourcing Policy based on 
the Social Accountability 8000 and the FTSE4Good criteria.  
We have our own social and ethical auditing team and audit 
suppliers of our own brand products prior to selection against 
strict trading terms and operating procedures. Included within 
these terms are minimum standards in respect of health and 
safety, wages, working hours, equal opportunities, freedom of 
association, collective bargaining and disciplinary procedures.  
It is also against our terms of operation to employ any forced or 
child labour. Once the audits are complete, suppliers are rated 
on a traffic light basis. Green status on an audit indicates that  
a supplier meets or exceeds all of our standards. Amber status 
indicates that some of the standards required have not been 
fully met. Red status means that some significant failures were 
identified against our Ethical Sourcing Policy standards. 
Suppliers are approved if they reach either green or amber 
status in our audits. Once suppliers have been approved  
they remain subject to regular checks and audits and their 
status may be adjusted accordingly. 
These supplier audits are carried out with a view to assisting 
them in improving their working practices and we work with 
factories where failures have been identified. Where this is  
not possible or no improvements are made, they will not be 
approved as a supplier, or will be delisted as appropriate. 
During the year under review, 14 suppliers were classified  
as red, failed to make improvements and therefore the Group 
did not approve them to supply our branded products or they 
were delisted. 
The results of ethical supply chain audits carried out during the 
period under review are detailed below: 
Performance indicators 2013/14 2012/13 
Green 0 0 
Amber 102 74 
Red 26 25 
Total factories audited 128 99 
Delisted / not approved 14 10 
 
Environment 
Dixons Retail recognises that it has a responsibility to manage 
the impact of its business on the environment. We have 
enhanced our reporting process to give better visibility of Group-
wide carbon emissions. 
Key areas of focus continue to be: 
• energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, 
distribution centres and offices; 
• fuel emissions from the transportation of products to either 
stores or customers’ homes; 
• use of refrigerant gases; 
• waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres and 
offices; and 
• unwanted electrical equipment collected for recycling. 
Carbon management 
The Group remains committed to a carbon management 
programme and has invested in specific sustainability reporting 
software which will give Group-wide emissions and carbon data 
for all properties to the CR Committee. This will allow 
comparison of operational efficiency of stores in each operating 
country. 
This will be our reporting platform going forward: 
• The Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) energy efficiency 
scheme – in the UK, we have reported our Scope 2 
emissions for the final year of the CRC Phase 1 with a further 
reduction against the 2012/13 financial year of 4%.  
The Group is a registered participant for Phase 2 of CRC. 
• Mandatory Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Reporting – the Group 
will be reporting for the first time under the new legislation on 
global Group emissions. 
• Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) – the Group is currently 
considering whether to report for CDP in the coming year. 
Greenhouse gas reporting 
Greenhouse gas emissions for the Group for the financial year 
ending 30 April 2014 are:  
Category / source of emissions 
Tonnes of CO
2
  
emitted
(1)
Combustion of fuel 15,239 
Operation of any facility 1,793 
Purchase of electricity 101,757 
 118,789 
 
 
Tonnes of CO
2
 
emitted per 
1,000 ft
2
 
of floor area
(2)
Intensity measure  6.97 
 
(1) Exclusions comprise: Franchises as they do not fall directly under the Group’s 
operational control, emissions generated within properties occupied by the 
Group but operated by the relevant landlord and refrigerant data from Nordics 
as data was not available (although this is estimated to be less than 0.34% of 
total emissions for the Group). 
(2) Overall floor area of the Group is 17,052,000 ft
2
 and the calculations use the 
methodology set out in Defra’s updated greenhouse gas reporting guidance, 
Environmental Reporting Guidelines (ref. PB 13944), issued in June 2013.  
Energy management 
The Group has continued to work on reducing its energy use 
and improving the energy efficiency of our operations, showing 
a 4% reduction in electricity consumption this year in the UK. 
This work will continue into 2014/15. We are now collecting half 
hourly electricity data from over 95% of sites across the UK and 
Ireland and are aiming to reach 100% by the end of summer 
2014. This enables us to accurately monitor consumption at 
individual site level to ensure we are operating as efficiently  
as possible. 
The programme to connect all stores’ building management 
systems to a national energy monitoring centre continues and 
will allow more strategic energy enhancements to be made. 
As part of our continued drive to simplify our business 
operations in the UK, we have consolidated our electricity 
supply chains to a single source supplier with 98% of our 
properties within this contract. This will be 100% by the end  
of summer 2014. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 26
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 
Corporate Responsibility Report (continued) 
A proactive management system is in place to monitor the half 
hourly consumption data through the energy management 
centre and deal quickly with out of profile electricity usage. 
We will also soon be utilising energy dashboards across all UK 
operations. For the first time our individual stores will be able  
to see their own energy consumption data and understand  
their own efficiency opportunities. All our UK and Ireland  
stores now see their energy costs on their monthly profit  
and loss statement. 
We continue to explore new technologies and advanced 
strategies to assist in our programme of energy reduction.  
We have successfully trialled a bespoke lighting strategy in  
our new store in Cramlington which adjusts the store lighting  
in relation to the external ambient brightness during the  
trading day. 
We are also in talks with a number of landlords regarding 
partnering on an initiative to install photovoltaic panels on the 
rooftops of our stores and using the electricity generated  
in store. 
Waste and recycling 
We have continued to drive efficiencies through refuse and 
recycling across the Group. In the last year, 70% of the waste 
generated from our stores now goes into recycling streams  
and not into landfill.  
We have now installed cardboard balers in 147 UK stores. Each 
of these stores now uses their stock delivery lorries to backhaul 
cardboard, polythene and expanded polystyrene for recycling. 
We are in the planning stages of extending this backhaul to all 
stores and will start a trial in Scotland early next year. We will 
also extend this programme to recycle paper from our stores. 
Our National Distribution Centre in Newark diverted 90% of its 
waste into recycling streams rather than landfill and our UK 
store refit programme transferred 95% of the waste generated 
away from landfill and into recycling streams. 
Through our national distribution network in the UK, we expect 
to recycle over 60,000 tonnes of Waste Electrical and Electronic 
Equipment (WEEE) which is an increase of 23% on last year’s 
volumes. We have delivered over 10,500 trailers of WEEE into 
various recyclers across the year, which otherwise would have 
returned empty to our distribution centre. 
Transport and distribution 
We have driven some outstanding efficiency in our UK transport 
fleet with a relatively modest increase in emissions from a 
significant increase in goods transported. 
Fleet emissions in the UK are at 14,736 tonnes for the year, 
increasing 9.2% year on year with miles driven up 4.02%. 
Transported volume was up by 22.84% year on year and cube 
delivered per mile driven up by 21.85% (1.63 more m
3
 per mile). 
Overall combined trailer fill is up by 6.37m
3
 per vehicle, 12.47%. 
Within our Home Delivery fleet, we have introduced 150 brand 
new 7.5 tonne vehicles to replace vehicles reaching the end of 
their lease. These have come in fully fitted with tracking and 
telematics and also forward facing cameras, which allows us to 
get full management reporting analysis of vehicle and driver 
performance. This will help reduce accidents, improve driving 
efficiencies and also support us with accident investigations  
and dealing with insurance claims. 
Workplace 
Our colleagues 
Our people form the heart of our business and are the key to  
the delivery of excellent service for our customers. They are  
the face of our business and truly understand our customers 
and their needs.  
We want them to flourish and are committed to providing the 
right development opportunities to help them reach their full 
potential and actively contribute to the success of our business. 
We value and respect each colleague and endeavour to engage 
their talents and abilities to the fullest extent. We want to be 
recognised as an employer of choice and aim to reward 
colleagues fairly, to provide equality of opportunity, personal 
development and training. Our culture supports the discovery  
of new and better ways of working, two-way communication and 
the speedy resolution of any concerns or queries. We monitor 
our staff turnover rates regularly. 
We also review regularly our benefits packages for colleagues 
to ensure that they are attractive and conducive to the recruitment 
and retention of talented people. We encourage all colleagues 
to participate in our Save As You Earn / Sharesave scheme to 
build a personal stake in the business.  
This summer we have launched a new benefits portal which will 
act as a ‘one stop shop’ for all colleagues to learn more about 
and access the variety of the benefits we offer. 
We work to achieve high standards in employment practices 
and have a comprehensive suite of employment policies and 
procedures, which we review regularly. These policies include 
guidance on being family friendly through to colleague dispute 
management, diversity and equal opportunities. 
Equal opportunities 
The Group is committed to equality of opportunity across all  
of its employment practices throughout the Group. We strive  
to prevent unlawful discrimination in the workplace on the 
grounds of sex, race, disability, sexual orientation, religion or 
religious belief, age, marriage and civil partnership, gender 
reassignment, pregnancy and maternity. To that extent, we 
promote an open and honest environment and encourage 
colleagues with concerns to report issues to us either directly 
through line managers or via the independent, confidential 
integrity line.  
Disability 
We encourage applications from individuals with disabilities  
who can do the job, and all candidates will be considered for 
any roles they apply for. We are committed to providing 
colleagues with equal opportunities, from recruitment to training 
and development. We make every effort to retain disabled 
colleagues in our employment including any reasonable 
adjustment to their jobs, workplace or environment. 
Diversity 
Dixons recognises the importance of diversity, including, but  
not restricted to, gender diversity and the important role that 
diversity plays in achieving the right mix of skills, knowledge and 
experience in order to help our organisation reach its potential. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 27
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 
Corporate Responsibility Report (continued) 
Diversity in terms of age and gender remains a key 
performance indicator and we report on gender below: 
 All Employees Senior managers
†
 Directors 
 Number % Number % Number % 
Male 23,528 70% 12 75% 7 78% 
Female 9,970 30% 4 25% 2 22% 
 
†  Senior managers incorporate those individuals included as key management 
personnel in note 31 to the Financial Statements, but excludes executive and 
non-executive directors of Dixons Retail plc which are shown separately. 
 
Human rights 
Dixons is committed to upholding and respecting human rights. 
While we do not operate a separate human rights policy, these 
values are reflected in our equal opportunity practices 
throughout the Group, and in our ethical policies and processes. 
We expect all our suppliers to operate in a fair and honest way 
towards their employees and with whom they do business. 
Training and development 
Each of our international businesses has their own method of 
performance development. In the UK our personal and career 
development processes are designed to ensure all our people 
have the skills to meet the requirements of their roles. Each 
person has regular one-to-one time on their performance. Store 
colleagues follow a training career path and have a personal 
development review on the anniversary of their start date. Head 
office and colleagues in Home Services have a personal 
appraisal and development plan agreed with their line manager. 
We also encourage our office-based colleagues to work in store 
to support our sales teams and to increase their understanding 
of the Group’s operations. We also run talent programmes to 
develop high achievers and to improve leadership skills in our 
management population. 
We review our policies and training methods to ensure we 
continue to meet our obligations. 
Employee communications 
We have a comprehensive colleague engagement programme 
across the business. This summer we will run the third 
consecutive colleague engagement survey during which the 
majority of colleagues across the Group are invited to tell us – in 
confidence – how they feel about working for Dixons. As a result 
of these surveys initiatives are put in place to confirm our drive 
to make the business a great place to work. 
We also recognise the importance of effective two-way 
communications and collaboration. In the UK and Ireland a  
new Sharepoint intranet and a colleague-focused magazine are 
both in development to promote a united vision and awareness 
of what the different parts of the business contribute to our 
overall success. 
Health and safety 
It is the policy of the Group to comply with relevant health and 
safety and fire safety legislation and to take all reasonably 
practicable steps to ensure the health, safety and welfare of  
all employees, visitors and members of the public who are or 
may be affected by our activities. 
Dixons Retail encourages a positive health and safety culture 
throughout the Group’s business, taking measures to maintain  
a safe environment for our customers and colleagues.  
A comprehensive safety management system is operated 
throughout the business to ensure legislative requirements  
and best practice are adhered to. This is supported by  
Group Health and Safety standards that the business units 
formally confirm compliance with. 
In the UK in the past year we have undertaken a number  
of initiatives related to key priorities, including: 
• Prevention – root cause analysis on accident types followed 
by relevant action plans to reduce repeat occurrences. 
Elimination of hazards at source through close working  
with design and development teams.  
• Engagement – improved engagement with middle 
management of the businesses demonstrating benefits  
of effective risk control. Focused behavioural safety 
conversations with colleagues to reinforce the ‘work  
safe’ message. 
• Accountability – a clear structure has been set out covering 
the following traits: Responsible, Accountable, Support, 
Consulted, Informed (RASCI), developed to ensure that the 
matrix management structure in place is fully understood  
and that all parties are executing their responsibilities. 
• Compliance – to ensure that key policies are complied with  
a more robust system has been implemented to ensure that 
reporting is accurate, timely and of sufficient depth. Auditing 
and inspection processes are in place to confirm compliance. 
These initiatives have resulted in reducing employee accidents 
in UK supply chain by 35% and in the UK as a whole by 28%. 
Accidents per 100,000 customers in the UK and Ireland have 
been reduced by 8%. 
Health and safety performance is reviewed by the CR 
Committee on a quarterly basis, with an in-depth review 
annually. The Group Health and Safety Policy, KPI performance 
in the preceding 12 months and priorities for the year ahead are 
reviewed and approved by the Board. 
Health and safety: employee accidents and injuries
†
 
 2013/14 2012/13 
Number of accidents or injuries reported 723 876 
Rate of accidents per 1,000 employees 34 43 
 
† Data for UK & Ireland. 
Community and charitable donations 
During the year colleagues and businesses across the Group 
have been encouraged to support charities of their choice. The 
amount of charitable donations made by the Group is set out in 
the Statutory Information section of this Annual Report and 
Accounts, and examples of some of the key initiatives are set 
out below. 
UK & Ireland 
Total charity donations of approximately £233,800 were made 
during the year in the UK. The business continued its support 
for Children in Need enabling our colleagues across our store, 
service and logistics networks to get behind fundraising efforts 
for a nationally branded fundraising event that supports causes 
across the UK and importantly local to their respective place of 
work. As a result of a number of activities, total fundraising and 
donations to Children in Need of £150,500 were made.  
The majority of this was from the fundraising efforts of our 
colleagues across the business with approximately £15,000 
coming from the DSG International Foundation. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 28
Directors’ Report 
Performance Review 
Corporate Responsibility Report (continued) 
The Group also continued its support for the ‘Tablets for 
Schools’ campaign with a donation of £50,000. This is a  
joint initiative with Carphone Warehouse that aims to give all  
11 year olds access to tablet computers at school. It is currently 
undergoing trials and we look forward to developing this 
initiative further in the year ahead. 
The Group also made donations of products totalling 
approximately £31,000. This included a number of electrical 
items for those affected by the floods in the UK at the beginning 
of 2014, as well as a number of products for the BBC’s DIY 
SOS build for the Chilterns MS Centre. 
The total charitable donations made by the DSG international 
Foundation in 2013/14 were £66,000 (2012/13 £1,350). 
For the 2014/15 financial year in the UK we have decided to 
continue our support for Children in Need, with an emphasis  
on each of our business locations and stores engaging directly 
with beneficiaries of funds raised local to them. 
Outside the UK 
Elkjøp continues to support the Red Cross Water for Life (Vann 
for Livet) project and donated approximately NOK 1.9 million to 
the Red Cross Water for Life project during 2013/14. 
Key performance indicators 
The performance criteria reported above are largely focused on 
the Group’s UK & Ireland and the Nordics businesses which 
represent 96% of Group revenues from continuing operations in 
the period. 
 
 
Humphrey Singer 
Executive Director with responsibility for 
Corporate Responsibility 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 29
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Board of Directors 
At 25 June 2014 
Committee membership 
 Audit Nominations Remuneration 
John Allan  †
 
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen    
Andrea Gisle Joosen     
Tim How   †
Jock Lennox †
  
Dharmash Mistry    
 
† Denotes the Chair of the Committee. 
 
John Allan CBE, Chairman  
John Allan joined the Board on 23 June 2009 and was 
appointed Chairman on 2 September 2009. He is also chairman 
of the Nominations Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee. John is chairman of WorldPay and 
the DHL UK Foundation, non-executive director of Royal Mail 
Group and a senior advisor to Alix Partners. He is a regent of 
the University of Edinburgh. He was previously Chief Executive 
of Exel plc and, following its acquisition by Deutsche Post,  
a member of its management board and subsequently Chief 
Financial Officer of Deutsche Post. He has extensive board 
experience having been chairman of Samsonite Corporation 
and Care UK Health & Social Care Holdings Limited, a director 
of BET plc and a non-executive director of PHS Group plc,  
ISS A/S, National Grid plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc, 3i plc  
and Connell plc and a non-executive member of the Home 
Office Supervisory Board. He has also served on the 
supervisory boards of both Lufthansa AG and Deutsche 
Postbank. His early career was with Lever Brothers, Bristol-
Myers Company Ltd and Fine Fare Ltd. 
Sebastian James, Group Chief Executive  
Sebastian James joined the Board on 20 February 2012.  
He joined the Group in April 2008 and held various roles before 
his appointment to the Board including Operations Director.  
He is an advisor to the government on the building and 
maintenance of schools, a Trustee of Save the Children and 
was previously Chairman of INK Publishing (Holdings) Limited. 
Prior to joining the Group he was Chief Executive of Synergy 
Insurance Services Limited, a private equity backed insurance 
company. He has wide retail experience and was Strategy 
Director responsible for developing and implementing the 
turnaround strategy at Mothercare plc in 2003. He started his 
career at The Boston Consulting Group having completed an 
MBA at INSEAD and an MA at Oxford University. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Humphrey Singer, Group Finance Director  
Humphrey Singer joined the Board on 1 July 2011. Since joining 
Dixons Retail in 2007 he has held a number of finance roles, 
namely Finance Director of Currys, Group Financial Controller 
and Finance Director of the UK & Ireland division. Prior to 
joining the Group, he was Finance Director of Coca-Cola 
Enterprises (UK) Ltd and prior to that also held a number of 
finance roles at Coca-Cola Enterprises (UK) Ltd and Cadbury 
Schweppes plc. 
Katie Bickerstaffe, Chief Executive UK & Ireland  
Katie Bickerstaffe joined the Board on 20 February 2012 after 
joining the Group in June 2008 as Director of Marketing, People 
and Property. In addition to her executive position she is also 
non-executive director of Scottish and Southern Energy plc. 
Previously, Katie was Managing Director of Kwik Save Ltd and 
Group Retail Director and Group HR Director at Somerfield plc. 
Her earlier career included roles at Dyson Ltd, PepsiCo Inc.  
and Unilever plc. 
  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 30
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Board of Directors (continued) 
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen, Independent Non-Executive 
Director 
Utho Creusen joined the Board on 1 February 2010 and is  
a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees. Utho has extensive international retail experience 
and his external appointments include non-executive director  
of M.Video (the leading Russian electrical retailer) and 
Unternehmensgruppe Theo Müller, chairman of the Jury  
of the European Retail Institute, vice-president of Modern  
Market-Methods Association in Germany and consultant  
to the Al-Faisaliah Group JSC. He is also honorary professor  
at both Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster and the 
Catholic University, Eichstätt-Ingolstadt. Utho is the owner  
of a management consultancy, Positive Leadership, and  
co-owner of Grid-International. Previously, Utho was Human 
Resources Director of Media Saturn Holding GmbH and  
co-owner of the German electronics chain Alpha-tecc.  
He spent 22 years with European DIY retailer OBI AG where  
he rose to become a member of its executive board and 
chairman of OBI Franchise GmbH. 
Andrea Gisle Joosen, Independent Non-Executive Director 
Andrea Gisle Joosen joined the Board as a non-executive 
director on 1 March 2013 and is a member of the Audit, 
Nominations and Remuneration Committee. She is currently 
 a non-executive director of ICA Gruppen AB and Neopitch AB. 
Former roles include Chief Executive of Boxer TV Access AB in 
Sweden and Managing Director (Nordic Region) of Panasonic, 
Chantelle AB and Twentieth Century Fox. Her early career 
involved several senior marketing roles with Procter & Gamble 
and Johnson & Johnson. 
Tim How, Senior Independent Director 
Tim How joined the Board as non-executive director  
on 8 September 2009 and became Senior Independent Director 
on 9 May 2012. He is chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
and a member of both the Audit and Nomination Committees. 
Tim holds a variety of external board positions including 
chairman of Woburn Enterprises Limited, Senior Independent 
Director of Henderson Group plc and the Norfolk and Norwich 
University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, non-executive 
director of Roys (Wroxham) Limited and Wine and Spirit 
Education Trust. Former roles include chairman of Rayner  
and Keeler Limited and Enotria Wine Group and non-executive 
director of Peabody Capital plc. Tim served as Chief Executive 
of Majestic Wine plc, where he led the management buy-out of 
the business and subsequent Alternative Investment Market 
(AIM) flotation. Prior to this, he was Managing Director of  
Bejam Group plc. 
Jock Lennox, Independent Non-Executive Director  
Jock Lennox joined the Board on 10 January 2012. He is 
chairman of the Audit Committee and is also a member of the 
Nominations and the Remuneration Committees. Jock is a 
Chartered Accountant and has extensive accounting and 
finance experience having worked for over 30 years (20 years 
as a partner) for EY (formerly Ernst & Young) where he led a 
number of relationships with international clients and held a 
number of leadership positions in the UK and globally.  
Jock retired from EY in 2009 and subsequently has acted as a 
non-executive director of a number of companies and was 
formerly a council member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland. He is currently a trustee of the Tall 
Ships Youth Trust and non-executive director of A&J Mucklow 
Group plc, Enquest plc, Hill and Smith Holdings plc and Oxford 
Instruments plc. 
Dharmash Mistry, Independent Non-Executive Director 
Dharmash Mistry joined the Board on 27 September 2010 and 
is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration 
Committees. Dharmash is currently non-executive director of 
Hargreaves Landsdown plc and a director of Lemon Cube Ltd 
and Blow Ltd. He was formerly a Partner at Balderton Capital 
(UK) LLP and Board Director of Lovefilm, Achica, KupiVip,  
My-Wardrobe, MOG and Ewise & Tictail. Prior to joining 
Balderton Capital, Dharmash was part of the Executive team  
at Emap Plc, as Group Managing Director of Emap Consumer 
Media & Emap Performance. His earlier career was at  
The Boston Consulting Group and as Brand Manager at  
Procter & Gamble. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 31
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Corporate Governance Overview 
Introduction 
It is again a pleasure to issue to you, our shareholders, a 
personal statement on how the Company embraces good 
corporate governance practice.  
Proposed merger 
Any introduction from me, however, would not be complete 
without discussing our proposed merger with Carphone 
Warehouse. The bringing together of these two great 
companies at a time when they are both flourishing will  
create a stronger business for our shareholders, customers and 
colleagues and create a world class retailer in an age where the 
importance of connectivity of electrical devices is ever growing. 
As a Board we are excited by the opportunities that this merger 
will bring. We have structured this governance section so that it 
includes all the information it should do as a standalone entity, 
but should the merger go ahead we will not be calling our AGM 
as usual in early September so have therefore adapted these 
sections in the following pages. 
Corporate governance 
At Dixons Retail we think good corporate governance is at  
the heart of any well run business and as such we take our 
governance processes very seriously. The Board takes time at 
every other Board meeting to receive an update on corporate 
governance matters from internal experts in order that it remains 
aware of the most up-to-date regulations and thinking. We have 
clearly differentiated roles for the Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive. To put it simply, I am responsible for the running of 
the Board and the Group Chief Executive for the running of the 
business. The role descriptions are reviewed regularly by the 
Board and are set out in writing. 
Board 
I am pleased to report that the Board has had no changes 
during the year under review. We have therefore been able  
to concentrate on providing continued, focused and effective 
leadership during a time when the business has divested itself 
of some of its less profitable international businesses and can 
now focus on its core markets. The Board has operated 
throughout the year with a majority of non-executive directors 
who have both challenged and supported the executive 
directors in their management of the Company throughout this 
period. The Board holds various dinners throughout the year, 
with and without the executives present, and this is very 
effective in encouraging an open relationship between all 
members of the Board. 
Two separate strategy days were held during the year with 
senior management, giving the non-executive directors the 
chance to openly challenge, question and help shape the 
strategic direction of the Group.  
Composition of the Board 
The Nominations Committee annually reviews the composition 
of the Board. That review includes not only diversity in relation 
to gender but also professional and international diversity. To 
enhance knowledge of European markets, the Board comprises 
two
 
out of nine directors who are based outside of the UK. We 
also review annually the mix of professional experience on the 
Board to ensure it is appropriate in order for it to effectively 
discharge its duties. Following this year’s review, it was agreed 
that no further appointments were necessary. The non-
executive directors are asked each year to confirm that they 
continue to have enough time to dedicate to company business 
and all have again done so. 
Board evaluation 
As in 2012/13, the Board evaluation for 2013/14 was conducted 
by myself and the Company Secretary and General Counsel  
via a series of discussions with individual directors. The Board 
believes that it continues to operate effectively and in the spirit 
of openness. This environment allows debate and challenge  
to flourish, leading to a thorough decision process. Further 
information on the Board review can be found on page 35, 
however, I should like to note in this report that each  
non-executive director continues to be considered independent 
in mind and judgement, and to provide their own unique 
perspective to the business of the Board.  
Remuneration regulations 
The Remuneration Committee has been working hard to review 
its policies in light of the new BIS reporting regulations and I am 
pleased to refer you to our first Remuneration Report under the 
new regulations. Should the merger be agreed by shareholders, 
then the directors of the combined group will be governed by  
the policy disclosed by the Carphone Warehouse Group plc. 
However, we have set out our policy in the report as a 
standalone entity and will put this to shareholder vote should,  
for any reason, the merger not proceed. We believe that 
excellent performance should be adequately rewarded whilst 
avoiding rewards for failure.  
I believe we have a strong Board supported by sound 
procedures and excellent colleagues, and look forward to 
continuing to achieve the strategic goals of the Group of 
increasing long term shareholder value and concentrating  
on our core areas of expertise.  
I trust you are as excited as I am about the future prospects  
for our business in this new chapter. 
 
John Allan 
Chairman 
25 June 2014 
 
 
The Board and Committee Structure 
  Dixons Retail plc Group Board   
        
        
Audit Committee  Nominations Committee  Remuneration Committee 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 32
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Statutory Information 
The directors present their report and audited financial 
statements for the year ended 30 April 2014. 
The Strategic Report, which provides a comprehensive review 
of the development, performance and future prospects of the 
Group’s operations for the year ended 30 April 2014, includes 
the following: 
• Business Overview, including principal activities; 
• Strategic Summary; 
• Performance Review, including the Corporate Responsibility 
Report; and 
• Corporate Governance. 
These sections are incorporated by reference and are deemed 
to form part of this report. 
Changes in composition of the Group during the year 
During the year, the Group disposed of its Electroworld 
operations in Turkey and Unieuro in Italy, as well as its pure 
play PIXmania business. On 19 May 2014, the Group 
announced its agreement to dispose of its Electroworld 
operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, and its 
expectation that this will complete within the first half of 2014/15. 
Further details on these disposals are shown in note 27 to the 
Financial Statements. 
It is envisaged that these changes will enable the Group to fulfil 
the Company’s strategic plan of focusing on markets where it 
holds a leading position.  
Directors 
The names, biographies and dates of appointment of the Board 
of directors are provided on pages 29 and 30. 
Shareholders should note that, given the expected timetable for 
the merger with Carphone Warehouse Group plc (the Merger), 
Dixons is not currently intending to convene a 2014 AGM prior 
to completion. In the event that the Merger does not complete, 
or is not implemented in accordance with the expected 
timetable, Dixons may convene and notify shareholders of an 
AGM in due course. In this case, all directors would retire and 
offer themselves for re-election at that AGM in line with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code). 
The Remuneration Report provides details of applicable service 
agreements for executive directors and terms of appointment for 
non-executive directors. The Board is satisfied that each 
director is qualified for reappointment by virtue of their skills, 
experience and contribution to the Board. 
During the year, no director had any material interest in any 
contract of significance to the Group’s business. Their interests, 
including those of any connected persons, in the shares of the 
Company are outlined in the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, 
the Company is governed by its Articles of Association,  
the Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.  
The Articles themselves may be amended by special  
resolution of the shareholders. 
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, and 
to the extent permitted by law, the Company may indemnify its 
directors out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a 
result of their office. The Group holds Directors’ and Officers’ 
Liability Insurance cover for any claim brought against directors 
or officers for wrongful acts in connection with their positions. 
The insurance provided does not extend to claims arising from 
fraud or dishonesty. 
Subject to the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of 
Association, the Companies Act and any directions given by  
the Company by special resolution, the business of the 
Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise  
all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the 
management of the business of the Company or not. The 
matters reserved for the Board are detailed in a specific 
schedule, which is reviewed annually and details are provided  
in the Corporate Governance Report. 
Directors’ responsibilities 
The directors’ responsibilities for the financial statements 
contained within this Annual Report and the directors’ 
confirmations required under Disclosure and Transparency  
Rule 4.1.12 are set out on page 59. 
Employees and employee share schemes 
A commentary on the Group’s role as an employer is included  
in the Corporate Responsibility Report and details of employee 
involvement through share participation are contained in the 
Remuneration Report. 
Details of the Group’s employee share plans and long term 
incentive plans are contained in the Remuneration Report  
and note 25 to the Financial Statements. 
Share capital 
The Company’s only class of share is ordinary shares. The 
authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together 
with any shares issued during the period, is set out in note 23 to 
the Financial Statements. The voting rights of all Dixons Retail 
plc shares are identical, with each share carrying the right to 
one vote. Dixons Retail plc holds no shares in Treasury and did 
not make any market purchases of its own shares during the 
period under review. 
Restrictions on transfer of securities of the Company 
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding  
nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the 
general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing 
legislation. The directors are not aware of any agreements 
between holders of the Company’s shares that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights. 
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. 
Change of control – significant agreements 
The Company does not have any significant agreements  
which contain change of control clauses other than for its 
borrowings. Further details are disclosed in note 17 to the 
Financial Statements. 
In addition, provisions under the rules of the Company’s share 
incentive schemes may cause options and awards granted 
under these schemes to vest and become exercisable in the 
event of a change of control, as will be the case with the current 
proposed merger. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 33
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Statutory Information (continued) 
Major shareholders 
As at 25 June 2014, the Company has been notified in 
accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the voting 
rights of the Company: 
 Direct / Indirect No. of shares
†
 %
†
Standard Life 
Investments Ltd 
Direct and 
Indirect 334,133,351 9.12 
AXA Investment 
Managers S.A. Indirect 182,488,142 5.03 
Invesco Limited Indirect 178,859,553 4.94 
Schroders Plc Indirect 180,411,104 4.93 
Majedie Asset 
Management Ltd Indirect 178,163,135 4.90 
Capital Research & 
Management Company Indirect 175,071,032 4.84 
Tameside MBC re 
Greater Manchester 
Pension Fund Direct 142,578,014 3.89 
 
† Represents shareholdings on the date on which the notification of interest was 
made to the Company.  
Issue of shares 
In accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, 
shareholders can authorise the directors to allot shares in the 
Company up to one third of the issued share capital of the 
Company. Accordingly, at the 2013 AGM shareholders 
approved a resolution to give the directors authority to allot 
shares up to an aggregate nominal value of £30,290,138.  
The directors have no present intention to issue ordinary 
shares, other than pursuant to obligations under employee 
share schemes. This resolution remains valid until the 
conclusion of this year’s AGM when, should the Company 
convene an AGM in the light of the proposed merger timetable, 
a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority. 
Use of financial instruments 
Information about the use of financial instruments is given  
in note 22 to the Financial Statements. 
Related party transactions 
Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year 
are contained in note 31 to the Financial Statements. 
Political and charitable donations 
The Group engages in various charitable activities as set  
out in the Corporate Responsibility Report. During the period 
under review, the Group made donations of £234,000 (2012/13 
£308,000) to local charities serving the communities in which 
the Group operates. 
At the 2013 AGM, the shareholders of the Company adopted a 
resolution authorising the Board to incur political expenditure up 
to an aggregate amount not exceeding £25,000 during 2013/14. 
Notwithstanding this, the Company made no political donations 
during the year under review (2012/13 £nil). The Company has 
no present intention to make contributions to political parties but 
while the legislation is drafted with a wide definition of political 
donations, it feels that it is in the best interests of shareholders 
that the directors are authorised to engage with people in the 
political arena on issues that are important to the Company. A 
resolution will therefore be presented to the 2014 AGM (should 
such AGM be convened) to renew this authority. 
Payment of suppliers 
It is the Group’s policy to agree terms of payment with its 
suppliers on a case-by-case basis prior to commencing trade 
with them. Payments are made in accordance with these terms 
provided the supplier has complied with relevant contractual 
obligations. Trade creditors as at 30 April 2014 represent 46 
days of annual purchases made during the period 
(30 April 2013 52 days). 
Going concern 
In considering the going concern basis for preparing the 
financial statements, the directors have considered the Group’s 
objectives and strategy, the risks and uncertainties to achieving 
the objectives, and the review of business performance, all of 
which are set out in the Business Overview, Strategic Summary 
and Performance Review sections of this Annual Report and 
Accounts. The Group’s liquidity and funding arrangements are 
described in notes 17 and 22(f) to the Financial Statements, as 
well as in the funding section of the Performance Review, and 
the directors consider that the Group has significant covenant 
and liquidity headroom in its borrowing facilities for the 
foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, after reviewing the Group’s expenditure 
commitments, current financial projections and expected future 
cash flows, together with the available cash resources and 
undrawn committed borrowing facilities, the directors have 
considered that adequate resources exist for the Group to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the financial statements. 
Post balance sheet events 
Particulars of any important events affecting the Group since  
30 April 2014 are described in note 32 to the Financial 
Statements. 
Corporate governance compliance 
The statement on compliance with the Financial Reporting 
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) for the 
reporting period is contained on page 34 of this report. 
Audit information 
So far as each person who is a director at the date of approving 
this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information (being 
information needed by the auditor in connection with their 
report) of which the auditor is unaware. Having made enquiries 
of fellow directors, each director has taken all the steps that  
he / she is obliged to take as a director in order to make  
himself / herself aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditor is aware of that information. This 
information is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Auditor 
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to be reappointed 
as auditor of the Company. Upon the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditor and 
to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be 
proposed at the 2014 AGM, should such AGM be convened. 
 
Helen Grantham 
Company Secretary 
25 June 2014 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 34
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Corporate Governance Report  
Corporate Governance Report 
The Board confirms that during the year ended 30 April 2014, 
and as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, the 
Company has been in compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code). This report, together with the 
Statutory Information, the Audit Committee Report, the 
Nominations Committee Report, and the Remuneration Report, 
provides details of how the Company has applied the principles 
and complied with the provisions of the Code during the year. 
The Board 
At 30 April 2014, the Board of Directors was made up of nine 
members, comprising the Chairman, three executive directors 
and five non-executive directors. There have been no changes 
to the Board since this date. The Board has reconfirmed that all 
the non-executive directors continue to be considered 
independent and each brings their own senior level of 
experience. Upon appointment, the Chairman was also deemed 
to be independent. 
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the 
Group Chief Executive is formally defined, set out in writing  
and reviewed by the Board on a regular basis, as it was on  
11 March 2014. The Chairman is responsible for the overall 
operation, leadership and governance of the Board. The Group 
Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management  
of the Group’s business and for implementing the Group’s 
strategic and commercial objectives. 
Tim How, Senior Independent Director, supports the Chairman 
and is available for approach or representation from shareholders 
who feel they are unable to raise issues with the Chairman 
directly. The Senior Independent Director also discusses, on  
an individual basis, the performance of the Chairman with each 
director and provides feedback on these discussions to the 
Chairman. The role of the Senior Independent Director is clearly 
defined, set out in writing and reviewed regularly by the Board. 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its 
decision. This schedule was reviewed during the year and 
includes, but is not limited to: 
• approval of Group strategy and the annual budget; 
• overseeing the Group’s operations and review of its 
performance; 
• changes relating to the Company’s share capital or corporate 
structure; 
• communications with shareholders, including approval of the 
Interim Statement, Annual Report and Accounts (including 
the review of critical accounting policies and judgements,  
and assessment of going concern), and other major public 
announcements; 
• maintenance and monitoring of the Group’s system of internal 
control and risk management; 
• approval of major capital expenditure, material acquisitions 
and divestments and material contracts; and 
• appointment and remuneration of the external auditor on  
the recommendation of the Audit Committee. 
Helen Grantham, Company Secretary and General Counsel, 
acts as Secretary to the Board and its committees. She is also 
responsible for ensuring that correct Board procedures are 
followed and advises the Board on legal and corporate 
governance matters. All directors have access to the advice  
and services of the Company Secretary and may also take 
independent professional advice at the expense of the 
Company in furtherance of their duties. The appointment and 
removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters 
reserved for the Board. 
Board attendance 
The Board held two separate strategy days in addition to 
meeting on eight occasions during the year under review, all of 
which were scheduled Board meetings. 
Member Attendance 
John Allan 8 of 8 
Sebastian James 8 of 8 
Katie Bickerstaffe 8 of 8 
Humphrey Singer 8 of 8 
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 8 of 8 
Andrea Gisle Joosen 8 of 8 
Tim How 8 of 8 
Jock Lennox 8 of 8 
Dharmash Mistry 8 of 8 
Committees of the Board 
The Board has three main committees: Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration. Individual reports on the work of these 
committees and their membership and attendance are set out 
separately in this Annual Report and Accounts. 
Dixons Retail is dependent on its senior management to 
operate its business and execute its strategies. The Group has 
a decentralised management structure with many high-level 
management decisions delegated to divisional or country 
management. These regional managers report back to the 
Board. The Managing Directors of the Group’s major operating 
businesses present a business review to the Board on an 
annual basis and to the executive directors on a quarterly basis. 
Board information and development 
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors are 
properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that 
they have full and timely access to relevant information. The 
quality and supply of information provided to the Board is 
reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise. The 
Company continues to use an electronic board paper system 
which enables the fast dissemination of quality information in  
a safe and secure manner. It has also implemented guidelines 
on the form and content of board papers to ensure that the 
information presented to the Board is clear, informative and 
concise. The directors have the opportunity to request further 
information if necessary. 
It is Board policy that, wherever possible, a formal agenda and 
written reports be issued to the directors on the Wednesday of 
the week prior to the Board meeting, allowing time for detailed 
review before the meeting. Formal minutes of Board and 
committee meetings are prepared by the Company Secretary 
and approved by the Board / committees at the next meeting. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 35
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Corporate Governance Report (continued) 
The Chairman holds regular meetings with the non-executive 
directors without the executive directors being present to 
discuss, amongst other matters, corporate strategy, business 
performance and the performance of the executive team. There 
is frequent contact between directors outside formal meetings  
to progress the Group’s business and to promote open 
communication and team working. 
The Board holds meetings at a variety of the Group’s business 
locations to help all Board members gain a deeper 
understanding of the business. This also provides senior 
management from across the Group with the opportunity to 
present to the Board as well as to meet the directors on more 
informal occasions. In 2013, the Board held a two day meeting  
in Norway at Elkjøp’s headquarters and the non-executive 
directors had the opportunity to meet senior management 
without the presence of executive directors. The meeting 
included presentations from the Nordic team.  
All Board directors are encouraged to attend external seminars 
relevant to the retail industry and corporate governance matters 
in order to refresh and update their knowledge and skills. The 
Chairman discusses any professional development needs with 
each director as part of the performance evaluation and actions 
are agreed following these discussions. The Board also 
receives bi-monthly updates on legal matters affecting the 
Group and wider corporate governance best practice. 
New directors appointed to the Board receive a tailored 
induction programme, together with guidance and training 
appropriate to their level of previous experience. Each director  
is given the opportunity to meet with senior management and 
store colleagues, and to visit the Group’s sites both in the UK 
and overseas. This enables familiarisation with the businesses, 
operations, systems and the markets in which the Group 
operates. New directors are also encouraged to meet with  
the Group’s auditors and advisors. 
Board evaluation 
The Company last conducted an external board evaluation  
in 2011/12. As with 2012/13, the Board felt that the 2013/14 
evaluation should be conducted internally. This involved a  
two stage process as follows: 
• A discussion between the Company Secretary and each 
Board director to review progress on actions arising from 
previous reviews and to discuss any further views on the 
current operation of the Board. A summary of these 
discussions was circulated initially to the Chairman and then 
to the Board, and actions discussed at a Board meeting.  
The Chairman also arranged individual meetings with each 
Board member to discuss their performance and the Senior 
Independent Director led an evaluation of the performance  
of the Chairman. 
• Each committee performed a self-evaluation of its 
performance on the basis of a detailed questionnaire relating 
to the areas of responsibility for that particular committee and 
provided feedback to the Board. No major areas for action 
were identified. 
Authorisation of conflicts of interest 
The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise  
and manage conflicts of interest which have operated effectively 
during the year. Potential conflicts are approved by the Board or 
by two independent directors where an authorisation is needed 
quickly (then reported to the main Board at its next meeting for 
ratification). A register of directors’ conflicts is maintained and  
is reviewed by the Audit Committee on an annual basis. 
Internal control 
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of 
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst senior 
management is responsible and accountable for internal control 
and effective risk management at an operational level. 
The Board confirms that the Group has established and 
maintained a process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the significant risks faced by the Group and this has been in 
place throughout the year ended 30 April 2014, up to the date  
of approval of the financial statements. This process accords 
with the Turnbull guidance and the Code and is designed to 
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not 
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Certain of the Board’s responsibilities have been delegated  
to the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the effectiveness  
of the system of internal control (including material, financial, 
operational and compliance controls) and risk management for 
the year under review. The Audit Committee has ensured that 
any required remedial action has or is being taken. Areas of 
focus have included participation of internal audit in key control 
projects in certain business units, participation in business unit 
balance sheet reviews and assessment of business units 
against their financial control frameworks. 
The system of internal control and the process for managing  
risk include the following elements: 
• discussion and approval by the Board of the Group’s strategic 
direction, plans and objectives, and the risks to achieving 
them; 
• the Board and management committees meet regularly to 
monitor progress against the targets set out in the Group’s 
budget and strategic five year plan; 
• the defined levels of authority established by the Board 
ensure that significant decisions are taken at an appropriate 
level, supported by a Group-wide delegation of authority 
process; 
• each business function has established procedures and 
controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the 
Group’s assets; 
• policies, procedures and governance structures to ensure 
capital investment is appropriately approved and 
subsequently monitored; 
• policies, controls and procedures have been established over 
the security of data held on, and functionality provided by, the 
Group’s business systems, including disaster recovery 
arrangements; 
• business continuity plan; 
• the Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to enable 
them to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the roles 
assigned to them to minimise operational risk; 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 36
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Corporate Governance Report (continued) 
• the Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal 
with each significant risk that has been identified. These 
strategies include insurance, treasury policies and operational 
framework, and common standards of internal control; 
• all employees in subsidiaries within the Group have the 
opportunity to make confidential disclosures about suspected 
impropriety or wrongdoing to a hotline run and monitored by  
a third party; 
• policies and procedures covering financial reporting; 
• local management at each business unit and in those 
functions of the Group requiring greater overview have 
responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant 
risks to their business areas, together with design of 
mitigating controls; and 
• the Company Code of Ethics. 
The Group’s approach to managing risk has been reviewed  
and remains appropriate. Risk and opportunity radars (Radars) 
exist for each business in the Group to identify, assess and 
monitor key risks, and the most significant of these are 
consolidated into a group level radar for Board review. Each  
risk is monitored by an executive owner and is included on 
business unit leadership team agendas on a regular basis. 
Business unit management across the Group review key 
business risks twice per annum, followed by Board reviews. 
Group Board directors and business management teams are 
interviewed by the risk management team in alternate years,  
to refresh and develop the Radars. 
There are clear processes for monitoring the system of  
internal control and reporting any significant corrective control 
weaknesses, together with corrective action. These include 
reports to the Audit Committee from assurance providers, 
periodic certification from business units, reviews by Group and 
regional management, whistleblowing facilities and independent 
assurance from both internal and external audit. The latter of 
these are described in more detail below. 
Internal audit 
The Internal Audit department is fully independent of business 
operations and has a Group-wide mandate. Its work is driven by 
a risk-based methodology ensuring that the controls to mitigate 
the Group’s key risks are audited on a periodic basis. Third 
parties may be engaged to support audit work as appropriate. 
Its plans are approved by the Audit Committee, which also 
receives reports on its findings and progress of related actions 
at each meeting. The department also works with the 
businesses to promote and further develop effective risk 
management and control within their operations. The Director  
of Internal Audit attends all Audit Committee meetings. 
External auditor 
The external auditor provides further independent observations 
of certain elements of the internal financial controls as part of 
their audit of the financial statements. Their findings are 
presented to the Audit Committee with updates on progress 
against the recommendations being made throughout the year. 
Whistleblowing policy 
The Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a 
confidential helpline operated by a third party. This can be used 
to report, anonymously if so wished, on matters of concern to 
employees. This can range from unethical behaviour, such as 
fraud, to practices that might endanger the health of customers 
and colleagues. 
Bribery Act 
The Group reviews regularly its policies and procedures to help 
prevent individuals associated with the Group from committing 
acts of bribery. These policies and procedures include training 
for individuals to ensure awareness of acts that might be 
construed as contravening the regulations. The Group’s  
Anti-Bribery policy is included on the Investors section of the 
corporate website. 
Relations with shareholders 
The Company supports the initiatives set out in the Code and 
the Stewardship Code and actively encourages engagement 
with major institutional shareholders and other stakeholders. 
Effective two-way communication with institutional investors, 
brokers and analysts is established through regular presentations 
and meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Group 
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Investor Relations 
Director. The Chairman holds occasional meetings with major 
shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest, including 
corporate strategy and governance. Where appropriate, the 
chairman of the Remuneration Committee communicates with 
major shareholders to canvass opinion when deciding 
remuneration policy. The Senior Independent Director and  
the other non-executive directors are also available to attend 
meetings with major shareholders if requested. Any issues  
of importance arising from these meetings are reported to the 
Board at the next meeting. The Board also receives a regular 
investor relations report at each of its scheduled meetings, in 
addition to a detailed annual review of the perception of the 
Company amongst stakeholders. 
The Company is committed to communication with all of its 
members, whether institutional investors, private or employee 
shareholders. The Company reports formally to shareholders 
when its full year and half year results are published. These 
results are posted on the investor section of the corporate 
website. Regular trading updates are also posted on the 
corporate website in addition to other external announcements 
and press releases made by the Company. In accordance with 
the Listing Rules, formal notification of the Company’s AGM  
is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance  
of the meeting. The directors, including the respective chairmen 
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees,  
are available for questions formally during the AGM and 
informally afterwards. 
As previously mentioned, the Company is not expecting to 
convene an AGM prior to completion of the merger with 
Carphone Warehouse Group plc. However, should the merger 
not be implemented in accordance with the expected timetable, 
the Company may convene and notify shareholders of an AGM 
in due course.  
 
John Allan 
Chairman 
25 June 2014 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 37
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Audit Committee Report 
Chairman’s overview 
The Audit Committee has detailed duties set out in its terms of 
reference. In addition to this, it serves to reassure shareholders 
that the Company’s financial management, internal control and 
reporting practices are properly protecting their interests. As 
such, I have the pleasure of reporting to you how the Audit 
Committee has discharged its duties over the past financial  
year and the priorities for the year ahead for the Group on a 
standalone basis. 
 
The Committee supports the changes to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the ‘Code’) and has reviewed its terms of 
reference. Accordingly, the Committee has this year 
implemented a suitable process for it to be able to advise the 
Board as to whether the Annual Report and Accounts are a fair, 
balanced and an understandable assessment of the business. 
This included a summary being presented to the Committee 
which focused on key matters affecting the financial results and 
to what degree these are discussed in each section of the 
Annual Report and Accounts. This enabled the Committee to 
determine the appropriate weighting given to each matter in 
each section. 
 
You will have seen the progress the Company has made in 
streamlining the business by the completion of the sale of 
Electroworld Turkey, Unieuro and PIXmania operations, as  
well as the recently announced agreement to sell our Central 
European operations. The Audit Committee has carefully 
analysed the accounting treatment of those transactions to 
ensure that each transaction was adequately represented and 
that any judgements made in reporting these transactions were 
appropriate. 
Further to the above, in 2013/14 we have: 
• built on the framework to enhance Group-wide financial 
policies and controls by introducing a set of minimum  
control standards, along with revising the management self-
assessment process. This has been subjected to internal 
audit reviews to report on their effectiveness; 
• continued to embed our enhanced enterprise risk 
management policies; 
• overseen the recruitment of a new Group Director of Internal 
Audit and Risk Management. I was actively involved, as Audit 
Committee Chair, in the final selection process alongside 
management; and 
• undertaken an independent review of the effectiveness of 
internal audit. As part of this review, areas of improvement 
were identified, including making better use of technology 
and tools, the prioritisation and focus of audit effort and 
enhancing working practices. An action plan has been put  
in place by the new Group Director of Internal Audit and  
Risk Management and progress against this plan will be 
monitored and reported to the Committee. Notwithstanding 
the opportunities for improvement, it has been concluded  
that the Internal Audit function continues to provide effective 
assurance to the Board on the adequacy of the risk 
management and internal control procedures of the Group. 
You will have seen earlier that it is our intention to merge the 
Group with Carphone Warehouse Group plc. Our main priorities 
on a standalone basis over the coming year will be to receive 
and review reports from management for which the objectives 
will be to: 
• undertake a review of the effectiveness of risk management. 
The independent review of internal audit highlighted some 
further opportunities to improve and embed risk processes 
across the Group and a full review of risk practices will be 
undertaken by the Group Director of Internal Audit and  
Risk Management and reported to the Audit Committee  
in the coming year; 
• continue the roll out of the minimum control standards for all 
financial processes and put in place action plans to address 
any identified gaps; and 
• seek opportunities to further standardise systems, processes 
and controls across the Group, through Group-led initiatives. 
 
 
Jock Lennox 
Chairman of the Audit Committee  
25 June 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Committee membership and attendance 
The Committee comprises exclusively non-executive directors 
in compliance with the Code. The members are set out in the 
table above along with their attendance for the year under 
review. The biographical details of the current members are 
set out on pages 29 and 30. 
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the Committee, a 
member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, 
meets the requirement for recent and relevant financial 
experience. The Company Secretary and General Counsel  
acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings. 
The Committee’s deliberations are reported by its chairman to 
the following Board meeting and the minutes of each meeting 
are circulated to all members of the Board. 
Audit Committee 
Main objective: To assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate 
governance obligations relating to the Group’s financial 
reporting practices, internal control and risk management 
framework, and its internal and external audit processes. 
Chairman: Jock Lennox 
Number of meetings: 4 
Member Attendance 
Jock Lennox 4 of 4 
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 4 of 4 
Andrea Gisle Joosen 4 of 4 
Tim How 4 of 4 
Dharmash Mistry 4 of 4 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 38
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Audit Committee Report (continued) 
Role 
The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight 
responsibilities by acting independently from the executive 
directors. 
There is an annual schedule of items which are shared across 
the meetings during the year to ensure the Committee fully 
covers those items in its terms of reference. Standing agenda 
items are as follows: 
• corporate governance, risk management and finance 
updates; 
• accounting and control findings from the external audit, and 
the status and progress on recommendations arising;  
• progress against the internal audit plan and revised plans; 
• internal audit reports and findings together with status and 
progress on action plans; 
• approval of audit fees; 
• fees paid to the auditor for non-audit services; and 
• tax matters. 
These standing items are supplemented by key matters arising 
throughout the course of the year. The Committee’s terms of 
reference are reviewed annually by the Committee and then  
by the Board. A copy of the terms of reference, approved on 4 
September 2013, is available on the Group’s corporate website. 
Attendance at meetings 
The Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Executive, Group 
Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief 
Accountant and Head of Tax, Group Director of Internal Audit 
and Risk Management, Deputy Company Secretary and 
external auditors were invited by the Chairman of the 
Committee to attend meetings during the year. Other members 
of senior management were also invited during the year if the 
subject under discussion fell within their remit. 
Each time the Committee convenes, it meets with external 
auditors without the presence of management in order to allow 
private discussion of any matters that the auditors wish to raise 
without management or the Company Secretary being present. 
Occasionally, a private discussion is also held between the 
members of the Committee, the external auditors and the  
Group Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management without 
management present. 
In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the 
services of the Group Finance Director and the Company 
Secretary and General Counsel, as well as external 
professional advice as necessary. In addition, the Chairman of 
the Committee meets regularly with the external auditors 
outside of formal meetings and without management present. 
Key matters considered during the year 
During the period the Committee reviewed the following: 
Financial reporting 
The Committee received management papers setting out the 
main assumptions and judgements applicable to the following 
key areas. These were discussed and the Committee concurred 
with management’s conclusions:  
• Judgements taken in the calculation of losses of £158.1 
million arising on disposal of subsidiary companies. Matters 
discussed included the amounts of deferred consideration to 
be recognised and any requirements to accrue for potential 
liabilities relating to warranties; 
• Classification of items between underlying and  
non-underlying, including consideration of the components of 
the £33.3 million pre-tax non-underlying items. Discussions 
centred around confirming that the items fell within the 
Group’s definitions on non-underlying items as well as the 
consistency of treatment of such items year on year; 
• Tax matters: The Committee reviewed judgements 
concerning any significant provisions and discussed the 
assumptions being made. In addition, international tax 
matters were considered and in this respect management’s 
presentations incorporated any external advice in order to 
enhance the Committee’s understanding; and 
• The integrity and sufficiency of information disclosed in the 
Annual Report and Accounts to ensure that, taken as a 
whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group and the Company’s performance, business model and 
strategy. This included an assessment of the narrative 
reporting section to ensure consistency with the financial 
reporting section. In this respect, the co-ordination and review 
of the various sections of the Annual Report and Accounts 
follows a well established process which is performed in 
parallel with the formal process undertaken by the external 
auditors. The Annual Report and Accounts undergoes 
numerous reviews, with drafts being presented to the 
Committee at various stages of the process. The Committee 
received a summary of the approach taken by management 
in the preparation of the 2013/14 Annual Report and 
Accounts and also the contents of individual sections.  
The Committee was then able to recommend to the Board 
that the Annual Report and Accounts contained a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment of the Group  
and the Company. 
Internal control and risk management 
• The lessons learnt from any incidents of fraud detected within 
the Group; 
• the financial control framework and its subsequent 
assessment by Internal Audit; 
• the assessment of the Group’s response to information 
security and data protection risks, including compliance with 
PCI (Payment Card Industry) standards which seek to protect 
customer payment card data; and  
• the proposed enhanced approach to risk management and 
the outcome of the risk work with the respective business 
units and Group.  
Compliance 
• Monitoring compliance activity in relation to the terms of the 
Group’s financing; and 
• reports on the Anti-Bribery policy and procedures and 
compliance with them. 
Internal audit 
• The effectiveness of Internal Audit and the adequacy of  
its resources;  
• significant issues arising from Internal Audit reports; and 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 39
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Audit Committee Report (continued) 
• the succession to the Director of Internal Audit which 
occurred during the year, in which the Chairman of the 
Committee participated in the recruitment selection process.  
External audit 
• The effectiveness of the external auditors through a survey of 
key stakeholders and consideration of their responses. Such 
stakeholders included the members of the Committee as well 
as divisional finance directors and key members of the Group 
finance team; 
• the annual audit fee, which is set out in note 3 to the Financial 
Statements, with due regard to the balance between audit 
and non-audit fees and the policy for approval of non-audit 
fees paid to the Group’s auditor;  
• fees paid to the auditor for non-audit services; and 
• significant issues and areas of judgement arising from reports 
from the external auditor which, in addition to those matters 
referred to above under Financial Reporting and Internal 
Control and Risk Management, included revenue recognition 
relating to customer support agreements, inventory 
provisioning, defined benefit pension assumptions, liquidity, 
covenant compliance, going concern and an assessment of 
the quality of earnings reported.  
In respect of the areas of judgement, note 1.19 to the Financial 
Statements sets out the critical accounting policies in respect of 
revenue recognition relating to customer support agreements 
and taxation, whilst note 21 to the Financial Statements sets out 
the defined benefit pension assumptions including sensitivities 
to these. Non-underlying items are set out in detail in note 4 to 
the Financial Statements. All of these areas, together with the 
quality of earnings reported, were set out in the reports from the 
external auditor and were discussed with the Committee. The 
Committee concluded that the judgements taken and 
assumptions made were all fair and reasonable. 
Other matters 
• The Audit Committee’s performance and terms of reference; 
• the Company’s whistleblowing policy and its implementation 
across the international jurisdictions of the Group; and 
• the expenses of all Board members. 
Policy on the use of the external auditor for  
non-audit services 
The Audit Committee has approved a policy for the use of our 
external auditor for non-audit purposes which has remained in 
place for the whole of the current and previous financial year. 
The policy allows the auditor to perform other services for 
specific reasons such as where: 
• it is a statutory or contractual requirement; or 
• significant historical knowledge may place the auditor in the 
best position to perform such non-audit work. 
The auditor is specifically not permitted to undertake the 
following services: 
• bookkeeping or similar services relating to the preparation of 
financial statements; 
• internal audit; and 
• any other assignment which would place the auditor in a 
position of conflict with its duties as external auditor.  
To ensure this policy is applied appropriately, the Committee 
monitors quarterly all fees paid to the external auditor. All fees 
paid to the auditor in respect of non-audit work above £50,000 
require pre-approval of the Audit Committee Chairman. These 
are then reported back to the Committee as part of the 
Committee’s agenda. 
During 2013/14 the auditor has performed non-audit work which 
has been mainly in relation to statutory or contractually 
mandated areas. For example, providing an interim review 
report on the Group’s Interim Statement and providing auditor 
opinions on tax returns where local legislation requires this.  
In addition, work has also been performed in respect of the 
Corporate disposal transactions which occurred during the year. 
The Committee is satisfied that the policy is conducive to 
retaining auditor independence and objectivity, and is satisfied 
with the operation of the policy during the year. The level of  
non-audit fees paid to the external auditor is set out in note 3 to 
the Financial Statements and amounts to approximately 33% of 
total fees paid to the auditor, although after adjusting for the 
effects of the interim review, which are treated as non-audit fees 
for statutory reporting purposes, amounted to 25% of the total  
of year end and interim fees paid to the auditor. 
External auditor 
Deloitte LLP has been the auditor of the Company since 1987 
and the current lead partner has acted for the Company for five 
years, with this being the final year before rotation would occur. 
The Audit Committee acknowledges the requirements of 
provision C.3.7 of the Code whereby FTSE 350 companies 
should put out to tender the external audit every ten years.  
The Committee had adopted a policy to comply with these 
requirements with view to tendering during 2014, however, 
owing to the proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse, this 
process was suspended. Should the merger not occur, the 
Committee will revert to its conclusions to tender, but in any 
event will consider the most appropriate point to invite a tender, 
taking into account the FRC’s transitional provisions. The 
Committee is keeping under review the ongoing legislative 
proposals on audit tendering and rotation from the EU and the 
Competition Commission (now the Competition and Markets 
Authority), and will implement them in accordance with the 
suggested timescales. In the meantime, the Committee is 
recommending the reappointment of Deloitte LLP. 
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the external 
audit process by issuing a questionnaire to the members of the 
Audit Committee, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director and all business units finance directors. 
The results were then collated and the findings discussed by  
the Audit Committee and communicated and discussed with the 
external auditor. Having considered the results of this year’s 
annual performance review, and the internal policies and 
representations of Deloitte LLP, the Audit Committee remains 
satisfied with the auditor’s objectivity and independence and the 
effectiveness of the audit process. Given the expected timetable 
of the merger with Carphone Warehouse, the Group does not 
currently expect to call an AGM prior to completion of the 
Merger. However, should there be any delay to the timetable 
then an AGM may be called. In that case, the Committee will 
recommend to the Board that a resolution for their 
reappointment be proposed at that AGM. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 40
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Nominations Committee Report 
Chairman’s overview 
The Nominations Committee reports directly to the Board of  
the Company and is made up of a majority of non-executive 
directors as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the Code). 
It has been a quiet year for the Nominations Committee 
following the last two years where appointments to the Board 
have been made. I am happy to set out for you what the 
Committee has concentrated on in the following pages. 
 
John Allan 
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
25 June 2014 
 
 
 
Committee membership and attendance 
The members of the Nominations Committee are shown in  
the table above along with their attendance for the year under 
review. At least half of the Board of Directors are independent 
non-executive directors as required by the Code. 
The biographical details of the members of the Committee are 
set out on pages 29 and 30. The Company Secretary and 
General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
The Committee’s deliberations are reported by its chairman to 
the following Board meeting and the minutes of each meeting 
are circulated to all members of the Board. 
 
Role 
The principal duties of the Committee are to: 
• review the structure, size and composition of the Board and 
its Committees and to recommend changes as necessary; 
• review the leadership needs of the organisation, both 
executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the 
continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively; 
• be responsible for the succession planning for Board 
members and, in so doing, other senior management of  
the organisation; 
• identify, evaluate and nominate candidates to fill vacancies 
on the Board; and 
• make recommendations to the Board regarding the 
continuation in office of a director upon the expiry of any 
specified terms of appointment. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually by 
the Committee and then by the Board. A copy of the terms of 
reference, approved on 11 March 2014, is available on the 
Group’s corporate website. 
Key matters considered 
During the year, the principal matters considered by the 
Committee were as follows: 
• consideration of the succession planning process; 
• an evaluation of the size, composition and structure of the 
Board and its Committees;  
• a review of the Diversity Policy; 
• consideration of the time commitment of non-executive 
directors along with a review of the external appointments 
policy; 
• a review of the Committee’s performance and terms  
of reference; and 
• a review of the roles of the Chairman, Senior Independent 
Director and the Group Chief Executive. 
The Nominations Committee keeps itself up-to-date on best 
practice through a combination of private research and briefings 
by internal and external advisors on key developments relevant 
to the Company. 
Board tenure 
The chart below shows Board tenure in years: 
 
4
33%
3
11%
2
45%
1
11%
Nominations Committee 
Main objective: To monitor the size and composition of the 
Board and its Committees and ensure a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors 
and to plan for succession. 
Chairman: John Allan 
Number of meetings: 2 
Member Attendance 
John Allan 2 of 2 
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 2 of 2 
Andrea Gisle Joosen
(1)
 1 of 2 
Tim How 2 of 2 
Jock Lennox 2 of 2 
Dharmash Mistry 2 of 2 
(1) Andrea Gisle Joosen was unable to attend one Committee meeting due 
to a prior commitment. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 41
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Nominations Committee Report (continued) 
Appointments to the Board 
The Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new directors. Appointments 
are made to the Board on merit, against objective criteria and 
with due regard to the benefits of diversity and the leadership 
needs of the Company. 
 
Terms of reference 
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee were 
reviewed during the year and re-approved. 
Succession planning 
Succession planning was mentioned in the 2011/12 externally 
facilitated Board effectiveness review as an area for 
improvement. The Nominations Committee will maintain 
succession planning as an area of focus in 2014/15. A talent 
management review of senior personnel was conducted during 
the year which has helped to support succession planning 
objectives. This review was supported by the Group HR Director 
and executive management.  
Diversity 
The Board recognises the importance of diversity, including, but 
not restricted to, gender diversity on the Board and in its senior 
management team, and the important role that diversity plays  
in achieving the right mix of skills, knowledge and experience  
in order to help the organisation reach its potential. 
The Board continues to believe that individuals should be 
appointed on merit. We are committed to increasing boardroom 
and senior management diversity as suitable candidates 
present themselves. For further information on board diversity 
and length of service refer to the directors’ biographies on 
pages 29 and 30, and on employee diversity refer to the 
Corporate Responsibility Report on page 26. 
Re-election 
Should the Merger timetable be delayed, and an AGM be called 
by the Company, all directors will seek election or re-election  
at the AGM. Each of the directors are being unanimously 
recommended by the other members of the Board due to  
the directors’ individual experience, knowledge and wider 
management and industry experience, continued effectiveness 
and commitment to their role. The independent non-executive 
directors were re-affirmed by the Board to be independent in 
character and judgement. 
The executive directors’ service contracts and non-executive 
directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection  
by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the 
Company’s registered office. They will also be available for 
inspection at the venue prior to the AGM, should one be called 
by the Company prior to completion of the Merger, details of 
which will be contained in the Notice of Meeting. 
 
 
 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 42
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report – Chairman’s Overview 
Chairman’s overview 
I am pleased to introduce this new style report to you as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. This is our first 
report under the new Regulations and we have worked hard  
to produce a compliant Remuneration Report which includes  
the necessary details for you to clearly understand our 
remuneration strategy and how it supports the objectives of  
the business.  
A key part of our role as the Remuneration Committee is to 
determine remuneration policy for directors and key senior 
managers. We believe, and we trust you will agree, that we 
have structured the policy in such a way that provides a 
framework within which we have appropriate flexibility to  
ensure that we can continue to attract the right people to  
the business to execute our strategy. 
The Remuneration Report is split into two reports: the 
Remuneration Policy Report and the Annual Report on 
Remuneration. The first report that follows summarises our 
remuneration policy. Following completion of the proposed 
merger, the directors of the combined entity will be bound by  
the policy issued by Carphone Warehouse Group plc and 
approved by shareholders. Clearly should the Merger not 
complete in line with the expected timetable, the Company will 
continue to operate within the parameters of this report (once 
approved by shareholders) including the incentive awards, 
which will only be issued should the Merger not proceed.  
The second report is the Annual Report on Remuneration  
which outlines what remuneration arrangements have operated 
during the financial year under review.  
How our remuneration arrangements support  
our strategy 
This has been a busy year for Dixons as we concentrated on 
achieving our strategy of being leaders in the markets in which 
we operate. This involved exiting our operations in Turkey, 
France and Italy.  
We have structured the targets of our annual bonus (STIP) to 
support this reorganisation and the Group’s profitability, cash 
generation and return on capital. The combination of these, and 
the longer term (three year) metrics in the PSP plan, supports 
our strategic priorities to deliver long term profitability and return 
to shareholders. In turn, these metrics provide a platform from 
which management can be incentivised to achieve all-round 
Group strategy, aligning these interests with shareholders. To 
mitigate any risk, we review the metrics each year and set the 
target ranges in line with the strategic plan. Further details of the 
metrics and why they were chosen can be found within the 
Remuneration Policy Report.  
2013/14 performance 
The stretching targets that were set for the STIP at the start of 
the year have been achieved in full; therefore I am pleased to 
report that our directors will this year receive 100% of their 
bonus opportunity.  
I am pleased to announce that the PSP awards issued in 2011 
will vest on 3 August this year. Sebastian James and Katie 
Bickerstaffe will both receive 100% of the award granted to 
them and Humphrey Singer will receive 81.25% following the 
application of performance conditions. Further details on the 
payments received from the STIP and LTIP in light of these 
achievements are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
The Remuneration Committee has again reviewed the reward 
structure and has decided that it should remain largely 
unchanged. Therefore, should the merger not proceed, the 
structure for 2014/15 will comprise the following elements:  
Base pay 
Executive directors and key senior management pay increases 
will be made based on the average pay increase for the whole 
of the workforce in the country in which the individuals operate.  
Short Term Incentive Plan (STIP) 
The annual bonus remains unchanged. 
In 2013/14 personal objectives were replaced for executive 
directors and senior management with a return on capital 
employed measure. The Committee believes that this  
remains appropriate, as do the metrics shown later in the 
Remuneration Policy Report which underpin the Group’s 
strategic goals and drives shareholder value and operational 
efficiency. Accordingly, these measures will continue to be  
used in 2014/15.  
Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIP) 
In 2014/15, we will continue to make awards under the LTIP  
at the levels awarded to the executive directors during the 
2013/14 financial year. Awards will be granted under either  
the Performance Share Plan and / or the Executive Share 
Option Plan. Awards at executive director level will be subject  
to challenging performance targets which will deliver significant 
value to shareholders if met. Succession planning and 
performance considerations will be taken into account when 
deciding the level of awards throughout the organisation.  
Save as You Earn (SAYE or Sharesave) 
We do not intend to offer a Sharesave after the preliminary 
announcement this year given the expected merger timetable. 
Should the Merger not proceed, we will look to invite our UK  
and Ireland colleagues to join the scheme later in the year.  
We continue to believe that this scheme is an important part  
of the benefit structure of the Group and enables colleagues to 
build up a shareholding and share in the Company’s success. 
I very much hope that you will support the Remuneration Policy 
Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration. We firmly 
believe that these proposals are right for the Company, that they 
will motivate and incentivise our senior team and therefore play 
an integral part in the creation of shareholder value and the 
achievement of Company strategy. 
Tim How 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
25 June 2014 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 43
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Remuneration Policy Report 
Introduction 
The purpose of these reports is to inform shareholders of  
the Company’s policies on directors’ remuneration for the  
year ended 30 April 2014 and the remuneration policy for 
subsequent years. This report is divided into two sections: 
(I) The Remuneration Policy Report; and 
(II) The Annual Report on Remuneration. 
The Company may call an AGM prior to the completion of the 
proposed merger. Should the AGM be called, shareholders will 
be asked to approve both the Remuneration Policy Report and 
the Annual Report on Remuneration. The Remuneration Policy 
Report will be subject to a binding vote whilst the Annual Report 
on Remuneration is subject to an advisory vote.  
The role of the Committee is to determine on behalf of the 
Board a remuneration policy for executive directors and senior 
management in order to attract and retain executives who have 
the ability and experience, and are adequately incentivised, to 
deliver the Company’s strategic objectives. The Committee has 
adopted the principles of good governance relating to directors’ 
remuneration as enshrined within section D of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code) and has complied with those 
principles during the year under review. 
These reports have been prepared by the Remuneration 
Committee on behalf of the Board in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-
Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 (as amended), and the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. The Remuneration Policy Report 
(not subject to audit) details the role of the Committee, the 
principles of remuneration and other matters. The Annual 
Report on Remuneration (elements of which are audited)  
details directors’ and former directors’ emoluments, share 
awards, share options and pension arrangements. 
(I) Remuneration Policy Report: Unaudited 
Information 
Remuneration Committee objectives 
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee 
responsibility for determining policy in relation to the remuneration 
packages for directors and senior management. This delegation 
includes the terms and conditions of employment of each of the 
executive directors and other senior management in addition to 
the operation of the Group’s share-based employee incentive 
schemes. The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined 
terms of reference which are available on the Company’s 
corporate website. 
The objectives of the Company’s remuneration policy are to:  
• align with and support the Group’s business strategy; 
• facilitate the building and retention of a high calibre and 
focused team which will work effectively to achieve the 
Group’s longer term strategic objectives and enhance 
shareholder value;  
• ensure that the remuneration structure motivates the 
directors and senior management to succeed and 
appropriately rewards them for their contribution to the 
attainment of the Group’s short and long term results; 
• maintain, via an appropriate level of base salary and 
incentive structure, a competitive package of pay and 
benefits which provides the motivation for future 
achievement whilst discouraging inappropriate risk taking; 
• align the directors’ interests with those of shareholders  
by offering participation in reward schemes which provide 
opportunities to build shareholdings in the Company; and 
• avoid reward for failure. 
In developing its policy, the Committee has regard to: 
• the performance, roles and responsibilities of each 
executive director or member of senior management; 
• arrangements which apply below senior management level, 
including average base salary increases; 
• information and surveys from internal and independent 
sources; and 
• the economic environment and financial performance of  
the Group. 
Guidelines of Responsible Investment Disclosure 
In line with the ABI Guidelines on Responsible Investment 
Disclosure, the Committee is satisfied that the incentive 
structure and targets shown below for executive directors  
do not raise any environmental, social or governance risks by 
inadvertently motivating irresponsible or reckless behaviour. 
The Committee considers that no element of the remuneration 
package will encourage inappropriate risk taking by any 
member of senior management. 
As part of the overall system of governance and the evaluation 
of the performance of the business, the Board evaluates the 
Group’s corporate responsibility performance. Further information 
is set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 44
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Remuneration Policy Report 
Remuneration components 
Set out below are the remuneration policy components proposed for directors should the Merger not complete to the expected 
timetable. This policy will become binding following approval by shareholders at the 2014 AGM until the 2017 AGM. Any changes  
to the policy in the interim will be put to shareholders for approval. 
Remuneration 
component  
 
Purpose and link to strategy  Operation of policy Performance targets  Maximum 
Base  
salary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To attract and retain 
executive directors with 
the appropriate 
experience and 
knowledge to deliver  
the strategic objectives  
of the business. 
Normally reviewed annually,  
effective August. 
The Committee takes into 
consideration the potential multiplier 
effect of base salary increases on 
the package as a whole, as bonuses 
and discretionary share plans are 
generally worked out based on a 
percentage of salary. 
 
Based on the 
individual’s 
experience, 
performance and 
added value to the 
business. This 
assessment takes  
into account external 
information and 
advice provided to  
the Committee by 
external remuneration 
advisors, New Bridge 
Street. 
 
Ordinarily, salary increases 
for executive directors and 
senior management will be in 
line with the average increase 
awarded to other employees 
in the country in which the 
individual works.  
However, increases greater 
than those granted to the 
wider workforce (in 
percentage of salary terms) 
may be awarded in certain 
circumstances, such as 
where there is a change of 
responsibility, progression in 
the role, experience or a 
significant increase in the 
scale of the role. 
Further information on how 
salaries are set on 
recruitment or promotion can 
be found later in the  
policy report. 
Further details of any 
changes made to salary 
levels can be found in the 
Annual Report on 
Remuneration. 
Pension  
and life 
insurance 
Provide competitive 
retirement benefits  
and the opportunity for 
executives to contribute 
to their own retirement 
plan. 
Defined contribution plan offered to 
all employees above a certain grade. 
Directors and a small number of 
selected members of senior 
management are offered a higher 
contribution rate than other 
employees. 
A defined benefit pension plan 
continues in operation for longer 
serving employees which is now 
closed to new participants and  
future accrual.  
n/a  
  
 
Company’s contribution is 
20% of base salary per 
director up to a notional 
earnings cap, which can be 
taken as a cash allowance in 
lieu of pension. 
A 20% of base salary 
supplement over and above 
the notional earnings cap is 
provided for directors and 
certain members of senior 
management. 
Life cover of four times salary.
Other  
taxable 
benefits 
 
Provide a competitive 
package consistent with 
other companies which 
enables the attraction  
and retention  
of executives.  
Provision of relocation 
or other related 
assistance may be 
provided to support  
the appointment of  
a director. 
Specific level of benefits for directors 
is predetermined and therefore set 
upon appointment to the Board. The 
Company offers executive directors a 
range of benefits including some or 
all of: 
– Car or car allowance; 
– Private medical insurance; 
including family cover and annual 
medicals; 
– Life cover; 
– Income protection; and 
– Access to independent financial 
and legal advice when necessary. 
Relocation or other related 
assistance could include, but is not 
limited to, removal and other 
relocation costs, tax support and 
short term rental costs. 
Such benefits are sourced on the 
open market and are kept under 
regular review. 
n/a 
Provision of company car or 
allowance in lieu up to a 
maximum of £12,000. 
Value of other benefits is 
based on the cost to the 
Company and is not 
predetermined. 
 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 45
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Remuneration Policy Report 
 
 
 
 
Remuneration 
component  
 
Purpose and link to strategy  Operation of policy Performance targets  Maximum 
Short Term 
Incentive 
Plan (STIP): 
Annual 
Bonus Plan 
To appropriately 
incentivise directors to 
achieve short term 
annual objectives and 
targets that support the 
Group’s strategic goals. 
High potential rewards 
for reaching stretching 
targets. 
Based on performance over the 
financial year. 
Bonus payouts are determined after 
the year end based on the 
achievement against predetermined 
annual targets with payments being 
made in August each year. 
Targets are set using benchmarks 
that reflect both internal business 
objectives and external expectations 
which the Committee also feel are 
sufficiently challenging but will not 
encourage irresponsible behaviour.  
Non-pensionable. Paid in cash, but 
can be settled in shares or a mixture 
of cash or shares which could be 
deferred, at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee.  
Adjustment provisions apply for 
material adverse misstatement, error 
in determining the extent to which 
the target has been satisfied and 
misconduct. 
The bonus targets are 
reviewed annually and 
are aligned to the 
Group strategy and 
Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs) 
which are set out on 
page 13.  
The Committee 
determines the 
metrics from a range 
of measures, 
including, but not 
limited to, Group 
Operating Profit, Free 
Cash Flow, Return On 
Capital Employed 
(ROCE) and EPS. 
Further details are 
provided in the  
Annual Report on 
Remuneration and 
current metrics and 
targets shown on 
page 54.  
The Committee has 
the discretion to 
change the metrics 
and / or weighting 
from year to year  
to achieve better 
alignment with the 
Company’s annual 
strategic objectives. 
A ‘gateway’ for each 
element is set, below 
which no bonus is 
paid. Once the 
gateway is achieved, 
a sliding scale 
determines payment 
between minimum 
and maximum bonus 
payable. 
For threshold level of 
performance 25% of 
bonus is payable. 
Up to a maximum of 
100% of base salary. 
The above is achieved if  
all metrics are achieved  
at ‘stretch’. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 46
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Remuneration Policy Report  
 
 
 
 
Remuneration 
component  
 
Purpose and link to strategy  Operation of policy Performance targets  Maximum 
Long Term 
Incentive 
Plans (LTIP):  
Performance 
Share Plan 
(PSP) 
Incentivise the 
achievement of 
long term growth and 
profitability objectives. 
Align interests with 
those of shareholders.  
Annual grants which vest after a 
minimum of three years, subject to 
performance conditions and 
continued employment. 
The Committee has the ability to 
reduce future vesting under the 
recovery provisions of the rules and 
the reasons for invoking such 
provisions are clearly defined.  
On vesting, an amount of cash or 
shares may be payable to 
participants based on the number of 
shares vesting and the dividends 
paid to shareholders during the 
performance period. 
The PSP may be utilised on 
recruitment, if appropriate, to allow 
for buy-out or forfeited 
compensation. 
Further information on the operation 
of the LTIP policy can be found in 
the Annual Report on 
Remuneration. 
Performance metrics / 
targets are reviewed 
prior to each grant and 
reflect strategic goals 
and selected KPIs.  
The Committee 
determines the metrics 
from a range of 
measures, including 
but not limited to, TSR, 
EPS growth and 
ROCE. 
Further details and 
current metrics are 
provided in the Annual 
Report on 
Remuneration.  
The Committee 
reserves the right to 
choose a comparator 
Group for the TSR 
element which is in the 
best interests of the 
Company. Awards with 
performance conditions 
are also subject to  
an underpin, such that 
there has been 
satisfactory financial 
performance. 
Performance is 
measured over a 
minimum of three 
years. 
Vesting for each 
component varies 
between 25% for 
threshold performance 
rising to 100% 
maximum with straight 
line vesting between 
the two. 
The normal maximum award 
is 100% of salary or 200% of 
salary in exceptional 
circumstances. 
Further information on long 
term incentive arrangements 
on recruitment or promotion 
can be found later in the 
policy report. 
 
Long Term 
Incentive 
Plans (LTIP): 
Executive 
Share Option 
Plan (ESOP) 
Incentivise the 
achievement of long 
term growth and 
profitability objectives. 
Align interests with 
those of shareholders. 
Grant HMRC approved 
options up to the 
approved limit. 
Grants of the ESOP may be made 
in addition to the PSP or in 
substitution of at the discretion of 
the Committee and awards under 
this scheme will be determined 
annually.  
The ESOP may also be utilised on 
recruitment, if appropriate, to allow 
for buy-out or forfeited 
compensation. 
The Committee has the ability to 
reduce future vesting under the 
recovery provisions of the rules  
and the reasons for invoking such 
provisions are clearly defined.  
Further information on the  
operation of the LTIP policy can  
be found in the Annual Report  
on Remuneration. 
 
Performance measures 
will be determined at 
grant, as appropriate, 
and would come from  
a range of measures, 
including but not 
limited to, TSR, EPS 
growth and ROCE. 
The maximum award is 
200% of salary. However, in 
exceptional circumstances 
an award of 300% of salary 
may be made. 
 
  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 47
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Remuneration Policy Report 
 
 
 
 
Remuneration 
component  
 
Purpose and link to strategy  Operation of policy Performance targets  Maximum 
Directors’ 
shareholding 
guidelines 
The Company has a 
policy of encouraging 
directors to build a 
shareholding in the 
Company. 
Executive directors are usually 
required to retain 50% of the net of 
tax outturn from the vesting of 
awards under the Company’s share 
plans until a shareholding with a 
value equivalent to their base salary 
is achieved. 
n/a 100% of base salary. 
All employee 
share 
schemes 
The Company believes 
in offering its 
employees a chance to 
build up a shareholding 
in the Company. It 
therefore operates a 
Sharesave plan in 
which executive 
directors are entitled to 
participate on the 
same basis as other 
employees. 
The Sharesave plan has standard 
terms under which all UK and 
Ireland employees who meet the 
eligibility criteria can participate. 
n/a This HMRC approved 
scheme allows participants 
to enter into a savings 
contract and in return receive 
a share option granted at up 
to 20% discount to the 
market price at the time of 
invitation. The maximum 
monthly saving under all 
contracts are limited by 
HMRC approved limits or 
such lower limit as the 
Company may set. 
Non- 
executive 
directors 
(NEDs) and 
Chairman’s 
fees 
To provide a 
competitive fee for the 
performance of NED 
duties, sufficient to 
attract high calibre 
individuals to the role. 
Fees are set to align with the duties 
undertaken, taking into account 
market rates. Additional fees are 
payable for acting as Chair of either 
the Remuneration or Audit 
Committee, or for acting as the 
Senior Independent Director. 
n/a Aggregate annual limit of 
£1,000,000 imposed by the 
Articles of Association for 
directors’ fees (not including 
fees in relation to any 
executive office or Chairman, 
Committee Chair or Senior 
Independent Director fees). 
 
 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 48
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Remuneration Policy Report 
Illustration of remuneration policy 
The core focus of our remuneration strategy for executive 
directors is designed to ensure that a substantial proportion of 
remuneration opportunity is performance related. The chart 
below illustrates the level and mix of remuneration payable 
under the current policy at minimum, target and maximum levels 
for the executive directors. 
 
 
The assumptions underlying the chart in respect of the 
percentage of maximum opportunity payable are set out below: 
 Minimum Target Maximum 
Bonus 0% 70% 100% 
PSP 0% 25% 100% 
 
 
Sebastian 
James 
£ 
Humphrey 
Singer 
£ 
Katie 
Bickerstaffe 
£ 
Salary 612,000 367,200 408,000 
Benefits 13,000 13,000 11,000 
Pension / cash allowance  
in lieu 122,400 73,440 81,600 
 
The Committee operates the cash bonus, discretionary and all 
employee share schemes according to their respective rules 
and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules 
where relevant.  
Committee discretions 
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market 
practice, over a number of areas relating to the operation and 
administration of the STIP and share plans. These include, but 
are not limited to, the following: 
• entitlement to participate in the plan; 
• when awards or payments are to be made; 
• size of an award and / or a payment; 
• discretion as to the measurement of performance metrics in 
the event of a change in control; 
• the determination of a good leaver for incentive plan 
purposes and the appropriate treatment, based on the rules 
of each plan; 
• pro-rating considerations in the event of either a good leaver 
or a change of control; 
• any adjustments to awards or performance conditions for 
significant events or exceptional circumstances (e.g. rights 
issues, corporate restructuring, etc). 
How shareholder views are taken into account 
The Remuneration Committee has a policy to consult with its 
largest shareholders in advance of making any material change 
regarding the remuneration policy of the Company. Any 
feedback received from either these consultations or from the 
AGM are taken into account when determining the future policy.  
The Committee also follows remuneration guidance from large 
investor bodies generally as well as the principles of good 
governance relating to directors’ remuneration as set out in  
the Main Principles, Supporting Principles and Code Provisions 
of the Code. 
Remuneration policy for the wider workforce 
Dixons Retail employs a large number of colleagues in a variety 
of roles across a range of geographies. Our reward framework 
is structured around a set of common principles, but is altered 
as necessary to suit the needs of the business and for our 
different employee groups. Reward packages therefore differ, 
taking account of a number of factors, including seniority, impact 
on the business, local practice, custom and legislation. 
In determining salary increases to apply across the wider 
workforce, the Company takes into consideration company 
performance and other market metrics as necessary.  
The Remuneration Committee, when setting the policy for  
the executive directors, takes into consideration the pay and 
employment conditions throughout the Company as a whole. 
Typically, salary increases will be aligned with those received 
elsewhere in the Company unless the Committee considers  
that specific circumstances require a different level of salary 
increase for the executive directors. 
Discretionary share plans are extended to both senior 
management and other key members of the workforce, as  
the Company feels that it is important to incentivise and retain 
these employees in order for the Company to continue to grow. 
The Group’s UK and Irish employees who meet the eligibility 
criteria are able to participate in the STIP arrangements. 
Employees in the UK and Ireland who meet the eligibility  
criteria are also able to participate in the Sharesave plan,  
which is encouraged as this enhances the link between 
shareholder value and employee reward.  
Although the Company has not carried out a formal employee 
consultation regarding executive remuneration, it does comply 
with local regulations and practices regarding employee 
consultation more broadly and conducts employee surveys  
in many business areas. 
How performance measures were chosen 
The performance metrics used in both the STIP and LTIPs 
(PSP and ESOP) have been chosen to align the directors’ 
interests with those of the Company’s short and long term 
goals. They are also designed to drive shareholder value.  
The Committee reviews and determines the metrics and / or 
weighting to be used from year-to-year to achieve alignment 
with the strategic goals based on the Group’s KPIs which are 
set out earlier in this Annual Report and Accounts.  
We have structured the targets of our 2014/15 STIP to support 
the Group’s reorganisation and its profitability, cash generation 
and return on capital. The reasons why these were chosen are 
set out below: 
£0
£250
£500
£750
£1,000
£1,250
£1,500
£1,750
£2,000
£2,250
Sebastian James Humphrey Singer Katie Bickerstaffe
Min Target Max Min Target Max Min Target Max
100% 57% 38%
32%
11%
31%
31%
100% 59%
29%
12%
40%
28%
32%
100% 59%
29%
12%
40%
28%
32%
£’000
  Share awards*
  Bonus
  Fixed
 *No share price growth has been assumed
Also excludes Sharesave
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 49
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Remuneration Policy Report 
• profitability measure (underlying operating profit) to create a 
return for shareholders and support the Group’s investment 
in its activities; 
• cash generation (Free Cash Flow) to support the efficient 
management of cash to optimise resources available and for 
investment in future growth, and to support shareholder 
value creation; and 
• return on capital (ROCE) which is an indicator of investment 
efficiency.  
All of these are seen as key metrics in supporting increasing 
returns to our shareholders. 
Our LTIP longer term measures are based on shareholder 
value metrics including: 
• underlying diluted earnings per share (EPS), which is seen 
as an indicator of the financial health of the Group and its 
ability to deliver returns to shareholders; and 
• total shareholder return (TSR), which provides a measure  
of the relative performance of the Company against a 
comparator group.  
The combination of the STIP plan metrics (annual) and the 
longer term (minimum of three year) shareholder metrics in the 
LTIP plans, provide a spring board from which management 
can be incentivised to achieve all-round Group strategy. 
Remuneration policy on recruitment or promotion 
When determining the remuneration of a newly appointed 
executive director, the Remuneration Committee will take into 
consideration all relevant factors, including but not limited to, 
existing remuneration arrangements and pay relative to other 
senior management, the market, the candidate’s skills, 
knowledge and experience, the nature of the role they are  
being recruited to fulfil and the deliverables expected of the  
new appointee.  
The Committee may feel it necessary to offer a below market 
initial salary with a view to making above market and workforce 
annual increases over a number of years to reach the desired 
salary positioning, subject to individual and company 
performance. All of the principles and components set out  
in the policy table above are considered. 
Benefits, including pension, will be offered in line with the 
current policy although transitional provisions may apply.  
The Committee may also provide relocation  
expenses / arrangements, tax equalisation arrangements and 
legal fees and other costs.  
For variable pay elements granted on recruitment (i.e. STIP, 
PSP, ESOP) the scheme maximum limits (as described in the 
policy table above) will apply. The Company may also in these 
circumstances apply different performance measures if it feels 
these appropriately meet the strategic objectives and aims of 
the Company, whilst incentivising the new executive director. 
For any subsequent awards normal levels would apply as 
approved by shareholders in the policy.  
In certain circumstances where remuneration is relinquished 
when leaving a former employer, the Committee may offer 
additional cash and / or share-based elements when it 
considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and 
its shareholders. This includes the use of awards made under 
section 9.4.2 of the Listing Rules. Such amounts would reflect, 
as far as possible, the nature and conditionality attached to the 
remuneration relinquished.  
The above policy applies to both internal promotions or  
an external hire. In the case of an internal promotion, any 
remuneration commitments entered into prior to the promotion 
shall continue to apply, with any variable pay elements paying 
out according to the original terms on grant. The Committee 
may, however, adjust awards to take into account the timing  
of the appointment. 
For the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive 
director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance  
with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time. 
Loss of office 
Service agreements contain neither a liquidated damages nor  
a change of control clause. It is the Company’s policy to ensure 
that any payments made to a director in the event of the early 
termination of a service agreement reflect the circumstances 
giving rise to termination and, where considered appropriate, 
the obligations of the outgoing director to mitigate their loss. 
Accordingly, consideration is given to making compensation 
payments in instalments and payments being conditional on  
the leaver’s employment and earnings status. However, there 
may be circumstances where a director may have a legal right 
to either statutory or the Company’s normal severance 
arrangements, such as in a redundancy situation. It is the 
Company’s policy to honour any such rights. 
STIP 
Other than in certain ‘good leaver’ circumstances (including but 
not limited to, redundancy, ill-health or retirement), no bonus 
would usually be payable unless the executive director remains 
employed and is not under notice at the payment date. Any 
bonuses paid to a ‘good leaver’ would usually be based on 
attainment of performance targets as well as an assessment  
of their performance over the performance period and pro rated 
for the proportion of the bonus year worked.  
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to deem a 
participant in the plan who is leaving the Company to be a ‘good 
leaver’. Should this discretion be exercised, awards may be 
payable on the basis outlined above. 
LTIP 
The PSP and ESOP rules provide that other than in certain 
‘good leaver’ circumstances, awards lapse on cessation of 
employment. The Committee has discretion to partly or 
completely disapply pro rating and the performance conditions 
in certain circumstances, or to permit awards to vest on 
cessation of employment. The Committee acknowledges that 
directors leave for a variety of reasons that do not necessarily 
fall within the prescribed categories in the scheme rules.  
It therefore retains discretion to deem an individual to be a  
‘good leaver’ in accordance with the plan rules and in making 
that decision will take into account the performance of the 
individual in office and their reason for leaving. 
Where an individual is considered a ‘good leaver’, the 
Committee’s policy is ordinarily for the award to vest on the 
normal vesting date (or cessation of employment in the event  
of death) following the application of performance targets for  
the original performance period (or as the Committee considers 
reasonable in the case of death) and a pro rata reduction  
to take account of the proportion of the vesting period that  
has elapsed. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 50
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Remuneration Policy Report  
Service agreements 
It is the Company’s policy that executive directors should  
have contracts of employment providing for a maximum of  
one year’s notice from the Company and six months’ notice 
from the executive director. Service agreements for all executive 
directors and letters of appointment for all non-executive directors 
are available for inspection as described in any Notice of Annual 
General Meeting. 
Each of the executive directors’ service agreements provides  
for the remuneration components set out in the table above as  
well as: 
• the reimbursement of expenses incurred by the director  
in performance of their duties; 
• in the case of termination by the Company with immediate 
effect, the Company may pay the executive a payment in 
lieu of notice (PILON). This will exclude bonus payments, 
payment of benefits to which the executive would be entitled 
during the period for which the PILON is made, or any 
payment in respect of any holiday entitlement that would 
have accrued during the period; 
• 25 days’ paid holiday each year or payment in lieu of any 
accrued or untaken holiday on termination of employment 
calculated with reference to a formula specified in the 
service agreement; and 
• sick pay. 
In situations where an executive director is dismissed, the 
Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments 
where such payments are made in good faith, such as: 
• In discharge of an existing legal obligation; or 
• by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising  
in connection with the termination of the directors’ office  
and employment. 
External directorships 
The Company recognises that permitting executive directors to 
accept non-executive directorships in external companies can 
broaden the executive’s experience and knowledge which is of 
benefit to their role with the Company. Directors are therefore 
allowed to retain any fees received for such additional roles. 
Under the policy approved by the Board, however, each 
executive director may only take on one non-executive 
directorship in a FTSE 350 company. Further details on current 
external directorships and fees relating to them can be found in 
the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
Non-executive directors’ letters of appointment 
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for three year 
terms, although appointments may vary depending on length of 
service and succession planning considerations. Appointments 
are reviewed annually by the Nominations Committee based on 
effectiveness reviews and recommendations made to the Board 
accordingly. Each of the non-executive directors’ notice periods 
comprises one month by either the Company or the individual 
with the exception of the Chairman whose notice period is six 
months given by the Company or the individual. 
Non-executive directors derive no other benefits from their office 
and are not eligible to participate in the Company’s pension 
scheme. It is Company policy not to grant share options or 
share awards to non-executive directors or to require part of 
their fees to be paid in the form of shares. 
 
Date of 
appointment 
Expiry of  
current term 
Length of 
service 
John Allan 23 Jun 2009 2 Sep 2015 4yr 11m 
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 1 Feb 2010 1 Feb 2016 4yr 4m 
Andrea Gisle Joosen 1 Mar 2013 28 Feb 2016 1yr 3m 
Tim How 8 Sep 2009 7 Sep 2015 4yr 9m 
Jock Lennox 10 Jan 2012 9 Jan 2015 2yr 5m 
Dharmash Mistry 27 Sep 2010 26 Sep 2016 3yr 8m 
 
Availability for inspection 
The service agreements for the executive directors and the 
letters of appointment for the non-executive directors will be 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office  
and, should an AGM be called, 15 minutes before and during 
the meeting. 
Legacy arrangements 
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Remuneration 
Policy Report, authority is given to the Company to honour any 
commitments previously entered into with current or former 
directors which have been disclosed previously to shareholders.
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 51
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Annual Report on Remuneration 
(II) Annual Report on Remuneration 
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance  
with Part 3 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008 (as amended), and contents contain those elements 
required by section 9.8.6R and stipulated in 9.8.8 of the Listing 
Rules. Should the Merger not proceed to the expected 
timetable, the Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to  
an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM should it be 
called. Audited information follows the heading ‘Audited 
information’ set out below, except where otherwise indicated. 
 
Remuneration Committee membership and attendance 
Membership of the Committee currently comprises the five 
independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the 
Company. Their names and attendance at meetings are set out 
in the table above and their biographies and qualifications are 
set out on pages 29 and 30. Members served throughout the 
year under review. In line with the Code, the Chairman is a 
member of the Committee but is not its Chair. The Committee’s 
terms of reference are available on the Company’s corporate 
website.  
Outside of scheduled meetings, there is a formal process 
agreed by the Committee and the Board for urgent issues to  
be dealt with at either ad hoc meetings or by discussion with  
the Chair and other members of the Committee.  
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director 
attended meetings of the Committee by invitation and in  
an advisory capacity only. Meetings are also attended by  
the Company Secretary and General Counsel (who acts  
as Committee Secretary), Deputy Company Secretary, Group 
HR Director and the Head of Group Reward.  
No executive director participates in discussions about their  
own remuneration. 
Advice 
The Committee keeps itself fully informed with best practice in 
the field of executive remuneration and seeks advice from 
internal and external advisors as appropriate. The Committee 
has retained the services of New Bridge Street (NBS), a 
subsidiary of Aon Hewitt Limited, as their external advisor 
throughout the year. NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration 
Consultant’s Code of Conduct and has confirmed to the 
Committee its compliance with this code. Accordingly, the 
Committee is satisfied that the advice that it receives is objective 
and independent. Fees paid to NBS were £40,000 (2012/13 
£22,000) which represent a full year of service. NBS provided 
no other services to the Company. 
External directorships 
The policy relating to external directorships is outlined in the 
Remuneration Policy Report. For the year ended 30 April 2014, 
the following external directorships were undertaken and the 
fees retained by the executive directors who performed the role:  
• Sebastian James was Chairman of INK Publishing 
(Holdings) Limited until 30 June 2013 and was paid a  
fee of £2,083 for the financial year to this date.  
• Katie Bickerstaffe is a non-executive director of Scottish  
and Southern Energy plc and is paid a fee of £57,000  
per annum.  
How the Remuneration Policy will be applied in 2014/15 
 
Executive directors 
(i) Base salary 
The Committee reviewed the executive directors’ salaries in 
June 2013 and awarded increases of 2% with effect from  
18 August 2013, in line with the equivalent general increase 
made to all UK employees.  
The salaries of the executive directors at the beginning of the 
financial year were as follows: 
Name 
At 1 May 2014 
£ 
At 1 May 2013 
£ 
Increase 
% 
Sebastian James 612,000 600,000 2% 
Humphrey Singer 367,200 360,000 2% 
Katie Bickerstaffe 408,000 400,000 2% 
 
It is expected that new packages will be agreed with the 
executives in the newly merged company. However, should the 
Merger not complete to the expected timetable, the Committee 
will review the salaries of the executive directors later in the year. 
 
(ii) STIP  
The Committee feels that the specific targets relating to the 
2014/15 bonus scheme are currently commercially sensitive, 
and as such are not disclosed. However, the Committee will 
provide full retrospective disclosure of the targets and the 
achievement against them in next year’s Remuneration Report.  
The performance metrics and their weightings for 2014/15 are 
shown in the table below.  
Measure Strategic objective Weighting 
Group underlying  
operating profit 
To increase operating 
profit 
55% 
Adjusted Free Cash Flow Optimises resources to 
invest in future growth 
25% 
ROCE Optimises the efficiency 
and profitability of 
investments 
20% 
 
 
Remuneration Committee 
Main objective: To determine and agree the remuneration 
policy for executive directors and senior management and  
to monitor and report on it. 
Chairman: Tim How 
Number of meetings: 5 
Member Attendance 
Tim How 5 of 5 
John Allan 5 of 5 
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen
(1)
 4 of 5 
Andrea Gisle Joosen 5 of 5 
Jock Lennox 5 of 5 
Dharmash Mistry 5 of 5 
 
(1) Utho Creusen attended all scheduled committee meetings but was 
unable to attend an ad hoc meeting due to a previous commitment  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 52
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Annual Report on Remuneration 
(iii)    LTIP 
The Carphone Warehouse policy will apply in relation to awards 
to directors of the merged entity should this proceed, it is 
therefore not the current intention to make awards under the 
Dixons plans. However, should the transaction not proceed to 
the expected timetable, or should the Company remain a 
standalone entity, the Remuneration Committee will consider 
granting annual awards to executive directors in 2014/15 on a 
similar basis to 2013/14. To this end, the Committee would 
make LTIP awards to 100% salary under the PSP or the 
equivalent value under the ESOP Scheme.  
Given that the Company is not currently anticipating to  
make these awards performance conditions have not yet  
been agreed. In the event that these awards are granted, the 
performance conditions will therefore be disclosed to the stock 
exchange as part of the announcement of the award of shares 
to the executive directors.  
Non-executive directors’ fees and Chairman’s fees 
The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined  
by the Board upon the recommendation of the Group Chief 
Executive and the Group Finance Director. The Chairman is not 
involved in the setting of his own salary which is dealt with by 
the Remuneration Committee annually without his participation. 
The current fees for the non-executive directors and the 
Chairman are summarised in the table below: 
 
At 1 May 2014 
£ 
At 1 May 2013 
£ 
Increase 
% 
Chairman 269,500 264,282 2% 
Basic non-executive fee 52,530 51,500 2% 
Senior Independent Director 5,000 5,000 – 
Audit Committee Chairman 12,500 10,000 25% 
Remuneration Committee 
Chairman 12,500 12,500 – 
 
All directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM in 
accordance with the Code should an AGM be called prior to the 
proposed merger. 
Performance graph 
The graph below shows the Company’s performance measured 
by TSR on a holding of £100 in the Company’s shares over the 
five years since 2 May 2009 compared to the same amount 
invested in the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) 
(FTSE 250).  
The other points plotted are values at intervening financial year 
ends. The FTSE 250 has been selected as the Company is a 
constituent of this index and the vesting of PSP awards (except 
2012/13) is partly dependent on the Company’s TSR 
performance compared to the constituents of this index. 
 
Implementation of the remuneration policy during 2013/14 
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the 
Group Chief Executive over the same five year period. The total 
remuneration figure includes the bonus and share awards which 
vested based on performance in those years. The annual bonus 
and share award percentages show the payout for each year as 
a percentage of the maximum. 
 
30 Apr  
2014 
£’000 
30 Apr  
2013 
£’000 
28 Apr  
2012 
£’000 
30 Apr  
2011
(3)
 
£’000 
1 May 
 2010
(3)
£’000 
Sebastian James
(1)
      
Total remuneration 1,351 1,320 218 n/a n/a 
Annual bonus 100% 95% 69% n/a  n/a 
LTIP vesting – – – n/a  n/a 
John Browett      
Total remuneration – – 753 1,303 1,570 
Annual bonus – – – 18% 100% 
LTIP vesting – – – 58%
(2)
– 
 
(1) Amounts shown for Sebastian James represent amounts received in respect 
of services after he became a director. 
(2) LTIP vesting represents full vesting of 1,068,870 shares awarded on 
recruitment in compensation of forfeited bonus and lapsing of LTIP awards 
(761,236 shares) subject to TSR performance conditions being met. 
(3) Remuneration is shown before salary sacrifice into Reward Sacrifice options. 
 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
240
260
2 May 2009 1 May 2010 30 Apr 2011 28 Apr 2012 30 Apr 2013 30 Apr 2014
Value
(£)
Dixons Retail plc
FTSE 250 Index (excl. Investment Trusts)
Total shareholder return
Source: Thomson Reuters
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 53
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Annual Report on Remuneration 
Audited information 
 
Directors’ remuneration 
The following table shows an analysis of the emoluments and LTIP payments of individual directors:  
        2013/14 
  
Basic salary 
and fees 
 £’000 
Pension 
contributions
(2)
£’000 
Cash  
bonus  
£’000 
Taxable 
benefits 
 £’000 
Total 
emoluments  
£’000 
LTIP  
payments
(3)
£’000 
Total 
remuneration  
£’000 
Executive         
Sebastian James  608 122 608 13 1,351 – 1,351 
Humphrey Singer  365 73 310 13 761 732 1,493 
Katie Bickerstaffe  406 81 345 11 843 – 843 
  1,379 276 1,263 37 2,955 732 3,687 
Non-executive         
John Allan  268 – – – 268 – 268 
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen  52 – – – 52 – 52 
Tim How   70 – – – 70 – 70 
Andrea Gisle Joosen  52 – – – 52 – 52 
Jock Lennox  64 – – – 64 – 64 
Dharmash Mistry  52 – – – 52 – 52 
  558 – – – 558 – 558 
         
  1,937 276 1,263 37 3,513 732 4,245 
 
        2012/13 
  
Basic salary 
and fees 
 £’000 
Pension 
contributions
(2)
£’000 
Cash 
 bonus 
 £’000 
Taxable 
benefits 
 £’000 
Total 
emoluments  
£’000 
LTIP 
payments 
 £’000 
Total 
remuneration 
£’000 
Executive         
Sebastian James  600 120 572 28 1,320 – 1,320 
Humphrey Singer  360 72 292 13 737 – 737 
Katie Bickerstaffe  400 84 324 11 819 – 819 
  1,360 276 1,188 52 2,876 – 2,876 
Non-executive         
Current directors         
John Allan  263 – – – 263 – 263 
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen  51 – – – 51 – 51 
Tim How   68 – – – 68 – 68 
Andrea Gisle Joosen  8
(1)
– – – 8 – 8 
Jock Lennox  61 – – – 61 – 61 
Dharmash Mistry  51 – – – 51 – 51 
Former directors         
Rita Clifton  18
(1)
– – – 18 – 18 
Andrew Lynch  2
(1)
– – – 2 – 2 
  522 – – – 522 – 522 
         
  1,882 276 1,188 52 3,398 – 3,398 
 
(1) Fees relate to periods in office as directors. 2012/13: Andrea Gisle Joosen from 1 March 2013 to 30 April 2013, Rita Clifton from 29 April 2012 to 6 September 2012 and 
Andrew Lynch from 29 April 2012 to 9 May 2012. 
(2) Pension contributions comprise the Company’s contribution together with the salary supplement which is based on the difference between basic salary and the scheme 
earnings cap set by the Company. This additional amount was 20% for Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe. 
(3) LTIP payments comprise those vesting in respect of 2013/14 with performance conditions which were achieved, but excludes LTIPs which were not subject to 
performance conditions. Sebastian James and Katie Bickerstaffe both received vested PSP awards which were not subject to performance conditions (arising from 
grants prior to their appointments as directors) and which amounted to £746,976 and £605,656, respectively. Amounts disclosed have been calculated using an average 
share price over the three months to 30 April 2014 of 48.03p. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 54
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Annual Report on Remuneration 
Status of previous STIPs and LTIPs 
 
STIP in respect of 2013/14  
The performance against each performance target was as follows: 
Measure Strategic objective Weighting Summary of targets Result 
% of  
maximum 
% of 
 salary paid in cash 
Group underlying 
operating profit 
To increase operating profit  55% Threshold 
Target  
Stretch 
£140.0 million 
£155.1 million 
£170.0 million 
£202.8 million 100% 55%
(1) 
 46.75%
(2)
Free Cash Flow Optimises resources to 
invest in future growth 
25% Threshold 
Target  
Stretch 
£85.0 million 
£107.3 million 
£125.0 million 
£200.5 million 100% 25%
(1)
  21.25%
(2)
ROCE Optimises the efficiency and 
profitability of investments 
20% Threshold 
Target  
Stretch  
12.4% 
13.4% 
 14.4% 
16.3% 100% 20%
(1)
  17.00%
(2)
Total  100%    100% 100%
(1)
  85.00%
(2)
 
(1) Percentage amounts relate to Sebastian James. 
(2) Percentage amounts relate to Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe. 
 
Amounts to be paid to the executive directors in respect of 2013/14 are set out in the directors’ remuneration table above. 
LTIP 
The status of the provisional awards and options under the outstanding share plans which are subject to performance conditions  
are reviewed regularly. At the end of the performance period for both the PSP and the ESOP, the awards will vest subject to the 
Committee determining that the performance conditions have been met. There is no re-testing of performance conditions. All share 
options lapse on the earlier of ten years from the date of grant or, as with the PSP awards, where either the participant leaves the 
Company or on the date on which the Remuneration Committee determines that the performance conditions have not been met.  
At the last review in June 2014, the status of the awards and options as at 30 April 2014 was as follows:  
Period in which provisional 
award was made 
Period in which 
performance condition 
ends Scheme 
 
Outcome of test
 (1)
 
 
Status Award if status is maintained 
2011/12 2013/14 PSP TSR above median Vested
(2)(3)
 Full vesting 
2011/12 2013/14 PSP EPS above target Vested
(2)(3)
 Partial vesting 
2012/13 2014/15 PSP  Share price above target  Full vesting 
2012/13 2014/15 ESOP EPS progress towards target  Partial vesting 
2013/14 2015/16 PSP TSR above target  Full vesting 
2013/14 2015/16 PSP EPS progress towards target  Partial vesting 
 
(1) Fuller details of performance criteria are shown in the footnotes to the PSP and directors’ share options tables set out below. 
(2) See table below. 
(3) Sebastian James and Katie Bickerstaffe both hold awards granted to them in 2011, prior to joining the Board, with no performance conditions attached. 
 
Vesting of LTIP with performance period ending in 2013/14 
The performance period for the 3 August 2011 award ended on 30 April 2014 and the results of the performance review were  
as follows: 
 
Performance measure 
 
Weighting 
 
Vesting scale Performance achieved % of this award vesting 
EPS 50% No vesting below EPS of 2p  
25% vests at 2p
(1)
 
100% vests at 4p
(1)
  
3.0p 62.5% 
TSR v FTSE 250
(3)
 50% No vesting below median 
25% vests at median
(2)
  
100% vests at upper quartile
(2)
  
Notional ranking of  
10 out of 194 
100% 
 
(1)  Straight line vesting between 2p and 4p. 
(2)  Straight line vesting between median and upper quartile. 
(3)  As at the end of the performance period, there were 194 companies, excluding Dixons Retail plc, left of the original FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts) used for this 
award. 
The Committee has the discretion to reduce the number of shares vesting under the TSR element of the award should they feel that 
the financial performance of the Company does not warrant vesting. The Committee has determined that no reduction in the number 
of TSR shares vesting is required. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 55
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Annual Report on Remuneration 
Dilution 
A combination of both newly issued shares and shares bought in the market are to be used to satisfy awards under the Group’s 
employee share incentive arrangements. The Committee is aware of and supports the ABI guidelines regarding dilution and monitors 
regularly the Company’s compliance with these requirements. In line with these guidelines, at the 2008 AGM the Committee included 
provisions in the scheme rules which limit the number of newly issued shares which can be granted to 10% of the issued share 
capital in ten years under all of the Company’s share schemes and 5% for the executive directors and senior management under 
discretionary share schemes. 
Shares relating to a portion of the potential obligations are held in the Dixons Retail Employee Share Trust (the Trust) for the benefit of 
participants of the share schemes and, if required, it is the Committee’s intention to make purchases of shares. Any decision to do so 
will take into account the number of awards vesting and those options to be satisfied either from the Trust or by new issue, together 
with the likelihood of any performance targets being met and any potential lapsing of awards when employees leave the Group. 
Change in dividends paid relative to change in spend on pay 
 
2013/14 
£million 
2012/13 
£million Change (%) 
Dividends paid per ordinary share
 
 nil nil n/a 
Total staff costs – continuing operations
(1)
 £717.1 £713.8 0.5% 
 
 
Number Number Change (%) 
Employee numbers – continuing operations
(1)(2)
 32,400 30,672 5.6% 
 
(1) Extracted from note 6 to the Financial Statements. 
(2) The number of employees has been provided for context. 
 
Change in Group Chief Executive pay compared to that for employees (not audited) 
The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between 2013/14 and 
2012/13 for Sebastian James compared to the average UK based employee during the year. 
 Salary Benefits Annual bonus 
Sebastian James 2.0% – 6.3% 
Average pay based on all UK based employees 2.7% – 5.4% 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 56
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Annual Report on Remuneration 
Directors’ share-based rewards 
 
Directors’ PSP awards  
The directors’ restricted beneficial interests shown in the table below represent the maximum number of shares which may vest 
under the PSP. 
 
Reference  
market 
price 
At  
1 May  
2013
(1)
 
Awarded  
in the  
period
(2)
  
Vested  
in the  
period 
Lapsed  
in the  
period 
At  
30 April  
2014 
End of 
performance 
period  
Vesting  
date 
Sebastian James         
2010/11
(2)(3)
 27.59p 500,000 – – (500,000) – Apr 2013 Aug 2013 
2011/12
(2)(5)
 15.99p 1,555,191 – – – 1,555,191 n/a Aug 2014 
2012/13
(7)
 17.50p 6,857,142 – – – 6,857,142 Apr 2015 Jun 2015
(6)
2013/14
(8)
 40.79p – 1,470,948 – – 1,470,948 Apr 2016 Jul 2016 
  8,912,333 1,470,948 – (500,000) 9,883,281   
Humphrey Singer         
2011/12
(4)
 15.99p 1,876,173 – – – 1,876,173 May 2014 Aug 2014 
2012/13
(7)
 17.50p 4,114,285 – – – 4,114,285 Apr 2015 Jun 2015
(6)
2013/14
(8)
 40.79p – 882,569 – – 882,569 Apr 2016 Jul 2016 
  5,990,458 882,569 – – 6,873,027   
Katie Bickerstaffe          
2010/11
(2)(3)
 27.59p 405,406 – – (405,406) – Apr 2013 Aug 2013 
2011/12
(2)(5)
 15.99p 1,260,967 – – – 1,260,967 n/a Aug 2014 
2012/13
(7)
 17.50p 4,571,428 – – – 4,571,428 Apr 2015 Jun 2015
(6)
2013/14
(8)
 40.79p – 980,632 – – 980,632 Apr 2016 Jul 2016 
  6,237,801 980,632 – (405,406) 6,813,027   
 
(1)  The number of LTIP and PSP shares granted is calculated by reference to the average share price over a specified period prior to the date of the award. 
(2) Award made prior to joining the Board. 
(3) PSP awards made in 2010/11 were subject to TSR performance relative to the FTSE 250 Index (comprising FTSE 101-350 companies), excluding investment trusts, 
at the start of the performance period. Full vesting would occur for upper quartile performance with 25% vesting for median performance with straight line vesting 
between the two. No award vests for below median performance. The Remuneration Committee has reviewed this performance condition and has determined that it 
has not been met. Accordingly, these awards lapsed during the period under review. 
(4) PSP awards made in 2011/12 to Humphrey Singer are subject to both TSR performance as described in note (3) above, as well as EPS performance whereby 25% 
of the award vests for an EPS of 2p and full vesting occurs at an EPS of 4p with straight line vesting between the two results. Since 30 April 2014 the Remuneration 
Committee have reviewed the performance criteria and have determined that 100% of shares subject to the TSR condition will vest, and 62.5% subject to the EPS 
performance condition (EPS of 3.0p) will vest. 
(5) Awards made prior to joining the Board with no performance conditions other than continued service during the three year vesting period.  
(6) If more than 75% of the award vests then there will be a partial vesting of 75% in June 2015. Anything over 75% will vest in June 2016 subject to continued 
employment. 
(7)  PSP awards made in 2012/13 are subject to a performance condition, whereby 25% vests for a share price of 25p, 100% vests for a share price of 35p with straight line 
vesting between the two results. 
(8)  PSP awards made in 2013/14 are subject to the performance conditions outlined below. 
  
On 24 July 2013 performance shares were awarded to the executive directors as detailed below: 
 
 
Award 
 
Type 
Number 
of shares
†
 
Face value 
(% of salary) 
Sebastian James PSP Conditional share awards 1,470,948 100% 
Humphrey Singer PSP Conditional share awards 882,569 100% 
Katie Bickerstaffe PSP Conditional share awards 980,632 100% 
 
† Determined by reference to the market price which is the average share price over the three months prior to 24 July 2013. 
Performance conditions and vesting criteria for the above PSP, for which the performance period is measured from 1 May 2013 to  
30 April 2016, are as follows: 
• 50% of the award based on TSR relative to the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts). 25% vests at threshold performance, 
increasing to 100% vesting at upper quartile or above. 
• 50% of the award based on EPS performance for the 2015/16 financial year. 25% vests at threshold of 3 pence increasing to 
100% vesting for 4 pence. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 57
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Annual Report on Remuneration 
Directors’ share options 
 
Date of  
grant 
Exercise  
price 
At  
1 May  
2013  
Awarded  
in the  
period 
Lapsed or 
forfeited in  
the period 
Exercised  
in period 
At 
 30 April  
2014 
Date from  
which first 
exercisable 
Expiry of  
the exercise 
 period 
Sebastian James          
Discretionary
(1)
 3 Aug 2010
(3)
27.59p 3,000,000 – (3,000,000) – – 3 Aug 2013 2 Aug 2020 
 29 Jun 2012 17.51p 2,571,428
(4)
 – – – 2,571,428 29 Jun 2017 28 Jun 2022 
Sharesave
(1)(2)
 23 Jul 2013 32.45p – 3,882 – – 3,882 1 Oct 2016 31 Mar 2017 
   5,571,428 3,882 (3,000,000) – 2,575,310   
Humphrey Singer          
Discretionary
(1)
 11 Jul 2008 27.63p 386,415 – – – 386,415 11 Jul 2011 10 Jul 2018 
 3 Aug 2010
(3)
27.59p 300,000 – (300,000) – – 3 Aug 2013 2 Aug 2020 
 29 Jun 2012 17.51p 1,542,857
(4)
 – – – 1,542,857 29 Jun 2017 28 Jun 2022 
Reward Sacrifice
(6)
 28 Sep 2009 28.43p 101,110 – – – 101,110 28 Sep 2012 27 Sep 2019 
Sharesave
(1)(2)
 3 Aug 2010 20.23p 12,100 – – (12,100)
(5)
 – 1 Oct 2013 31 Mar 2014 
 22 Jul 2011 13.01p 9,711 – – – 9,711 1 Oct 2014 31 Mar 2015 
 24 Jul 2012 14.18p 8,885 – – – 8,885 1 Oct 2015 31 Mar 2016 
 23 Jul 2013 32.45p – 3,882 – – 3,882 1 Oct 2016 31 Mar 2017 
   2,361,078 3,882 (300,000) (12,100) 2,052,860   
Katie Bickerstaffe          
Discretionary
(1)
 3 Aug 2010
(3)
27.59p 2,432,434 – (2,432,434) – – 3 Aug 2013 2 Aug 2020 
 29 Jun 2012 17.51p 1,714,285
(4)
 – – – 1,714,285 29 Jun 2017 28 Jun 2022 
Reward Sacrifice
(6)
 28 Sep 2009 28.43p 299,762 – – – 299,762 28 Sep 2012 27 Sep 2019 
Sharesave
(1)(2)
 3 Aug 2010 20.23p 12,100 – – (12,100)
(5)
 – 1 Oct 2013 31 Mar 2014 
  22 Jul 2011 13.01p 9,711 – – – 9,711 1 Oct 2014 31 Mar 2015 
 24 Jul 2012 14.18p 8,885 – – – 8,885 1 Oct 2015 31 Mar 2016 
 23 Jul 2013 32.45p – 3,882 – – 3,882 1 Oct 2016 31 Mar 2017 
   4,477,177 3,882 (2,432,434) (12,100) 2,036,525   
 
(1) Discretionary and Sharesave options are granted for £nil consideration.  
(2) Awards granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in the six month period following the date of maturity of the savings contracts which have terms of 
three years. 
(3) Discretionary options granted on 3 August 2010 were subject to an EPS performance condition which failed to meet the performance condition and have therefore 
lapsed. 
(4) Options granted on 29 June 2012 are subject to an EPS performance condition whereby 25% of the options vest for EPS in 2014/15 of 2.5p. 100% of the options 
vest for EPS in 2014/15 of 3.5p. Options will vest on a straight line basis between 25% and 100% of the award. 
(5)  The Sharesave awards exercised by Katie Bickerstaffe and Humphrey Singer had a market price of 46.52p and 46.69p, respectively, on the date of exercise. 
(6)   In 2009, certain executive directors and senior management were offered the choice to sacrifice part of their salary for a share award. For every £1 of salary sacrificed  
a £3 face value of share options was received. These awards have now vested and are shown in the table above for the executive directors. 
The share price on 30 April 2014 was 44.98p and closing prices ranged between 35.31p and 53.30p during the year. 
Share ownership guidelines 
The Company has a policy of encouraging executive directors to build shareholdings in the Company. Executive directors are 
required to retain 50% of the net of tax outturn from the vesting of future awards under the Company’s share plans until a 
shareholding with a minimum value equivalent to their base salary is achieved. The table which follows sets out share interests and 
entitlements including those under share ownership guidelines.  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 58
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Remuneration Report (continued) – Annual Report on Remuneration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beneficially owned 
 
 
 
 
 
Restricted interests in share plans as at 30 April 2014 
Total 
beneficial 
interests 
under share 
ownership 
 guidelines
(1)
 
Total 
beneficial 
share 
interests  
as a % of 
 salary
(2)
 
 
 
Exercised 
during  
2013/14
(6)
 30 April 2014 30 April 2013 PSP
(3)
ESOS
(4)
Reward  
sacrifice
(5)
 Sharesave Total 30 April 2014 
 
Sharesave 
Executive directors          
Sebastian James 109,072 109,072 9,883,281  2,571,428 – 3,882 109,072 8% – 
Humphrey Singer 92,495 80,395 6,873,027 1,929,272 101,110 22,478 247,528 31% 12,100 
Katie Bickerstaffe 208,657 196,557 6,813,027 1,714,285 299,762 22,478 303,981 35% 12,100 
Non-executive directors          
John Allan 1,180,818 1,180,818 – – – – – – – 
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 97,071 97,071 – – – – – – – 
Tim How 80,000 80,000 – – – – – – – 
Andrea Gisle Joosen 39,200 – – – – – – – – 
Jock Lennox 75,000 75,000 – – – – – – – 
Dharmash Mistry 267,382 267,382 – – – – – – – 
 
(1)  Shows the directors’ total connected shareholdings plus any share interests that have vested but are not yet exercised (share ownership guidelines stipulate that only 
60% of the reward after deduction of tax is counted in determining the minimum shareholding and accordingly, only 60% of the post tax number of vested but 
unexercised options has been used in the calculation). 
(2) Based on basic salary as at 1 May 2014 and an average share price over the month to 30 April 2014 of 46.49p. 
(3)  Subject to performance conditions except for 1,555,191 shares awarded to Sebastian James and 1,260,967 for Katie Bickerstaffe which are not subject to  
performance conditions. 
(4) Subject to performance conditions. ESOS awards in respect of Humphrey Singer include 386,415 shares which have vested but are unexercised. 
(5) Vested but unexercised. 
(6) Further details in the share option table above. 
 
There were no changes in the directors’ restricted or unrestricted share interests between 30 April 2014 and the date of this report.  
In addition to the share interests disclosed above, the following directors held interests in the Group’s 8.75% 2015 Guaranteed Notes 
(the 2015 Notes) and the 8.75% 2017 Guaranteed Notes (the 2017 Notes): 
• John Allan holds £556,000 of the 2015 Notes and £250,000 of the 2017 Notes; and 
• Tim How and his connected interests hold £100,000 of the 2017 Notes. 
Further details of the 2015 Notes and the 2017 Notes are set out in note 17 to the Financial Statements. 
Directors’ pensions 
All of the current executive directors are members of the defined contribution section of the Company’s pension scheme 
(pensionbuilder) which provides for a pension at normal retirement age of 65. Each executive director contributes 5% of salary up to 
the scheme specific earnings cap via Pay Exchange, a salary sacrifice arrangement. In addition, the Company’s contribution for each 
executive director is 20% up to the earnings cap (which is currently £146,400). In addition, the Company provides each executive 
director with a salary supplement above the earnings cap. Sebastian James, Humphrey Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe all receive a 
20% salary supplement for the amount of their salary above the earnings cap. No directors accrued benefits under a defined benefit 
pension scheme. Humphrey Singer opted out of the pension scheme on 5 April 2014. He now receives the equivalent of the 
Company contribution to the pension scheme (adjusted for employer National Insurance contributions) as an additional salary 
supplement.  
Voting at the 2013 AGM (not audited) 
At the AGM on 5 September 2013, the annual advisory vote on the Directors’ Remuneration Report took place. The voting  
outcome was: 
Resolution Votes for  % Votes against % Withheld 
Remuneration Report 2,600,163,558 99.36 16,764,288 0.64 66,307,664 
 
The Company consults with its shareholders as part of its ongoing investor relations programme. In 2012, the Company announced 
its intentions of returning to a normal award structure in 2013, which was duly carried out. Accordingly, no specific remuneration 
consultation took place in the current year. 
Tim How 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
25 June 2014 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 59
Directors’ Report 
Corporate Governance 
Directors’ Responsibilities 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
English company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year and under that law, the 
directors have prepared the Group and the Company financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union.  
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company 
and of the profit or loss of the Group for the year. In preparing 
the financial statements, the directors are also required to: 
• Properly select and apply accounting policies; 
• Present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;  
• Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users  
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the financial position and financial 
performance; and 
• Make an assessment of the Group and the Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. 
In preparing both the Group and the Company financial 
statements, suitable accounting policies have been used and 
applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements 
and estimates have been made. Applicable accounting 
standards have been followed. The financial statements  
have been prepared on the going concern basis as disclosed  
in the Statutory Information section of the Directors’ Report  
and Business Review. 
The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate 
accounting records and sufficient internal controls to safeguard 
the assets of the Company and to take reasonable steps for  
the prevention and detection of fraud or any other irregularities 
and for the preparation of a directors’ report and directors’ 
remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. The directors are 
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from  
legislation in other jurisdictions.  
Each of the directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: 
• The Group and Company financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and (loss) / profit of the Group  
and Company, respectively; 
• The business and financial review contained in this Annual 
Report and Accounts includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and the 
position of the Group and Company, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties they  
face; and 
• This Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable, and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and the 
Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
By Order of the Board  
  
Sebastian James Humphrey Singer 
Group Chief Executive  Group Finance Director 
25 June 2014 25 June 2014 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 60
Financial Statements 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Opinion on financial statements of Dixons Retail plc. 
In our opinion, the financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Company’s affairs as at 30 April 2014 and of the Group’s loss 
for the year then ended; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income 
statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income and expense, the consolidated and company balance 
sheets, the consolidated and company cash flow statements, 
the consolidated and company statement of changes in equity 
and the related notes 1 to 32 and C1 to C17. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation  
is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied 
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB  
As explained in note 1 to the group financial statements, in 
addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs  
as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied 
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB). 
In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs 
as issued by the IASB. 
Going concern  
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ 
statement contained within the statutory information section of 
the directors’ report that the Group is a going concern. We 
confirm that we have: 
• concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis 
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements  
is appropriate; and 
• not identified any material uncertainties that may cast 
significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. 
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. 
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below 
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the 
allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of 
the engagement team: 
• Revenue recognition: We have identified revenue from 
customer support agreements (CSAs) as significant. In 
accounting for revenue from CSAs, the revenue is spread  
to reflect the expected claims under the agreements and 
there are key judgements inherent to the spreading 
methodology applied. 
We assessed the assumptions applied in the spread factors 
with reference to actual historical levels of claims and we 
have challenged the appropriateness of these factors to 
determine whether there is a solid basis for the assumptions 
used. We have tested the integrity of the revenue spreading 
model and the inputs into the model through recalculation. 
• Accounting for disposals: The accounting treatment of 
disposals is significant to the accounts following the disposals 
of the PIXmania, Unieuro, and Turkish ElectroWorld 
businesses which have taken place during the year. 
We have recomputed the loss on disposal recognised with 
reference to the relevant agreements and other third party 
information. We have assessed the judgements made in 
calculating the loss on disposal, including in relation to 
provisions and warranties, with reference to historical 
performance and other available information, and we  
have assessed the presentation of the results as 
discontinued operations. 
• Non-underlying items: The Group has recorded non-
underlying income and expenditure in respect of one-off 
items and transactions that are outside of the normal course 
of trading. The presentation and consistency of these items  
is a key judgement.  
We reviewed the nature of non-underlying items and 
challenged management’s judgements in this area. We 
assessed whether the non-underlying items are in line with 
the Group’s accounting policy and that it has been applied 
consistently with previous accounting periods, including 
whether the reversal of any items originally recognised as 
non-underlying are appropriately classified as non-underlying 
items. We agreed the quantification of the non-underlying 
items to supporting documentation. We also assessed 
whether the disclosures within the financial statements 
provide sufficient detail for the reader to understand the 
nature of these items. 
• Inventory provisioning: Inventory is a significant balance  
for the Group and there are a number of judgement areas 
including obsolescence and shrinkage provisioning. 
We have performed testing of the controls around the 
inventory business cycle and have attended a sample  
of inventory counts at a number of stores and distribution 
centres across the Group which enables us to assess 
management’s processes for monitoring stock. We 
performed audit tests to assess whether inventory is valued 
at the lower of cost and net realisable value. We reviewed, 
recalculated and assessed the inventory ageing and 
provisioning for reasonableness, including challenging  
the appropriateness of provisioning with reference to both 
historical and post year end performance and a review of  
the provision as a percentage of gross stock year on year. 
We have also considered the impact of range changes and 
other specific known areas of over-stock on the required 
provision calculation. 
 
 
 
 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 61
Financial Statements 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report (continued) 
• Defined benefit pension assumptions: The defined  
benefit pension liability is a significant balance with inherent 
judgements. As a result we have identified as a significant 
risk the review of actuarial valuations used in respect of the 
defined benefit scheme and the assessment of the 
appropriateness of the assumptions used with the key 
assumptions being the discount rate, inflation assumptions 
and mortality assumptions. 
We have worked with pensions specialists to assess the 
appropriateness of the assumptions underlying the valuation 
of the pension deficit by reviewing the actuarial report and 
challenging each of the assumptions by comparison to 
available market data. We have confirmed the year end 
pension asset values to third party confirmations and 
checked the integrity of those confirmations by agreeing  
a sample back to independent data. We assessed the 
independence and competence of management’s actuary. 
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out  
on in the section entitled Key matters considered during the 
year of the Audit Committee’s report. 
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed  
in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, 
and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or 
disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not 
modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and 
we do not express an opinion on these individual matters. 
Our application of materiality 
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be 
changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning  
the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of  
our work. 
We determined materiality for the Group to be £8 million, which 
is below 5% of underlying profit before tax. We use underlying 
profit before tax to provide a stable basis for materiality that 
reflects the focus of the users of the financial statements and  
is the primary key performance indicator used by management 
and the directors. This excludes the effect of separately 
disclosed non-underlying items, as these can be volatile,  
and in the opinion of the directors, provides a more comparable 
measure with similar organisations and is consistent with  
the profit measure most relevant to analysts and investors. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all audit differences in excess of £0.3 million, as well 
as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit 
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when 
assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of our audit  
Our group audit scope was focused on the audit work in the 
three key segments of the UK & Ireland, Nordics and Greece. 
The key components in each of these locations were all subject 
to full audit, which represented 100% of the Group’s net assets, 
revenues and profit before tax. Our audit work at each location 
was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each 
individual entity which were lower than group materiality.  
Our group audit scope was determined by obtaining an 
understanding of the Group and its environment, including 
group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material 
misstatement at the group level. These components were also 
selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit 
work to address the risks of material misstatement identified 
above. We also tested the consolidation process. 
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of 
planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member 
of the group audit team visits each of the locations where  
the group audit scope was focused at least once a year and 
attended closing meetings in the UK, Greece and Norway in 
2014. In years when we do not visit a significant component  
we will include the component audit team in our team briefing, 
discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of  
the findings from their work. 
 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be  
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the  
financial statements are prepared is consistent with  
the financial statements. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 62
Financial Statements 
 
Independent Auditor’s Report (continued) 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting 
records  
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to  
you if, in our opinion: 
• we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit; or 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report  
if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns. We have nothing to report arising from 
these matters. 
Corporate Governance Statement 
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the  
part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
company’s compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. We have nothing to report arising from  
our review. 
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report 
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland),  
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information  
in the annual report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in  
the course of performing our audit; or 
• otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 
during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider 
the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and 
whether the annual report appropriately discloses those  
matters that we communicated to the audit committee which  
we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that  
we have not identified any such inconsistencies or  
misleading statements. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation  
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express  
an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also 
comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK  
and Ireland). Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure 
that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and 
applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated 
professional standards review team, strategically focused 
second partner reviews and independent partner reviews. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company  
and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work,  
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements  
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read  
all the financial and non-financial information in the annual 
report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of 
performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report. 
 
 
Nicola Mitchell FCA  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom 
25 June 2014 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 63
Financial Statements 
 
Consolidated Income Statement 
 
Year ended 30 April 2014 
 
Year ended 30 April 2013
†
 
Restated 
 Note
Underlying* 
£million 
Non-underlying* 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Underlying* 
£million 
Non-underlying* 
£million 
Total  
£million 
Continuing operations       
Revenue 2,37,217.6 0.1 7,217.7 7,026.6 82.6 7,109.2 
       
Operating profit 2,3 202.8 (13.5) 189.3 186.4 (35.8) 150.6 
        
Loss on sale of business  – – – – (9.6) (9.6) 
       
Finance income 2.9 – 2.9 7.2 3.3 10.5 
Finance costs (39.5) (19.8) (59.3) (42.6) (22.3) (64.9) 
Net finance costs  5 (36.6) (19.8) (56.4) (35.4) (19.0) (54.4) 
       
Profit before tax 166.2 (33.3) 132.9 151.0 (64.4) 86.6 
       
Income tax expense 7 (50.5) 5.4 (45.1) (54.0) 10.3 (43.7) 
Profit after tax – continuing operations 115.7 (27.9) 87.8 97.0 (54.1) 42.9 
       
Loss after tax – discontinued operations 27 – (158.1) (158.1) – (215.3) (215.3) 
       
Profit / (loss) after tax for the year 115.7 (186.0) (70.3) 97.0 (269.4) (172.4) 
       
Attributable to:       
Continuing operations       
Equity shareholders of the parent company 115.7 (27.9) 87.8 97.1 (54.1) 43.0 
Non-controlling interests – – – (0.1) – (0.1) 
Discontinued operations       
Equity shareholders of the parent company – (157.3) (157.3) – (205.5) (205.5) 
Non-controlling interests – (0.8) (0.8) – (9.8) (9.8) 
 115.7 (186.0) (70.3) 97.0 (269.4) (172.4) 
       
(Loss) / earnings per share (pence) 8      
Basic – total   (1.9)p   (4.5)p 
Diluted – total   (1.9)p   (4.5)p 
Basic – continuing operations   2.4p   1.2p 
Diluted – continuing operations   2.3p   1.2p 
       
Underlying earnings per share (pence) 1,8      
Basic – continuing operations 3.2p   2.7p   
Diluted – continuing operations 3.0p   2.6p   
 
* Underlying figures exclude the trading results of businesses exited, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other 
one off, non-recurring items, profits / losses on sale of businesses, net interest on defined benefit pension schemes, net fair value remeasurements of financial 
instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations. Such excluded items are described as ‘Non-underlying’. Further information on these items is shown in 
notes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 27. 
Businesses exited comprise businesses which have either been sold or closed. Certain businesses meet the criteria of discontinued operations as stipulated by IFRS 5 
and are disclosed as such, whereas the remainder do not. Accordingly, despite all of the business exits having similar characteristics, the disclosures within non-
underlying items differ across these businesses. Further information is shown in notes 2, 4 and 27. 
† Results for the year ended 30 April 2013 have been restated for the impact of the amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’, which is described further in note 1. 
Underlying figures for the year ended 30 April 2013 have been re-presented to exclude the trading results of businesses exited for which the decisions were made or 
executed in 2013/14.  
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 64
Financial Statements 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expense 
 Note
Year ended 
30 April 2014 
 
£million 
Year ended 
30 April 2013 
Restated 
£million 
Loss for the year (70.3) (172.4) 
   
Items that may be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent years   
Cash flow hedges  22  
 Fair value remeasurement (losses) / gains 10.5 (12.7) 
 (Gains) / losses transferred to carrying amount of inventories  (15.1) 5.4 
 Losses transferred to income statement (within cost of sales) 10.1 3.4 
Net investment hedges  22  
 Fair value remeasurement gains  – 0.9 
 Reclassification on disposal of overseas subsidiaries 64.7 – 
Available for sale investments   
 Fair value remeasurement gains 0.1 0.4 
Income tax effects (1.5) 0.8 
Currency translation movements (135.7) 32.5 
 (66.9) 30.7 
   
Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent years:   
Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit pension schemes – UK 21 3.6 (151.5) 
  – Overseas 0.4 1.6 
Deferred tax on actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit pension schemes  (13.8) 31.6 
Currency translation movements 0.4 (0.6) 
 (9.4) (118.9) 
    
Other comprehensive expense for the year (taken to equity) (76.3) (88.2) 
   
Total comprehensive expense for the year (146.6) (260.6) 
   
Attributable to:   
Equity shareholders of the parent company (145.8) (250.4) 
Non-controlling interests (0.8) (10.2) 
 (146.6) (260.6) 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 65
Financial Statements 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
 Note 
30 April 2014 
£million 
30 April 2013 
£million 
Non-current assets    
Goodwill 9 607.4 704.2 
Intangible assets 10 50.9 66.4 
Property, plant & equipment 11 330.5 434.0 
Investments in associates 12 0.5 0.5 
Trade and other receivables 14 13.6 20.6 
Deferred tax assets 7 121.2 150.9 
  1,124.1 1,376.6 
Current assets    
Inventories 13 684.4 895.4 
Trade and other receivables 14 267.1 304.5 
Income tax receivable  6.1 5.4 
Short term investments 15 1.4 2.4 
Cash and cash equivalents 16 401.2 405.3 
  1,360.2 1,613.0 
Assets held for sale 27 30.8 15.1 
Total assets  2,515.1 3,004.7 
    
Current liabilities    
Bank overdrafts  17 – (17.7) 
Borrowings 17 – (4.5) 
Obligations under finance leases 18 (2.0) (2.0) 
Trade and other payables 19 (1,382.4) (1,667.7) 
Income tax payable  (51.4) (70.4) 
Provisions 20 (24.1) (36.8) 
  (1,459.9) (1,799.1) 
Net current liabilities  (99.7) (186.1) 
    
Non-current liabilities    
Borrowings 17 (246.9) (245.4) 
Obligations under finance leases 18 (91.6) (96.0) 
Retirement benefit obligations 21 (401.8) (409.1) 
Other payables 19 (239.1) (262.5) 
Deferred tax liabilities 7 (15.1) (11.3) 
Provisions 20 (16.1) (26.1) 
  (1,010.6) (1,050.4) 
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 27 (31.2) (7.9) 
Total liabilities  (2,501.7) (2,857.4) 
Net assets  13.4 147.3 
    
Capital and reserves    
Called up share capital 23 91.5 90.7 
Share premium account  179.3 172.7 
Other reserves 23 (450.6) (520.9) 
Retained earnings  192.6 405.6 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company  12.8 148.1 
Equity non-controlling interests  0.6 (0.8) 
Total equity  13.4 147.3 
 
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 25 June 2014 and signed on their behalf by:  
  
Sebastian James  Humphrey Singer 
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 66
Financial Statements 
 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
 
 Note
Year  
ended 
30 April 2014 
 
 £million 
Year 
ended 
30 April 2013 
Re-presented 
 £million 
Operating activities – continuing operations   
Cash generated from operations *26 367.0 406.9 
Special contributions to defined benefit pension scheme  21 (20.0) (20.0) 
Income tax paid * (49.0) (19.9) 
Net cash flows from operating activities 298.0 367.0 
Investing activities – continuing operations   
Purchase of property, plant & equipment and other intangibles * (79.7) (75.9) 
Purchase of subsidiaries (0.1) (0.2) 
Sale of business – 3.4 
Interest received * 4.3 16.8 
Decrease in short term investments 1.1 5.3 
Dividend received from associate – 0.4 
Net cash flows from investing activities (74.4) (50.2) 
Financing activities – continuing operations   
Issue of ordinary share capital 7.4 3.6 
Purchase of own shares – (0.3) 
Capital element of finance lease payments (1.8) (2.1) 
Interest element of finance lease payments  * (5.8) (6.0) 
Decrease in borrowings due within one year – (160.0) 
Increase in borrowings due after more than one year – 97.1 
Interest paid * (36.3) (114.1) 
Net cash flows from financing activities (36.5) (181.8) 
   
Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  (i)  
Continuing operations 187.1 135.0 
Discontinued operations 27 (163.9) (57.7) 
 23.2 77.3 
   
Reconciliation to items disclosed on the balance sheet   
Cash and cash equivalents 401.2 405.3 
Bank overdrafts – (17.7) 
Cash and cash equivalents included in assets held for sale 8.8 – 
 410.0 387.6 
   
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year (i) 26 387.6 301.0 
Currency translation differences (0.8) 9.3 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (i) 26 410.0 387.6 
   
Free Cash Flow (ii) 200.5 207.8 
 
(i) For the purposes of this cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise those items disclosed as ‘cash and cash equivalents’ on the face of the balance sheet, 
less overdrafts, which are classified within current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet plus cash and cash equivalents included within assets held for sale on the 
face of the balance sheet.  
(ii) Free Cash Flow comprises those items marked * and comprises cash generated from / (utilised by) continuing operations before special pension contributions, less net 
finance expense, less income tax paid and net capital expenditure. The directors consider that ‘Free Cash Flow’ provides additional useful information to shareholders in 
respect of cash generation and is consistent with how business performance is measured internally. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 67
Financial Statements 
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
 
Share 
capital 
£million 
Share 
premium  
£million 
Other 
reserves 
£million 
Retained 
earnings 
£million 
Sub-total  
£million 
Non-
controlling  
interests  
£million 
Total equity  
£million 
At 29 April 2012 90.3 169.5 (521.0) 652.6 391.4 12.6 404.0 
        
Loss for the year – – – (172.4) (172.4) – (172.4) 
Other comprehensive income and expense 
recognised directly in equity – – (1.9) (76.1) (78.0) (10.2) (88.2) 
Total comprehensive income and expense  
for the year  – – (1.9) (248.5) (250.4) (10.2) (260.6) 
        
Reduction in non-controlling interests – – – (2.0) (2.0) (6.1) (8.1) 
Non-controlling interests – increase in capital – – – – – 2.9 2.9 
Ordinary shares issued 0.4 3.2 – – 3.6 – 3.6 
Investment in own shares – – (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.3) 
Transfer – – 2.3 (2.3) – – – 
Share-based payments (including any related tax) – – – 5.8 5.8 – 5.8 
At 30 April 2013 90.7 172.7 (520.9) 405.6 148.1 (0.8) 147.3 
        
Loss for the year – – – (70.3) (70.3) – (70.3) 
Other comprehensive income and expense 
recognised directly in equity – – 70.3 (145.8) (75.5) (0.8) (76.3) 
Total comprehensive income and expense  
for the year  – – 70.3 (216.1) (145.8) (0.8) (146.6) 
        
Reduction in non-controlling interests – – – (2.7) (2.7) 2.2 (0.5) 
Ordinary shares issued 0.8 6.6 – – 7.4 – 7.4 
Share-based payments (including any related tax) – – – 5.8 5.8 – 5.8 
At 30 April 2014 91.5 179.3 (450.6) 192.6 12.8 0.6 13.4 
 
At 30 April 2014, non-controlling interests (minority interests) comprise shareholdings in Dixons South-East Europe A.E.V.E. 
(Kotsovolos).  
On 27 June 2013, the Group acquired the remaining 40% of Electro World lç ve Dı ş Ticaret A. Ş (Electroworld Turkey) for TL 2 (£1) in 
cash, bringing its stake in EW Turkey to 100%. The Group subsequently sold this business on 31 October 2013. On 7 August 2013 
the Group acquired the remaining 0.8% of PIXmania S.A.S. (PIXmania) for €0.6 million (£0.5 million) in cash, bringing its stake in 
PIXmania to 100%. The Group subsequently also sold PIXmania on 31 December 2013. Both disposals are described further in  
note 27. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 68
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
1 Accounting policies 
1.1 Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared  
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the EU, IFRS issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies 
Act 2006 applicable to those companies reporting under IFRS. 
In considering the going concern basis for preparing the financial 
statements, the directors have considered the Company’s 
objectives and strategy, the risks and uncertainties to  
achieving the objectives, and the review of business performance. 
The Group’s liquidity and funding arrangements are described 
in notes 17 and 22(f) to the Financial Statements as well as in 
the consolidated cash flow statement and note 26. In 
consideration of this, the directors consider that the Group  
has significant covenant and liquidity headroom in its borrowing 
facilities for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, after reviewing 
the Company’s expenditure commitments, current financial 
projections and expected future cash flows, together with the 
available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing 
facilities, the directors have considered that adequate resources 
exist for the Company to continue in operational existence  
for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the directors continue  
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the  
financial statements. 
The Group’s income statement and segmental analysis  
identify separately underlying performance measures and  
non-underlying items. Underlying performance measures  
reflect an adjustment to total performance measures to exclude 
the impact of businesses exited / to be exited and other non-
underlying items. Underlying performance measures comprise 
profits and losses incurred as part of the day-to-day ongoing 
retail activities of the Company and include profits and losses 
incurred on the disposal and closure of owned or leased 
properties that occur as part of the Group’s annual retail churn. 
The profits or losses incurred on disposal or closure of owned or 
leased properties as part of a one off restructuring programme 
are excluded from underlying performance measures and are 
therefore included, among other items, within non-underlying 
items as described below. The directors consider ‘underlying’ 
performance measures to be a more accurate reflection of  
the ongoing trading performance of the Group and believe  
that these measures provide additional useful information for 
shareholders on the Group’s performance and are consistent 
with how business performance is measured internally. 
Non-underlying items comprise trading results of businesses 
exited / to be exited, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net 
restructuring and business impairment charges and other one 
off, non-recurring items, profits / losses on sale of investments 
or businesses, net interest on defined benefit pension schemes, 
fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where 
applicable, discontinued operations. Businesses exited / to be 
exited are those which do not meet the definition of discontinued 
operations as stipulated by IFRS 5. Items excluded from 
underlying results can evolve from one financial year to the  
next depending on the nature of reorganisation or one off type 
activities described above. 
Underlying performance measures may not be directly 
comparable with other similarly titled measures or ‘adjusted’ 
revenue or profit measures used by other companies. 
 
The principal accounting policies are set out below: 
1.2 Accounting convention and basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the 
Company. Control is achieved where the Company has the 
power to control the financial and operating policies of an  
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The results  
of subsidiaries acquired are included from the date on which 
power to control passes. The net assets of subsidiaries acquired 
are recorded at their fair values. The results of subsidiaries 
disposed of are included up to the effective date of disposal. 
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of 
accounting from the date on which the power to exercise 
significant influence passes. 
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation. 
1.3 Revenue 
Revenue comprises sales of goods and services excluding 
sales taxes. Revenue from sales of goods is recognised at  
the point of sale or, where later, upon delivery to the customer 
and is stated net of returns. Revenue earned from customer 
support agreements is recognised as such over the life of the 
agreement by reference to the stage of completion of the 
transaction at the balance sheet date. 
1.4 Other income, including non-operating income 
Other income, which is incidental to the Group’s principal 
activities of selling goods and services and accordingly is  
not recorded as part of revenue, is recognised when the  
Group obtains the right to consideration by performance  
of its contractual obligations. Interest income is accrued  
on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding  
and at the effective interest rate applicable. Dividend income 
from investments is recognised when the right to receive 
payment has been established. 
1.5 Discontinued operations 
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group which 
represents a significant separate line of business, either activity 
or market, which has been sold. Classification as a discontinued 
operation occurs upon disposal or earlier if beneficial title and 
risk has transferred to the purchaser and in the case of a 
business acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent 
disposal, on the date of acquisition. 
Where the sale of a component of the Group is considered 
highly probable and the business is available for immediate sale 
in its present condition, it is classified as held for sale. Assets 
and liabilities held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
1.6 Leases 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms  
of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee. The determination of the classification 
of property leases is made by reference to the land and 
buildings elements separately. All leases not classified  
as finance leases are operating leases. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 69
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
Finance leases 
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at their fair 
value on acquisition or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception  
of the lease and depreciated over their estimated useful lives  
or the lease term if shorter. The corresponding obligation to  
the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a liability.  
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges  
and reduction of the lease obligation. Finance charges are 
charged to the income statement over the year of the lease  
in proportion to the capital element outstanding. 
Operating leases 
Rentals payable under operating property leases are charged  
to the income statement on a straight line basis over the fixed 
term of the lease. At the end of the fixed term of leases, rental 
payments are reset to market rates, typically on an upwards 
only basis. 
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into  
an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over 
the lease term. 
Where a lease forms part of a separate cash generating  
unit (CGU), such as a store or group of stores, and business 
indicators exist which could lead to the conclusion that the 
carrying value of the CGU is not supportable, the recoverable 
amount of the CGU is determined by calculating its value in use. 
The value in use is calculated by applying discounted cash flow 
modelling to management’s projection of future profitability. If an 
impairment of a CGU has been identified such that the value in 
use is negative and a lease exists in that CGU, a provision for 
the onerous portion of the lease is made equal to the lower of 
the outstanding lease commitment and the negative present 
value of the CGU. 
1.7 Translation of foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the 
rate of exchange prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance  
sheet date. Exchange gains and losses arising on settlement  
or retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included  
in the income statement. 
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated  
at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.  
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated 
into sterling at the average rates of exchange during the year. 
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of the 
results and balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings 
are charged or credited directly to retained earnings. Such 
translation differences become recognised in the income 
statement in the year in which the subsidiary undertaking  
is disposed. 
As the cumulative translation differences for all foreign 
subsidiaries were deemed to be zero at the transition date  
to IFRS on 2 May 2004, upon disposal of a foreign subsidiary, 
any gain or loss arising will include only those foreign exchange 
gains or losses attributable to years after that date. 
1.8 Goodwill 
On acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, the fair value of the 
consideration is allocated between the identifiable net tangible 
and intangible assets / liabilities on a fair value basis, with any 
excess consideration representing goodwill. Goodwill in respect 
of subsidiaries is capitalised as goodwill on the balance sheet; 
goodwill relating to associates is capitalised in investments in 
associates as part of the carrying value of the associate. 
Goodwill is not amortised, but instead is reviewed annually for 
impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the 
income statement and is not subsequently reversed. 
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate the attributable amount 
of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss  
on disposal. 
1.9 Intangible assets 
Acquired intangibles 
Acquired intangibles comprise brand names purchased as  
part of acquisitions of businesses and are capitalised and 
amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line 
basis. Acquired intangibles are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in 
value or estimated loss on disposal. Amortisation is provided  
to write off the cost of assets on a straight line basis up to  
30 years. 
Other intangible assets: computer software 
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs 
incurred both to acquire and bring into use the specific software. 
Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of assets on a 
straight line basis over their estimated useful lives of between 
three and seven years. Costs associated with developing or 
maintaining computer software are recognised as an expense 
as incurred unless they increase the future economic benefits  
of the asset, in which case they are capitalised. Computer 
software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and, 
where appropriate, provision for impairment in value or 
estimated loss on disposal. 
Internally generated computer software is capitalised at cost  
if the project is technically and commercially feasible and the 
economic benefits which are expected to be generated  
exceed one year. The expenditure capitalised includes the  
cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion  
of overheads. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when 
it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the 
specific asset to which it relates. Amortisation is provided to 
write off the cost of assets on a straight line basis between  
three and seven years. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 70
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
1.10  Property, plant & equipment 
Property, plant & equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in 
value or estimated loss on disposal. Depreciation is provided to 
write off the cost of the assets by equal instalments over their 
estimated useful lives. The rates used are: 
Short leasehold  
property – over the term of the lease 
Freehold and long  
leasehold buildings – between 1 ⅔% and 2½% per annum 
Fixtures, fittings  
and equipment – between 10% and 33 ⅓% per annum 
No depreciation is provided on freehold and long leasehold land 
or on assets in the course of construction. 
Property, plant & equipment are assessed on an ongoing  
basis to determine whether circumstances exist that could lead 
to the conclusion that the net book value is not supportable. 
Where assets are to be taken out of use, an impairment  
charge is levied. Where useful lives of assets are shortened,  
an estimate is made of their new lives and an accelerated 
depreciation charge is levied. Where the property, plant & 
equipment form part of a separate cash generating unit (CGU), 
such as a store or group of stores, and business indicators exist 
which could lead to the conclusions that the net book value is 
not supportable, the recoverable amount of the CGU is 
determined by calculating its value in use. The value in use  
is calculated by applying discounted cash flow modelling to 
management’s projection of future profitability and any 
impairment is determined by comparing the net book value  
with the value in use. 
1.11  Investments and other financial assets 
The Group’s financial assets comprise cash and cash 
equivalents, short term investments and those receivables 
which involve a contractual right to receive cash from external 
parties. Financial assets comprise all items shown in notes 14, 
15 and 16 with the exception of prepayments. Under the 
classifications stipulated by IAS 39, short term investments  
and trade and other receivables (excluding derivative financial 
assets) are classified as ‘available for sale’ and ‘loans and 
receivables’, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents and 
derivative financial instruments, which are further described in 
notes 1.14 and 1.16, are classified as ‘loans and receivables’ 
and ‘held for trading unless designated in a hedge relationship’, 
respectively. 
All purchases and sales of investments and other financial 
assets are recognised on the date that the Group becomes 
committed to make such purchase or sale (‘the trade date’). 
Investment in associates 
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of 
accounting from the date on which the power to exercise 
significant influence passes and are stated net of any 
impairment charges. 
Short term investments 
Investments are initially measured at fair value and then 
subsequently remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet 
date owing to occasional sales of such investments. The fair 
value of unlisted investments is estimated either by comparing 
recent arm’s length transactions or by using discounted cash 
flow analysis or other modelling techniques. Gains and losses 
arising from revaluation at the balance sheet date are 
recognised directly in equity. For unlisted investments a 
significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the 
investment below its cost is considered evidence of impairment. 
To the extent that any fair value losses are deemed permanent, 
such impairment is recognised in the income statement. Upon 
sale or impairment of the investments, any cumulative gains or 
losses held in equity are transferred to the income statement. 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables (excluding derivative financial 
assets) are recorded at cost less an allowance for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts and any other adjustments required to 
align cost to fair value. The carrying amount of trade receivables 
is reduced through the use of a provision account. A provision 
for bad and doubtful debts is made for specific receivables when 
there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to 
collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the 
invoice. Receivables that are not assessed individually for 
impairment are assessed for impairment on a collective basis 
using ageing analysis to determine the required provision.  
Bad debts are written off when identified. 
1.12  Taxation 
Current taxation 
Current taxation is the expected tax payable on the taxable 
income for the year, using prevailing tax rates and adjusted  
for any tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred taxation 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against 
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such 
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition 
(other than in a business combination) of other assets and 
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor  
the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except  
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary 
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will 
not reverse in the foreseeable future. No provision is made  
for tax which would have been payable on the distribution of 
retained profits of overseas subsidiaries or associated 
undertakings where it has been determined that these profits 
will not be distributed in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other 
when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax 
jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, 
except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to 
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. 
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are 
expected to apply in the years in which the timing differences 
are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have 
been enacted, or substantially enacted by the balance sheet 
date. Deferred tax balances are not discounted. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 71
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
1.13  Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost and net 
realisable value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to 
their present location and condition, both types of cost being 
measured using a weighted average cost formula. Net 
realisable value represents the estimated selling price less  
all estimated and directly attributable costs of completion and 
costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 
1.14  Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, 
bank overdrafts and short term highly liquid deposits with a 
maturity of three months or less and which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts, which 
form part of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the 
cash flow statement, are shown under current liabilities. 
1.15  Borrowings and other financial liabilities 
The Group’s financial liabilities are those which involve a 
contractual obligation to deliver cash to external parties at a 
future date. Financial liabilities comprise all items shown in 
notes 17, 18 and 19 with the exception of other taxation and 
social security, deferred income from customer support 
agreements, other deferred income and other non-financial 
creditors. Under the classifications stipulated by IAS 39, 
borrowings, finance lease obligations and trade and other 
payables (excluding derivative financial liabilities) are classified 
as ‘financial liabilities measured at amortised cost’. Derivative 
financial instruments, which are described further in note 1.16 
below, are classified as ‘held for trading unless designated in  
a hedge relationship’. 
Borrowings 
Borrowings are initially recorded at the consideration received 
less directly attributable transaction costs. Transaction costs  
are amortised through the income statement using the effective 
interest method and the unamortised balance is included as part 
of the related borrowing at the balance sheet date. A fair value 
adjustment is made to the borrowing where hedge accounting, 
as described in note 1.16 below, has been applied. 
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables (excluding derivative financial 
liabilities) are recorded at cost. Derivative financial instruments, 
which includes put options over equity held by minority 
shareholders, are initially recorded at fair value and then 
subsequently remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet 
date and are held within assets or liabilities as appropriate. 
Gains and losses arising from revaluation at the balance sheet 
date are recognised in the income statement unless the 
derivatives are designated as hedges and such hedges  
are proved to be effective. 
1.16  Derivative financial instruments and  
hedge accounting 
Derivative financial instruments held by the Group are initially 
recognised in the balance sheet at fair value within assets or 
liabilities as appropriate and then subsequently remeasured to 
fair value at each balance sheet date. Gains and losses arising 
from revaluation at the balance sheet date are recognised in the 
income statement unless the derivatives are designated as 
hedges and such hedges are proved to be effective. 
Derivatives are classified as non-current assets or liabilities 
where a hedge relationship is identified and the remaining 
maturity of the hedged item is greater than 12 months from  
the balance sheet date. Derivatives are classified as current 
assets or liabilities in all other circumstances. 
Fair values are derived from market values. The fair value  
of financial instruments traded in active markets is based  
on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. 
Hedge accounting 
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial  
risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign 
currency exchange rates. The Group uses derivative financial 
instruments such as interest rate swaps, options, cross currency 
swaps and forward currency contracts to hedge these risks.  
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for 
speculative purposes. 
Where hedge accounting is to be applied, the Group formally 
designates and documents the hedge relationship to which  
the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk 
management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer meets 
the criteria for hedge accounting. 
The accounting treatment of derivatives that qualify for hedge 
accounting is dependent on how they are designated.  
The different designations and accounting treatments are 
explained below: 
Fair value hedges 
The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge the exposure to 
changes in the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities. 
Derivative financial instruments that meet the ‘fair value’ 
hedging requirements are recognised in the balance sheet at 
fair value with corresponding fair value movements recognised 
within finance income / costs in the income statement. For an 
effective fair value hedge, the hedged item is adjusted for 
changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged  
with the corresponding entry in the income statement. To the 
extent that the designated hedge relationship is effective, such 
amounts in the income statement offset each other. As a result, 
only the ineffective element of any designated hedging 
relationship impacts the income statement. If the hedge no 
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment 
to the carrying amount of the hedged item for which the effective 
interest method is used is amortised to the income statement 
over the period to maturity. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 72
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
Cash flow hedges 
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to  
hedge the foreign currency exposure on inventory ordered  
and purchased and certain sales of inventory. It is Group policy 
to hedge between 80% and 100% of committed purchase 
orders and sales. At any point in time the Group also hedges  
up to 80% of its estimated foreign currency exposure in respect 
of forecast purchases and sales for the subsequent 12 months. 
Orders and purchases as well as sales are each considered  
to be separately hedged transactions. 
Derivative financial instruments that qualify for such cash  
flow hedging are initially recognised on the balance sheet with 
gains and losses relating to the remeasurement of the effective 
portion of the hedge being deferred in equity. To the extent that 
such items are ineffectively hedged, gains or losses relating to 
the ineffective portion are recognised in the income statement. 
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement 
when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss (i.e. when  
a purchase or sale is made). For inventory purchases, the 
associated gains or losses on the derivative that had  
previously been recognised in equity are included in the  
initial measurement of inventory. For sales, the gains or  
losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised  
in equity are included in the income statement in the year  
in which the sale is made. 
Net investment hedges 
The Group uses cross currency forward contracts and cross 
currency swaps to hedge its currency risk on the translation of 
net investments in foreign entities. Gains and losses arising on 
the retranslation of the investments and the related derivatives 
are recognised in equity. However, this is on the basis that the 
hedging requirements of IAS 39 are met and the hedging 
relationship is effective. To the extent that such items are 
ineffectively hedged, gains or losses relating to the ineffective 
portion are recognised within the income statement. 
1.17  Retirement benefit obligations 
Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 
and contributions made to state pension schemes for certain 
overseas employees are charged to the income statement on 
an accruals basis when employees have rendered service 
entitling them to the contributions. 
For defined benefit pension schemes, the difference between 
the market value of the assets and the present value of the 
accrued pension liabilities is shown as an asset or liability in  
the consolidated balance sheet. The calculation of the present 
value is determined using the projected unit credit method. 
Differences between the actual and expected return on assets 
are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income and expense together with remeasurements arising 
from actuarial gains and losses. Such amounts are not 
reclassified to the income statement in subsequent years. 
Defined benefit costs recognised in the income statement 
comprise mainly net interest expense or income with such 
interest being recognised within finance costs. Net interest  
is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined 
benefit liability or asset taking into account any changes in  
the net defined benefit obligation during the year as a result  
of contribution or benefit payments.  
 
1.18  Share-based payments 
The Group operates a variety of equity-settled share-based 
compensation plans. The plans comprise share option plans 
(with non-market performance conditions attached) and 
performance share award plans (with and without market 
performance conditions attached). 
The awards are measured at fair value at the date of grant  
using either the Black Scholes model or Monte Carlo simulations. 
This fair value is expensed in the income statement on  
a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an  
estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest  
as adjusted for any service and non-market conditions. 
1.19  Estimates, judgements and critical accounting 
policies 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles requires management 
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of 
contingent assets and liabilities. Significant items subject to 
such assumptions and estimates include the useful lives of 
assets; the measurement and recognition of provisions; the 
recognition of deferred tax assets; and liabilities for potential 
corporation tax. Actual results could differ from these estimates 
and any subsequent changes are accounted for with an effect 
on income at the time such updated information becomes 
available. The most critical accounting policies in determining 
the financial condition and results of the Group are those 
requiring the greatest degree of subjective or complex 
judgements. These relate to revenue recognition, inventory 
valuation, onerous lease costs, the valuation of goodwill, 
acquired intangible assets and property, plant & equipment, 
share-based payments, post-retirement benefits and taxation, 
and are set out below. 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue earned from the sale of customer support agreements 
is recognised over the term of the contracts when the Group 
obtains the right to consideration as a result of performance of 
its contractual obligations. Revenue in any one year is therefore 
recognised to match the proportion of the expected costs of 
fulfilling the Group’s total obligations under the agreements.  
An estimate of the degree of performance of these contractual 
obligations is determined by reference to extensive historical 
claims data. Reliance on historical data assumes that current 
and future experience will follow past trends. The directors 
consider that the quantity and quality of data available provides 
an appropriate proxy for current trends. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 73
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
Inventory valuation 
Inventories are valued at the lower of average cost and net 
realisable value. Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories  
to their present location and condition, both types of cost  
being measured using a weighted average cost formula.  
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less  
all estimated and directly attributable costs of completion and 
costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.  
Net realisable value includes, where necessary, provisions for 
slow moving and damaged inventory. The provision represents 
the difference between the cost of stock and its estimated net 
realisable value, based on ageing. Calculation of these 
provisions requires judgements to be made which include 
forecast consumer demand, the promotional, competitive  
and economic environment and inventory loss trends. 
Provisions and accruals for onerous leases 
If the Group vacates a store or other property prior to the expiry 
of the related lease, or a lease forms part of a separate CGU 
whereby the carrying value of that CGU is not considered 
supportable, it records a provision or accrual for the expected 
lease payments that the Group will incur prior to assignment or 
sublease of the property. Such a calculation requires a 
judgement as to the timing and duration of the expected vacant 
periods and the amount and timing of future potential sublease 
income. When making these judgements, the directors consider 
a number of factors, including the landlord, the location and 
condition of the property, the terms of the lease, the specific 
marketplace demand and the economic environment. 
Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant & 
equipment impairment reviews 
Goodwill is required to be valued annually to assess the 
requirement for potential impairment. Other assets are 
assessed on an ongoing basis to determine whether 
circumstances exist that could lead to the conclusion that the 
net book value of such assets is not supportable. Impairment 
testing on goodwill is carried out in accordance with the 
methodology described in note 9. Such calculations require 
judgement relating to the appropriate discount factors and long 
term growth prevalent in a particular market as well as short  
and medium term business plans. The directors draw  
upon experience as well as external resources in making  
these judgements. 
In assessing impairment of intangible assets and property,  
plant & equipment, discounted cash flow methods are used as 
described in note 1.10. Judgement is required in determining 
the appropriate discount factors as well as the short and 
medium term business plans. As for goodwill, the directors  
draw upon experience and external resources in making  
these judgements. 
Share-based payments 
The charge for share-based payments is calculated by 
estimating the fair value of the award at the date of grant using 
either the Binomial or Black Scholes option pricing model or the 
Monte Carlo simulation. The option valuation models used 
require highly subjective assumptions to be made including the 
future volatility of the Company’s share price, expected dividend 
yields, risk-free interest rates, expected staff turnover and the 
likelihood of non-market vesting conditions being met. The 
directors draw upon a variety of external sources to aid in the 
determination of the appropriate data to use in such 
calculations. 
Defined benefit pension schemes 
The surplus or deficit in the UK defined benefit pension scheme 
that is recognised through the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income and expense is subject to a number  
of assumptions and uncertainties. The calculated liabilities  
of the scheme are based on assumptions regarding salary 
increases, inflation rates, discount rates and member longevity.  
Such assumptions are based on actuarial advice and are 
benchmarked against similar pension schemes. 
Taxation 
Tax laws that apply to the Group’s businesses may be 
amended by the relevant authorities, for example as a result  
of changes in fiscal circumstances or priorities. Such potential 
amendments and their application to the Group are monitored 
regularly and the requirement for recognition of any liabilities 
assessed where necessary. The Group is subject to income 
taxes in a number of different jurisdictions and judgement  
is required in determining the appropriate provision for 
transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. 
In such circumstances, the Group recognises liabilities for 
anticipated taxes due based on best information available  
and where the anticipated liability is probable and estimable. 
Where the final outcome of such matters differs from the 
amounts initially recorded, any differences will impact the 
income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year to which  
such determination is made. Where the potential liabilities  
are not considered probable, the amount at risk is disclosed 
unless an adverse outcome is considered remote. 
Deferred tax is recognised on taxable losses based on  
the expected ability to utilise such losses. This ability takes 
account of the business plans for the relevant companies, 
potential uncertainties around the longer term aspects of these 
business plans, any expiry of taxable benefits and potential 
future volatility in the local tax regimes. 
1.20  New accounting standards and interpretations 
The following standards have been adopted by the Group for 
the first time in the current financial year: 
• Amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’: The main effect 
of the amendment is to replace interest cost and expected 
return on plan assets with a single net interest amount which 
is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined 
benefit liability. As a result of the restatement, the net interest 
cost for 2012/13 increased by £5.7 million from £7.4 million  
to £13.1 million. There was no change in the net retirement 
benefit obligation nor on the Group’s net assets. 
In addition, the following new or amended accounting standards 
have been implemented in the current year, which have either 
had no impact on reported figures or only affect disclosure: 
• the amendment to IAS 1, ‘Financial statement presentation’ 
regarding other comprehensive income requires items to  
be grouped on the basis of whether they may potentially  
be reclassed to the income statement in the future; and 
• IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’ provides a single source 
of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for 
use across all IFRSs. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 74
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
The following new standards and amendments to existing 
standards, which are applicable to the Group, are also effective, 
but at the present time are not expected to have any material 
effect, however may impact acquisitions in the future: 
• IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’; and  
• IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’  
The following new standard, which is applicable to the Group, 
has been published but is not yet effective and has not yet been 
adopted by the EU: 
• IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’. This standard is the first  
step in the process to replace IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement’. IFRS 9 introduces new 
requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets 
and affects the accounting for financial assets.  
Certain other amendments to existing standards and 
interpretations were issued during the year which either do  
not apply to the Group or are not expected to have any  
material effect. 
2 Segmental analysis 
The Group’s operating segments have been determined based 
on the information reported to the Board. This information is 
predominantly based on geographical areas which are either 
managed separately or have similar trading characteristics  
such that they can be aggregated together into one segment. 
The Group evaluates each operating segment based on 
underlying operating profits which excludes those items 
described in note 1.1.  
On 5 September 2013, 10 October 2013 and 27 September 
2013, the Group announced the sales of its Electroworld 
Turkey, Unieuro S.p.A. (Unieuro) and PIXmania S.A.S. 
(PIXmania) operations which subsequently completed on  
31 October 2013, 29 November 2013 and 31 December 2013, 
respectively. All three businesses have been classified as 
discontinued operations and hence are now excluded from the 
reportable segments listed below. Electroworld Turkey and 
Unieuro were previously reported within the Southern Europe 
segment (which is now renamed ‘Greece’ to reflect its sole 
constituent). Further information on these sale transactions  
is set out in note 27. In addition, on 16 May 2014, the Group 
signed an agreement to sell its Electroworld operations in  
the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Accordingly these  
businesses have been classified as discontinued operations 
and excluded from the reportable segments listed below with 
the balance sheets being treated as assets held for sale as  
at 30 April 2014. As a result, the ‘Northern Europe’ division  
has been renamed ‘Nordics’. 
All segments are involved in the multi-channel sale of high 
technology consumer electronics, personal computers, 
domestic appliances, photographic equipment, communication 
products and related financial and after sales services.  
The principal categories of customer are retail, business  
to business (B2B) and online.  
The Group’s reportable segments have been identified  
as follows: 
• UK & Ireland comprises electrical and computing retail chains 
as well as in-store B2B activities. The division is engaged 
predominantly in multi-channel retail sales, associated 
peripherals and services and related financial and after  
sales services. The division also includes operations in 
airports across Europe (the majority of which are in the  
UK), all of which are managed from the UK. 
• Nordics operates in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, 
Iceland, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The division 
engages in multi-channel retail sales and provides related 
product support services to its customers. It also engages  
in B2B sales of computer hardware, software and services. 
Across the region, the division operates a successful 
franchise business, typically in smaller markets.  
• Greece comprises retail sales (including multi-channel sales) 
and provides related product support services to its 
customers. In addition, it engages in B2B sales of computer 
hardware, software and services and also has franchise 
operations. 
Businesses exited: in respect of PC City Spain because of  
the closure rather than disposal of these operations, they do  
not meet the definition of discontinued operations as stipulated 
by IFRS 5. Equanet was sold rather than closed, however, 
because it did not form a major line of business under the 
definitions of IFRS 5, it also did not meet the definitions of 
discontinued operations. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 75
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
2 Segmental analysis (continued) 
(a) Income statement 
     2013/14 
 
Underlying 
external 
revenue 
 £million 
Inter- 
segmental 
 revenue 
 £million 
Total 
underlying  
 revenue 
 £million 
Underlying 
 profit / (loss) 
 £million 
Total 
 profit 
/ (loss) 
 £million 
UK & Ireland 4,148.6 66.9 4,215.5 141.0 133.9 
Nordics 2,789.8 3.3 2,793.1 116.9 111.5 
Greece 279.2 – 279.2 (10.5) (11.5) 
Eliminations – (70.2) (70.2) – – 
Results before central costs and property losses 7,217.6 – 7,217.6 247.4 233.9 
Central costs     (19.2) (19.2) 
Property losses     (25.4) (25.4) 
Operating profit    202.8 189.3 
Finance income    2.9 2.9 
Finance costs     (39.5) (59.3) 
Profit before tax for the year    166.2 132.9 
 
Total external revenue for the Group of £7,217.7 million includes £0.1 million relating to businesses exited. 
Reconciliation of underlying profit to total profit  
        2013/14 
 
Underlying 
profit / 
 (loss) 
£million 
Businesses 
exited 
£million 
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles 
£million 
Net 
restructuring 
charges 
£million 
 Business 
impairment 
charges 
£million 
Other items 
£million 
Non- 
operating 
items 
£million 
Total 
profit / (loss) 
£million 
UK & Ireland 141.0 – – (8.7) – 1.6 – 133.9 
Nordics 116.9 – – – – (5.4) – 111.5 
Greece (10.5) – (0.7) – – (0.3) – (11.5) 
Operating profit before central costs 
and property losses 247.4 – (0.7) (8.7) – (4.1) – 233.9 
Central costs  (19.2) – – – – – – (19.2) 
Property losses  (25.4) – – – – – – (25.4) 
Operating profit  202.8 – (0.7) (8.7) – (4.1) – 189.3 
Finance income 2.9 – – – – – – 2.9 
Finance costs  (39.5) – – – – – (19.8) (59.3) 
Profit before tax for the year 166.2 – (0.7) (8.7) – (4.1) (19.8) 132.9 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 76
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
2 Segmental analysis (continued) 
     
2012/13 
Restated 
  
Underlying 
external 
revenue 
£million 
Inter-
segmental 
revenue 
£million 
Underlying 
 revenue 
 £million 
Underlying 
profit / (loss) 
£million 
Total 
 profit / (loss) 
£million 
UK & Ireland 4,014.5 47.3 4,061.8 113.3 84.4 
Nordics 2,733.3 5.8 2,739.1 125.4 122.9 
Greece 278.8 – 278.8 (11.0) (13.1) 
Eliminations – (53.1) (53.1) – – 
Results before central costs and property losses 7,026.6 – 7,026.6 227.7 194.2 
Central costs     (16.9) (19.2) 
Property losses     (24.4) (24.4) 
Operating profit    186.4 150.6 
Loss on sale of business    – (9.6) 
Finance income    7.2 10.5 
Finance costs     (42.6) (64.9) 
Profit before tax for the year    151.0 86.6 
 
Total external revenue for the Group of £7,109.2 million includes £82.6 million relating to businesses exited. 
Reconciliation of underlying profit to total profit  
        
2012/13 
Restated 
 
Underlying 
profit / 
 (loss) 
£million 
Businesses 
exited 
 £million 
Amortisation 
of acquired 
intangibles 
£million 
Net 
restructuring 
charges 
£million 
 Business 
impairment 
charges 
£million 
Other items 
£million 
Non- 
 operating 
items 
£million 
Total 
profit / (loss) 
£million 
UK & Ireland 113.3 – (0.3) (22.9) (6.6) 0.9 – 84.4 
Nordics 125.4 – – – (2.5) – – 122.9 
Greece (11.0) – (0.7) – – (1.4) – (13.1) 
Operating profit before central costs 
and property losses 227.7 – (1.0) (22.9) (9.1) (0.5) – 194.2 
Central costs  (16.9) (0.4) – (1.9) – – – (19.2) 
Property losses  (24.4) – – – – – – (24.4) 
Operating profit 186.4 (0.4) (1.0) (24.8) (9.1) (0.5) – 150.6 
Loss on sale of business – – – – – – (9.6) (9.6) 
Finance income 7.2 0.3 – – – – 3.0 10.5 
Finance costs  (42.6) – – – – – (22.3) (64.9) 
Profit before tax for the year 151.0 (0.1) (1.0) (24.8) (9.1) (0.5) (28.9) 86.6 
 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 77
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
2 Segmental analysis (continued) 
(b) Geographical analysis  
Revenues are allocated to countries according to the entity’s country of domicile. Revenue generated by the UK business was 
£3,997.7 million (2012/13 £3,949.6 million). Revenue by destination is not materially different to that shown by domicile. 
Non-current assets comprise property, plant & equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, investments in associates and non-current 
trade and other receivables. Non-current assets held by the UK were £258.6 million (2013 £318.8 million). Non-current assets held 
by Nordics were £692.0 million (2013 £763.6 million) and comprised predominantly goodwill (as disclosed in note 9) which has not 
been allocated to individual countries. 
(c) Balance sheet  
     2014 
 
Segment 
 assets 
 £million 
Investment 
 in associates 
 £million 
Total 
 segment 
 assets 
 £million 
Segment 
 liabilities 
 £million 
 Net assets / 
 (liabilities) 
 £million 
UK & Ireland 2,128.5 – 2,128.5 (1,250.0) 878.5 
Nordics 1,042.7 0.5 1,043.2 (397.9) 645.3 
Greece 131.0 – 131.0 (126.9) 4.1 
Central 606.2 – 606.2 (2,106.2) (1,500.0) 
Continuing operations  3,908.4 0.5 3,908.9 (3,881.0) 27.9 
Discontinued operations 32.4 – 32.4 (46.9) (14.5) 
Eliminations (1,426.2) – (1,426.2) 1,426.2 – 
 2,514.6 0.5 2,515.1 (2,501.7) 13.4 
 
     
2013 
Re-presented 
 
Segment 
assets 
 £million 
Investment 
 in associates 
£million 
Total 
 segment 
assets 
 £million 
Segment 
liabilities 
£million 
 Net assets / 
(liabilities) 
£million 
UK & Ireland 2,096.0 – 2,096.0 (1,269.5) 826.5 
Nordics 1,162.5 0.5 1,163.0 (517.5) 645.5 
Greece 140.2 – 140.2 (128.5) 11.7 
Central 823.5 – 823.5 (2,107.1) (1,283.6) 
Continuing operations  4,222.2 0.5 4,222.7 (4,022.6) 200.1 
Discontinued operations 361.8 – 361.8 (414.6) (52.8) 
Eliminations (1,579.8) – (1,579.8) 1,579.8 – 
 3,004.2 0.5 3,004.7 (2,857.4) 147.3 
 
Central assets and liabilities predominantly comprise intersegment balances, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, net retirement 
benefit obligations, derivative financial instruments and tax assets and liabilities.  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 78
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
2 Segmental analysis (continued) 
(d) Other information 
     2013/14 
  Additions    
 
Intangible 
assets 
£million 
Property, 
 plant & 
equipment 
£million 
Depreciation 
£million 
Amortisation 
£million 
Share-based 
payments 
£million 
UK & Ireland 3.6 28.4 72.0 7.8 2.6 
Nordics 10.4 27.7 24.7 5.8 1.1 
Greece 0.6 1.2 5.5 1.2 0.3 
Central – 0.1 0.1 – 1.3 
Continuing operations 14.6 57.4 102.3 14.8 5.3 
Discontinued operations 1.8 4.9 8.2 1.5 (0.2) 
 16.4 62.3 110.5 16.3 5.1 
 
     
2012/13 
Re-presented 
  Additions    
 
Intangible 
assets 
 £million 
Property, 
 plant & 
equipment 
£million 
Depreciation 
£million 
Amortisation 
£million 
Share-based 
payments 
£million 
UK & Ireland 5.9 46.8 69.5 8.6 2.3 
Nordics 6.7 22.8 25.0 4.6 0.5 
Greece 0.4 1.6 5.9 1.3 0.1 
Central – 0.1 0.1 – 0.7 
Continuing operations 13.0 71.3 100.5 14.5 3.6 
Discontinued operations 5.0 11.2 16.0 7.2 0.5 
 18.0 82.5 116.5 21.7 4.1 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 79
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
3 Revenue and operating profit  
   
2013/14 
   
2012/13 
Re-presented 
 
Underlying 
£million 
Non-
underlying 
£million 
 Total 
£million 
Underlying 
£million 
Non-
underlying 
 £million 
 Total 
 £million 
Revenue 7,217.6 0.1 7,217.7 7,026.6 82.6 7,109.2 
Cost of sales (6,678.3) – (6,678.3) (6,512.0) (68.6) (6,580.6) 
Gross profit  539.3 0.1 539.4 514.6 14.0 528.6 
Distribution costs (83.1) – (83.1) (90.5) (2.3) (92.8) 
Administrative expenses (228.0) (13.6) (241.6) (213.3) (47.5) (260.8) 
Other operating charge (25.4) – (25.4) (24.4) – (24.4) 
Operating profit  202.8 (13.5) 189.3 186.4 (35.8) 150.6 
 
Non-underlying items comprise amortisation of acquired intangibles of £0.7 million (2012/13 £1.0 million), included within 
administrative expenses. Such items are described further in note 4. Included within underlying cost of sales, distribution costs and 
administrative expenses is amortisation of other intangibles of £9.8 million, £0.5 million and £3.7 million, respectively (2012/13 £8.2 
million, £1.5 million and £3.9 million, respectively). 
   
2013/14 
   
2012/13 
Re-presented 
 
Underlying 
£million 
Businesses 
exited 
£million 
 Total 
£million 
Underlying 
£million 
Businesses 
exited  
 £million 
 Total 
 £million 
Sale of goods  6,782.4 – 6,782.4 6,626.3 80.8 6,707.1 
Revenue from services  435.2 0.1 435.3 400.3 1.8 402.1 
 7,217.6 0.1 7,217.7 7,026.6 82.6 7,109.2 
 
Revenue from services predominantly comprises those relating to customer support agreements, delivery and installation, product 
repairs and product support.  
 
   
2013/14 
   
2012/13 
Re-presented 
 
Underlying 
£million 
Businesses 
exited 
£million 
 Total 
£million 
Underlying 
£million 
Businesses 
exited  
 £million 
 Total 
 £million 
Inventories recognised as an expense 5,350.1 – 5,350.1 5,273.4 71.7 5,345.1 
Cost of inventory write-down 25.1 – 25.1 25.7 0.2 25.9 
Rentals paid under operating leases:       
 Plant and machinery 8.5 – 8.5 6.7 – 6.7 
 Property – non-contingent rent 292.3 – 292.3 298.1 0.4 298.5 
 Property – contingent rent 17.9 – 17.9 15.8 – 15.8 
Rentals received under operating leases:       
 Property – subleases (4.1) – (4.1) (4.5) – (4.5) 
 
 
 
2013/14 
 
£million 
2012/13 
Re-presented 
£million 
Auditor’s remuneration    
 Audit services – Group financial statements 0.5 0.5 
  – Subsidiary financial statements 0.4 0.3 
Total audit fees  0.9 0.8 
 Non-audit services pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.3 
 Other  0.1 – 
Total fees paid to the auditor 1.2 1.1 
 
In addition to the above fees, £0.1 million of audit fees were paid to the auditor in respect of the discontinued operations (2012/13 
£0.3 million). 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 80
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
4 Non-underlying items 
 Note 
Year ended 
 30 April 2014 
 
£million 
Year ended 
 30 April 2013 
Restated 
£million 
Included in operating profit:     
 Businesses exited  (i) – (0.4) 
 Amortisation of acquired intangibles  (0.7) (1.0) 
 Net restructuring charges (ii) (8.7) (24.8) 
 Business impairment charges (iii) – (9.1) 
 Other items (iv) (4.1) (0.5) 
  (13.5) (35.8) 
    
Loss on sale of business (v) – (9.6) 
    
Included in net finance costs:    
 Businesses exited  (i) – 0.3 
 Net non-cash finance costs on defined benefit pension schemes (vi) (17.1) (13.1) 
 Net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments (vii) – (1.9) 
 Accelerated amortisation of facility fees (viii) (2.0) – 
 2012 Bonds and 2015 Notes redemption costs and fees (viii) – (4.3) 
 Finance lease interest on onerous lease (ix) (0.7) – 
  (19.8) (19.0) 
    
Total impact on profit / (loss) before tax  (33.3) (64.4) 
    
Tax on other non-underlying items  5.4 10.3 
Total impact on profit / (loss) after tax  (27.9) (54.1) 
 
(i) Businesses exited: comprises the trading results of exited businesses where they do not meet the criteria under IFRS 5 for 
separate disclosure as discontinued operations and comprise: 
• Equanet, which was sold in March 2013 and which constituted the majority of the B2B activities of the UK & Ireland division; 
and 
• PC City Spain which was closed in June 2011 whereby these activities comprise the unwinding of residual deferred income 
and related costs. 
 Discontinued operations, which comprise the results of Electroworld Turkey, Unieuro, PIXmania and Central Europe (comprising 
Electroworld Czech Republic and Electroworld Slovakia) are shown separately after post-tax results in accordance with IFRS 5 
and are described further in note 8. 
(ii) Net restructuring charges – strategic reorganisation: 
 
Year ended 
 30 April 2014 
 
 £million 
Year ended 
 30 April 2013 
Re-presented 
 £million 
Asset impairments (8.7) (5.6) 
Property charges – (14.3) 
Other charges – (4.9) 
 (8.7) (24.8) 
 
 Year ended 30 April 2014: 
 Charges comprise asset impairments of other intangibles work in progress in respect of UK system costs which, following a 
revision in the Group’s systems strategy as a result of the disposals of businesses which have occurred during the year have 
been concluded as no longer having value. 
 Year ended 30 April 2013: 
 Charges related predominantly to the reorganisation of the remaining retained UK B2B operations following the sale of Equanet 
for which the charges were £22.9 million. The charges related mainly to an onerous operating lease which was retained in 
respect of these sold operations together with related fixed asset write offs.  
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 81
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
4 Non-underlying items (continued) 
(iii) Business impairment charges: 
 
Year ended 
 30 April 2014 
 
 £million 
Year ended 
 30 April 2013 
 Re-presented 
 £million 
Goodwill – (6.6) 
Other assets – (2.5) 
 – (9.1) 
 
 Year ended 30 April 2013:  
 Related to the impairment of goodwill of a small UK B2B operation following the reorganisation and significant reduction in the 
UK & Ireland’s B2B operations following the sale of Equanet as well as the full write down of the investment in an associate 
following continued declining results. 
(iv) Other items comprise the following: 
 
Year ended 
 30 April 2014 
 
 £million 
Year ended 
30 April 2013 
Re-presented 
£million 
Investment remeasurement (5.4) – 
UK Riot related income  1.6 0.9 
Exceptional charges (0.3) (1.4) 
 (4.1) (0.5) 
 
 The investment remeasurement relates to an increase in deferred consideration payable on a business acquired in the Nordics 
in 2011/12 following better than expected actual and forecast trading. UK Riot related income comprises insurance recoveries in 
respect of charges incurred in 2011/12. 
(v)  Loss on sale of business: 
 Year ended 30 April 2013: 
 On 28 March 2013, the Group completed the disposal of its Equanet B2B operations (Equanet) to Kelway (UK) Limited for 
consideration of £4.2 million. The loss on disposal is analysed as follows: 
  £million 
Net assets disposed:  
 Goodwill 10.7 
 Other assets 1.7 
 12.4 
Loss on disposal (9.6) 
Consideration and costs 2.8 
  
Consideration  4.2 
Disposal fees and exit costs (1.4) 
Consideration and costs 2.8 
 
 As described in note (i), above, the disposal did not satisfy the requirements of IFRS 5 for treatment as a discontinued operation 
and accordingly the loss on disposal has been included within ‘continuing’ operations. 
(vi) Net non-cash financing costs on defined benefit pension schemes: Under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’, the net interest charge on 
defined benefit pension schemes is calculated by applying the corporate bond yield rates applicable on the last day of the 
previous financial year and to the net defined benefit liability. Corporate bond yield rates vary over time which in turn creates 
volatility in the income statement and balance sheet and results in a non-cash remeasurement cost which can be volatile due to 
corporate bond yield rates prevailing on a particular day and is also unrepresentative of the actual investment gains or losses 
made or the liabilities paid and payable. Consistent with a number of other companies, the accounting effects of these non-cash 
revaluations of net defined benefit pension liabilities have been excluded from underlying earnings. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 82
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
4 Non-underlying items (continued) 
(vii) Net fair value remeasurement gains and losses on revaluation of financial instruments: items excluded from underlying finance 
income and expense represent the gains and losses arising from the revaluation of derivative financial instruments under 
methodologies stipulated by IAS 39 compared with those on an accruals basis (the basis upon which all other items in the 
financial statements are prepared). Such a treatment is a form of revaluation gain or loss created by an assumption that the 
derivatives will be settled before their maturity. 
 Such gains and losses are unrealised and in the directors’ view also conflict with both the commercial reasons for entering into 
such arrangements as well as Group Treasury policy whereby early settlement in the majority of cases would amount to 
speculative use of derivatives.  
(viii) Year ended 30 April 2014: 
 On 19 May 2014, the Group signed a new revolving credit facility agreement (the New Facility) for £150 million. The New Facility 
is described further in notes 17 and 32. The New Facility replaced the pre-existing facility of £200 million and has triggered the 
acceleration of the amortisation of fees related to this facility which would otherwise have been charged evenly over the period  
to the pre-existing facility’s maturity in June 2015 and which have therefore been charged in 2013/14. 
 Year ended 30 April 2013: 
 On 20 September 2012, the Group repurchased £15.6 million in nominal amount of its 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds due 
November 2012 (the 2012 Bonds) as well as £49.4 million in nominal amount of its 8.75% Guaranteed Notes due August 2015 
(the 2015 Notes). The latter repurchase was funded by part of a new issue of £150 million 8.75% Guaranteed Notes due 
September 2017 (the 2017 Notes).  
 As a result of the repurchases of the 2012 Bonds and 2015 Notes, charges were incurred relating to the acceleration of the 
amortisation of fees from the 2012 Bonds and the 2015 Notes which would otherwise have been charged evenly over the period 
to the 2012 Bonds’ maturity in November 2012 and the 2015 Notes’ maturity in August 2015, together with a redemption 
premium. 
(ix) Other finance charges relate to onerous finance lease interest costs in respect of the reorganisation of the UK B2B operations 
which occurred in 2012/13 as described in (ii). 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 83
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
5 Net finance costs 
 Note
2013/14 
 
£million 
2012/13 
Restated 
£million 
Bank and other interest receivable:   
 Non-underlying: businesses exited  * – 0.3 
 Underlying (ii) 2.9 7.2 
Fair value remeasurement gains on financial instruments *(iv) – 3.0 
Finance income 2.9 10.5 
   
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 interest and related charges – (4.9) 
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 interest and related charges (9.5) (11.4) 
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 interest and related charges (13.9) (8.5) 
Bank loans, overdrafts and other finance charges (iii) (11.0) (11.8) 
Finance lease interest payable:   
 Non-underlying * (0.7) – 
 Underlying  (5.1) (6.0) 
Net interest expense on defined benefit obligations  * (17.1) (13.1) 
Fair value remeasurement losses on financial instruments *(iv) – (4.9) 
Accelerated amortisation of facility fees * (2.0) – 
2012 Bonds and 2015 Notes redemption costs and fees * – (4.3) 
Finance costs (59.3) (64.9) 
   
Total net finance costs  (56.4) (54.4) 
   
Underlying total net finance costs  (i) (36.6) (35.4) 
 
(i) Underlying total net finance costs exclude items marked *. See note 4 for a description of such items. Net finance costs for the 
businesses exited comprise bank and other interest receivable and interest on bank loans and overdrafts.  
(ii) Bank and other interest receivable comprise: 
 
2013/14 
£million 
2012/13 
£million 
Interest on cash and cash equivalents and short term investments  1.5 1.7 
Exchange gains 1.4 – 
Derivative interest income  – 5.5 
 2.9 7.2 
 
 Derivative interest income includes amounts relating to the remeasurement of financial instruments on an accruals basis. 
Included within net exchange gains and derivative interest income is a loss of £19.0 million and an income of £nil, respectively 
(2012/13 £nil and an income of £2.8 million, respectively) from financial instruments not in a designated hedging relationship 
under the rules stipulated by IAS 39. 
   
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 84
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
5 Net finance costs (continued)  
(iii)  Bank loans, overdrafts and other interest payable comprise: 
 
2013/14 
£million 
2012/13 
£million 
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (11.0) (7.6) 
Exchange losses – (0.8) 
Derivative interest expense – (3.4) 
 (11.0) (11.8) 
 
 Included within exchange losses are losses of £nil million (2012/13 losses of £8.0 million) which is a natural offset for gains 
arising from financial instruments not in a formal designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39. 
 Derivative interest expense includes amounts relating to the remeasurement of financial instruments on an accruals basis. 
Included within derivative interest expense is a £nil charge (2012/13 £3.4 million) from financial instruments not in a designated 
hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39. 
(iv)  Fair value remeasurement gains and losses on financial instruments include losses of £nil (2012/13 £2.4 million) which are not in 
a designated hedging relationship under the rules stipulated by IAS 39. 
(v)  Interest income of £1.4 million (2012/13 £2.0 million) and expense of £42.2 million (2012/13 £38.9 million) is included within net 
finance costs relating to financial assets and liabilities, respectively not held at fair value through the Income Statement. 
6 Employees 
Staff costs for the year were: 
 
2013/14 
 
 £million 
2012/13 
Re-presented 
 £million 
Wages and salaries 631.6 628.1 
Social security costs 67.6 66.4 
Other pension costs  17.9 19.3 
 717.1 713.8 
 
The average number of employees, including part-time employees, was: 
 
2013/14 
 
Number 
2012/13 
Re-presented 
Number 
UK & Ireland  21,420 20,162 
Nordics 8,798 8,147 
Greece 1,750 1,681 
Central 432 682 
 32,400 30,672 
 
The average number of employees for Central includes 1 (2012/13 300) relating to businesses exited which in 2012/13 were 
previously reported within the divisions to which the businesses related. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 85
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
7 Tax  
(a) Income tax expense  
  
2013/14 
 
£million 
2012/13 
Restated 
£million 
Current tax   
UK corporation tax at 22.84%
(ii) 
(2012/13 23.92%) 13.7 0.3 
Overseas taxation 18.0 31.7 
Adjustment in respect of earlier years:    
 UK corporation tax (0.2) – 
 Overseas taxation – (0.9) 
 31.5 31.1 
Deferred tax    
Current year  – underlying 21.5 15.5 
  – non-underlying * (7.6) (10.3) 
Adjustment in respect of earlier years:   
 UK corporation tax – underlying (4.0) 6.4 
  – non-underlying * 2.2 – 
 Overseas taxation 1.5 1.0 
 13.6 12.6 
   
Income tax expense – continuing operations 45.1 43.7 
   
Underlying income tax expense – continuing operations (i) 50.5 54.0 
 
(i) Underlying income tax expense excludes those items marked *. Further information on these items is shown in note 4.  
(ii) The UK corporation tax rate for the year was 23% for the period up to 31 March 2014 and 21% thereafter (2012/13 24% for the period up to 31 March 2013 and 23% 
thereafter). 
 
A reconciliation of the notional to the actual income tax expense is set out below:  
   2013/14   2012/13  
 
 
Underlying 
£million 
Non- 
underlying* 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Underlying 
£million 
Non- 
underlying* 
£million 
Total 
£million  
Profit before tax 166.2 (33.3) 132.9 151.0 (64.4) 86.6 
       
Tax on profit at UK statutory rate of 22.84% (2012/13 23.92%) 38.0 (7.6) 30.4 36.1 (15.4) 20.7 
Non-qualifying depreciation 2.7 – 2.7 2.8 – 2.8 
Differences in effective overseas taxation rates 2.8 – 2.8 4.0 (0.2) 3.8 
Non-deductible charges  0.3 (1.0) (0.7) 1.2 4.0 5.2 
Non-taxable losses / (gains) on property disposals  2.5 (0.1) 2.4 0.5 – 0.5 
Overseas deferred tax not recognised  (0.7) 0.1 (0.6) 0.3 – 0.3 
Adjustment in respect of earlier years  (2.7) 2.2 (0.5) 6.4 – 6.4 
Effect of changes in statutory tax rates 6.1 (0.9) 5.2 1.7 (0.2) 1.5 
Other differences  1.5 1.9 3.4 1.0 1.5 2.5 
Income tax expense  50.5 (5.4) 45.1 54.0 (10.3) 43.7 
 
The effective tax rate on underlying earnings of 30.4% (2012/13 35.8%) has decreased compared to the prior year mainly due to an 
increase in the proportion of taxable profits vs non-deductible expenses. For this reason, together with the decrease in statutory 
corporation tax rates in the UK and Norway, the rate is expected to decrease further in future years.  
The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses of £50.0 million (2012/13 £207.7 million) of which  
£2.1 million (2012/13 £151.5 million) have no time restriction over when they can be utilised. The Group has unrecognised deferred 
tax assets relating to time restricted tax losses of £47.9 million (2012/13 £56.2 million) for which the weighted average period over 
which they can be utilised is eight years (2012/13 eight years).  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 86
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
7 Tax (continued) 
(b) Deferred tax  
 
Accelerated 
 capital 
allowances 
£million 
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations 
£million 
Losses 
carried 
forward 
Other 
timing 
differences 
£million 
Total 
£million 
At 29 April 2012 32.9 64.5 30.1 7.5 135.0 
(Charged) / credited to income statement (15.5) (1.4) (15.8) 13.5 (19.2) 
Credited to equity – 31.6 – 2.6 34.2 
Disposals 0.3 – (10.9) 0.6 (10.0) 
Currency retranslation (0.5) – 0.3 (0.2) (0.4) 
At 30 April 2013 17.2 94.7 3.7 24.0 139.6 
(Charged) / credited to income statement (4.2) 0.1 (0.7) (8.8) (13.6) 
Charged to equity – (13.8) – (0.7) (14.5) 
Transfer to assets held for sale (0.4) – (2.8) (1.5) (4.7) 
Currency retranslation 0.4 (0.2) (0.2) (0.7) (0.7) 
At 30 April 2014 13.0 80.8 – 12.3 106.1 
 
Summary of assets and liabilities as disclosed: 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
Deferred tax assets 121.2 150.9 
Deferred tax liabilities (15.1) (11.3) 
 106.1 139.6 
 
Analysis of deferred tax relating to items (charged) / credited to equity in the year: 
 
2013/14 
£million 
2012/13 
£million 
Actuarial (gains) /  losses on defined benefit pension schemes (13.8) 31.6 
Net (losses) / gains on revaluation of cash flow hedges (1.5) 0.9 
Net gains on hedges of net investments – (0.1) 
Credited to comprehensive expense (15.3) 32.4 
Share-based payments 0.8 1.8 
 (14.5) 34.2 
 
As a result of share disposals, allowable losses have been incurred which are available for offset against certain future chargeable 
gains. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as it is considered that there is insufficient evidence 
that chargeable gains will arise.  
The UK corporation tax rate will fall to 20% from 1 April 2015 and accordingly UK deferred tax has been computed at this rate. The 
deferred tax asset not recognised, measured at the standard rate of 20% (2013 23%), is not less than £250.3 million  
(2013 £288.0 million). Where permitted, certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset for financial reporting purposes.
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 87
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
8 Earnings per share  
 
 2013/14 
 
£million 
2012/13 
Restated 
£million 
Basic and diluted (loss) / earnings   
Total (continuing and discontinued operations) (69.5) (162.5) 
Discontinued operations 157.3 205.5 
Continuing operations 87.8 43.0 
   
Adjustments   
Non-underlying items  33.3 64.4 
Tax on non-underlying items (5.4) (10.3) 
Total adjustments (net of taxation)  27.9 54.1 
   
Underlying basic and diluted earnings  115.7 97.1 
   
   Million Million 
Weighted average number of shares for:   
Basic and underlying basic (loss) / earnings  3,648.7 3,616.5 
    
Diluted loss – total (continuing and discontinued operations) † 3,648.7 3,616.5 
Underlying diluted earnings – continuing operations † 3,648.7 3,616.5 
Underlying diluted earnings † 3,799.9 3,696.4 
Potentially dilutive shares under employee share option and ownership schemes † 151.2 79.9 
   
  Pence Pence 
Basic (loss) / earnings per share   
Total (continuing and discontinued operations) (1.9) (4.5) 
Adjustment in respect of discontinued operations 4.3 5.7 
Continuing operations 2.4 1.2 
Adjustments (net of taxation) 0.8 1.5 
Underlying basic earnings per share 3.2 2.7 
   
Diluted (loss) / earnings per share   
Total (continuing and discontinued operations) (1.9) (4.5) 
Adjustment in respect of discontinued operations 4.2 5.7 
Continuing operations 2.3 1.2 
Adjustments (net of taxation) 0.7 1.4 
Underlying diluted earnings per share 3.0 2.6 
 
† In accordance with IAS 33, the weighted average number of shares for the calculation of diluted (loss) / earnings per share does not include potentially dilutive shares if 
they would decrease the loss per share. 
Basic and diluted earnings per share are based on the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders. Underlying earnings per 
share are presented in order to show the underlying performance of the Group. Adjustments used to determine underlying earnings 
are described further in note 4. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 88
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
9 Goodwill 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
Cost    
At beginning of year 1,489.8 1,443.8 
Additions  – 1.1 
Disposals (6.8) (12.7) 
Transfer to assets held for sale  (697.6) – 
Currency retranslation  (88.9) 57.6 
At end of year 696.5 1,489.8 
   
Impairment    
At beginning of year  785.6 703.1 
Non-underlying impairment   
 Continuing operations – 6.6 
 Discontinued operations – 45.2 
Disposals (6.6) – 
Transfer to assets held for sale (670.1) – 
Currency retranslation (19.8) 30.7 
At end of year 89.1 785.6 
   
Net book value at the end of the year  607.4 704.2 
 
(a) Carrying value 
The carrying value of goodwill comprises the following businesses: 
 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
Elkjøp Nordic AS (Elkjøp) 607.4 676.5 
Unieuro S.p.A. (Unieuro) – 27.7 
 607.4 704.2 
 
2013/14: 
The transfer to assets held for sale relates to Unieuro and PIXmania which were sold during the year as described further in note 27. 
 
Following the impairment of a UK B2B operation in 2012/13, it has been determined that the underlying business assets and 
branding are no longer identifiable and as a result the goodwill has been treated as disposed. 
 
2012/13: 
The disposals predominantly comprised the Equanet business which is described further in note 4.  
The non-underlying impairment charges in respect of continuing operations comprised a small UK B2B operation following  
reorganisation as a result of the sale of Equanet. Further details of the impairment charge is shown in note 4.  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 89
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
9 Goodwill (continued) 
(b) Impairment testing 
As required by IAS 36, goodwill is subject to annual impairment reviews. These reviews are carried out using the following criteria: 
• business acquisitions generate an attributed amount of goodwill;  
• the manner in which these businesses are run and managed is used to determine the ‘Cash Generating Unit’ (CGU) grouping  
as defined in IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’; 
• the recoverable amount of each CGU group is determined based on calculating its value in use (VIU); 
• the VIU is calculated by applying discounted cash flow modelling to management’s own projections covering a five year period; 
• cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated using a long term growth rate equivalent to the relevant market’s Gross 
Domestic Product (GDP); and 
• the VIU is then compared to the carrying amount in order to determine whether impairment has occurred.  
The key assumptions used in calculating value in use are: 
• management’s five year projections; 
• the growth rate beyond five years; and  
• the pre-tax adjusted discount rate.  
The five year projections, which have been approved by management, have been prepared using risk adjusted strategic plans which 
have regard to the relative performance of competitors and knowledge of the current market together with management’s views on 
the future achievable growth in market share and impact of the committed initiatives. The cash flows which derive from these five 
year projections include ongoing capital expenditure required to develop and upgrade the store network in order to maintain and 
operate the businesses and to compete in their markets. In forming the five year projections, management draws on past experience 
as a measure to forecast future performance. 
Key assumptions used in determining the five year projections comprise the growth in sales and costs over this period. The 
compound annual growth rate in sales and costs can rise as well as fall year on year depending not only on the year five targets,  
but also on the current financial year base. These targets, when combined, accordingly drive the resulting profit margins and the 
profit in year five of the projections which is in turn used to calculate the terminal value in the VIU calculation. Historical amounts  
for the businesses under impairment review as well as from other parts of the Group are used to generate the values attributed  
to these assumptions. 
The growth rate beyond five years is based on the GDP for the territories in which these businesses operate. The discount rates 
applied to cash flows are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital having regard to the strategic five year plans 
themselves already being risk adjusted to take account of specific risks in the relevant market or region.  
The Group’s only goodwill balance is in respect of Elkjøp and the values attributed to these assumptions are as follows: 
 2014 2013 
Compound annual growth in sales 6.1% 6.6% 
Compound annual growth in costs 6.0% 6.6% 
Growth rate beyond five years 2.4% 2.5% 
Pre-tax discount rate 11.2% 10.7% 
 
(c) Sensitivities 
A sensitivity analysis had been performed on each of the base case assumptions used for assessing the goodwill with other variables 
held constant. Consideration of sensitivities to key assumptions can evolve from one financial year to the next.  
The directors have concluded that in the case of Elkjøp there are no reasonably possible changes in any key assumption which 
would cause the carrying amount of goodwill to exceed its value in use. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 90
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
10 Intangible assets 
  Other intangibles  
 
Acquired 
intangibles 
£million 
Software 
(externally 
acquired) 
£million 
Software 
(internally 
generated) 
£million 
Sub-total 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Cost      
At 29 April 2012 82.3 141.6 75.3 216.9 299.2 
Additions – 12.4 5.6 18.0 18.0 
Disposals (3.5) (0.4) (4.8) (5.2) (8.7) 
Transfer to assets held for sale (3.3) – – – (3.3) 
Currency retranslation 3.1 2.4 0.7 3.1 6.2 
At 30 April 2013 78.6 156.0 76.8 232.8 311.4 
Additions – 12.9 3.5 16.4 16.4 
Disposals – (2.8) (10.7) (13.5) (13.5) 
Transfer to assets held for sale (45.7) (12.0) (11.8) (23.8) (69.5) 
Currency retranslation (2.2) (5.5) (0.3) (5.8) (8.0) 
At 30 April 2014 30.7 148.6 57.5 206.1 236.8 
      
Amortisation      
At 29 April 2012 38.3 103.7 59.1 162.8 201.1 
Charge for the year – underlying – 10.8 6.7 17.5 17.5 
  – non-underlying 4.2 – – – 4.2 
Non-underlying impairment 25.1 – 1.9 1.9 27.0 
Disposals (3.5) (0.2) (3.9) (4.1) (7.6) 
Transfer to assets held for sale (1.5) – – – (1.5) 
Currency retranslation 1.5 2.1 0.7 2.8 4.3 
At 30 April 2013 64.1 116.4 64.5 180.9 245.0 
Charge for the year – underlying – 10.4 5.2 15.6 15.6 
  – non-underlying 0.7 – – – 0.7 
Non-underlying impairment – 7.0 – 7.0 7.0 
Disposals – (1.5) (10.1) (11.6) (11.6) 
Transfer to assets held for sale  (45.7) (10.4) (8.5) (18.9) (64.6) 
Currency retranslation (1.8) (4.3) (0.1) (4.4) (6.2) 
At 30 April 2014 17.3 117.6 51.0 168.6 185.9 
      
Net book value      
At 30 April 2014 13.4 31.0 6.5 37.5 50.9 
      
At 30 April 2013 14.5 39.6 12.3 51.9 66.4 
 
Acquired intangibles comprise the brand name of Kotsovolos, for which the value is £13.4 million (2013 £14.5 million) and for  
which the remaining life of this asset is 20 years. Included in net book value of other intangibles are assets under construction of  
£8.8 million (2013 £16.1 million). 
In 2013/14, the transfer to assets held for sale related to Electroworld Turkey, Unieuro and PIXmania operations which have since 
been sold as well as the Group’s Central European operations following the announcement on 19 May 2014 that the Group had 
signed an agreement to sell these operations. All of these sale transactions are further discussed in notes 27 and 32  
(2012/13 related to the Group’s sale of Webhallen as discussed further in note 27). 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 91
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
11 Property, plant & equipment 
   2014   2013 
 
Land and 
buildings 
£million 
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Land and 
buildings 
£million 
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Cost       
At beginning of year 152.2 1,189.8 1,342.0 153.1 1,202.2 1,355.3 
Additions – 62.3 62.3 – 82.5 82.5 
Disposals (3.9) (67.5) (71.4) (1.2) (114.0) (115.2) 
Transfer to assets held for sale (0.9) (164.1) (165.0) – (2.0) (2.0) 
Reclassification (0.7) 0.7 – – – – 
Currency retranslation (0.7) (26.0) (26.7) 0.3 21.1 21.4 
At end of year 146.0 995.2 1,141.2 152.2 1,189.8 1,342.0 
       
Depreciation       
At beginning of year 70.1 837.9 908.0 57.4 817.5 874.9 
Charge for the year  5.1 105.4 110.5 5.5 111.0 116.5 
Impairment – underlying 1.2 – 1.2 – – – 
   – non-underlying – 1.7 1.7 7.9 4.2 12.1 
Disposals (0.3) (65.0) (65.3) (0.6) (108.5) (109.1) 
Transfer to assets held for sale (0.6) (126.6) (127.2) – (1.0) (1.0) 
Currency retranslation (0.6) (17.6) (18.2) (0.1) 14.7 14.6 
At end of year 74.9 735.8 810.7 70.1 837.9 908.0 
       
Net book value at end of year 71.1 259.4 330.5 82.1 351.9 434.0 
       
Included in net book value       
Land not depreciated 5.1 – 5.1 6.5 – 6.5 
Assets in the course of construction – 6.7 6.7 – 17.7 17.7 
Assets held under finance leases 55.3 – 55.3 59.7 3.0 62.7 
 
No additions related to finance leases (2012/13 £0.9 million). Legal title for these leased assets remains with the lessor.  
In 2013/14, the transfer to assets held for sale related to Electroworld Turkey, Unieuro and PIXmania operations which have since 
been sold as well as the Group’s Central European operations following the announcement on 19 May 2014 that the Group had 
signed an agreement to sell these operations. All of these sale transactions are further discussed in notes 27 and 32  
(2012/13 related to the Group’s sale of Webhallen as discussed further in note 27). 
12 Investments in associates 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
At beginning of year 0.5 3.5 
Non-underlying impairment – (2.5) 
Transfer of associate to subsidiary undertakings – (0.3) 
Dividend – (0.4) 
Currency retranslation – 0.2 
At end of year 0.5 0.5 
 
The Group’s share of post-tax results of associates comprise shareholdings in several different enterprises in the Nordic region, none 
of which are significant. 
2012/13: 
The non-underlying impairment related to weakness in the results and long term outlook for the Group’s 40% stake in F-Group such 
that the directors concluded that a full impairment was required.  
The transfer of associate to subsidiary undertakings related to previous small associate shareholdings which became subsidiaries 
following the acquisition of the remaining shares during the year. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 92
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
13 Inventories 
 
2014  
£million 
2013  
£million 
Finished goods and goods for resale 708.3 928.7 
Provision for obsolete and slow moving goods (23.9) (33.3) 
 684.4 895.4 
 
14 Trade and other receivables 
   2014  2013 
 Note
Current 
£million 
Non-current  
£million 
Current  
£million 
Non-current  
£million 
Trade debtors 168.1 6.2 197.6 4.6 
Provision for bad and doubtful debts (19.0) – (25.0) – 
 149.1 6.2 172.6 4.6 
Derivative financial instruments 22 6.1 – 4.3 – 
Other debtors 30.1 7.3 40.7 15.7 
Prepayments  64.2 0.1 63.3 0.3 
Accrued income 17.6 – 23.6 – 
 267.1 13.6 304.5 20.6 
 
The majority of trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90 day terms. The balance comprises 
both B2B receivables and consumer credit receivables with no material individual balances. The total financial assets included within 
trade and other receivables are £216.4 million (2013 £261.5 million). The carrying amount of trade and other receivables 
approximates fair value with no concentration of credit risk.  
The Group’s trade debtors included the following amounts which are past due at the end of the year and for which the Group has not 
provided for owing to the amounts being considered recoverable: 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
Up to six months past due 19.0 24.9 
Six to 12 months past due 0.9 1.4 
Over 12 months past due – 0.2 
 19.9 26.5 
 
Movements on the provision for bad and doubtful debts are as follows: 
 
2014  
£million 
2013  
£million 
At beginning of year 25.0 24.8 
Charge for the year 7.9 5.6 
Utilisation of provision (5.1) (5.3) 
Reclassified to assets held for sale (9.0) – 
Currency retranslation  0.2 (0.1) 
At end of year 19.0 25.0 
 
The Group does not hold any collateral as security over receivables balances. 
15 Short term investments 
 
2014  
£million 
2013  
£million 
Floating rate notes 1.4 2.4 
 
Floating rate notes have a nominal value of £1.5 million (2013 £2.5 million) and have an average expected maturity of 5.4 years 
(2013 13.8 years). Floating rate notes have an effective yield of 0.91% (2013 0.99%). Such items are classified as ‘available for sale’ 
under the classification requirements of IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 93
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
16 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2014  
£million 
2013  
£million 
Cash at bank  122.5 107.3 
Money market deposits 278.7 298.0 
 401.2 405.3 
 
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. Money market 
deposits are made for varying periods of up to 90 days with an average maturity of 18 days (2013 31 days). The carrying amount  
of money market deposits approximates their fair value. 
17 Borrowings 
 
2014  
£million 
2013  
£million 
Current    
Bank overdrafts – 17.7 
Other borrowing – 4.5 
 – 22.2 
   
Non-current    
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 99.6 98.8 
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 147.3 146.6 
 246.9 245.4 
 
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. 
On 19 May 2014, the Group signed a new revolving credit facility agreement (the New Facility) for £150 million. The New Facility, 
which has a maturity date of 30 June 2018, with an option to extend to 30 June 2019, replaces the previous Amended Facility of 
£200 million which had a maturity date of 30 June 2015. The Amended Facility was originally for £300 million (amending and 
restating a previous revolving credit facility agreement for £360 million) and reduced to £225 million in September 2012 and to  
£200 million in August 2013. The key terms of the New Facility have similarities to the Amended Facility, however, with reduced 
levels of fees and a reduced number of financial covenants. Drawings under the New Facility bear interest at LIBOR plus a margin  
of 2.25% (the Amended Facility 3.50%). A commitment fee is incurred on undrawn amounts. As at 30 April 2014, there were no 
drawings under the Amended Facility (2013 £nil). 
The carrying amount of current borrowings approximates their fair value. 
On 20 September 2012, the Group repurchased £49.4 million in nominal amount of its 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (the 2015 
Notes). This repurchase was funded by part of a new issue of £150 million 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 (the 2017 Notes) and for 
which the proceeds were received on 19 September 2012. 
The remaining 2015 Notes are denominated in sterling with a nominal value of £100.6 million (2013 £100.6 million). The 2017 Notes 
are denominated in sterling with a nominal value of £150 million. Both the 2015 Notes and the 2017 Notes require payment of 
interest semi-annually and as at 30 April 2014 were guaranteed by a number of UK and Irish subsidiary undertakings of the Group, 
including DSG Retail Limited. From 19 May 2014, when the New Facility came into effect, the number of subsidiary undertakings 
providing a guarantee was reduced, but still includes DSG Retail Limited. Both the 2015 Notes and the 2017 Notes are listed on the 
London Stock Exchange and unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled they will be redeemed at par on 3 August 
2015 and 15 September 2017, respectively. Both the 2015 Notes and the 2017 Notes may be redeemed in whole or in part at their 
principal amount plus accrued interest by providing 30 to 60 days’ notice to the Noteholders. They may also be purchased in the 
open market by any company within the Group and in either circumstance any unmatured coupons will be cancelled and may not  
be re-issued or re-sold. In the event of a specific change of control event, each Noteholder has an option to require Dixons Retail plc 
to redeem or, at the option of Dixons Retail plc, purchase (or procure the purchase of) any of the 2015 Notes or 2017 Notes held by 
such Noteholder at a cash price equal to 101% of their principal amount together with interest accrued. The value of the 2015 Notes 
excludes accrued interest of £2.1 million (2013 £2.2 million) and the value of the 2017 Notes excludes accrued interest of £1.6 million 
(2013 £1.6 million), included in trade and other payables. 
Further information concerning fair value, hedging and ensuing interest rate and currency profiles relating to the 2015 Notes and the 
2017 Notes is included in note 22. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 94
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
18 Obligations under finance leases 
  2014  2013 
 
Minimum 
lease 
payments 
£million 
Present value 
of minimum 
lease 
payments 
£million 
Minimum 
lease 
 payments 
£million 
Present value 
of minimum 
lease 
payments 
£million 
Amounts due:     
 Within one year 8.0 7.5 9.0 8.3 
 In more than one year and not more than five years 33.0 26.5 34.6 27.9 
 In more than five years 122.8 59.6 130.7 61.8 
 163.8 93.6 174.3 98.0 
Less future finance charges (70.2) – (76.3) – 
Present value of lease obligations 93.6 93.6 98.0 98.0 
Less amounts due within one year (2.0) (2.0) (2.0) (2.0) 
Amounts due after more than one year 91.6 91.6 96.0 96.0 
 
The majority of finance leases relate to properties in the UK where obligations are denominated in sterling and remaining lease terms 
vary between 11 and 22 years. The effective borrowing rate on individual leases ranged between 5.51% and 8.15% (2013 between 
5.51% and 8.15%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have 
been entered into for contingent rental payments. 
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount. 
19 Trade and other payables 
   2014  2013 
 Note
Current 
 £million 
Non-current 
 £million 
Current 
 £million 
Non-current 
 £million 
Trade creditors 841.4 – 1,064.0 – 
Other taxation and social security  134.2 – 138.6 – 
Derivative financial instruments 22 3.4 – 5.5 – 
Other creditors 37.0 15.2 64.7 21.8 
Accruals  210.2 78.9 245.0 85.5 
Deferred income – customer support agreements 126.4 145.0 116.3 154.5 
Deferred income – other 29.8 – 33.6 0.7 
 1,382.4 239.1 1,667.7 262.5 
 
Included in other creditors and accruals is £57.7 million (2013 £60.0 million) relating to other non-financial liabilities. The total financial 
liabilities included in trade and other payables are £1,128.4 million (2013 £1,426.5 million). The carrying amount of trade and other 
payables approximates their fair value. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 95
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
20 Provisions 
 
  2014   2013 
 
Property  
related  
£million 
Severance  
and other 
£million 
 Total  
£million 
Property  
related  
£million 
Severance  
and other 
£million 
 Total  
£million 
At beginning of year  40.1 22.8 62.9 31.1 7.1 38.2 
Additions – 26.3 26.3 18.5 25.7 44.2 
Transfer to liabilities directly associated with assets held 
for sale (10.9) (9.4) (20.3) – (0.4) (0.4) 
Utilisation (8.4) (20.6) (29.0) (10.0) (9.8) (19.8) 
Currency retranslation 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.7 
At end of year 20.9 19.3 40.2 40.1 22.8 62.9 
       
Analysed as:       
Current 4.8 19.3 24.1 14.0 22.8 36.8 
Non-current 16.1 – 16.1 26.1 – 26.1 
 20.9 19.3 40.2 40.1 22.8 62.9 
 
2013/14: Additions relate to restructuring and business impairment charges which are described further in note 4. Property related 
provisions mainly comprise onerous lease contracts. Transfer to liabilities held for sale relate to PIXmania and Unieuro whereby the 
transfer occurred on 31 October 2013. 
Of the amounts included within non-current liabilities remaining at 30 April 2014, the majority are expected to be utilised within the 
next ten years. 
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
Retirement benefit obligations – UK (399.8) (406.4) 
  – Nordics (2.0) (2.7) 
 (401.8) (409.1) 
 
The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes. 
The principal scheme which operates in the UK includes a funded defined benefit section whose assets are held in a separate 
trustee administered fund. The scheme is valued by a qualified actuary at least every three years and contributions are assessed  
in accordance with the actuary’s advice. Since 1 September 2002, the defined benefit section of the scheme has been closed to  
new entrants and on 30 April 2010 was closed to future accrual with automatic entry into the defined contribution section being 
offered to those active members of the defined benefit section at that time. Membership of the defined contribution section is  
offered to eligible employees. 
In the Nordics division, the Group operates small funded secured defined benefit pension schemes, which are also closed to future 
accrual, with assets held by a life insurance company as well as an unsecured pension arrangement. In addition, contributions are 
made to state pension schemes. The net movement in the obligation comprises a charge to operating profit of £0.5 million  
(2012/13 £0.9 million) with the remaining movements relating to the benefits paid in the period, actuarial gains / (losses) and currency 
retranslation. In Greece, the Group also provides other post-employment benefits which are governed by statute. These benefits  
are unfunded. 
(a) Defined contribution pension schemes 
The pension charge in respect of defined contribution schemes was £17.3 million (2012/13 £16.9 million). 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 96
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations (continued) 
(b) UK Defined benefit pension scheme – actuarial valuation and assumptions 
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was last carried out as at 31 March 2010 and showed a shortfall of assets compared with 
liabilities of £239.0 million. A ‘recovery plan’ based on this valuation, agreed with the trustee, commenced in 2010/11 with special 
contributions of £12.0 million, rising to £20.0 million for 2012/13 and 2013/14. Contributions rise to £25.0 million for 2014/15 and will 
rise approximately annually thereafter to £35.0 million by 2020/21. The next triennial valuation as at 31 March 2013 is still underway 
and its results are expected within the first half of 2014/15. 
The principal actuarial assumptions as at 31 March 2010 were: 
  Rate per annum 
Discount rate for accrued benefits  – Pre-retirement 6.4% 
 – Post-retirement 5.1% – 5.3% 
Rate of increase to pensions  – Guaranteed Minimum Pension 0% – 2.8% 
 – Pension in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pension 2.4% – 4.1% 
Inflation  3.7% 
 
At 31 March 2010, the market value of the scheme’s investments was £672.0 million and, based on the above assumptions, the 
value of the assets was sufficient to cover 74% of the benefits accrued to members with the liabilities amounting to £911.0 million. 
(c) UK Defined benefit pension scheme – IAS 19 
The following summarises the components of net defined benefit expense recognised in the consolidated income statement, the 
funded status and amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and other amounts recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income. The methodologies set out in IAS 19 are different from those used by the scheme actuaries in determining 
funding arrangements. 
(i) Principal assumptions adopted 
The assumptions used in calculating the expenses and obligations are set by the directors after consultation with the independent 
actuaries. 
 2014 2013 
Rates per annum   
Discount rate 4.4% 4.3% 
Rate of increase in pensions in payment / deferred pensions (pre / post April 2006 accrual) 3.0%/2.0% 3.2%/2.1% 
Inflation 3.3% 3.3% 
 
The Group uses demographic assumptions underlying the last formal actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 31 March 2010 In 
particular, post-retirement mortality has been assumed to follow the standard mortality tables ‘S1’ All Pensioners tables published by 
the CMI, based on the experience of Self-Administered Pension Schemes (SAPS) from 2000 to 2006 with medium cohort 
improvements up to 2009 and multipliers of 105% for males and 110% for females. In addition, an allowance has been made for 
future improvements in longevity by using the new CMI 2009 Core projections with a long term rate of improvement of 1.5% per 
annum for men and 1.0% per annum for women. Applying such tables results in an average expected longevity of between 87.2 
years and 88.9 years for men and between 88.3 years and 89.5 years for women (2013 between 87.2 years and 88.8 years for men 
and between 88.6 years and 89.7 years for women) for those reaching 65 over the next 15 years. 
(ii) Amounts recognised in consolidated income statement 
 
2013/14 
 
£million 
2012/13 
Restated 
£million 
Net interest expense on defined benefit obligation 17.0 13.1 
 
(iii) Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense 
 
  
2013/14 
 
 £million 
2012/13 
Restated 
 £million 
Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation – actuarial gains / (losses) arising from:     
 changes in financial assumptions  44.0 (221.2) 
 experience adjustments  5.9 9.6 
 change in demographic assumptions  (22.4) – 
Remeasurement of scheme assets:     
 Actual return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense)  (23.9) 60.1 
  3.6 (151.5) 
    
Cumulative actuarial loss  (424.4) (428.0) 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 97
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations (continued) 
(iv) Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet 
    
2014 
 £million 
2013  
£million 
Present value of defined benefit obligations    (1,219.1) (1,225.2) 
Fair value of plan assets    819.3 818.8 
Net obligation    (399.8) (406.4) 
 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation: 
 
2014  
£million 
2013  
£million 
Opening obligation 1,225.2 991.8 
Interest cost 52.0 50.8 
Remeasurements in other comprehensive income – actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in:   
 financial assumptions (44.0) 221.2 
 experience (5.9) (9.6) 
 demographic assumptions 22.4 – 
Benefits paid (30.6) (29.0) 
Closing obligation 1,219.1 1,225.2 
 
The weighted average maturity profile of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the year is 20 years (2013 21 years). 
Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets: 
 
2014 
 
 £million 
2013 
Restated 
 £million 
Opening fair value  818.8 729.9 
Interest income 35.0 37.8 
Employer special contributions 20.0 20.0 
Remeasurements in other comprehensive income:   
 Actual return on plan assets (excluding interest income) (23.9) 60.1 
Benefits paid (30.6) (29.0) 
Closing fair value  819.3 818.8 
 
Analysis of scheme assets:  
     
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
UK equities  – Listed    – 58.8 
 – Unlisted    – 3.0 
Overseas and global equities – Listed    232.3 155.0 
Diversified growth – Listed    170.2 171.6 
 – Unlisted    5.8 3.0 
Multi-asset credit funds – Listed    26.0 26.6 
 – Unlisted    25.6 23.6 
Emerging market multi-asset funds – Listed    47.3 50.1 
 – Unlisted    0.7 2.7 
Private equity – Unlisted    42.9 45.3 
Property  – Unlisted    25.1 33.4 
Index-linked gilts  – Listed    162.0 169.3 
Corporate bonds – Listed    68.7 69.2 
Cash and cash instruments – Unlisted    11.6 6.0 
Other – Unlisted    1.1 1.2 
     819.3 818.8 
 
The investment strategy of the scheme is determined by the independent Trustee through advice provided by an independent 
investment consultant. The scheme invests in a diverse range of asset classes as set out above with matching assets primarily 
comprising holdings in inflation linked gilts and corporate bonds. 
Actual return on the scheme assets was a gain of £11.1 million (2012/13 gain of £97.9 million). 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 98
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
21 Retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations (continued) 
(v) Sensitivities  
The value of the UK defined benefit pension scheme assets is sensitive to market conditions, particularly equity values which 
comprise approximately 67% of the scheme’s assets. Changes in assumptions used for determining retirement benefit costs and 
liabilities may have a material impact on the 2012/13 income statement and the balance sheet. The main assumptions are the 
discount rate, the rate of inflation and the assumed mortality rate. The following table provides an estimate of the potential impacts of 
each of these variables if applied to the current year consolidated income statement and balance sheet.  
 Net finance costs  Net deficit 
 
2013/14 
 
£million 
2012/13 
Restated 
£million 
2014  
 
£million 
2013  
 
£million 
Positive / (negative) effect     
Discount rate: 0.25% increase  1.7 1.3 59.5 62.5 
Inflation rate: 0.25% increase
†
 (2.1) (2.4) (46.6) (53.5) 
Mortality rate: 1 year increase  (1.6) (1.4) (35.5) (36.2) 
 
† The increase in scheme benefits provided to members on retirement is subject to an inflation cap.  
 
(d) Other post-employment benefits – IAS 19 
The Group offers other post-employment benefits to employees in overseas territories, in particular in Greece. At 30 April 2014 the 
net obligation in relation to these benefits was £3.0 million (2013 £12.6 million). The net movement in the obligation comprises a 
charge to operating profit of £0.5 million (2012/13 £1.5 million) with the remaining movements relating to the benefits paid in the year, 
actuarial gains / (losses), amounts in respect of discontinued operations and currency retranslation. 
22 Financial instruments 
(a) Financial risk management objectives and policies  
Treasury operations are managed centrally within policies approved by the Board and are subject to periodic independent internal 
and external reviews. Group Treasury reports regularly to the Tax & Treasury Committee and as required, to the Board. The major 
treasury risks to which the Group is exposed relate to market risks (movements in foreign exchange and interest rates), liquidity risk 
and credit risk. Areas where risks are most likely to occur are evaluated regularly. The Group uses financial instruments and 
derivatives to manage these risks in accordance with defined policies. Throughout the year under review, in accordance with Group 
policy, no speculative use of derivatives, foreign exchange or other instruments was permitted. 
The Group’s accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in note 1.16. 
Exchange rate risk 
The Group is exposed to exchange movements on recognised assets and liabilities, overseas earnings and translated values of 
foreign currency assets and liabilities. The Group’s principal translation currency exposures are the euro, Swedish krona and 
Norwegian krone. Taking into account the cost of hedging, the Group’s policy is to match, in whole or in part, currency earnings with 
related currency costs and currency assets with currency liabilities through the use of appropriate hedging instruments. 
The Group is also exposed to certain transactional currency exposures. Such exposures arise from purchases in currencies other 
than in the functional currency of the entity. The Group’s principal transactional currency exposures are the US dollar and euro.  
It is Group policy to minimise the currency exposures on such purchases through the use of appropriate hedging instruments such  
as forward exchange contracts. Such contracts are designed to cover exposures ranging from one month to one year. 
Interest rate risk 
The principal interest rate risks of the Group arise in respect of sterling cash, investments and sterling borrowings. Potential exposure 
to interest rate movements is mitigated by the Group’s policy to match to the extent possible the profile of interest payments with that 
of its interest receipts.  
Liquidity risk 
It is Group policy to maintain a balance of funds, borrowings, committed bank and other facilities sufficient to meet anticipated short 
term and long term financial requirements. In applying this policy the Group continuously monitors forecast and actual cash flows 
against the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Uncommitted facilities are used if available on advantageous terms.  
It is Group Treasury policy to ensure that a specific level of committed facilities is always available based on forecast working  
capital requirements.  
Cash forecasts identifying the Group’s liquidity requirements are produced and are stress tested for different scenarios including, but 
not limited to, reasonably possible decreases in profit margins and increases in interest rates on the Group’s borrowing facilities and 
the weakening of sterling against other functional currencies within the Group. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 99
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
22 Financial instruments (continued) 
Credit risk 
The Group’s exposure to credit risk on liquid funds, investments (mainly bank deposits and floating rate notes) and derivative 
financial instruments arises from the risk of non-performance of counterparties, with a maximum exposure equal to the book value  
of these assets. The Group limits its exposure to credit risk through application of Group Treasury policy which limit the credit 
exposure to counterparties with a Moody’s long term credit rating below A1, bank financial strength rating below C and short term 
credit rating below P2. The Group also has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any single financial institution.  
The Group continuously reviews the credit quality of counterparties, the limits placed on individual credit exposures and categories  
of investments. The Group does not anticipate non-performance of counterparties and believes it is not subject to material 
concentration of credit risk given the policies in place.  
The Group’s receivable balances comprise a large number of individually small amounts from unrelated customers, spread across 
diverse industries and geographical areas. Concentration of risk is therefore limited and maximum exposure is equal to the book 
value of receivables. Sales to retail customers are made predominantly in cash or via major credit cards. It is Group policy that  
all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures. New credit customers are assessed  
using an external rating report which is used to establish a credit limit. Such limits are reviewed periodically on both a proactive and 
reactive basis, for example, when a customer wishes to place an order in excess of their existing credit limit. Receivable balances are 
monitored regularly with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. Management therefore believe that there 
is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for doubtful receivables. 
Capital risk management 
It is the Group’s policy to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the 
future development of the business. The Group is subject to certain externally imposed capital requirements in the form of banking 
covenants involving borrowing ratios which it met throughout the year. 
The Board has delegated responsibility for routine capital expenditure to a Capital Committee, which has approval responsibility for: 
Group long term and budgeted capital spend, setting capital assessment criteria, new store capital approval, subsidiary company 
funding, business acquisitions, business disposals and contingent liabilities such as guarantees. The Committee also approves 
routine statutory and internal delegated powers of authority in relation to capital expenditure. 
The Group considers the manner in which funds are distributed to shareholders by assessing the performance of the business, the 
level of available net funds and the short to medium term strategic plans concerning future capital spend as well as the need to meet 
banking covenants and borrowing ratios. Such assessment will influence the level of dividends payable as well as consideration from 
time to time of market purchases of the Group’s own shares. 
The Group monitors available net funds on a regular basis and this is affected by Free Cash Flow (which is defined on the face of the 
cash flow statement) and is one of the Group’s key performance indicators. 
(b) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities  
For receivables and payables classified as financial assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 32, fair value is estimated to be 
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in notes 14 and 19, respectively. The categories of financial assets and liabilities 
and their related accounting policy are set out in notes 1.11 and 1.15.  
For those financial assets and liabilities which bear either a floating rate of interest or no interest, fair value is estimated to be 
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in note 22(d).  
The fair value of the 2015 Notes is £109.9 million (2013 £112.4 million). The 2015 Notes are carried at amortised cost. Excluded from 
the fair value is £2.1 million (2013 £2.2 million) of accrued interest which is included in trade and other payables.  
The fair value of the 2017 Notes is £174.8 million (2013 £169.1 million). The 2017 Notes are carried at amortised cost. Excluded from 
the fair value is £1.6 million (2013 £1.6 million) of accrued interest which is included in trade and other payables.  
Fair value of derivatives is predominantly determined using observable market data such as interest rates and foreign exchange 
rates. As such, derivatives are classified as ‘Level 2’ under the requirements of IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’.  
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 100 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
22 Financial instruments (continued) 
Fair values of derivatives by designation  
   2014 
 
Trade and 
other 
receivables 
 – current 
£million 
Trade and 
other 
payables 
 – current 
£million  
Total  
£million 
Derivatives held to manage the currency exposure of:    
 Financial assets and liabilities  1.3 (1.9) (0.6) 
 Future transactions occurring within one year  4.8 (1.5) 3.3 
 6.1 (3.4) 2.7 
 
   2013 
 
Trade and 
other 
receivables  
– current 
£million 
Trade and 
other 
payables  
– current 
£million  
Total  
£million 
Derivatives held to manage the currency exposure of:    
 Financial assets and liabilities  2.9 (1.9) 1.0 
 Future transactions occurring within one year  1.4 (3.6) (2.2) 
 4.3 (5.5) (1.2) 
 
Derivative financial instruments comprise forward and swap foreign currency contracts. 
(c) Hedging activities 
The Group manages exposures that arise on purchases and sales denominated in foreign currencies predominantly by entering into 
forward and swap foreign exchange currency contracts. It also uses forwards and swaps to manage its foreign exchange translation 
exposure. 
The Group has designated financial instruments as hedges under IAS 39 as follows: 
Fair value hedges 
During 2012/13, the Group held interest rate swaps with a notional value of £250 million whereby the Group received a fixed interest 
rate of 6.125% and paid a floating rate of interest based on LIBOR and which matured in November 2012. The Group designated 
£125 million as fair value hedges for the 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (the 2012 Bonds) which had the same critical terms. A fair 
value loss on the interest rate swaps of £2.4 million was recognised in the income statement offset by an equivalent fair value gain  
on the 2012 Bonds. Hedge ineffectiveness of £0.2 million was recorded in the income statement. The Group held the remaining  
£125 million of these swaps to act as an economic hedge for the 2015 Notes until August 2012. These swaps were not designated 
as hedges under IAS 39.  
Cash flow hedges 
At 30 April 2014 the Group had forward and swap foreign exchange contracts in place with a notional value of £498.9 million  
(2013 £381.3 million) that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges. These contracts are expected to cover exposures 
ranging from one month to one year. The fair value movement on these currency derivatives which has been taken to equity in the 
year amounts to a £10.5 million gain (2012/13 £12.7 million loss). In respect of contracts which matured during the year, gains of 
£15.1 million and losses of £10.1 million have been transferred out of equity into inventory and out of equity into operating profit, 
respectively (2012/13 losses of £5.4 million and losses of £3.4 million).  
No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in the income statement (2012/13 £nil). 
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations 
During 2012/13, the Group held forward foreign exchange contracts which, combined with cross currency swaps, acted as a hedge 
against €100 million of euro denominated net investments in foreign operations. These contracts mature in November 2012 and 
gains and losses on the retranslation of these derivatives were transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation  
of the net investments in the foreign operations. No hedge ineffectiveness was recorded in the income statement. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 101 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
22 Financial instruments (continued) 
(d) Interest rate profile of financial assets and financial liabilities by currency 
The following table sets out the interest rate exposure of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group. The financial instruments not 
included in the table are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk. 
     2014 
 
Sterling 
£million 
Euro 
£million 
US dollar 
£million 
Other 
currencies 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Cash and cash equivalents and short term investments:      
Floating rate 156.2 39.5 13.4 43.9 253.0 
Fixed rate 158.4 – – – 158.4 
 314.6 39.5 13.4 43.9 411.4 
Borrowings:      
Floating rate – – – – – 
Fixed rate (246.9) – – – (246.9) 
Obligations under finance leases:      
Fixed rate (93.6) – – – (93.6) 
 (340.5) – – – (340.5) 
      
Net funds (25.9) 39.5 13.4 43.9 70.9 
 
     2013 
 
Sterling 
£million 
Euro 
£million 
US dollar 
£million 
Other 
currencies 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Cash and cash equivalents and short term investments:      
Floating rate 55.2 55.8 21.2 36.4 168.6 
Fixed rate 239.1 – – – 239.1 
 294.3 55.8 21.2 36.4 407.7 
Borrowings:      
Floating rate – (6.1) – (11.6) (17.7) 
Fixed rate (245.4) – – (4.5) (249.9) 
Obligations under finance leases:      
Fixed rate (95.3) (1.2) – (1.5) (98.0) 
 (340.7) (7.3) – (17.6) (365.6) 
      
Net funds (46.4) 48.5 21.2 18.8 42.1 
 
Floating rate cash and cash equivalents and short term investments relates to cash at bank and floating rate notes. Cash at bank 
earns interest at floating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates. Fixed rate cash and cash 
equivalents and short term investments are predominantly money market deposits (as shown in note 16) and earn interest at an 
average effective rate of 0.40% (2013 0.42%). 
Floating rate borrowings in 2013 comprised bank overdrafts. The weighted average effective interest rate on bank overdrafts 
approximated 5.7%. 
Until November 2012, the Group held interest rate swaps with a nominal value of £250 million. During the period to maturity of these 
swaps, the Group received a fixed interest rate of 6.125% and paid floating rates of LIBOR plus margins which ranged from 1.68% to 
2.37%. The Group’s currency swaps had a nominal value of £200 million, which also matured in November 2012, and received 
LIBOR plus a margin and paid EURIBOR plus a margin. During the period to maturity of these swaps, the sterling floating rates 
ranged from 1.58% to 2.06% and the euro floating rates ranged from 1.31% to 2.14%  
Amounts in respect of other currencies relate to funds held within subsidiary companies operating in the Nordics and Central Europe. 
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial 
instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 102 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
22 Financial instruments (continued) 
(e) Sensitivity analysis 
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, shows the sensitivity of profit before tax and total equity to changes in specified market 
variables on monetary assets and liabilities and derivative financial instruments as listed below. As a consequence, the sensitivity 
reflects the position as at 30 April 2014 and 30 April 2013, and is not necessarily representative of actual or future outcomes. 
Changes in exchange rates affect the Group’s profit before tax due to changes in the value of monetary assets and liabilities and 
derivative financial instruments. Changes in exchange rates affect the Group’s total equity due to changes in the fair value of 
derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and net investment hedges. The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to a 
reasonably possible change in the Group’s key currencies of US dollar, euro, Swedish krona and Norwegian krone with other 
variables held constant. A 10% decrease would have an equal and opposite effect. 
  2014  2013 
 
Effect on 
underlying  
profit before  
tax increase / 
(decrease) 
£million 
 Effect on  
total equity 
increase / 
(decrease) 
£million 
Effect on 
underlying  
profit before  
tax increase / 
(decrease) 
£million 
 Effect on  
total equity 
increase / 
(decrease) 
£million 
Change in exchange rates:     
US dollar + 10% (0.5) 2.0 (0.3) 1.6 
Euro + 10% (0.9) 28.6 (18.5) – 
Swedish krona + 10% (0.7) (23.9) 2.6 (7.7) 
Norwegian krone + 10% (1.4) (7.3) – (7.9) 
 
Changes in interest rates affect the Group’s profit before tax, mainly due to the impact of floating rate borrowings, cash and derivative 
financial instruments. The Group’s principal floating rate interest rate exposures are based on LIBOR and EURIBOR. The numbers 
below show the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates (uniform across all currencies), with other variables held 
constant. A 1% decrease would have an equal and opposite effect. A 1% increase in interest rates would increase profit before tax 
and equity by £1.2 million (2012/13 a £0.5 million decrease in profit before tax and equity). 
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: 
• The balance of borrowings, investments and the derivative portfolio are all held constant for the whole year. 
• All cash flow hedges are assumed to be highly effective. 
• Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments that are not in hedging relationships arising from movements in 
interest rates and exchange rates only affect the income statement to the extent that they are not offset by changes in an 
underlying transaction. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 103 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
22 Financial instruments (continued) 
(f) Liquidity risk 
The tables below analyse the Group’s contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities (excluding finance lease 
liabilities, which are shown in note 18) and derivative assets and liabilities into their maturity groupings. The tables include both 
principal and interest flows. 
     2014 
 Contractual undiscounted cash flows  
 
Within 
one year 
£million 
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million 
In more than 
five years 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Carrying 
value 
£million 
Non-derivative financial liabilities:      
Bank overdrafts – – – – – 
Other borrowings – – – – – 
Trade and other payables (1,066.5) (37.0) (17.7) (1,121.2) (1,125.0) 
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (8.8) (105.0) – (113.8) (99.6) 
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 (13.1) (182.8) – (195.9) (147.3) 
 (1,088.4) (324.8) (17.7) (1,430.9) (1,371.9) 
Derivative contracts:      
Inflows 1,022.8 – – 1,022.8 1,022.7 
Outflows (1,020.1) – – (1,020.1) (1,020.0) 
 2.7 – – 2.7 2.7 
 
     2013 
 Contractual undiscounted cash flows  
 
Within 
one year 
£million 
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million 
In more than 
five years 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Carrying 
value 
£million 
Non-derivative financial liabilities:      
Bank overdrafts (17.7) – – (17.7) (17.7) 
Other borrowings (4.5) – – (4.5) (4.5) 
Trade and other payables (1,352.9) (43.2) (21.1) (1,417.2) (1,421.0) 
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (8.8) (118.2) – (127.0) (98.8) 
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 (13.1) (196.0) – (209.1) (146.6) 
 (1,397.0) (357.4) (21.1) (1,775.5) (1,688.6) 
Derivative contracts:      
Inflows 912.9 – – 912.9 911.6 
Outflows (914.1) – – (914.1) (912.8) 
 (1.2) – – (1.2) (1.2) 
 
The carrying value of trade and other payables includes accrued interest on the 2015 Notes of £2.1 million (2013 £2.2 million), and 
interest on the 2017 Notes of £1.7 million (2013 £1.6 million) and interest on other borrowings of £nil (2013 £nil). The Group reviews 
regularly its available cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing facilities required to fulfil its objectives and strategy. Cash 
flow forecasts are prepared covering a five year period and these are updated annually. Shorter term forecasts are reviewed and 
monitored on a regular basis in varying degrees of granularity including, in some cases, daily review. These forecasts are used in 
determining both the level of borrowings required for funding purposes as well as planning for repayments of borrowings either at 
their maturity or sooner where practical. An appropriate level of headroom is maintained to provide against unexpected outflows or 
an unforeseen downturn in trading. 
Further details of committed borrowing facilities are shown in note 17. 
  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 104 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
23 Share capital and reserves 
(a) Called up share capital 
 
2014  
£million 
2013  
£million 
Authorised   
4,980,252,496 (2013 4,980,252,496) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 124.5 124.5 
Allotted and fully paid   
3,661,057,753 (2013 3,629,747,975) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 91.5 90.7 
 
During the year 31,309,778 shares (2012/13 19,361,368) were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share option 
and ownership schemes. 
(b) Other reserves 
 
Merger 
reserve 
£million 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£million 
Investment 
in own  
shares 
£million 
Hedging 
reserve 
£million 
Revaluation 
reserve 
£million 
Total 
£million 
At 29 April 2012 (386.1) 5.0 (2.3) (135.2) (2.4) (521.0) 
Other comprehensive income and expense recognised 
directly in equity – – – (2.2) 0.3 (1.9) 
Investment in own shares – – (0.3) – – (0.3) 
Transfer to retained earnings – – 2.3 – – 2.3 
At 30 April 2013 (386.1) 5.0 (0.3) (137.4) (2.1) (520.9) 
Other comprehensive income and expense recognised 
directly in equity – – – 70.2 0.1 70.3 
Investment in own shares – – – – – – 
Transfer to retained earnings – – – – – – 
At 30 April 2014 (386.1) 5.0 (0.3) (67.2) (2.0) (450.6) 
 
The balance shown on the merger reserve arose on the group reconstruction which occurred during 1999/00. The group 
reconstruction took the form of introducing a new parent company above the existing group and the merger reserve represents  
the difference between the capital structure of the new parent company and that of the former parent company. 
Own shares held by the Group represent shares in the Company held by Dixons Retail Employee Share Trust (the Trust), further 
details of which are given in note 24. The transfer to retained earnings relates to shares subsequently issued to employees by the 
Trust. 
(c) Cumulative foreign exchange reserves within retained earnings 
Included within retained earnings are exchange differences resulting from the translation of the results and balance sheets of 
overseas subsidiary undertakings, which have been charged or credited directly to equity. The following table shows a reconciliation 
of such amounts: 
 
2014  
£million 
2013 
£million 
At beginning of year 306.2 274.0 
Currency translation movements (72.7) 32.2 
Cumulative foreign exchange differences transferred to income statement on disposals (62.6) – 
At end of year 170.9 306.2 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 105 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
24 Employee share ownership trusts 
The trustee of Dixons Retail Employee Share Trust (the Trust) is the Sanne Trust Company Limited. The costs of funding and 
administering the Trust are charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate. Shareholders’ funds are reduced by the 
net book value of shares held in the Trust. 
Historically, the Trust has held shares in the Company for the purposes of satisfying potential awards to specified executive directors 
and senior employees under the Group’s share plans. The number of shares held by the Trust, which are shown in the table below, 
remain held for potential awards under outstanding plans. 
   2014   2013 
 
Market value  
£million 
Nominal value 
 £million Number 
Market value  
£million 
Nominal value 
 £million Number 
Investment in own shares 0.4 0.1 877,524 0.5 0.1 1,332,769 
 
Sanne Trust Company Limited has waived all dividends except for a total payment of 1 penny at the time any dividend is paid. The 
mid-market price of a share as at 30 April 2014 was 44.9 pence (2013 35.1pence). 
25 Share-based payments 
 Note
2013/14 
 
£million 
2012/13 
Re-presented 
million 
Amounts charged to operating profit   
Share-based payments – equity settled
 †
 (a) 5.3 3.6 
 
† Of the total charge, £0.1 million (2012/13 £0.1 million) was settled in cash. 
 
(a) Equity settled 
Share option plans 
Employee Share Option Scheme (ESOS) and Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP) 
Options have historically been granted to executive directors and other employees on the basis of management grade. In September 
2008, the Group adopted a new share option plan (ESOP) which replaced the existing scheme (ESOS). Options granted after this 
date have only been granted under the new ESOP. The ESOS and ESOP permit making awards with a market value on the date of 
grant of not more than twice the recipients’ salary and three times in exceptional circumstances. Vesting of options is based upon 
remaining in service with the Group over a three year period, unless specific circumstances apply to a participant as determined by 
the Remuneration Committee. Depending on grade, vesting may also be dependent on various performance measures as agreed by 
the Remuneration Committee at the date of grant. For options granted in 2012/13, vesting is also dependent on the level of EPS 
achieved at the end of a three year period. Options are generally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.  
Options issued under this plan included Reward Sacrifice options offered to senior executives in September 2009 which did not have 
any performance conditions. During the year, there were no new awards under this plan. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 106 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
25 Share-based payments (continued) 
Save As You Earn (SAYE) 
The Group offers to all of its UK and Irish employees, having completed the relevant period of service, share-based savings plans 
whereby amounts may be contributed up to a specified limit per plan and per employee. Three year plans have been offered 
annually, with exercise prices set at up to a 20% discount to the market share price on the date of grant. Exercise is conditional upon 
employees remaining employed by the Group for the full term of the plan unless specific circumstances apply to a participant as 
determined by the Rules of the Scheme. Employees can choose to withdraw their contributions in full from the plan at any time, 
together with any interest earned. Options are generally exercisable up to six months from the date of vesting. 
Details of equity settled share option plans outstanding during the year are as follows: 
   2013/14  2012/13 
 Note Number 
Weighted average 
 exercise price Number 
Weighted average 
 exercise price 
At beginning of year 152,978,743 £0.23 233,376,101 £0.25 
Granted during the year (i)12,748,653 £0.32 25,759,726 £0.15 
Lapsed / forfeited during the year (66,337,073) £0.27 (86,795,716) £0.26 
Exercised during the year  (ii)(31,179,025) £0.23 (19,361,368) £0.19 
At end of year (iii), (iv)68,211,298 £0.21 152,978,743 £0.23 
 
 2013/14 2012/13 
(i) weighted average fair value of options granted during the year £0.21 £0.07 
(ii) weighted average share price at the date of exercise £0.46 £0.27 
(iii) weighted average remaining contractual life for options outstanding 3.5 years 5.5 years 
(iv) range of exercise prices for options outstanding £0.09 – £0.32 £0.09 – £0.45 
Number of options exercisable at year end 20,835,237 47,003,782 
 
The fair value of equity settled share option plans granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing 
models taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The following table lists the inputs to 
the models used based on information prevailing at the date of grant: 
 2013/14 2012/13 
Dividend yield  0% 0% 
Historical and expected volatility 47% 48% – 75% 
Risk-free interest rate  0.65% 0.2% – 0.8% 
Expected remaining life of options  3.0 years 3.0 – 5.0 years 
Weighted average share price  £0.46 £0.16 
 
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends. Actual outcome may differ from 
these assumptions. The expected remaining life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of the 
actual exercise patterns that may occur.  
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 107 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
25 Share-based payments (continued) 
Other equity settled share plans 
Performance Share Plan (PSP) and Retention and Recruitment Share Plan 
Up to 2010/11, PSP shares were provisionally awarded to executive directors and certain other participating senior executives and 
were based upon performance measured in terms of the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) achieved by the Company.  
Since 2011/12, PSP shares have been provisionally awarded to executive directors and other senior executives. Vesting of these 
awards is based upon remaining in service with the Group over a three or four year period. For awards to executive directors in 
2011/12, vesting is also dependent on the level of EPS achieved at the end of a three year period and TSR performance based on 
constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (comprising FTSE 101-350 companies) excluding investment trusts. In 2012/13, for all awards to 
executive directors and some awards to other senior executives, vesting is also dependent on absolute share price with an EPS 
underpin. In 2013/14 for all awards to executive directors and some awards to other senior executives, vesting is also dependent on 
TSR performance on the same terms as the 2011/12 awards and EPS performance achieved at the end of a three year period. 
Details of LTIP and PSP equity settled share-based payments outstanding during the year are as follows: 
 Note 
2013/14 
Number 
2012/13 
Number 
At beginning of year  101,512,897 39,583,061 
Provisionally awarded during the year (i) 17,907,952 72,487,435 
Lapsed / forfeited during the year  (20,483,411) (9,709,044) 
Exercised / released / vested during the year  – (848,555) 
At end of year (ii) 98,937,438 101,512,897 
    
Outstanding awards vested at end of year  – – 
 
 2013/14 2012/13 
(i)  weighted average fair value of awards awarded during the year £0.44 £0.13 
(ii)  weighted average remaining contractual life for awards outstanding 3.1 years 2.0 years 
 
Shares under the Retention and Recruitment Share Plan (Reward Shares) were granted to a limited number of executives in July 
2008, August 2011, February 2012 and March 2013 and do not have any performance conditions. During the year no shares 
(2012/13 358,809 shares) were granted, no shares (2012/13 none) lapsed and 130,753 shares (2012/13 130,753 shares) vested. 
The number of shares outstanding at the end of the year is 432,218 (2012/13 562,971). 
The fair value of such other equity settled share plans granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the option pricing models 
listed below as well as taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The following table 
lists the inputs to the models used based on information prevailing at the date of grant: 
  2013/14  2012/13 
 PSP Reward Shares PSP Reward Shares 
Option pricing model Monte Carlo Black Scholes Monte Carlo Black Scholes 
Dividend yield  0% 0% 0% 0% 
Historical and expected volatility  47% N/A 45% – 46% N/A 
Risk-free interest rate  0.6% N/A 0.2% – 0.6% N/A 
Expected life of awards  3 years 3 years 3 – 4 years 3 years 
Weighted average share price  £0.46 £0.46 £0.18 £0.35 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 108 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
25 Share-based payments (continued) 
(b) Additional SAYE, ESOS, ESOP, LTIP and PSP information 
During the year 12,748,653 options under the employee share option schemes were granted to 3,672 employees at an exercise 
price of £0.32. In addition, 17,907,952 PSP shares were provisionally granted to 889 employees. At 30 April 2014 options 
outstanding for accounting purposes amounted to 68,211,298 shares (2013 152,978,743) and PSP shares outstanding amounted to 
98,937,438 shares (2013 101,512,897), analysed as follows: 
  SAYE    ESOS and ESOP    PSP 
Date of grant 
Exercise price 
Pence  Number  Date of grant 
Exercise price 
Pence  Number  Date of grant Number 
3 Aug 2010 20.23 8,897  11 Jul 2008 27.63 15,196,474  3 Aug 2011 23,839,248 
22 Jul 2011 13.01 14,298,928  16 Dec 2008 9.20 – 10.85 1,091,587  8 Dec 2011 507,144 
23 Jul 2012 14.18 15,414,600  23 Jul 2009 23.95 1,234,572  29 Jun 2012 23,476,660 
24 Jul 2013 32.45 11,833,963  28 Sep 2009 28.43 3,303,707  16 Jul 2012 27,700,345 
    29 Jun 2012 17.51 5,828,570  10 Dec 2012 3,384,179 
        24 Jan 2013 2,393,910 
        24 Jul 2013 17,635,952 
  41,556,388    26,654,910   98,937,438 
 
26 Notes to the cash flow statement  
(a) Reconciliation of operating loss to net cash inflow from operating activities 
 
2013/14 
  
£million 
2012/13 
Re-presented  
£million 
Operating profit / (loss) – including discontinued operations 34.4 (50.9) 
Operating loss – discontinued operations 154.9 201.5 
Operating profit – continuing operations 189.3 150.6 
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 0.7 1.0 
Amortisation of other intangibles  14.1 13.5 
Depreciation 102.3 100.5 
Share-based payment charge 5.3 3.6 
Loss on disposal of property, plant & equipment 6.7 4.7 
Increase in non-underlying provisions  – 19.2 
Non-underlying impairments and other non-cash items 14.1 14.7 
Utilisation of non-underlying provisions  (6.8) (5.8) 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 325.7 302.0 
  
 
Movements in working capital:   
 Decrease / (increase) in inventories 7.4 (19.0) 
 (Increase) / decrease in trade and other receivables (13.4) 12.6 
 Increase in trade and other payables 47.3 111.3 
 41.3 104.9 
   
Cash generated from operations – continuing operations 367.0 406.9 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 109 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
26 Notes to the cash flow statement (continued) 
(b) Analysis of net debt 
 
 
1 May 2013 
£million 
Cash flow 
£million 
Other non-cash 
movements 
£million  
Currency 
translation 
 £million 
30 April 2014 
£million 
Cash and cash equivalents (i) 405.3 5.5 – (0.8) 410.0 
Bank overdrafts (17.7) 17.7 – – – 
 387.6 23.2 – (0.8) 410.0 
   –   
Short term investments 2.4 (1.1) – 0.1 1.4 
   –   
Borrowings due within one year  (ii) (4.5) 4.5 – – – 
Borrowings due after more than one year (ii) (245.4) – (1.5) – (246.9) 
Obligations under finance leases  (ii) (98.0) 2.6 2.0 (0.2) (93.6) 
 (347.9) 7.1 0.5 (0.2) (340.5) 
      
Net funds 42.1 29.2 0.5 (0.9) 70.9 
 
 
 
29 April 2012 
£million 
Cash flow 
£million 
Other non-cash 
movements 
£million  
Currency 
translation 
£million 
30 April 2013 
£million 
Cash and cash equivalents (i) 316.8 78.7 – 9.8 405.3 
Bank overdrafts (15.8) (1.4) – (0.5) (17.7) 
  301.0 77.3 – 9.3 387.6 
      
Short term investments 7.3 (5.3) 0.4 – 2.4 
      
Borrowings due within one year  (ii) (162.5) 155.5 2.5 – (4.5) 
Borrowings due after more than one year (ii) (147.8) (97.1) (0.5) – (245.4) 
Obligations under finance leases  (ii) (102.0) 4.7 (0.9) 0.2 (98.0) 
 (412.3) 63.1 1.1 0.2 (347.9) 
      
Net (debt) / funds (104.0) 135.1 1.5 9.5 42.1 
 
Restricted funds, which predominantly comprise funds held under trust to fund potential customer support agreement liabilities were 
£103.3 million (2013 £110.2 million). Net debt excluding restricted funds totalled £(32.4) million (2013 £(68.1) million). 
 
(i) Cash and cash equivalents are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the consolidated balance sheet. For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow, cash 
and cash equivalents comprise those amounts presented on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts (which are disclosed 
separately on the consolidated balance sheet and as disclosed in note 17) and including cash and cash equivalents which are disclosed as part of assets held for sale. 
(ii) Borrowings and obligations under finance leases include amounts which are included within liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale. Cash flows relating to 
borrowings and obligations under finance leases include amounts included within cash flows from discontinued operations. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 110 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
27 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
On 5 September 2013, the Group announced the sale of its Electroworld Turkey operations to Bimeks, one of the leading specialist 
electrical retailers in Turkey, whereby the sale subsequently completed on 31 October 2013. 
On 10 October 2013, the Group announced the sale of its Unieuro operations which subsequently completed on 29 November 2013. 
The details of the transaction were such that the Group together with the shareholders of SGM Distribuzione s.r.l. (SGM) (which 
trades as Marco Polo in Italy (Marco Polo)) formed a new entity, Italian Electronics Holdings s.r.l. (IEH), that now indirectly owns both 
Unieuro and Marco Polo. Rhône Capital was the controlling shareholder of Marco Polo and is now the controlling shareholder of IEH. 
Under the terms of the agreement, the Group left Unieuro with €25 million of cash and has invested €7.5 million in the form of a loan 
note. The Group now owns a 15% share in IEH with the shareholders of SGM holding the remaining 85%. 
On 27 September 2013, the Group announced the sales of its PIXmania operations to mutares A.G. (mutares), a German listed 
industrial holding company which subsequently completed on 31 December 2013. As part of its purchase, mutares has developed  
a robust plan to build on PIXmania’s pure play e-commerce operations as well as to further develop its market leading software 
platform. In order to support this plan, and to provide ongoing funding for PIXmania, the Group provided £59 million (€69 million)  
of ring-fenced capital immediately prior to the sale transaction. 
On 16 May 2014, the Company signed an agreement to sell its Electroworld operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia (Central 
Europe) as described further in note 32 and accordingly has classified their assets and liabilities as held for sale as at 30 April 2014 
owing to the sale being highly probable under the definitions stipulated in IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations’. 
All four businesses have been classified as discontinued operations with the prior year having been re-presented on a consistent 
basis. 
In respect of the year ended 30 April 2013, as previously reported, on 22 April 2013 and 7 May 2013, the Group announced that it 
had agreed to dispose of its Webhallen and PLS operations in Sweden and France, respectively and accordingly classified their 
assets and liabilities as held for sale owing to the sales being highly probable under the definitions stipulated in IFRS 5. The sales 
completed on 30 August 2013 and 7 May 2013, respectively and as the results formed part of PIXmania, are now shown within 
discontinued operations. 
(a) Loss after tax – discontinued operations 
 Note 
Year ended  
30 April 2014 
 
£million 
Year ended  
30 April 2013 
Re-presented 
£million 
Loss after tax from discontinued operations (i) (42.1) (215.3) 
Net loss on disposals
†
 (ii) (116.0) – 
Loss after tax – discontinued operations  (158.1) (215.3) 
 
† The net loss on disposals includes a gain of £0.4 million in respect of Electroworld Hungary which was sold in May 2009 whereby the gain represents a release of 
surplus accrual following final settlements of warranty claims.  
(i) Loss after tax from discontinued operations 
The loss after tax from discontinued operations comprises trading losses and is analysed as follows: 
  Year ended 30 April 2014 
 
Electroworld 
Turkey 
 £million 
Unieuro  
£million 
PIXmania  
£million 
Central 
Europe 
£million 
Total  
£million 
Revenues 71.6 284.3 193.7 133.4 683.0 
Expenses (75.7) (299.3) (205.5) (141.4) (721.9) 
Operating loss (4.1) (15.0) (11.8) (8.0) (38.9) 
Net finance costs (1.5) (0.4) (0.2) (0.1) (2.2) 
Loss before tax (5.6) (15.4) (12.0) (8.1) (41.1) 
Income tax – – (0.4) (0.6) (1.0) 
Loss after tax from discontinued operations (5.6) (15.4) (12.4) (8.7) (42.1) 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 111 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
27  Assets held for sale and discontinued operations (continued) 
(a) Loss after tax – discontinued operations (continued) 
(i) Loss after tax from discontinued operations (continued) 
 
  Year ended 30 April 2013 
 
Electroworld 
Turkey 
 £million 
Unieuro  
£million 
PIXmania  
£million 
Central Europe 
£million 
Total  
£million 
Revenues 170.7 516.0 500.3 143.1 1,330.1 
Expenses (180.5) (520.3) (682.9) (147.9) (1,531.6) 
Operating loss (9.8) (4.3) (182.6) (4.8) (201.5) 
Net finance costs (3.9) (0.7) (1.4) – (6.0) 
Loss before tax (13.7) (5.0) (184.0) (4.8) (207.5) 
Income tax – 4.1 (13.1) 1.2 (7.8) 
Loss after tax from discontinued operations (13.7) (0.9) (197.1) (3.6) (215.3) 
 
(ii) Net loss on disposals  
The losses on disposals which have completed comprise Electroworld Turkey, Unieuro and PIXmania and are analysed as follows: 
 
Electroworld  
Turkey 
 £million 
Unieuro 
 £million 
PIXmania 
 £million 
Total 
£million 
Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 8.9 50.9 11.2 71.0 
Inventories 19.5 116.7 33.9 170.1 
Other assets 5.2 16.3 25.1 46.6 
Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 9.5 62.8 73.1 
 34.4 193.4 133.0 360.8 
Liabilities (24.2) (174.6) (93.1) (291.9) 
Net assets disposed 10.2 18.8 39.9 68.9 
Loss on disposal (12.5) (24.9) (56.8) (94.3) 
 (2.3) (6.1) (17.0) (25.4) 
     
Consideration receivable / (payable) 0.4 (1.2) (7.5) (8.3) 
Disposal fees and exit costs (1.2) (3.4) (10.4) (15.0) 
Cumulative foreign exchange differences transferred from equity (1.5) (1.5) 0.9 (2.1) 
 (2.3) (6.1) (17.0) (25.4) 
 
The losses on disposal include impairment charges applied to certain assets sold (specifically goodwill, intangible assets and 
property, plant & equipment) down to their fair value less costs to sell together with any adjustments to liabilities sold to facilitate the 
sale transactions. In calculating the losses on disposal, consideration has been given to any potential liabilities arising from 
warranties given to the purchasers with liabilities having been adjusted as deemed appropriate and any remaining exposures 
remaining as contingent on the outcome of the matters to which they relate but which in most cases expire within 12 months.   
Disposal fees comprise mainly advisors’ fees and reorganisation costs necessary to facilitate the sale transactions. 
In addition to the above figures, the loss on disposal recorded in respect of Central Europe was £22.1 million and relates to the 
difference between the consideration expected to be received and net assets held for sale including any impairment of assets down 
to their anticipated net realisable value on completion less any accrued costs to sell. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 112 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
27 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations (continued) 
(b) Assets held for sale and liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 
 
30 April 2014  
£million 
30 April 2013  
£million 
Intangible assets and property, plant & equipment – 1.8 
Inventories 18.7 10.2 
Other assets 3.3 3.1 
Cash and cash equivalents 8.8 – 
Total assets held for sale 30.8 15.1 
   
Current liabilities (31.2) (7.3) 
Non-current liabilities – (0.6) 
Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale (31.2) (7.9) 
   
Net (liabilities) / assets held for sale (0.4) 7.2 
 
Net liabilities held for sale as at 30 April 2014 comprise Central Europe (2013 net assets held for sale comprised Webhallen and PLS 
as described in (a) above). 
(c) Cash flows from discontinued operations  
 
Year ended  
30 April 2014  
 
£million 
Year ended  
30 April 2013  
Re-presented 
£million 
Operating activities  (163.2) (34.5) 
Investing activities 6.3 (24.6) 
Financing activities (7.0) 1.4 
 (163.9) (57.7) 
 
28 Capital commitments 
 
2013/14 
£million 
2012/13 
£million 
Contracted for but not provided for in the accounts 35.5 33.0 
 
29 Contingent liabilities 
 
2013/14 
£million 
2012/13 
£million 
Contingent liabilities 2.2 3.5 
 
In addition to the figures shown in the table above, contingent liabilities also exist in respect of lease covenants relating to premises 
assigned to third parties as well as certain other covenants to financial institutions in the event of default by third parties to both the 
Group and these institutions. 
30 Operating lease commitments 
  2014  2013 
  
Land and 
buildings 
£million 
Other  
assets  
£million 
Land and 
buildings  
£million 
Other  
assets  
£million 
Total undiscounted future committed payments due:     
 Within one year 317.7 6.2 359.5 8.3 
 Between two and five years 1,159.5 14.4 1,266.3 6.1 
 After five years 1,105.2 1.1 1,275.7 – 
 2,582.4 21.7 2,901.5 14.4 
 
Operating lease commitments represent rentals payable for retail, distribution and office properties, as well as vehicles, equipment 
and office equipment. Contingent rentals are payable on certain retail store leases based on store revenues.  
The above figures include committed payments under onerous lease contracts for which provisions or accruals exist on the balance 
sheet, including those for businesses exited / to be exited.  
Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases was £27.1 million  
(2013 £25.4 million). 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 113 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
31 Related party transactions 
Transactions between Group undertakings, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and accordingly are not 
disclosed. 
Transactions between Group undertakings and associates comprised sales of goods of £8.8 million (2012/13 £11.2 million). 
In addition to the charitable donations disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility Report, the Group via its registered charitable trust, 
the DSG international Foundation (the Foundation), also made charitable donations of £66,000 (2012/13 £1,350). The Company is 
the sole benefactor of the Foundation, the principal beneficiaries of which are concerned with education, community affairs, health 
and disabilities, heritage and the environment. 
On 10 August 2012, the Group announced that it had acquired a further 22.0% of PIXmania, a company previously controlled by the 
Group, which was held by Steve Rosenblum and Jean-Emile Rosenblum together with close family members and companies 
controlled by them. Steve and Jean-Emile Rosenblum resigned on the date of the acquisition, and up until this point were the 
President and Vice President of PIXmania, respectively. In 2012/13, in connection with their management roles with respect to 
PIXmania up to the date of the acquisition, Steve and Jean-Emile Rosenblum received management fees of €87,000 (£71,000). 
Steve and Jean-Emile Rosenblum own buildings which are occupied and leased by PIXmania. During 2012/13, up until their exit 
from the business, total rental payments of €290,000 (£237,000) were charged in relation to these properties. 
Remuneration of directors and key management personnel 
The remuneration of non-executive directors, executive directors, and members of the senior management team, who are the key 
management personnel of the Group, is set out below. 
 
2013/14 
£million 
2012/13 
£million 
Short term employee benefits 6.2 5.8 
Share-based payments 1.7 1.1 
 
Remuneration of the directors is as follows:  
 Note
2013/14 
£million 
2012/13 
£million 
Emoluments  (i) 3.5 3.4 
LTIP payments (ii) 0.7 – 
  4.2 3.4 
 
(i) Emoluments include £0.3 million in respect of pension contributions. Pension contributions comprise the Group’s contribution together with the salary supplement which 
is based on the difference between basic salary and the scheme earnings cap set by the Company. This additional amount was 20% for Sebastian James, Humphrey 
Singer and Katie Bickerstaffe. 
(ii)  LTIP payments comprise those vesting in respect of 2013/14 with performance conditions which were achieved, but excludes LTIPs which were not subject to 
performance conditions and which amounted to £1.4 million. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 114 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
32 Post balance sheet events 
On 15 May 2014, the boards of Dixons Retail plc (Dixons) and Carphone Warehouse Group plc (Carphone) announced that they 
had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended all-share merger of Dixons and Carphone (the Merger), which is to be 
implemented by way of a scheme of arrangement of Dixons (the Scheme). The new merged entity is proposed to be named Dixons 
Carphone plc (Dixons Carphone). The Merger will result in each of Dixons’ and Carphone’s Shareholders holding exactly 50 per 
cent. of Dixons Carphone on a fully diluted basis taking into account existing share options and award schemes for both companies.  
Under the terms of the Merger, Dixons shareholders will receive 0.155 of a new Dixons Carphone share in exchange for each Dixons 
share. Completion is subject to shareholder approval, but is expected to take place in the summer of 2014. In addition to shareholder 
approval, the Merger will be conditional on, amongst other things, the sanction of the Scheme by the Court and relevant anti-trust 
clearances being received. 
The Merger will be put to Dixons shareholders at the Court Meeting and at the Dixons General Meeting. In order to become effective, 
the Scheme must be approved by a majority in number of the Dixons shareholders voting at the Court Meeting, either in person or by 
proxy, representing at least three-quarters in value of the Dixons shares voted at the Court Meeting. In addition, special resolutions 
implementing the Scheme and approving the related capital reduction must be passed by Dixons shareholders representing at least 
three-quarters of votes cast at the Dixons General Meeting.  
Carphone and Dixons have put in place appropriate banking facilities to ensure that Dixons Carphone will have a strong financial 
profile following completion, which will enable the combined group to retain flexibility whilst reviewing its optimal capital structure 
going forward.  
The merged entity will create a leader in European consumer electricals, mobiles, connectivity and related services. The boards of 
Dixons and Carphone believe that the Merger will deliver significant value to shareholders through a combination of enhanced 
commercial opportunities and operating synergies of at least £80 million on a recurring basis, which are expected to be delivered in 
full in the financial year 2017/18. The combined group will also have the opportunity to achieve significant additional value from 
growth opportunities arising from the Merger. The integration of the two businesses will be managed by a dedicated integration team, 
bringing together the best relevant capabilities of both businesses, with the aim of facilitating a smooth integration.  
Documentation setting out details of the proposed merger and seeking shareholder approval is expected to be issued to 
shareholders on or around 26 June 2014. 
On 16 May 2014, the Company signed an agreement to sell its Electroworld operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia (Central 
Europe) to NAY a.s., a leading electrical specialist retailer in the region. The transaction is expected to complete within the first half of 
2014/15. The operations comprise 26 specialist electrical retail stores. Following completion, which remains subject to certain normal 
conditions including competition authority clearance, the Group expects to receive a small deferred cash consideration spread over 
three years. 
On 19 May 2014, the Group signed a new revolving credit facility agreement (the New Facility) for £150 million. The New Facility, 
which has a maturity date of 30 June 2018, but has an option to extend to 30 June 2019, replaces previous Amended Facility of  
£200 million which had a maturity date of 30 June 2015. The New Facility is described in further detail in Note 17.  
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 115 
Financial Statements 
 
Company Balance Sheet 
 Note
30 April 2014 
£million 
30 April 2013 
£million 
28 April 2012 
£million 
Non-current assets    
Investments C3 1,736.8 1,731.7 1,727.6 
Property, plant & equipment C4 – – – 
 1,736.8 1,731.7 1,727.6 
    
Current assets    
Trade and other receivables  C5 30.7 19.3 11.7 
Cash and cash equivalents  C6 139.4 161.4 72.9 
 170.1 180.7 84.6 
Total assets  1,906.9 1,912.4 1,812.2 
    
Current liabilities     
Bank overdrafts C7 (85.4) (86.5) (86.0) 
Borrowings  C7 – – (162.3) 
Trade and other payables  C8 (308.1) (421.7) (381.2) 
Provisions C9 (6.7) (3.0) – 
 (400.2) (511.2) (629.5) 
Net current liabilities  (230.1) (330.5) (544.9) 
    
Non-current liabilities    
Borrowings C7 (246.9) (245.4) (147.8) 
 (246.9) (245.4) (147.8) 
Total liabilities  (647.1) (756.6) (777.3) 
Net assets  1,259.8 1,155.8 1,034.9 
    
    
Capital and reserves    
Called up share capital C10 91.5 90.7 90.3 
Share premium account 179.3 172.7 169.5 
Investment in own shares (0.3) (0.3) (2.3) 
Capital redemption reserve 5.0 5.0 5.0 
Profit and loss account 984.3 887.7 772.4 
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,259.8 1,155.8 1,034.9 
 
The financial statements were approved by the directors on 25 June 2014 and signed on their behalf by: 
  
Sebastian James  Humphrey Singer 
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 116 
Financial Statements 
 
Company Cash Flow Statement 
 Note 
Year ended 
30 April 2014 
£million 
Year ended 
30 April 2013 
£million 
Operating activities     
Cash (utilised by) / generated from operations C11 (140.5) 25.9 
Net cash flows from operating activities  (140.5) 25.9 
    
Investing activities     
Dividend received   150.0 175.0 
Interest received   0.7 10.4 
Net cash flows from investing activities  150.7 185.4 
    
Financing activities     
Issue of ordinary share capital   7.4 3.6 
Purchase of own shares  – (0.3) 
Decrease in borrowings due within one year  – (160.0) 
Increase in borrowings due after more than one year  – 97.1 
Interest paid  (38.5) (63.7) 
Net cash flows from financing activities  (31.1) (123.3) 
    
(Decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents † C11 (20.9) 88.0 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year † C11 74.9 (13.1) 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year † C11 54.0 74.9 
 
† For the purposes of this cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise those items disclosed as ‘cash and cash equivalents’ on the face of the balance sheet, 
less overdrafts, which are classified within current liabilities on the face of the balance sheet. A reconciliation to the balance sheet amounts is shown in note C11. 
 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 117 
Financial Statements 
 
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 
 
Share 
capital 
£million 
Share 
 premium 
£million 
Capital 
redemption 
reserve  
£million 
Investment in 
 own shares 
£million 
Retained 
earnings 
£million 
Total equity 
£million 
At 29 April 2012 90.3 169.5 5.0 (2.3) 772.4 1,034.9 
Profit for the year  – – – – 113.5 113.5 
Ordinary shares issued 0.4 3.2 – – – 3.6 
Investment in own shares – – – (0.3) – (0.3) 
Transfer – – – 2.3 (2.3) – 
Share-based payments – – – – 4.1 4.1 
At 30 April 2013 90.7 172.7 5.0 (0.3) 887.7 1,155.8 
Profit for the year  – – – – 91.5 91.5 
Ordinary shares issued 0.8 6.6 – – – 7.4 
Share-based payments – – – – 5.1 5.1 
At 30 April 2014 91.5 179.3 5.0 (0.3) 984.3 1,259.8 
 
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement for the Company is included in these financial 
statements.  
Own shares held by the Company represent shares in the Company held by Dixons Retail Employee Share Trust, further details of 
which are given in notes 23(b) and 24 to the Group Financial Statements. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 118 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
C1 Accounting policies 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted  
by the EU, IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable  
to those companies reporting under IFRSs. Accounting policies have been consistently applied throughout the current and  
preceding years.  
After making due enquiry, on the basis of current financial projections, the directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements.  
The Company’s accounting policies in relation to operating leases, share-based payments, translation of foreign currencies, property, 
plant & equipment, taxation and derivative financial instruments are set out in note 1 to the Group Financial Statements.  
Other accounting policies which are specific to the Company are set out below.  
(a) Share-based payments  
Where the Company has granted rights to its equity to employees of subsidiary undertakings in relation to equity-settled, share-
based payment arrangements the contribution to the subsidiary undertakings is recognised as an additional investment. 
(b) Investments 
Investments are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value. 
(c) Post-retirement benefits  
It is not practical to allocate the underlying assets and liabilities of the defined benefit section of the pension scheme to the Company 
on a consistent and reasonable basis. The Company has therefore accounted for its contributions to the defined benefit section of 
the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.  
The Company’s contributions to the defined contribution section of the pension scheme are charged to the income statement on an 
accruals basis as they become payable. 
C2 Directors’ and auditor’s remuneration 
Details of directors’ remuneration, share interests, share options, pensions and other entitlements, which form part of these financial 
statements, are given in the parts of the directors’ Remuneration Report which are described as having been audited. Fees paid to 
the auditor in respect of their audit of the Company were £0.1 million (2012/13 £0.1 million). 
C3 Investments 
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
Cost   
At beginning of year 1,731.7 1,727.6 
Movement in the year  5.1 4.1 
At end of year 1,736.8 1,731.7 
 
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are set out in note C16. 
C4 Property, plant & equipment  
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
Cost   
At beginning and end of year  0.5 0.5 
   
Depreciation   
At beginning and end of year 0.5 0.5 
   
Net book value   
At beginning and end of year – – 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 119 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
C5 Trade and other receivables  
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
2012 
£million 
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 29.9 13.1 0.2 
Derivative financial instruments  – – 9.0 
Other debtors 0.4 0.2 0.5 
Prepayments  0.4 6.0 2.0 
 30.7 19.3 11.7 
 
Further information on derivative financial instruments is provided in note C13. 
The majority of other receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 60 day terms. The total financial assets included 
within trade and other receivables are £30.3 million (2013 £13.3 million and 2012 £9.7 million). The carrying amount of trade and 
other receivables approximates fair value. There were no past due or impaired balances at the end of the year (2013 and 2012 £nil).  
C6 Cash and cash equivalents  
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
2012 
£million 
Money market deposits 139.4 161.4 72.9 
 
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based either on daily bank deposit rates or central bank lending rates.  
C7 Borrowings and overdrafts 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
2012 
£million 
Current     
Bank overdrafts  85.4 86.5 86.0 
6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 – – 162.3 
 85.4 86.5 248.3 
 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
2012 
£million 
Non-current     
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 99.6 98.8 147.8 
8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 147.3 146.6 – 
 246.9 245.4 147.8 
 
Bank overdrafts are subject to a pooling arrangement with other Group companies and are repayable on demand.  
On 20 September 2012, the Company repurchased £15.6 million in nominal amount of the 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (the 
2012 Bonds). The remaining 2012 Bonds were repaid on the redemption date of 15 November 2012. Also on this date, the Group 
repurchased £49.4 million in nominal amount of its 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (the 2015 Notes). This repurchase was funded  
by part of a new issue of £150 million 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 (the 2017 Notes) and for which the proceeds were received  
on the same date. 
On 19 May 2014, the Company signed a new revolving credit facility agreement (the New Facility) for £150 million. The New Facility, 
which has a maturity date of 30 June 2018, with an option to extend to 30 June 2019, replaces the previous Amended Facility  
of £200 million which had a maturity date of 30 June 2015. There were no drawings on these facilities in either the current or 
comparative financial periods. Further details on the New Facility, the Amended Facility, the 2015 Notes and the 2017 Notes  
are provided in notes 17, 22 and 32 to the Group Financial Statements. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 120 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
C8 Trade and other payables 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
2012 
£million 
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 296.9 410.9 365.2 
Accruals  11.2 10.8 16.0 
 308.1 421.7 381.2 
 
The total shown equals the total financial liabilities. The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value. 
C9 Provisions 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
2012 
£million 
At beginning of year 3.0 – – 
Additions 11.2 4.1 – 
Utilisation (7.5) (1.1) – 
At end of year 6.7 3.0 – 
 
Additions during the year relate predominantly to costs associated with disposal transactions which are described further in note 27 
to the Group Financial Statements. 
C10  Share capital 
Called up share capital 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
2012 
£million 
Authorised    
4,980,252,496 (2013 and 2012 4,980,252,496) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 124.5 124.5 124.5 
    
Allotted and fully paid    
3,661,057,753 (2013 3,629,747,975, 2012 3,610,386,607) ordinary shares of 2.5p each 91.5 90.7 90.3 
 
During the year 31,309,778 shares (2012/13 19,361,368) were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share option 
and ownership schemes. 
C11  Notes to the cash flow statement 
(a) Reconciliation of operating loss to net cash inflow from operating activities 
 
2013/14 
£million 
2012/13 
£million 
Operating loss (15.5) (5.9) 
Increase in non-underlying provisions 11.2 4.1 
Utilisation of non-underlying provisions (7.5) (1.1) 
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital (11.8) (2.9) 
Movements in working capital:   
Increase in trade and other receivables (15.1) (18.0) 
(Decrease) / increase in trade and other payables (113.6) 46.8 
 (128.7) 28.8 
   
Cash (utilised by) / generated from operations  (140.5) 25.9 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 121 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
C11  Notes to the cash flow statement (continued) 
(b) Analysis of net debt 
 
1 May 2013 
 £million 
Cash flow 
£million 
Other 
 non-cash 
 movements 
 £million  
30 April 2014 
£million 
Cash and cash equivalents
†
 161.4 (22.0) – 139.4 
Bank overdrafts (86.5) 1.1 – (85.4) 
 74.9 (20.9) – 54.0 
     
Borrowings due after more than one year (245.4) – (1.5) (246.9) 
 (245.4) – (1.5) (246.9) 
     
Net debt (170.5) (20.9) (1.5) (192.9) 
 
 
29 April 2012 
 £million 
Cash flow 
£million 
Other 
 non-cash 
 movements 
 £million  
30 April 2013 
£million 
Cash and cash equivalents
†
  72.9 88.5 – 161.4 
Bank overdrafts (86.0) (0.5) – (86.5) 
  (13.1) 88.0 – 74.9 
     
Borrowings due within one year  (162.3) 160.0 2.3 – 
Borrowings due after more than one year (147.8) (97.1) (0.5) (245.4) 
  (310.1) 62.9 1.8 (245.4) 
     
Net debt (323.2) 150.9 1.8 (170.5) 
 
† Cash and cash equivalents are represented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet. For the purposes of the cash flow, cash and cash equivalents 
comprise those amounts represented on the balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts (which are disclosed separately on the balance sheet and 
as disclosed in note C7). 
C12  Post-retirement benefits 
The Company maintains a pension scheme for eligible employees in the UK comprising both a defined benefit and defined 
contribution section. The defined benefit section is a funded scheme with assets held in a separate trustee administered fund. The 
scheme is valued by a qualified actuary at least every three years and contributions are assessed in accordance with the advice of 
independent qualified actuaries so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members. Since 1 
September 2002, the defined benefit section of the scheme has been closed to new entrants and on 30 April 2010 was closed to 
future accrual with automatic entry into the defined contribution section being offered to those active members of the defined benefit 
section at that time. Membership of the defined contribution section is offered to all eligible employees. 
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme was last carried out as at 31 March 2010 and showed a shortfall of assets compared with 
liabilities of £239.0 million. A ‘recovery plan’ based on this valuation has been agreed with the trustee and commenced in 2010/11 
with special contributions of £12.0 million, rising to £20.0 million for 2012/13 and 2013/14. Contributions rise to £25.0 million for 
2014/15 and will rise approximately annually thereafter to £35.0 million by 2020/21. The next triennial valuation as at 31 March 2013 
has commenced and its results are expected within the first half of 2014/15. 
At 31 March 2010, the market value of the scheme’s investments was £672.0 million and, based on the above assumptions, the 
value of the assets was sufficient to cover 74% of the benefits accrued to members with the liabilities amounting to £911.0 million. 
The valuation of the defined benefit section for the purposes of IAS 19 showed a gross pension deficit (before deferred tax) of £399.8 
million (2013 £406.4 million and 2012 £261.9 million). Further particulars of the scheme are disclosed in note 21 to the Group 
Financial Statements. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 122 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
C13  Financial instruments 
(a) Financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Company is exposed to liquidity, interest rate, exchange, credit and capital risks and adopts the same approach to the 
management of these risks as the Group as set out in the Directors’ Report and in note 22 to the Group Financial Statements. 
(b) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
For receivables and payables classified as financial assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 32, fair value is estimated to be 
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in notes C5 and C8, respectively. The categories of financial assets and liabilities 
and their related accounting policy are set out in notes 1.11 and 1.15 to the Group Financial Statements. 
For those financial assets and liabilities which bear either a floating rate of interest or no interest, fair value is estimated to be 
equivalent to book value. These values are shown in note C13 (d). 
Included in trade and other receivables is £nil (2013 £nil and 2012 £9.0 million) relating to interest rate swaps held to hedge fair value 
interest rate risk. See note C13 (c) for further details. 
The Company has previously used swaps to manage its interest rate exposure. Further details on the Company’s interest rate swaps 
are included in note 22(d) to the Group Financial Statements. 
(c) Hedging activities 
The Company has previously managed exposures that arise on interest rates by entering into interest rate swaps. Further 
information on fair value hedging is set out in note 22(c) to the Group Financial Statements. 
(d) Interest rate profile of financial assets and financial liabilities by currency 
The following table sets out the interest rate exposure of the financial assets and liabilities of the Company: 
 2014 2013 2012 
 
Sterling 
£million 
Sterling 
£million 
Sterling 
£million 
Cash and cash equivalents:    
 Floating rate 102.2 28.4 72.9 
 Fixed rate 37.2 133.0 – 
 139.4 161.4 72.9 
Borrowings:    
 Floating rate  (85.4) (86.5) (336.1) 
 Fixed rate (246.9) (245.4) (60.0) 
 (332.3) (331.9) (396.1) 
Net debt (192.9) (170.5) (323.2) 
 
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial 
instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. 
Floating rate cash and cash equivalents relate to money market deposits (as shown in note C6). 
Fixed rate borrowings comprise the 2015 Notes and the 2017 Notes (2012 and 2011 the unhedged part of the 2012 Bonds and the 
2015 Notes). Floating rate borrowings include bank overdrafts, fixed rate bonds / notes after taking into account the effect of interest 
rates swaps entered into by the Company and drawings under the Amended Facility (2012 and 2011 the £360 million Facility). The 
weighted average effective interest rate on bank overdrafts approximated 1.5% (2012/13 1.5%). Further details on fixed and floating 
rate borrowings are shown in notes 17 and 22 to the Group Financial Statements. 
(e) Sensitivity analysis 
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, shows the sensitivity of profit before tax and total equity to changes in interest rates on 
derivative financial instruments and certain monetary items. The sensitivity analysis reflects the position as at 30 April 2014 and  
30 April 2013, respectively, and is not necessarily representative of actual or future outcomes. 
Changes in interest rates affect the Company’s loss before tax, mainly due to the impact of floating rate borrowings, cash and 
derivative financial instruments. The Company’s principal floating rate interest rate exposures are based on LIBOR. The following 
sensitivity analysis shows a reasonably possible change in interest rates (uniform across all currencies), with other variables held 
constant and the corresponding decrease would have an equal and opposite effect. A 1% increase in interest rates would have a 
negative effect on profit before tax and equity of £2.0 million (2012/13 a £3.2 million negative effect on profit before tax and equity). 
Assumptions used in calculating the sensitivity analysis are set out in note 22(e) to the Group Financial Statements. 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 123 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
C13  Financial instruments (continued) 
(f) Liquidity risk 
The table below analyses the Company’s contractual undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivative assets 
into their maturity groupings. The table includes both principal and interest flows: 
    2014 
 Contractual undiscounted cash flows  
 
Within  
one year 
£million 
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Carrying 
value 
£million 
Non-derivative financial liabilities:     
 Bank overdrafts (85.4) – (85.4) (85.4) 
 Trade and other payables (304.3) – (304.3) (308.1) 
 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (8.8) (105.0) (113.8) (99.6) 
 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 (13.1) (182.8) (195.9) (147.3) 
 (411.6) (287.8) (699.4) (640.4) 
 
    2013 
 Contractual undiscounted cash flows  
 
Within  
one year 
£million 
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Carrying 
value 
£million 
Non-derivative financial liabilities:     
 Bank overdrafts (86.5) – (86.5) (86.5) 
 Trade and other payables (417.9) – (417.9) (421.7) 
 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (8.8) (118.2) (127.0) (98.8) 
 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2017 (13.1) (196.0) (209.1) (146.6) 
 (526.3) (314.2) (840.5) (753.6) 
 
    2012 
 Contractual undiscounted cash flows  
 
Within  
one year 
£million 
In more than 
one year but 
not more than 
five years 
£million 
Total 
£million 
Carrying 
value 
£million 
Non-derivative financial liabilities:     
 Bank overdrafts (86.0) – (86.0) (86.0) 
 Trade and other payables (373.5) – (373.5) (381.1) 
 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 (169.8) – (169.8) (162.3) 
 8.75% Guaranteed Notes 2015 (13.1) (182.9) (196.0) (147.8) 
 (642.4) (182.9) (825.3) (777.2) 
Derivative contracts:     
 Inflows 263.4 – 263.4 263.4 
 Outflows (254.4) – (254.4) (254.4) 
 9.0 – 9.0 9.0 
 
The carrying value of trade and other payables includes accrued interest on the 2012 Bonds of £nil (2013 £nil and 2012 £4.4 million), 
accrued interest of £2.1 million on the 2015 Notes (2013 £2.2 million and 2012 £3.2 million), accrued interest of £1.7 million on the 
2017 Notes (2013 £1.6 million and 2012 £nil) and accrued interest on overdrafts of £nil (2013 £nil and 2012 £nil). 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 124 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
C13  Financial instruments (continued) 
(g) Credit risk 
The Company’s exposure to credit risk is discussed in note 22(a) to the Group Financial Statements. The Company’s receivable 
balances mainly consist of amounts due from subsidiary undertakings. Further information on the Company’s exposure to significant 
concentration of credit risk on receivables from subsidiary undertakings is set out in note C15. 
C14  Contingent liabilities 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
2012 
£million 
Contingent liabilities 0.2 1.9 2.3 
 
C15  Related parties 
During the year the Company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties as follows: 
 
2013/14 
£million 
2012/13 
£million 
Subsidiary undertakings:    
 Recharge of costs  13.5 12.8 
 Interest paid  (12.1) (17.9) 
 Dividends received  150.0 175.0 
 
Recharge of costs relates to management charges for services provided to other Group companies. 
Included within amounts repayable to subsidiaries are loans of £282.1 million (2013 £395.2 million and 2012 £351.0 million) with 
maturity of one month, but renewable on a rolling basis, which bear interest at 1.5% (2012/13 4.25%). The Company also has fixed 
loans of £13.2 million (2013 £14.2 million and 2012 £14.2 million) which have no maturity date and bear no interest. 
C16  Principal subsidiary undertakings 
The directors consider that to give full particulars of all Group undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. A full list of 
Group undertakings is attached to the latest annual return. The following information relates to those subsidiary undertakings forming 
part of continuing operations, which unless otherwise stated, are engaged in retail activities, whose results or financial position, in the 
opinion of the directors, principally affect the consolidated financial statements of the Group at 30 April 2014: 
DSG international Holdings Limited – UK
†
 El-Giganten AS – Denmark 
DSG Retail Ireland Limited – Ireland El-Giganten AB – Sweden 
DSG Retail Limited – UK Elkjøp Nordic AS – Norway 
Dixons South-East Europe A.E.V.E. – Greece (99.2%) Gigantti OY – Finland 
 
† A direct subsidiary undertaking of Dixons Retail plc and a holding company. 
Unless otherwise indicated, principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly-owned. All Group undertakings operate in their country of 
incorporation. 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 125 
Financial Statements 
 
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued) 
C17  Post-balance sheet events 
On 15 May 2014, the boards of Dixons Retail plc (Dixons) and Carphone Warehouse Group plc (Carphone) announced that they 
had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended all-share merger of Dixons and Carphone (the Merger), which is to be 
implemented by way of a scheme of arrangement of Dixons. The new merged entity is proposed to be named Dixons Carphone plc 
(Dixons Carphone). The Merger will result in each of Dixons’ and Carphone’s shareholders holding exactly 50 per cent. of Dixons 
Carphone on a fully diluted basis taking into account existing share options and award schemes for both companies.  
Under the terms of the Merger, Dixons shareholders will receive 0.155 of a new Dixons Carphone share in exchange for each Dixons 
share. Completion is subject to shareholder approval, but is expected to take place in the summer of 2014. In addition to shareholder 
approval, the Merger will be conditional on, amongst other things, the sanction of the Scheme by the Court and relevant anti-trust 
clearances being received. 
The Merger will be put to Dixons shareholders at the Court Meeting and at the Dixons General Meeting. In order to become effective, 
the Scheme must be approved by a majority in number of the Dixons shareholders voting at the Court Meeting, either in person or by 
proxy, representing at least three-quarters in value of the Dixons shares voted at the Court Meeting. In addition, special resolutions 
implementing the Scheme and approving the related capital reduction must be passed by Dixons shareholders representing at least 
three-quarters of votes cast at the Dixons General Meeting.  
Carphone and Dixons have put in place appropriate banking facilities to ensure that Dixons Carphone will have a strong financial 
profile following completion, which will enable the combined group to retain flexibility whilst reviewing its optimal capital structure 
going forward.  
The merged entity will create a leader in European consumer electricals, mobiles, connectivity and related services. The boards of 
Dixons and Carphone believe that the Merger will deliver significant value to shareholders through a combination of enhanced 
commercial opportunities and operating synergies of at least £80 million on a recurring basis, which are expected to be delivered in 
full in the financial year 2017/18. The combined group will also have the opportunity to achieve significant additional value from 
growth opportunities arising from the Merger. The integration of the two businesses will be managed by a dedicated integration team, 
bringing together the best relevant capabilities of both businesses, with the aim of facilitating a smooth integration.  
Documentation setting out details of the proposed merger and seeking shareholder approval is expected to be issued to 
shareholders on or around 26 June 2014. 
On 16 May 2014, the Company signed an agreement to sell its Electroworld operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia (Central 
Europe) to NAY a.s., a leading electrical specialist retailer in the region. The transaction is expected to complete within the first half of 
2014/15. The operations comprise 26 specialist electrical retail stores. Following completion, which remains subject to certain normal 
conditions including competition authority clearance, the Group expects to receive a small deferred cash consideration spread over 
three years. 
On 19 May 2014, the Company signed a new revolving credit facility agreement (the New Facility) for £150 million. The New Facility, 
which has a maturity date of 30 June 2018, but has an option to extend to 30 June 2019, replaces previous Amended Facility of  
£200 million which had a maturity date of 30 June 2015. The New Facility is described in further detail in Note 17.  
 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 126 
Investor Information 
 
Five Year Record 
Consolidated Income Statement 
 
2013/14 
£million 
2012/13 
£million 
2011/12
(6)
 
£million 
2010/11
(6)
 
£million 
2009/10
(6)
 
£million 
Underlying revenue
(1)
 7,217.6 7,026.6 6,521.4 6,393.9 6,506.0 
Percentage change 2.7% 7.7% 2.0% (1.7)%  
Underlying operating profit / EBIT
(2)
 202.8 186.4 158.1 142.8 154.2 
Underlying net finance costs
(1)
 (36.6) (35.4) (33.4) (33.5) (36.3) 
Underlying profit before tax
(1)
 166.2 151.0 124.7 109.3 117.9 
Percentage change 10.1% 21.1% 14.1% (7.3)%  
Businesses exited / to be exited – (0.4) (4.4) (10.3) (3.1) 
Acquired intangibles amortisation (0.7) (1.0) (1.1) (1.1) (1.2) 
Net restructuring charges (8.7) (24.8) (9.7) (17.1) (5.6) 
Business impairment charges – (9.1) (36.5) (145.3) – 
Changes in pension benefits – – – – 33.4 
Other items (4.1) (0.5) 35.6 (12.9) – 
Loss on sale of business – (9.6) – – – 
Non-underlying financing items (19.8) (19.0) (11.3) (8.4) (8.8) 
(Loss) / profit before tax – continuing operations 132.9 86.6 97.2 (85.8) 132.6 
Income tax expense (45.1) (43.7) (54.6) (26.1) (24.6) 
(Loss) / profit after tax – continuing operations 87.8 42.9 42.6 (111.9) 108.0 
Loss after tax – discontinued operations (158.1) (215.3) (205.5) (133.4) (50.7) 
(Loss) / profit for the year / period (70.3) (172.4) (162.9) (245.3) 57.3 
      
Underlying diluted earnings per share (pence)
(1)
 3.0p 2.6p 2.2p 2.1p 2.5p 
Percentage change 15.4% 18.2% 4.8% (16.0)%  
 
Consolidated Cash Flow 
 
2013/14 
£million 
2012/13 
£million 
2011/12 
£million 
2010/11 
£million 
2009/10 
£million 
Underlying profit before tax
(1)
 166.2 151.0 124.7 109.3 117.9 
Depreciation and amortisation 116.4 114.0 117.3 118.6 109.4 
Working capital movements 41.3 104.9 16.7 37.9 35.8 
Taxation (49.0) (19.9) (25.1) (23.7) (31.4) 
Net capital expenditure (79.7) (75.9) (10.7) (192.9) (146.6) 
Other (incl. settlement of historical currency hedges) 12.1 (60.5) (15.5) 6.6 (60.2) 
Free Cash Flow before restructuring items
(3)
 207.3 213.6 207.4 55.8 24.9 
Net restructuring and other one off items (6.8) (5.8) (36.3) (22.4) (33.3) 
Free Cash Flow
(4)
 200.5 207.8 171.1 33.4 (8.4) 
      
Closing net debt 70.9 42.1 (104.0) (206.8) (220.6) 
Less restricted funds
(5)
 (103.3) (110.2) (114.0) (120.3) (78.9) 
Unrestricted net debt
(5)
 (32.4) (68.1) (218.0) (327.1) (299.5) 
 
Notes: 
(1) Underlying figures exclude the effects of trading results of businesses exited, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges 
and other one off, non-recurring items, profits / losses on sale of investments or businesses, net interest on defined benefit pension schemes, net fair value 
remeasurements of financial instruments, and where applicable, discontinued operations. 
(2) EBIT equates to underlying operating profit. 
(3) Free Cash Flow before restructuring items includes dividend payments to non-controlling interests (minority shareholders). 
(4) Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash flow generated from operations before special pension contributions, less net finance expense, 
less income tax and net capital expenditure. 
(5) Unrestricted net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and borrowings and excludes restricted funds, which predominantly comprises funds 
held under trust to fund potential customer support agreement liabilities. 
(6) The three financial years 2009/10, 2010/11 and 2011/12 have not been restated to reflect the amendment to IAS 19. The effect of this would be to increase the non-
underlying finance charges presented above.  
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
 
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 127 
Investor Information 
 
Five Year Record (continued) 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
 
2014 
£million 
2013 
£million 
2012 
£million 
2011 
£million 
2010 
£million 
Non-current assets      
Goodwill 607.4 704.2 740.7 970.8 1,116.5 
Intangible assets 50.9 66.4 98.1 113.1 130.7 
Tangible assets 330.5 434.0 480.4 583.7 541.0 
Other non-current assets 135.3 172.0 182.3 216.4 253.8 
 1,124.1 1,376.6 1,501.5 1,884.0 2,042.0 
Current assets      
Inventories 684.4 895.4 874.2 960.9 972.6 
Other current assets 273.2 309.9 346.6 387.3 397.0 
Short term investments 1.4 2.4 7.3 10.5 8.5 
Cash and cash equivalents 401.2 405.3 316.8 334.7 295.7 
 1,360.2 1,613.0 1,544.9 1,693.4 1,673.8 
Assets held for sale 30.8 15.1 – – – 
Total assets 2,515.1 3,004.7 3,046.4 3,577.4 3,715.8 
      
Current liabilities      
Bank overdrafts – (17.7) (15.8) (5.6) (4.9) 
Other borrowings – (4.5) (162.5) (130.0) (98.5) 
Obligations under finance leases (2.0) (2.0) (3.1) (3.1) (2.4) 
Other current liabilities (1,433.8) (1,738.1) (1,634.7) (1,692.7) (1,652.9) 
Provisions (24.1) (36.8) (18.6) (44.4) (22.3) 
 (1,459.9) (1,799.1) (1,834.7) (1,875.8) (1,781.0) 
Net current liabilities (99.7) (186.1) (289.8) (182.4) (107.2) 
Non-current liabilities      
Borrowings (246.9) (245.4) (147.8) (315.3) (321.4) 
Obligations under finance leases (91.6) (96.0) (98.9) (98.0) (97.6) 
Retirement benefit obligations (401.8) (409.1) (266.0) (247.3) (266.8) 
Other non-current liabilities (254.2) (273.8) (275.4) (348.6) (344.4) 
Provisions (16.1) (26.1) (19.6) (15.9) (29.5) 
 (1,010.6) (1,050.4) (807.7) (1,025.1) (1,059.7) 
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale (31.2) (7.9) – – – 
Total liabilities (2,501.7) (2,857.4) (2,642.4) (2,900.9) (2,840.7) 
Net assets 13.4 147.3 404.0 676.5 875.1 
      
Equity shareholders’ funds 12.8 148.1 391.4 653.5 846.5 
Equity non-controlling interests 0.6 (0.8) 12.6 23.0 28.6 
Total equity 13.4 147.3 404.0 676.5 875.1 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support  
Dixons Retail plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 128 
Investor Information 
 
Other Shareholder Information 
Registered office 
Maylands Avenue, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire HP2 7TG, 
UK (United Kingdom). Registered in England, company no. 
3847921. www.dixonsretail.com 
Registrars and transfer office 
Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU. Tel: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p 
per minute plus network extras; lines are open 8.30am – 
5.30pm Monday to Friday). If calling from abroad the number is 
+44 20 8639 3399. The website address is: 
www.capitaassetservices.com 
Joint brokers 
Citigroup Global Markets, Barclays. 
Shareholder enquiries 
Shareholders can access shareholding details over the internet 
via our Registrar’s secure portal at www.capitashareportal.com 
As well as checking name, address and shareholding details in 
the Shareholder Help section, you can download change of 
address, dividend mandate and stock transfer forms. This is a 
secure site and you will need to register first. Please follow the 
simple instructions on the website. So that the system can 
validate your enquiries an Investor Code is required. 
This is a numerical account number and can be found on your 
share certificate. 
Share dealing service 
On-line and telephone share dealing services are available to 
shareholders through our Registrars, providing easy access and 
simple to use services. There is no need to pre-register and the 
facilities allow you to trade in ‘real time’ and at a known price 
which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction. 
In order to deal via these facilities you will need your Investor 
Code (see above) as well as stating your surname, full postcode 
and date of birth. Details of the on-line dealing service are 
available on www.capitadeal.com and the telephone dealing 
service is on 0871 664 0384 (calls cost 10p per minute plus 
network extras; lines are open 8.00am – 4.30pm Monday to 
Friday). 
Unsolicited mail 
The Company is obliged to make its share register available to 
third parties on payment of a prescribed fee. This may result in 
shareholders receiving unsolicited mail. If you wish to limit the 
receipt of unsolicited mail you should write to: The Mailing 
Preference Service, FREEPOST 29, LON20771, London, W1E 
0ZT or register on their website at www.mpsonline.org.uk 
ShareGift 
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share 
donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares 
whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them. Details of the 
scheme are available on the ShareGift website: 
www.sharegift.org 
 
 
Alternative format 
If you would like this Annual  
Report and Accounts or any  
other shareholder documentation  
in an alternative format,  
please send a request to 
corporate.affairs@dixonsretail.com 
or telephone 00 44 (0)344 800 2030 
 
Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Produced by Whitehouse Associates London
Printed by DG3 Group (Holdings) Ltd on FSC
®
 certified paper.
DG3’s Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001. 100% of 
the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for 
further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production 
will be recycled.
This document is printed on Horizon Offset which is manufactured at an 
ISO14001 certified paper mill. Chlorine free.
 
 
 
 
“This has been a great year for the Group with some excellent performances across our multi-channel businesses, together with the 
achievement of a number of important strategic objectives. Our profits are up 76% from those we reported a year ago and up 10%  
on a restated basis. This not only reflects the fact we have now exited all of our non-core markets, meaning we are now a leader in 
all our core markets, but is also a testament to the creativity and hard work of our teams. The Group is in robust financial health with 
further cash generation resulting in a strong net cash position even after the costs incurred in exiting the non-core businesses.  
Best of all, our customer service metrics have again reached new records. 
All of this all means that the Group is stronger – both commercially and financially – than it has been for a number of years and  
we are well positioned to set sail into new waters. I am very excited about the opportunities that the proposed merger with  
Carphone Warehouse offers for the Group. We will build what I hope will be the first and best truly multi-channel proposition that 
allows customers not only to buy and experience the explosion of new connected products that are emerging, but to also get the 
advice, connectivity and services that will allow them to use technology as it should be used – to make their lives better. In turn,  
this will allow us profoundly to change the nature of what we do: we will move from a transactional to a lifelong relationship with 
customers everywhere.  
In the meantime the new financial year has started well, with an uplift in TV sales driven by the World Cup, but we also believe we 
are seeing the early glimmers of a consumer recovery. On this there is no certainty just yet, but what we know for sure is that if we 
maintain a tight rein on costs, our pricing sharp – against all comers – and our service levels high, customers will continue to choose 
us over others.” 
 
 
 
Sebastian James 
Group Chief Executive 
25 June 2014 
 
 
Investor Relations app  
To get the latest Annual and Interim Reports, Presentations  
and Trading Updates on your iPad or iPhone, scan the code to 
download our IR app. 
 
 
 
Cautionary statement 
Certain statements made in this Annual Report and Accounts are forward looking. 
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to a number 
of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from 
any expected future events or results referred to in these forward looking 
statements. Unless otherwise required by applicable laws, regulations or 
accounting standards, we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise  
any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future 
developments or otherwise. Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should 
be regarded as a profit forecast. 
 
 
To be directed to the Dixons Retail corporate website, scan  
the code below. 
 
 
 
 
  Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
Dixons Retail plc
Maylands Avenue 
Hemel Hempstead 
Hertfordshire 
HP2 7TG 
United Kingdom
T el: 0344 800 2030 
www.dixonsretail.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14 
  
 
www.dixonsretail.com 
 
@DixonsRetail 
 
