 Annual Report  
and Financial Statements
2013
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Contents
Strategic report
01  Highlights
02  Our business
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Group Managing Director’s overview
08 Market context
10 Objectives
11 Strategies
16 Business model
17 Development and performance 
of the business
22 Principal risks and uncertainties
26 Key performance indicators
28 Financial review
31 Corporate responsibility
Our Mission:  
To develop and deliver equipment,  
consumables and services to manufacturers  
and commercial printers worldwide, providing  
superior coding, marking and digital  
printing solutions with convenience,  
security, value and peace of mind.
Corporate governance
38 Board of Directors
40  Corporate governance
45  Audit Committee report
49  Nomination Committee report
50  Remuneration report
67 Report of the Directors
70  Directors’ responsibilities statement
Financial statements
71  Independent Auditor’s report
74  Consolidated income statement
75 Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
76 Consolidated balance sheet
77 Consolidated statement of 
changes in equity
78  Consolidated cash flow statement
79  Parent Company balance sheet
80  Parent Company statement of  
changes in equity
81 Parent Company cash flow statement
82 Notes to the accounts
123 Investor information
124 Advisers 1
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
£335.7m
£312.1m
£314.1m
2012 2011 2013
Sales
£335.7 m
35.30p
36.02p
38.66p
Underlying earnings per share
35.30p
2012 201 1 2013
£53.0m
£53.7m
£59.5m
Underlying pre-tax prot
£53.0m
2012 201 1 2013
21.66p
20.63p
18.75p
Dividend per share
2 1 .66p
2012 201 1 2013
Highlights
The Group has made good progress during 2013, delivering 
growth from the core business against a backdrop of continuing 
economic weakness in many countries while investing in new 
growth opportunities in digital printing. We are pleased with 
performance in many areas and in particular the positive 
response from our customers to our new product ranges 
including our new full colour digital label press.
Our operational performance
 w New products driving growth
 w Early success with full colour  
digital label press
 w Aftermarket sales have been robust
Financial highlights
 w Growth in key territories: USA, 
China, Germany
 w Strong cash flow
 w Dividends increased
5%
Increase in
dividend Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
2
The Group operates in global markets, providing manufacturers and 
printers with the ability to code, mark or print data, information or 
graphical images on to their products or packaging at high speed, 
typically in line in the manufacturing or printing process.
Our business – what we do
We design, manufacture and sell a wide 
range of printing equipment and associated 
consumables and support services that 
encompass ink jet, thermal and laser 
technologies. Our products are capable of 
printing on a broad spectrum of materials 
and substrates and offer full variability 
for personalisation, customisation or 
unique identification of products.
Our complete solutions approach is based 
upon expert applications knowledge 
and, where required, innovative coding 
automation software for effective 
manufacturing line integration.
Demand for our products and services is 
created through legislation and mandate, 
typically meeting the need to inform 
consumers, and through providing 
manufacturers and printers with an economic 
means of decorating, identifying, tracing, 
protecting or authenticating their products 
for commercial or regulatory purposes. 
Our products are designed to support 
our ‘make to order’ manufacturing 
strategy. Typical lead times for the 
equipment we sell are less than four 
weeks. Fluids and other consumables are 
often supplied to customers next day. 
We support a global customer base through 
an extensive sales channel network comprised 
of directly held sales subsidiaries and third 
party distributors. Every sales channel is 
trained and equipped to provide professional 
sales advice, installation, service and support. 
In combination with our distributor partners 
we estimate that there are in excess of 
5,000 representatives of the Group across 
all the industrial economies of the world. 
In 2013, our revenue split by location 
of customers was 25 per cent in the 
Americas, 41 per cent in Europe and 
34 per cent in Asia/Rest of World. We 
have an installed base well in excess of 
200,000 printers operating worldwide.
Typical customers are manufacturers including, 
multinational, regional and national companies, 
spread across a wide range of market sectors. 
We also supply printers of labels, mail and 
other web based materials to meet their 
short run and variable printing needs.
Food, beverage, pharmaceutical and 
commercial printing are the largest 
sectors; combined they represent 
approximately 67 per cent of total sales. 
Our breadth of industry coverage and 
lack of reliance on any one or small group 
of customers provides a natural hedge 
against sector specific market risk. 3
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
5
6
7
1
2
3
4
4%
Sector coverage
In depth sector expertise and market based solutions enable 
us to differentiate and rapidly respond to the diverse needs 
of our chosen markets. Our breadth of industry coverage 
reduces our risk or dependency on individual sectors.
Key markets:
 u Developed
 u Developing
1 Food and Beverages 43%
2 Pharmaceutical and Healthcare 14%
3 Printing 10%
4 Industrial 10%
5 Electronic Components 6%
6 Construction and Chemicals 5%
7 Others 12%
Note: estimated split of Group revenue.
Global presence, regional sales by location of customer
(per cent of total)
United 
Kingdom
North 
America
Western 
Europe
Asia 
Pacific
Middle East 
& Africa
Central & 
Eastern Europe
South
America
21% 7% 29% 5% 7% 27% Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
4
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report further progress 
of the Group during 2013. Sales have 
increased by 8 per cent to £335.7 million, 
underlying pre-tax profits were £53.0 
million and net cash inflow from operating 
activities before tax was £54.9 million.
We have continued to invest in people, 
in particular expanding our capabilities 
in the digital printing business, and in our 
product range. Research and Development 
expenditure was increased to £19.5 
million and we successfully introduced 
a number of new products including 
the N-Series digital label press.
The performance of TEN Media has 
been a major disappointment to us. 
Delays in the business coupled with 
uncertainty about its future have led us 
Further progress and an increase in dividends.
to the view that our investment has been 
permanently impaired. This has been 
treated as a one-off cost in the year.
The strong balance sheet and cash 
generation of the Group has allowed us 
to sustain the progressive improvement in 
dividends. This year the Board is proposing 
a final dividend of 14.06 pence per share 
which when added to the interim dividend 
of 7.60 pence represents an increase of 
5 per cent for the year as a whole.
Over the course of the year the Board 
and its committees have addressed the 
corporate governance requirements arising 
from changes to regulations. In this report 
we present our first Strategic Report on 
the business and increased disclosures on 
matters affecting audit and remuneration.
Domino is a global 
business with 
operations in all regions 
of the world
Domino’s latest facility in Cambridge, UK for the  
Digital Printing commercial and technical operations.
Peter Byrom
Chairman 5
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Earlier this year Garry Havens announced 
his retirement from the Group and will 
step down from the Board in December 
2013. I would like to thank Garry for 
his contribution to the Group.
Phil Ruffles has announced that he does 
not intend to stand for re-election at 
the next Annual General Meeting on 19 
March 2014. Phil has served as a Non-
Executive Director for 11 years and I have 
appreciated his considerable contribution 
to the Group over this period.
Research and  
Development expenditure was 
increased to a new record 
level of £19.5 million and we 
successfully introduced a 
number of new products 
including the N-Series digital 
label press
Our recent order intake provides tentative 
signs that market conditions are improving. 
While we remain cautious about the prospects 
for a full recovery to historical levels of global 
GDP growth, we are optimistic that our 
investments in new products and capabilities 
coupled with emerging market opportunities 
will fuel stronger organic sales growth in 2014. 
We are continuing to invest in the business, 
improving our prospects for the future.
Peter Byrom
Chairman
11 December 2013  Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
6
Group Managing Director’s overview
The momentum from sales growth in 2013 coupled with the 
investments we have made in support of key strategies, places 
the Group in a strong position to maintain performance 
improvements in 2014 and beyond.
My aspiration is to see sustained growth 
of our business several percentage points 
above global GDP growth. I believe this can 
be achieved by capitalising on new market 
and sector opportunities, by introducing new 
products to retain and attract customers and 
by taking advantage of legislation requiring 
increased variable data solutions on packaging. 
These drivers will vary year on year but, in 
combination with growing output levels as 
global consumption increases, my belief is 
that this should position the Group to deliver 
sales growth in excess of global GDP growth.
For the year to 31 October 2013 the business 
grew by 8 per cent. We experienced difficult 
economic conditions in our core sectors 
across Europe for most of the year, although 
as we closed the year short-term order intake 
was beginning to show more encouraging 
signs. In Asia, it was pleasing to see improving 
economic data emerging from China where 
our sales increased by 11 per cent over 
the year as a whole. Our recent trend of 
improving results in the USA continued 
with another year of double digit growth.
Evidence suggests that there are signs of 
improvement in many world economies, and 
confidence is starting to pick up. While some 
customers remain cautious, we are optimistic 
that we go into 2014 with a more positive 
economic outlook than in the past two years.
Our profit in the year to 31 October 
2013 was broadly at the same level as 
the previous year. We have executed our 
plans to invest in a number of business 
initiatives, building a greater portfolio 
of opportunities to help drive growth. 
In combination, these investments have 
absorbed the additional gross margin 
generated from sales growth in the year 
but have established a number of platforms 
from which we will benefit in the future.
The major disappointment of the year has 
been the absence of revenue and profits 
from TEN Media, a significant investment 
for the Group in 2011, which was expected 
to generate positive returns during 2013. 
However, ongoing delays and now a 
shortage of funds in TEN Media have 
frustrated progress in that business. This has 
held back our profit growth. Uncertainty 
around the future of the business has also 
caused us to consider the value of the 
investment the Group holds in TEN Media 
to be permanently impaired, and we have 
written down the value of that investment 
to nil. The potential for the TEN Media 
business in the future remains uncertain.
During 2013, we maintained a high level of 
Research and Development expenditure in 
our core business, continuing our programme 
of product harmonisation and development 
of common platforms. The goal is to build 
our product range on a common platform, 
delivering a consistently high user experience 
across the range while helping reduce 
complexity in the business, simplifying 
and streamlining our manufacturing and 
marketing operations. This is a key item 
in our strategy to sustain gross margins.
In addition to the platform work in 
Research and Development we invested in 
development of new products to meet the 
Falsified Medicines Directive, which is likely 
to be the most significant legislation driver 
requiring coding in the next three years 
and a significant growth opportunity for 
the Group. We identified the need to build 
additional capability into our printers and 
to develop new inks to meet the mandated 
Nigel Bond
Group Managing Director 7
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
requirements and I am pleased that we 
have completed the necessary work.
For a number of years we have been 
developing our digital label press business. 
This enables our expansion into a new and 
fast growing market as high-speed digital 
ink jet is adopted for the production of full 
colour labels applied to product packaging. 
This is adjacent to our core business and, 
we believe, will eventually overlap with it.
In 2013, we accelerated investment to 
build our digital print capability. Following 
on from the launch of the N600i full 
colour digital press in October 2012, we 
introduced the N610i in September 2013. 
This product introduces a wider colour 
range including white and significantly 
increases the size of available market. Our 
goal in 2013 was to install ten full colour 
presses. This was achieved (nine recognised 
in revenue in the year) and we hope to 
follow this up in 2014 with a further 25 
digital press installations. Each digital press 
attracts considerable fluids revenues.
In addition to the investment made in 
technology and product development in 
the year, we also expanded our sales and 
marketing resources across Europe and North 
America and have built a strong team through 
which we expect to deliver our 2014 goals.
In November 2013, we launched our new 
F-series fibre laser to complement our 
industry leading successful range of CO
2
 
lasers. This is an example of an investment 
we made to expand our product portfolio 
to both retain our position with existing 
customers in new applications and to position 
ourselves to attract new customers who have 
requirements we could not previously meet.
Over the past five years we have undertaken 
a major programme in our manufacturing 
operations to improve productivity and 
efficiency in the Group. This has included 
investment in IT systems to build out a 
more integrated global network, which 
although not yet complete, has yielded 
substantial performance improvements. 
In combination with this, we have made 
excellent progress in our efforts to 
consolidate our global supply network.
I am pleased with the progress we made 
with the execution of our strategy in 2013 in 
most areas. We end the year with a broad 
and strong product range, able to meet the 
opportunities available to us and an expanded 
sales and marketing network, with next 
steps defined to develop the infrastructure 
and operational performance of the Group. 
I am disappointed with the progress made 
in TEN Media and while I am satisfied that 
Domino has done all it can to support the 
programme, matters beyond our control 
have continued to frustrate progress.
In addition to our revenue growth aspirations, 
our goal is to further improve the bottom 
line return on sales of the business with a 
longer-term target of getting back to and 
We have made 
excellent progress in 
our efforts to 
consolidate our global 
supply network
then ahead of the 19 per cent we achieved 
in 2011. We have indicated over the past 
two years that investment was needed to 
achieve this and this would erode the return 
in the short-term, but once we start to see 
sustained economic improvement, I am 
confident we are now in a position to start 
to move forwards on an upward trajectory.
Nigel Bond
Group Managing Director
11 December 2013 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
8
Market context
Drivers 
The demands on manufacturers and 
importance to them of coding, marking 
and variable printing onto both consumer 
and industrial products continue to 
increase. Today coding solutions are 
required to satisfy a diverse range of needs 
from decoration to machine readable 
traceability codes. Typical examples of 
increasing market demands include:
 w Governments and brand owners, 
driving traceability and product and 
brand protection from counterfeiting 
and product diversion
 w Manufacturers maximising productivity 
from existing production equipment 
and retailers accelerating innovation 
of shelf-ready packaging and efficient 
automated warehousing and supply chains
 w Rising consumer demand for more 
choice and, increasingly, more 
information printed on products
 w Brand owners increasingly using 
packaging to differentiate their 
products from the competition, 
including exploiting the promotional 
potential of coding and printing.
Key supply and demand driven factors
Globalisation
Globalisation is a feature of many of the 
markets we serve. Multinational corporations 
across a range of market sectors are seeking 
to exploit their global footprint through 
simplified and consistent manufacturing 
processes. We are responding to this 
challenge by deploying common products 
available worldwide and by building 
our capability to provide manufacturing 
connectivity within and across plants. 
Emerging market growth
As consumer wealth and desire for choice 
has increased, the emerging markets such 
as South East Asia, the Indian subcontinent, 
the Middle East and South America 
have experienced double digit growth 
in consumption of many products. Our 
direct representation and distribution 
network has enabled rapid penetration 
and growth within these regions, providing 
the opportunity to grow our revenues.
Changing market needs
Consumer requirements are increasingly 
sophisticated as people become more ‘time 
poor’ and discerning; this has accelerated 
the demand for convenience and single 
serve portions. All of these factors are 
Brand owners and manufacturers are 
demanding more sophisticated coding 
solutions, capable of providing value 
beyond traditional product codes and 
legislative driven mandates for ‘sell by’ 
and ‘best before’ dates.
helping to drive the growth of coding 
and marking. This need applies across the 
whole value chain including manufacturers, 
retailers and end consumers. Manufacturers 
are looking for coding equipment which 
is simple to use, support and integrate 
into their production facilities. Retailers 
have sought to simplify logistics through 
automated barcoding systems and shelf-
ready packaging, whilst consumers are 
seeking convenience through single portion 
products and easy to use packaging. All these 
demands have created greater opportunity 
for coding and marking solutions. 
Responding to these trends, we have 
developed a full technology portfolio, capable 
of offering simplicity in use, the flexibility to 
print new code formats such as QR codes 
and bar codes, and compatibility with the 
diversity of packaging available. For example, 
our V-Series i-Tech TTO range is typically 
used within ‘form fill and seal’ flexible 
packaging applications: a key growth area 
both in developed and emerging markets. 
Improved productivity and performance
In an increasingly competitive environment, 
FMCG producers are becoming more 
demanding in their coding and marking 
requirements. Total cost effectiveness, 
i-Tech
Our next generation of  
primary coders deploy our unique 
intelligent Technology system, i-Tech. 
Our aim was to make production  
lines lower maintenance, lower  
cost and more efficient.  
i-Tech has helped  
us to achieve  
that aim. 9
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
covering capital equipment purchase as well 
as aftermarket costs has equal importance 
to reliability and maximum production line 
uptime. Production line automation is driving 
a need for machine readable codes which in 
turn means improved code quality. In response 
we have developed proprietary i-Tech 
‘service free’ technology solutions, producing 
higher quality coding and capable of reducing 
total cost, maximising production uptime 
and simplifying manufacturing operations.
Increased product traceability
The ability to track and identify products 
throughout the value chain is increasing in 
importance to customers. Regional and 
global manufacturers are taking measures 
to maintain the integrity of their products 
and supply chain, protect brand value and 
remove the potential for counterfeiting.
We work closely with brand owners and 
relevant legislative bodies to develop coding 
systems capable of producing serialised 
and other security based solutions. In the 
European pharmaceutical sector, for example, 
we are providing full portfolio solutions 
directly suited to the need of the EU Falsified 
Medicines Directive and leveraging strong 
industry partnerships to facilitate simplified 
and accelerated legislative compliance. 
Sustainability
Growing consumer and investor pressure 
for environmentally friendly products and 
packaging has resulted in manufacturers 
taking action to eliminate waste and focus 
on efficiency improvement, both in the 
interests of corporate sustainability and 
longer-term competitive advantage. In 
response, we have strived to improve our 
business sustainability performance through 
green teams, community interaction and 
careful supply chain management, together 
with reporting data within the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (‘CDP’) for the third 
year running, registered with SEDEX. Our 
latest coding and marking solutions offer 
equipment with energy saving and ink 
systems that are compatible with ‘lightweight’ 
plastic packaging. We have also introduced 
Life Cycle Analysis (‘LCA’) as a part of 
our development programmes to ensure 
future products are based on sustainable 
materials and production processes.
The rise of digital printing
The market trend for the printing of packaging 
and labels is moving towards ever shorter print 
production runs. This means increased demand 
for digital print over alternative, conventional 
print technology (such as flexography), 
exploiting the ability of digital printing to 
offer quicker job changes and lower job set 
up costs. Ink jet is a recent digital technology 
entrant and offers key productivity advantages 
over the existing toner based digital systems, 
making it suitable for a wider range of 
production runs. Digital ink jet is expected 
to grow strongly over the next decade as 
it replaces traditional printing techniques.
Our range of digital printing systems uses the 
very latest ink jet printing technology for both 
monochrome (Domino K600i) printing as well 
as full colour (Domino N610i) digital label 
printing. The K600i monochrome product 
was launched in 2011. The full colour product 
was launched at the end of 2012 and first sales 
and installations have been made during 2013. 
Case study: 
 
Addressing market trends within the beverage sector.
As one of our priorities we are responding 
to market changes and opportunity within 
the growing beverage sector. Customers 
are looking for greater convenience and 
packaging is increasingly moving toward 
individual serving sizes, while 
manufacturers are seeking greater supply 
chain traceability. In the UK, Domino has 
been working with Infusion GB, a leading 
tea packaging manufacturer to specifically 
address this challenge. Speaking on the 
recent collaboration, Peter Barry, Technical 
Director at Infusion GB, commented 
“Domino definitely had the edge in 
terms of the capability of its engineers, 
who were able to adapt their printers. 
We weren’t very clear on what we needed 
at the beginning of the process, but 
Domino’s team was willing to take the time 
to listen to our needs and tailor a solution. 
With Domino’s help we have found a 
solution that the tea market has been 
struggling with for some time.” Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
10
Objectives
Our aim is to achieve leadership in our chosen 
markets delivering exceptional value to our customers 
and superior returns to our shareholders. 
In our experience, customers place highest 
value on the productivity, reliability and 
convenience of their coding and printing 
operations. Our response is to focus on 
product leadership through innovation and 
service excellence through development 
of effective teams. Shareholder returns are 
characterised by growth in profitability, cash 
generation and return on capital employed.
Our key objectives: 
To increase the  
installed base of Domino 
equipment in use globally 
through growth in new 
equipment sales
To grow by  
acquiring technologies,  
products, skills and  
competencies which enhance  
our coding and printing  
solutions 
To deliver  
superior returns to  
shareholders through  
sustained year on year growth  
in profits, cash flow  
and earnings  
per share
To create future 
growth opportunities 
by investing in new 
products, services and 
business capacity
To maximise the 
value of aftermarket 
sales  11
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Strategies
Our strategies supporting the delivery of these 
objectives are summarised:
1
  To build long-term customer relationships 
through providing unparalleled expertise
Where business continuity is important, 
developing long-term customer relationships 
is essential to ensure efficient business 
models for customers and suppliers 
alike. Long-term relationships mean our 
customers benefit from: tailored solutions 
to meet their specific needs, added value 
from our broad expertise in delivering 
efficient coding solutions and a secure 
ongoing supply of consumables, spare 
parts and service. For the Group, long-
term relationships provide opportunity to 
progressively satisfy the broader coding 
and marking needs of our customers from 
simple codes on the primary package, to 
graphics and bar codes on the secondary 
outer case and full label printing, increasing 
the installed base of our equipment and 
providing a sustained revenue stream 
long after the original capital sale.
In 2013, Hangzhou Wahaha Group,  
the largest beverage company in China 
set out to develop a non-alcoholic 
alternative to beer, branded as Gwas and 
utilising an innovative dark bottle design. 
The packaging necessitated a high 
contrast ink for the coding of the bottles 
which could be applied at high speed. 
In partnership with Wahaha, we 
developed an effective solution which 
was subsequently used as the coding 
equipment of choice in production.
Case study: 
 
Hangzhou Wahaha Group Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
12
Strategies
continued
It is our long held belief that product 
performance is a key differentiator for our 
customers. Demanding operating conditions 
coupled with ever increasing performance 
targets for operational effectiveness (‘OEE’) 
means customers are continually testing our 
product performance against their own 
manufacturing process goals. While reliability 
in operation remains the number one priority 
for our customers, throughput rates, code 
quality, code application across an increasing 
range of substrates, automation of coding and 
data management are areas where customers 
continue to demand innovation and enhanced 
product performance.
Our approach to product leadership is based 
on using our 35 year industry experience and 
global network to identify target markets  
and applications and to then develop or 
acquire products that can excel in meeting  
the demands of both manufacturing process 
and printed substrate. 
2
To maintain product leadership 
through superior innovation
Case study: 
 
Wells & Y oung Brewery
Investment in Domino’s latest A-Series 
i-Tech continuous ink jet printer 
technology has enabled the UK’s largest 
private brewery, Wells & Young’s, to boost 
productivity and reduce costs – with the 
company set to almost fully recoup its 
investment after just one year.
The UK based business, which was 
founded in 1876 and produces a range of 
cask beers and lagers, turned to Domino 
after deciding to replace its existing 
coding and marking machines. Domino 
solutions are now deployed to code 
bottles, cans, trays and cardboard boxes. 13
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Failure to place a code on their products 
can be very costly for manufacturers. 
Production down time or spoiled product 
is an expensive waste of resource. A central 
part of our business model is the ability to 
meet the maintenance, service and support 
needs of our customers wherever they 
may be in the world and at a consistently 
high standard. Whether that be in the 
supply of printers and consumables or 
3
To deliver service excellence through 
a responsive organisation
Case study: 
 
Adelholzener
The mineral water company Adelholzener 
Alpenquellen, based in Germany produces 
a variety of non-alcoholic beverages under 
the brand names Adelholzener and Active 
O2. Commenting on the relationship with 
Domino, Rudolf Kroof, Head of Electrical 
Engineering commented... “For over 14 
years we have established a trusting and 
reliable partnership. We also value our 
relationship with the service technician 
who looks after us, and represents an 
excellent point of contact.”
the delivery of services, our strategy of 
service excellence is aimed at keeping 
customers operational while reinforcing the 
important role we play in their business. 
Field service engineers represent the largest 
body of employees within the Group and our 
management systems and training programmes 
ensure we develop our competence and 
maintain a strong global capability
5%
of revenues are invested 
in Research and 
Development  
each year. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
14
Strategies
continued
Our mission tightly defines our purpose 
and enables us to focus on the wealth of 
opportunities there are to develop or 
enhance the information applied to products 
or packaging, informing, attracting and 
protecting consumers. Legislation plays a key 
role in defining the data that manufacturers 
or service providers must make available 
4
To make strategic investments that 
capitalise on future market drivers
to consumers but operational imperatives 
driving efficiency and eliminating waste also 
play their part in creating opportunities for 
coding, marking or printing of variable data. 
For digital printing, the growing requirement 
for faster and short run production of high 
resolution print necessitates innovation to 
address the need for improved productivity.
Domino’s new N610i full 
colour digital label press 
installed in the new 
demonstration facility in 
Cambridge, UK
Case study: 
 
Investing in digital printing
Digital printing, using ink jet technology, 
is an area of significant growth in the 
printing industry. Strategically, the sector 
provides the opportunity for us to utilise 
our ink jet core competency and leverage 
our market experience with brand 
owners and label printers. As a 
consequence, we have made a number 
of key investments to support our 
growth in this industry in 2013. (See 
Development and Performance of the 
business – Research and Development)
10
N600i presses 
installed in the year 15
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Increasing focus on the world’s finite 
natural resources is a priority for all 
companies across all industries. As a key 
supplier to many of the world’s largest and 
most influential manufacturers, and with 
a concern for the environment in which 
we operate, we have made sustainability 
an imperative for our business. 
Our approach extends from the products 
we develop to help customers respond 
to changes they must make in their use of 
packaging or in their processes, through to 
working with our own suppliers covering 
both working standards and environmental 
awareness. This enables early anticipation of, 
and response to, legislative trends combined 
with effective overall business processes 
for sustainable supply chains. Sustainability 
also means driving efficiency, eliminating 
waste and improving financial returns 
through careful management of resource.
5
To ensure business 
sustainability
Case study: 
 
Environmentally 
friendly inks
In 2013, we developed ink technology 
based on vegetable oil for outer case 
coding. In anticipation of increasingly 
stringent regulation, the ink allows for 
recyclability of foodstuffs packaging whilst 
improving overall product performance. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
16
Long-term customer 
relationships from full 
product life cycle
Customer  
acquisition
Customer  
development  
Stage 2
Customer  
development  
Stage 1
Customer
rejuvenation
Financial & Total Cost 
of Ownership 
Solutions
Service, Spares 
& Warranty
Training & 
Certification
Fluids & 
Consumables
Technical & 
Application Support
Software as 
a Service
Business model
The fundamentals of our business model are based on 
forging long-term relationships with customers, building 
an installed base of printers and providing consumables, 
spare parts and aftermarket services through the full 
lifecycle of their use. Our success is significantly 
influenced by our ability to provide solutions that 
optimise the total cost of ownership to our customers. 
Once the product is installed, our ongoing 
aftermarket commitment provides a 
continuing revenue stream as we help our 
customers maintain optimum production 
efficiency through the life of the product to 
replacement. We are then well placed to 
support customers who invest in latest 
technology, often improving their production 
efficiency. This total lifetime commitment 
ensures long-term customer relationships are 
equally beneficial to our customers and the 
Group’s profitability.
Equipment  
upgrade/  
replacement
Increase 
equipment 
installed base
Recurring 
revenues from 
aftermarket
Equipment  
cross selling
Capital
Aftermarket 17
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Sales growth by location of customer in main 
European countries
2012
2013
United 
Kingdom
France Germany Rest of
Europe
£22.0m
£21.1m
£20.9m
£19.4m
£30.3m
£25.5m
£62.3m
£64.5m
Development and 
performance of the business
The Group operates its business worldwide. 
Primary segmentation is by geography in 
three principal regions – Americas, Europe 
and Asia/Rest of World.
The Group has a number of subsidiary 
companies, including some that undertake 
product development and manufacturing and 
others that are sales and service channels. 
In addition, we are represented by a network 
of distributors across approximately 140 
countries. Our distributors typically have 
exclusive rights to sell our products in their 
designated geographic markets. 
Alongside the ‘Domino’ brand, which 
comprises approximately 90 per cent of 
total Group sales, we operate a number of 
specialist businesses selling under their own 
brands into particular areas of the market. 
Performance by geography
Europe
In Europe, the Group operates direct sales 
businesses in the UK, France, Germany, Benelux, 
Spain, Portugal, Switzerland and Sweden. Other 
territories are covered by distributors, most 
with exclusive rights to represent the Group 
in their respective country.
Western Europe is a more mature market 
for coding with a large established installed 
base of equipment, whereas many of the 
developing economies of Eastern Europe 
continue to experience capital investment and 
stronger growth. Economic conditions have 
been relatively weak in most parts of Europe 
in the past 12 months, although there are 
some signs that customers plan to increase 
capital investment activity in 2014. Legislation 
remains a key driver of investment among our 
customers and one of the current initiatives 
in Europe is in the pharmaceutical sector, the 
Falsified Medicines Directive (‘FMD’). FMD 
requires all drugs manufactured in Europe 
to be uniquely identified at pack level to 
enable authentication at point of prescription. 
This will require significant investment in 
coding and data management systems by the 
pharmaceutical manufacturing industry. We 
have developed solutions able to meet these 
requirements and believe our reputation and 
experience in delivering similar applications 
within the industry and other sectors positions 
us well to capitalise on the opportunity. 
In the context of our general growth strategy, 
our European goals are to achieve growth in 
volume of equipment sales year-on-year while 
increasing our aftermarket revenues at least 
in line with growth in the installed base 
of equipment. 
In 2013, equipment revenues from customers 
located in Europe increased by 8 per cent 
compared to 2012, with approximately 30 per 
cent of sales being made to the developing 
economies of Southern and Eastern Europe. 
Aftermarket revenues from customers 
located in Europe increased by 7 per cent. 
In addition to growing revenues in coding and 
marking applications (date codes, batch codes 
etc.), in the digital printing business, we made 
first sales of the N600i colour label press this 
year, installing seven systems for customers 
in Benelux, France, Germany and the UK. 
There has been a 0.6 percentage point 
reduction in gross profit margin overall in our 
subsidiaries located in Europe over the year. 
This is primarily a result of the investment we 
have made in production facilities and capacity 
in our digital print manufacturing operation 
in anticipation of growth in the volumes of 
presses we will sell in 2014 and beyond. 
Profitability of our European subsidiaries is 
influenced by the location of a number of 
our manufacturing sites which ship products 
worldwide from their European base. Profit 
share between manufacturers and sales 
businesses is in line with normal arm’s-length 
rules; regions such as Europe, where a 
significant proportion of our manufacturing 
is undertaken, enjoy higher profit margins 
as a result of including those profits made 
in European entities on inter-company 
sales of products made to subsidiary 
companies in other regions. In 2013, the 
total segment result in Europe, before one-
off exceptional costs, was £56.6 million, 
an increase of 9 per cent on prior year. 
Particular highlights in the European 
business this year were:
 w Strong growth in Germany, driven in part 
by the sale of systems to local OEM’s for 
export into Eastern Europe and Asia
 w First installations of the BK652 TIJ ink 
digital label press
 w Successful introduction of a high 
performance mineral oil free ink 
responding to the changing materials 
used in outer case coding.
Our key goals in Europe for 2014 include:
 w Growth in new equipment with particular 
emphasis on the pharmaceutical sector 
and FMD
 w Increase in sales of the Group’s latest 
i-Tech product range with ‘service 
free’ functionality
 w Increased penetration of the label 
printing market with the newly launched 
N610i colour ink jet digital press.  Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
18
Americas
The Group has sales subsidiary operations in 
Canada, the USA and Mexico and sells 
through an extensive distribution network 
throughout Central and South America. 
The North American market is highly 
developed and contains many of the largest 
multinational manufacturing companies 
operating in the sectors we serve – food, 
beverage, pharmaceutical, etc. Market drivers 
include legislation and industry mandates. 
In particular, adoption of the Food Safety 
Modernisation Act in the USA in 2011 has 
increased demand for product traceability 
and authentication systems. 
Market conditions in North America have 
been more positive throughout 2013 
than those in Europe, with published 
average GDP growth rates indicating that 
consumption levels have increased. Our 
business tends to respond to improving 
GDP as manufacturers increase their 
output and consequently increase use of 
coding equipment and consumables. 
The position in Central and South America 
has been more mixed. Political, economic and 
fiscal issues have restricted trade in some 
countries and we have seen reduced 
investment among many customers.
Our strategy in North America is to focus on 
larger opportunities that allow us to build our 
infrastructure and increase our market 
coverage. Our investment in TEN Media, 
made in 2011, was one such opportunity. TEN 
Media was established to supply compliance 
systems to the US egg industry, meeting 
requirements to ensure safe supply chains for 
shell eggs sold in retail markets. TEN Media 
has not delivered the progress we anticipated 
but the investment was made based on the 
size of the opportunity and the exclusive right 
of supply we negotiated to help improve our 
position in this key market. 
We made good progress in sales in North 
America in 2013. Equipment revenues from 
customers located there increased by 12 per 
cent and aftermarket revenues by 6 per cent. 
Equipment revenues were bolstered by strong 
sales of our new i-Tech products coupled 
with first sales of the full colour digital press. 
Our strategy in Central and South America is 
to focus on supporting and developing our 
distributor network, enabling sales to larger 
multinational accounts where global 
relationships are important. We do not seek 
to compete for the very low price business 
that is prevalent in some countries. 
Sales in Central and South America in 2013 
were £11.0 million, 7 per cent below 2012. 
The main shortfall in sales was attributable to 
difficulties in Brazil and Argentina where weak 
economic performance and specific fiscal 
control measures affected performance. We 
remain committed to developing our sales in 
this region but our growth opportunities are 
being hampered by external factors and the 
low price environment that has developed as 
a result.
Profitability in our American subsidiaries is 
below levels achieved elsewhere in the Group. 
This primarily reflects the smaller 
manufacturing footprint of the Group in 
America compared to Europe and Asia, but in 
2013 also reflects additional investment we 
have made in new resources to support the 
digital print business. Gross profit margins 
improved by just under 2 per cent in the year. 
The Americas segment result in 2013, before 
one-off exceptional costs, was £4.5 million, in 
line with prior year.
Particular highlights in the American 
business this year were:
 w Strong growth in revenues in the USA
 w First sales of the N600i digital press
 w Progress with TEN Media was 
disappointing.
Our goals for 2014 include:
 w Further increase in penetration of i-Tech 
product range
 w Development of multinational account 
business 
 w Increasing sales of the new N610i digital 
label press.
Asia/Rest of the World (‘ROW’)
In recent years, Asia/ROW has been the 
fastest growing region for the Group. Our 
direct presence in China, India, Korea and the 
United Arab Emirates is complemented by 
highly competent distributors across all 
developing markets in Africa, the Middle East 
and South East Asia. We also operate through 
distributors in Australasia.
Coding and marking requirements continue 
to grow across the region, partially as a 
result of adoption of new legislation and 
standards and partially as a result of the 
growth in the ‘middle classes’ and hence 
consumption. GDP growth in most markets 
is running at mid to high single digits, a good 
indicator of potential for our business, and 
our customers have, by and large, maintained 
investment despite the more difficult 
conditions they have faced in export markets 
(largely Europe and North America). 
Development and performance of the business
continued
Sales growth by location of customer in main 
Americas countries
2012
2013
USA Rest of North
America
Central and South 
America
£53.9m
£47.2m
£18.2m
£17.6m
£11.9m
£11.0m 19
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
The largest markets in the region are China 
and India. These are also the Group’s top two 
markets for new equipment sales by volume. 
The competitive position in Asia in particular 
is different to other regions with more small 
local suppliers present. Customer retention 
rates (those customers who continue to buy 
consumables, spares and services from us 
after the original equipment sale) are lower in 
this region than elsewhere in the world and it 
is one of our priorities to win back customers 
and increase our aftermarket sales. 
Our strategy in Asia is to continue to expand 
our market coverage and further develop and 
grow capabilities in our sales channels. This is 
underpinned by our direct operations in 
China, India and Korea where we maintain 
market leading positions. We also operate an 
extensive network of highly experienced 
distributors, providing access to many of the 
world’s fastest growing markets. 
We have manufacturing operations near New 
Delhi in India serving the local market, and in 
Shanghai in China where we manufacture and 
supply printers and consumables for both the 
local market and the broader Asian region. 
During 2013 we opened a new support office 
in Singapore reinforcing our commitment to 
growing our sales in the region.
In 2013, our equipment sales to customers 
located in Asia/ROW increased by 6 per cent 
when compared to prior year and aftermarket 
sales increased by 9 per cent. Our business in 
China has grown its sales by 11 per cent, 
reflecting a return to a more stable economic 
environment after the volatility of 2012. The 
more fragmented competitor position in 
China in particular means there are a large 
number of smaller companies vying for 
business. This can and does, in some cases, 
have an impact on market prices for 
equipment and as a result we continue to see 
downward pressure on our average selling 
prices. Sales mix and price effects have 
reduced equipment gross margins in the 
region by approximately 3 percentage points 
when compared to 2012. This has had the 
effect of reducing gross profits by £2.1 million.
Profitability in our Asian subsidiaries reflects 
our strong market position and the benefits of 
local manufacturing profits. It also reflects the 
aggressive price environment and increasing 
cost of doing business in markets where 
annual wage settlements are typically in 
excess of 10 per cent. The net result for this 
segment of our business in 2013 was £13.5 
million, 2 per cent below prior year. 
Particular highlights in the Asian/
ROW business this year were:
 w Return to double digit growth in China
 w Success in the pharmaceutical sector as 
certain local markets adopted drug 
authentication legislation
 w Early success with the introduction of 
digital print products into Asian markets 
through our Graph-Tech business.
Our goals for 2014 include:
 w Introduction of the extended i-Tech CIJ 
product range
 w Further penetration of TTO, responding 
in particular to the growing use of 
flexible packaging
 w Development of digital print opportunities.
Operational performance
Group manufacturing strategy is 
summarised as ‘make to order, ship direct 
to customer’. This approach means we 
need an engaged supply chain with supplier 
partners undertaking a high degree of 
product integration. Our make to order 
philosophy enables us to offer short lead 
times and to respond to specific customer 
requirements despite supplying a very 
broad range of product variants. 
Our process starts with product design, 
developing products based on platforms 
that provide for common parts and ease 
of assembly. Our Group Sourcing function 
works closely with a relatively small but 
experienced supply base to ensure quality, 
flexibility and timeliness of supply alongside a 
constant programme of cost reduction. Our 
factory operations are responsible for order 
fulfilment and customer focused logistics. 
The Group has manufacturing operations in 
a number of locations in Europe, America 
and Asia/ROW. The principal sites are 
in Cambridge, UK, which is the main 
manufacturing hub for ink jet products; in 
Liverpool, UK and Gurnee, USA, which are 
our two main fluids manufacturing operations; 
in New Delhi, India and in Shanghai in 
China. We manufacture laser products in 
Hamburg, Germany, Print and Apply Label 
Machines in Malmo, Sweden and digital 
printing products in Egliswil, Switzerland.
Over the past 15 months we have invested 
£1.5 million in development of a new factory 
near New Delhi, India to support growth in 
our Indian business and, in September 2013, 
we took on an additional nearby facility 
creating increased space for manufacturing 
at our Cambridge site. To allow for future 
expansion, the Group has obtained planning 
permission for an extensive development 
and increase in space at its headquarters in 
Cambridge but at this stage no decision has 
been taken on implementation.
Sales growth by location of customer in main 
Asia/ROW countries
2012
2013
China India Rest 
of Asia
ME/Africa
£41.9m
£37.6m
£18.5m
£18.1m
£31.1m
£29.4m
£22.0m
£23.4m Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
20
During 2013 our operational priorities 
have included:
 w The introduction of new fluids and printers
 w Integration of our new digital printing 
businesses (Graph-Tech and PostJet) into 
the operational infrastructure
 w Planning and implementing additional plant 
capacity to support our growth plans
 w A number of business process excellence 
projects improving capability and 
responsiveness of our network.
During the year there was a major fire 
at a third party off-site storage facility 
which was holding significant inventory 
for our core product lines. We were 
able to immediately implement our pre-
prepared disaster recovery process which 
functioned well and allowed us to recover 
the situation with no significant disruption 
to our customers. Our people and suppliers 
all responded exceptionally well and the 
outcome helped reinforce the quality of 
our risk management processes. Losses 
were insured and recovered in full.
Our operational goals for 2014 include:
 w Technology transfer of our i-Tech products 
from our Cambridge operations to those in 
Delhi and Shanghai
 w Further investment in capacity for our 
digital printing business as we anticipate 
acceleration of growth in demand
 w Projects aimed at further improving our 
operational network productivity. 
Research and Development
The Group invests approximately 5 per cent 
of revenues in Research and Development 
each year. One of our key strategies and 
priorities is to maintain a strong, innovative 
product range which we aim to build upon 
through regular updates and improvements as 
well as new products. In addition to our 
printer range, we focus on developing new 
fluids with enhanced end user properties, 
responding to changing customer needs and 
other developments in packaging materials.
Product developments in 2013 included a new 
range of Thermal Transfer V-Series printers; a 
new, feature rich i-Tech CIJ printer, the 
A420i; the K600i monochrome digital press 
and the seven colour N610i digital label press. 
Fluids launched included a new yellow 
pigmented ink designed to provide durability 
and reliable coding onto dark substrates and a 
black UV ink for use in the digital print sector. 
We have also made progress with the roll-out 
of elements of our platform printer 
technologies. QuickStep is the user interface 
platform that we have designed to simplify 
use and improve operating efficiency and 
QuickDesign is a coding automation software 
platform supporting all printing technologies. 
These were introduced across a number of 
products in 2013 with more to follow in 2014. 
An area we have focused on in our Research 
and Development activities is sustainability. 
We continue to develop ink products 
based on safe materials that allow our 
customers to reduce waste and energy use. 
Improving ink reliability and extending shelf 
life means less waste and more efficient 
processes for our customers. This focus 
on sustainability carries through to our 
hardware. This year we have integrated 
a life cycle analysis tool in the design 
process to ensure systematic consideration 
of all aspects of the product’s life. 
We maintain an active programme 
of ‘technology watch’ and work 
with partners, often making small 
investments to explore new technologies 
applicable to coding and printing. 
Priorities in 2014 include:
 w Further investment in digital printing 
technology and product range extension
 w Continued development of the next 
generation CIJ printer range based on our 
common platform architecture
 w Development and launch of new 
technologies to further enhance our fluids 
portfolio including a broader range of UV 
inks for digital printing.
Acquisitions/New business areas
Developments in digital ink jet technology 
are creating opportunities for the Group to 
utilise its capabilities, expertise and global 
network in new areas of the market. One 
of the most exciting developments is the 
transition from traditional printing techniques 
to digital ink jet in a number of commercial 
and industrial printing markets. In response 
to this, and as a part of our growth plans, 
we are developing new products and adding 
sales and support capability to cover a 
number of ‘digital’ print applications. The 
most developed to date is that of full colour 
label printing. Label printing typically involves 
printing high quality images onto a variety 
of materials which are then converted into 
labels for application to packaged products 
during the production process. This is an 
application we consider to be adjacent to our 
core business today, but has the potential to 
overlap by merging the printing of fixed and 
variable data directly on to the label stock. 
Changes in consumer behaviour coupled with 
the constant need to improve cost efficiencies 
are creating a requirement for a greater 
variety of labels, shorter print runs and, in 
some cases, personalisation; all of which are 
among the Group’s core competences.
Digital label presses are increasingly 
being used by Printers to complement 
their traditional printing presses, enabling 
them to offer increased flexibility to their 
customers, the same product manufacturers 
that are primary customers of the Group. 
Our relationship with these manufacturers 
is helping establish our position as a 
strong and capable supplier of digital 
printing solutions with label printers.
The Group has been a supplier of 
monochrome printers to the label printing 
market for a number of years. In late 2012 
and subsequently in 2013 we introduced 
our first full colour label printers, the N600i 
and N610i digital presses. These N-Series 
presses along with the monochrome 
K-Series range were developed by Graph-
Tech, a business Domino has partnered 
with in product development for many 
Development and performance of the business
continued 21
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
years, culminating in the acquisition of the 
company by the Group in 2012 for a total 
initial consideration of £12.4 million. Graph-
Tech is based in Switzerland and is now the 
Group technology centre for digital printing, 
providing latest generation ink jet integration 
for the label market and a number of other 
emerging ink jet markets served via OEM’s. 
A capital investment of £1.6 million has been 
made during 2013 in a new demonstration 
and development facility for the digital 
print business in Cambridge. This facility 
will enable customers to see our digital 
presses in operation, run print samples 
and allow further development of the 
product range. We have also invested in 
manufacturing facilities in Switzerland, in 
additional sales and project management 
people in America and Europe and have 
added colour management and digital print 
expertise to our central UK based team.
Our plan for 2013 was to install 10 full colour 
presses in the first year. This has been 
achieved and there are further orders placed 
for installation during 2014. We have recently 
introduced a new variant, the N610i which 
includes a seven colour option (compared to 
four colour in the N600i), further extending 
the appeal and capability of the product.
A further area in which we are expanding our 
digital printing business is in the postal market. 
Postal operators are under pressure to 
reduce costs and improve efficiency through 
automation, including the use of coding 
alongside visual recognition sorting systems. In 
2012, the Group acquired PostJet Systems 
Limited, a UK based business with proven, 
market leading ink jet coding products. 
Our strategy in digital printing is to expand 
our core offer through products such as the 
K-Series monochrome digital printer and the 
PostJet range, increase penetration of the 
labelling market with the N-Series digital label 
press, and leverage our ink jet integration 
expertise with growth of new applications in 
package printing and other related areas.
Our key goal for 2014 is to sell and install 25 
full colour presses during the year. 
TEN Media
The Group made an investment of $50 million 
for a 15 per cent stake in TEN Media LLP 
(‘TEN’) in 2011. The business was established 
with the objective of selling coding based 
compliance systems to the US egg industry, 
meeting legislation backed requirements 
promoting disease prevention and safety in 
the supply chain. As a part of the investment, 
Domino secured exclusive rights to supply 
TEN with coding systems. The business was 
at an early stage of development when we 
made the first investment and despite good 
progress with the technology and successful 
implementation of a pilot system, the company 
has not yet commercialised its products and 
has indicated that it has insufficient funds to 
do so. As a minority shareholder, we have 
decided not to invest further, at least until 
commercialisation is proven. The management 
of TEN indicated early in 2013 that it intended 
to raise new capital but has not done so to 
date. In the absence of progress and with no 
certainty that progress can be made, we have 
taken the decision to write down the value of 
the investment in TEN to nil. This is reflected 
in our 2013 Income Statement. Despite this 
action, we retain shareholder rights and 
the exclusive supply arrangement between 
TEN and Domino remains in place should 
the business be able to make progress and 
commence a commercialisation programme. 
People
The Group employs over 2,400 people 
across the globe. Our aim is to provide a safe 
and engaging environment for all employees 
where they can fully develop to achieve 
their potential and share in our success. 
Our aim is to attract, develop, motivate and 
retain employees by providing a competitive 
package of rewards and benefits, monetary 
and non-monetary which promotes team 
working across functions and the Group. We 
conduct employment engagement surveys 
in most parts of the Group twice per year 
where we ask employees for feedback on 
how we are doing and to understand what 
is important to their working experience. 
Over the last 12 months the results 
have continued to indicate high levels of 
engagement and motivation among all staff. 
One of our largest centres for staff is in the 
UK where we were recognised recently with 
a Skills Investment Award by the Engineering 
Employers Federation (‘EEF’). We provide 
a range of on-the-job and formal training 
opportunities aimed at promoting and 
developing everyone in the Group. Our 
own web-based training system provides a 
common language, the Domino values, our 
culture and set of organisation goals and is 
fully accessible across the Group enabling 
Domino employees to achieve their full 
potential and contribute to Domino’s success.
Providing a safe working environment 
for all our employees is one of our major 
objectives (see KPI’s). In the past two 
years we have focused on best practice 
health and safety management systems 
and are pleased to note a decline in the 
number of accidents reported since 2011.
We are committed to equality and 
diversity in our workforce and in addition 
to employing people with a wide mix of 
ethnic and cultural backgrounds, we also 
have a good balance between genders.
Gender mix across the business is as follows:
Number of 
female staff
Number of 
male staff
Board 0 8
Senior 
management 3 4
Management 61 285
Rest of 
workforce 460 1,596
Total 524 1,893 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
22
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Group has an established risk management 
process for identifying, assessing, evaluating and 
managing significant risks. The structure and 
process can be summarised:
DPS Board
Ownership and 
monitoring
Audit Committee of the Board
Review
Executive Committee
Management of key risks
Risk Management Committee
Co-ordination and review
Group functions/Subsidiary companies
Identification, assessment and 
management of mitigation
Internal Audit
Challenge and 
review 23
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Risks and mitigation actions are identified 
within subsidiary companies and Group 
functions. Significant risks, which are defined 
with reference to magnitude of impact and 
likelihood of occurrence are escalated to the 
Group risk register. Members of the executive 
team take personal responsibility for 
monitoring these risks and mitigation actions. 
A Risk Management Committee, chaired by 
the Group Finance Director, receives reports 
and presentations on risk status and maintains 
a view on changes in the business that may 
give rise to new risks or risk areas. The RMC 
reports status to the Audit Committee and 
provides an annual report to the full Board. 
The principal risks associated with execution 
of Group strategies are summarised:
Strategy Risk Magnitude Likelihood Risk status
Building long-term 
customer relationships
1
Competitor actions 
leading to loss of 
customers 
High Possible No change
2
Damage to reputation 
and loss of customers 
through product failure
High Remote No change
Maintaining product
leadership
3
Failure of new  
product development
High Remote No change
4
 D i s r up t i v e  
technology
High Possible No change
Delivering 
service excellence
5
Supply chain failure Medium Possible No change
6
Regulatory controls 
on use of materials
Medium Remote No change
Strategic investments
7
Failure to develop 
digital print markets
Medium Possible Reduced
Business sustainability
8
Changes in macro 
economic conditions
High Likely Reduced Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
24
Principal risks and uncertainties 
continued
Risk Impact Mitigation
1
The Group competes against a 
combination of established global 
companies as well as regional or local 
businesses and independent suppliers 
of aftermarket products and services. 
The principal risk of competition 
is loss of profitable aftermarket 
business to low cost providers.
 w Loss of customer relationship 
and potential repeat business.
 w Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
 w Aftermarket retention is a key 
objective for the Group and we 
monitor customer buying patterns 
closely for any changes in behaviour.
 w We operate ‘win back’ programmes for 
lost business, reinforcing the value of 
the complete service package we offer.
 w Our printers and fluids are developed 
to work optimally together and our 
product range offers a very wide range 
of capability to meet most needs.
2
Domino products are used in high 
through-put and often time critical 
applications. Reliability and production 
uptime are paramount requirements. 
Any product failure can cause disruption 
but in severe cases this can result 
in lost production or spoilage. 
 w Lost customers.
 w Damage to brand value.
 w Additional cost and lost profit.
 w Quality and performance are key criteria 
in our Product Creation Process. We 
measure and monitor performance 
of our products and have response 
mechanisms in place to deal swiftly with 
any issues customers may experience.
 w We operate customer and technical 
support teams worldwide and have 
highly trained and well equipped 
technicians on hand to assist 
customers with problem resolution. 
3
Maintaining product leadership 
requires significant ongoing investment 
in R&D. The development of new 
products involves risks including failure 
to reach the production phase, the 
product not achieving performance 
requirements or the market not 
proving to be as large as expected. 
 w Failure to achieve a return 
on investment.
 w Loss of market share.
 w Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
 w The Group has a well-established and 
proven Product Creation Process 
with rigorous stage-gate review and 
approvals. This involves detailed review 
of product specifications, business 
plans, risk assessments, systems 
design, development and pre-launch 
validation. Product launches are 
coordinated and early life performance, 
both technical and commercial, of all 
new products is monitored closely.
4
The range of technology used in coding, 
marking and variable printing has been 
developed gradually over many years 
but there remains a threat that new 
disruptive technology could be developed 
where ownership rights prevent the 
Group accessing that technology.
 w Loss of leadership and 
innovator status.
 w Loss of market share.
 w Reduced sales, profit and cash flow.
 w We maintain a close watch on 
technology developments and 
have a small team dedicated 
to identifying developments in 
markets and technology.
 w We partner with both commercial 
firms and academia, sponsoring 
research into new technology areas. 25
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Risk Impact Mitigation
5
The Group operates a policy of dual 
source for critical components as far as it 
is possible. In some cases, technological 
advances or supply capabilities mean 
we must rely upon single sources. A 
number of Group suppliers are located 
in Asia necessitating lengthy supply 
chains and exposing the Group to 
potential disruption through supplier 
failure or transportation difficulties.
 w Increased costs.
 w Extended lead times leading to lost 
sales.
 w Reduced profits and cash flow.
 w Where alternative sources are 
not available or are not approved, 
we operate buffer stocks 
adequate to maintain supply 
through reduced availability. 
 w We maintain business continuity 
and disaster recovery plans in all 
our manufacturing operations.
 w The Group maintains business 
interruption insurance.
6
Use of certain chemicals in the Group’s 
fluids products creates exposure to 
often unique regulatory and legislative 
requirements of the many countries in 
which we sell. Chemicals that may or 
can come into contact with packaging 
are controlled and there are regular 
updates and exclusions from approved 
lists. While these can typically be 
overcome, at a cost, by reformulation, in 
the worst case it could lead to product 
withdrawal and impact supply.
 w Disruption to supply and customer 
dissatisfaction.
 w Additional costs.
 w Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
 w The Group has an active regulatory 
affairs team who monitor legislation and 
regulatory matters affecting the business 
and use of chemicals in particular.
 w A number of our management and staff 
participate in industry and advisory 
bodies enabling us to maintain an 
overview of developments in this area.
 w We have an active programme 
of managing compliance with 
all chemical labelling and safety 
information requirements.
7
The Group continues to invest in 
developing a full colour digital printing 
business. This is a new market which is 
developing as technology becomes capable 
of meeting the needs for high-speed, high 
quality short run printing. The market 
is expected to grow strongly over the 
next five years but there is a risk those 
projections are wrong or that the Group 
is unable to capitalise on that growth.
 w Failure to achieve a return on 
investment.
 w Reduced prospects for sales and profit 
growth.
 w A digital print business unit has 
been established with a dedicated 
senior management team. Skills, 
competencies and resources have 
been added to build capability.
 w Extensive field trials were undertaken 
working with an industry partner/
customer to validate the new 
colour digital press printer and 
to prove the economic benefits 
of the solutions offered.
 w Initial sales of the printer in its first 
year have met expectations.
8
The Group makes sales worldwide, in 
developed and developing economies 
and is subject to changes in the economic 
or political situation in those countries 
or regions. In any one year there may 
be a country in the world in which 
local actions make trading or payments 
more difficult. In isolation these are 
manageable and are unlikely to be 
material to Group results; however, the 
risk exists that more than one country or 
a whole region implements policies that 
affect our ability to sell our products. 
 w Lost sales.
 w Bad debts.
 w Additional costs to overcome trade 
barriers.
 w We maintain close contact with our 
sales businesses and distributor partners, 
seeking to anticipate issues with 
importation of goods or fiscal controls.
 w Our regulatory teams are 
able to respond quickly to 
changing compliance needs.
 w We maintain high level insurance on 
distributor debt, where available, 
in case of material default. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
26
Key performance indicators
The Board monitors how effectively Group strategies are 
implemented with reference to five key financial indicators 
and two non-financial indicators.
Key financial indicators
 w Sales growth 
 w Gross margin rate
 w Underlying operating return on sales
 w Operating cash flow
 w Return on capital employed
Non-financial indicators
 w Health and safety of staff  
(accident rates)
 w Environmental impact  
(carbon emissions)
Sales growth
Our goal is growth in sales revenues at 
above global GDP levels, confirming the 
effectiveness of our product strategy and 
the development of our channels to market. 
Sales growth is a function of new equipment 
installations plus recurring revenues from 
consumables, spares and services. New 
equipment installations include replacement 
as well as new manufacturing capacity. 
New equipment volumes do vary to some 
extent year-to-year based upon customer 
investment cycles and general economic 
outlook. Recurring aftermarket revenues 
are typically stable, increasing each year as 
the installed base of equipment grows.
 
In 2013, sales revenues increased by 
8 per cent on prior year. New equipment 
revenues increased by 8 per cent and 
aftermarket revenues by 7 per cent. 
Gross margin
Gross margin rate is the percentage of 
gross profit before exceptional one-off 
items compared to total sales. Our goal is 
to maintain a rate in the range of 46 to 50 
per cent through appropriate pricing and 
cost actions. The Group operates in global 
markets, responding to local conditions, 
making sales in local currencies and sourcing 
components and sub-assemblies in three 
continents. Gross margin rate is influenced 
by selling prices, input costs, absorption of 
overheads as a result of sales volumes, sales 
mix and movements in currency rates.
Our gross margin in 2013 was 48.1 per cent, 
1.6 points below prior year. The adverse 
movement was a result of additional fixed 
cost incurred in the digital print business 
to increase capacity in advance of sales and 
reduction in average selling prices in Asia 
which were, on average, below those in 2012.
Underlying operating return on sales
Underlying operating return on sales 
(‘operating returns’) is the ratio of operating 
profit before amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets, reassessment of contingent 
consideration and exceptional one-off items 
as a percentage of sales. Our goal is to 
increase operating returns in the medium-
term with an aspirational target of 18 to 20 
per cent. The long-term trend in operating 
returns provides us with a measure of 
business efficiency and is an indicator of the 
effectiveness of resource allocation and 
direction. The gross margin rate of the Group, 
at approximately 50 per cent, means there is 
high operational leverage in the business and 
our aim is to use that leverage to deliver 
strong profits from incremental sales growth. 
Underlying operating returns were 15.8 per 
cent in 2013, 1.4 per cent below prior year 
reflecting the increased investment we have 
made to develop our digital printing business.
8%
Sales revenue 
increase
20%
Our goal is to increase 
operating returns in 
the medium-term 27
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Group accident gures
50
100
150
200
104
149
133
116
2013
2011
2012
2010
Greenhouse gas emissions at baseline sites
2013
2011
2012
T onnes of CO
2 
equivalent
2000
1000
4000
3000
6000
5000
8000
7000
Scope 1
Scope 2
Operating cash flow as a percentage 
of operating profit
Operating cash flow is net cash inflow from 
operating activities before exceptional one-
off items and taxation. This is measured 
as a percentage of operating profit before 
exceptional one-off items. Our target is to 
achieve a minimum of 100 per cent each year. 
The Group has a track record of strong cash 
flow and we monitor carefully the rate at 
which we convert operating profit into cash. 
The key determinant of operating cash flow is 
working capital use, specifically inventory and 
receivables. In 2013, operating cash flow as 
a percentage of operating profit was 107%.
Return on capital employed
Return on capital employed is measured as 
the percentage of operating profit before 
reassessment of contingent consideration 
and exceptional one-off items compared to 
average total assets less current liabilities 
before deferred and contingent consideration 
on acquisitions. Deferred consideration 
relates to future performance. Our target 
is to exceed 20 per cent per annum. Our 
measure of the use of capital in the business 
focuses on the operating return generated 
from the total assets and current liabilities 
deployed. Cash and short-term debt or 
overdrafts are included in assets. In 2013, 
return on capital employed was 22.2 per cent.
Accident rates
As an indicator of our commitment to staff 
safety and a safe working environment, 
the Group reports on all accidents and 
incidents however minor. As a result, these 
figures represent a high level of work 
place hazard awareness and control. The 
fluctuations between reports year-on-
year is relatively low. Accidents have been 
reduced in each of the last two years. 
Our target is to continue to reduce the 
number of accidents across the Group. 
Carbon emissions
The Group is committed to the improvement 
of our environment and reduction in 
use of valuable natural resources. We 
continue to improve our recording of 
emissions arising from energy and vehicle 
use and in 2013, 22 out of a total of 25 
operating sites have reported progress. 
At our baseline sites emissions have seen 
a 11 per cent increase during 2013 as a 
result of an increase in production.
(Cambridge, UK head office and manufacturing site; 
Liverpool, UK fluids plant; Shanghai site; and Gurnee, USA 
fluids plant).
Scope 1 = direct emissions from fuel combustion and 
industrial processes. At these sites this takes the form of 
gas for heating, diesel and petrol for the fleet and diesel 
for generators.
Scope 2 = indirect emissions form the generation of 
purchased electricity.
22.2%
Return on capital 
employed Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
28
Financial review
The Group has reported an 8 per cent increase in 
sales this year and has continued to invest in capacity 
and capability. Cash flow has remained strong.
Trading results
Sales in the year were £335.7 million, 7.6 per 
cent ahead of 2012. Movements in exchange 
rates contributed 1.4 per cent to growth, 
sales made in companies acquired during 
2012 contributed 1.4 per cent and growth 
in the core business was 4.8 per cent. 
Capital equipment revenues, which 
represented 43 per cent of total sales in 2013 
(2012: 42 per cent), increased by 8 per cent in 
the year. Digital printing products represented 
6 per cent of the total 8 per cent equipment 
growth, primarily a result of the introduction 
of the N-Series full colour digital label press. 
10 N-Series full colour presses were shipped 
in the year of which revenue was recognised 
for nine. One installation had not completed 
its full acceptance test at 31 October 2013 
and so revenue was deferred. Revenue 
growth from coding and marking equipment 
was 2 per cent.
Consumables revenues, including fluids, 
increased by 6 per cent on prior year, in line 
with the increase in installed base. Spares 
and service revenues grew by 9 per cent. 
The rate of gross margin was 48.1 per cent 
compared to 49.7 per cent in the prior year. 
The weakness in sterling has had the effect of 
reducing the gross margin rate by 0.5 
percentage points and a combination of 
investment in manufacturing capacity in our 
digital printing operation and reduced average 
selling prices primarily in developing markets 
has reduced the rate by 1.1 percentage points. 
Selling and distribution costs and 
administrative expenses before one-off costs 
were £89.3 million, an increase of 5 per cent 
on prior year. Increased investment in sales 
and support resources, notably in the digital 
printing business, coupled with the impact of a 
full year of costs in Graph-Tech and PostJet 
(both acquired part way through 2012) was 
offset to some extent by savings in 
administration, in particular reduced share 
scheme charges.
Investment in Research and Development was 
increased to £19.5 million, 17 per cent ahead 
of prior year. In addition to the impact of 
Research and Development costs in Graph-
Tech, we increased our expenditure on the 
development of a new core printer range 
based on common platform architecture, and 
invested further in longer-term technology 
development work. 
Operating profit before the impact of one-off 
exceptional costs, reassessment of contingent 
consideration and amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets was £52.7 million, 1.5 per 
cent below prior year (2012: £53.5 million).
One-off items
The Group incurred one-off costs of £33.9 
million in the year comprised of £30.3 million 
in respect of the write down in value (to 
nil) of the investment held in TEN Media 
and £3.6 million in respect of restructuring 
and redundancy costs. In October 2013, 
organisational changes were made to improve 
efficiency and to redirect investment towards 
areas of greater opportunity. Changes made in 
our North American and European businesses 
led to £3.6 million of redundancy and other 
related one-off costs. The first year benefits 
are estimated to be £4.4 million. These are 
being directed towards further investment in 
sales and marketing resources in the digital 
printing business and our Asian operations. 
Provisions for deferred consideration in 
respect of the acquisitions of Graph-Tech and 
PostJet were adjusted in the year based on 
the latest view of likely outcomes, resulting 
in a credit to the Income Statement of £1.9 
million. IFRS 3 requires these adjustments 
to be taken to the income statement for all 
acquisitions arising since 1 November 2010.
Interest and financing costs
The Group has remained in a net cash 
positive position throughout the year. In 
managing cash resources we have utilised a 
combination of interest bearing deposits and 
short-term debt facilities. Investment income 
was £1.1 million (2012: £0.8 million) and 
interest paid on debt was £0.8 million (2012: 
£0.6 million). 
Profit before tax
The Group continues to report on both 
statutory and underlying measures of 
performance. Profit before tax was £17.7 
million. Underlying profit before tax 
which is stated before the effects of one-
off exceptional items, amortisation of 
acquired intangible assets, adjustments to 
provisions for contingent consideration 
arising on acquisitions and non-cash 
interest charges derived from the 
accounting for discounted contingent 
consideration arising on acquisitions was 
£53.0 million (2012: £53.7 million). 
Provisions for contingent consideration in 
respect of the acquisitions of Graph-Tech and 
PostJet were adjusted in the year based on 
the latest view of likely outcomes. This 
resulted in a net income of £1.9 million.  29
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Underlying measures 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Revenue £m 335.7 312.1 314.1 300.0 256.1
Investment in R&D £m 19.5 16.7 15.3 15.6 11.7
EBITA £m 52.7 53.5 59.4 54.5 35.7
Return on sales % 15.7 17.2 18.9 18.2 14.0
Profit before tax £m 53.0 53.7 59.5 54.7 35.7
Basic earnings per share (p) 35.30 36.02 38.66 36.05 23.68
Net cash inflow from 
operating activities before 
tax £m 54.9 56.4 51.1 59.7 45.4
Statutory measures 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Profit before tax £m 17.7 53.9 57.4 52.1 28.0
Earnings £m 5.8 40.7 40.8 37.2 19.2
Shares in issue (average ‘000) 111,839 111,207 110,756 109,835 109,187
Shares in issue (year-end ‘000) 112,196 111,431 111,054 110,281 109,346
Basic earnings per share (p) 5.22 36.90 37.20 34.25 17.81
Dividends paid per share (p) 20.99 19.41 16.72 13.93 12.25
Net assets per share (p) 176.8 190.7 174.0 155.1 129.9
Taxation
The tax charge of £11.8 million reflects an 
underlying effective tax rate excluding the 
impact of non-taxable one-off items of 25.7 
per cent (2012: 25.9 per cent). This rate 
reflects the range of jurisdictions in which 
the Group earns profit and pays tax. 
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 5.22 pence 
(2012: 36.90 pence). Underlying earnings per 
share were 35.30 pence (2012: 36.02 pence). 
Fully diluted earnings per share were 5.18 
pence (2012: 36.57 pence) on a weighted 
average number of shares in issue of 
111,586,441.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 14.06 pence which when added to the 
interim dividend of 7.60 pence represents 
a total dividend of 21.66 pence per share 
for the year as a whole. Dividend cover is 
1.6 times underlying earnings per share. 
The value of dividends paid during the year 
represented 55 per cent of net cash inflow 
from operating activities (2012: 54 per cent).
Cash
Net cash inflow from operating activities 
before taxation was £54.9 million (2012: 
£56.4 million). There was a small net increase 
in working capital: inventories increased by 
£1.4 million and trade receivables increased 
by £7.2 million reflecting growth in sales. 
These were offset by an increase in trade 
and other payables of £8.0 million, as a result 
of movements in restructuring provisions 
(£3.1 million), bonus accruals (£1.7 million), 
deferred income (£1.6 million) and trade 
payables and other accruals (£1.6 million).
We invested £9.4 million (2012: £6.7 
million) in fixed assets in the year including 
£0.5 million on the completion of our new 
factory near Delhi in India and £1.6 million 
in fitting out a new leasehold demonstration 
and offices facility for our digital printing 
business at Bar Hill near Cambridge, UK. 
We have planning permission to build a 
new factory and office facility adjacent to 
the site of our headquarters in Bar Hill, 
Cambridge but that project remains on hold. 
A small amount of cash (£0.2 million) was 
paid out in respect of deferred consideration 
on acquisitions made in prior years. Other 
cash outflows included payment of taxation 
of £12.0 million, purchase of shares for the 
employee benefit trust of £0.9 million and 
reduction in short-term debt of £0.4 million. 
Net cash at year end was £25.5 million.
Net assets
Net assets at year end totalled £198.4 million, 
a decrease of £14.1 million (2012: £212.5 
million). Profit for the period after one-off 
items was £5.8 million, other comprehensive 
income was £2.0 million, share related and 
other equity movements were £1.6 million 
and dividends distributed to shareholders 
were £23.5 million.  Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
30
Treasury 
The Group is exposed to interest rate 
movements and to changes in the value 
of sterling relative to a number of foreign 
currencies. It is our policy to manage these 
exposures in a manner that provides certainty 
in the short term while guarding against any 
level of speculation. Surplus cash is placed on 
short-term deposit with approved banks. The 
amount of cash held overseas is £45.0 million, 
of which £27.0 million is held in China. Limits 
are placed on the amount of exposure with 
any individual bank. Bank debt is primarily 
short-term in nature with drawdown 
renewed as required. This has proven to be 
a cost effective option given the low level of 
LIBOR and competitive borrowing costs.
The Group has a £50 million revolving 
credit facility with the Royal Bank of 
Scotland committed until 30 November 
2016. This is adequate to meet anticipated 
working capital requirements.
The Group continues to make sales and 
receive income in a range of currencies. 
We manage transactional exposure where 
possible through the use of plain forward 
contracts, selling or buying currency based 
on the expected net cash inflows or outflows 
on a rolling three or 12 month basis. Principal 
exposures are to the US dollar and euro, 
both of which we sell forward aiming to cover 
90 per cent of our exposure over a rolling 
12 month period. Other material exposures 
where we do not presently have forward 
contract cover in place include the Chinese 
renminbi and the Indian rupee. Changes in 
the foreign exchange markets are creating 
opportunities for simple derivatives and 
we anticipate being able to cover at least a 
portion of renminbi exposure during 2014.
Forward contracts in place and maturing 
during the year had the effect of reducing 
net sterling receipts by £0.7 million when 
compared to the prevailing rate in the 
prior year. Losses as a result of a weaker 
euro offset gains from a stronger US dollar. 
Contracts in place covering expected cash 
flows in 2014 will realise net gains of £0.3 
million when compared to 2013 rates.
No action is taken to hedge translation effects 
on reported profits in the income statement. 
In 2013, the impact from movement of 
exchange rates on translation of short-term 
balances held by Group subsidiaries in non-
functional currencies and consolidation of 
overseas profits was to reduce reported 
profit by £0.1 million. Similarly no action 
is taken to hedge Group investments 
denominated in foreign currencies in the 
balance sheet. In 2013 this resulted in an 
increase in value of reserves of £2.8 million.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities together 
with its financial position and factors 
likely to affect its future development and 
performance are described in the Strategic 
Report. The Group has considerable 
financial resources and a broad customer 
base across many geographies and market 
sectors. As a consequence the Directors 
believe that the Group is well placed to 
manage its business risks successfully. In 
considering the financial position of the 
Group and forecasts of future performance 
the Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operation for 
the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the 
Group continues to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing its accounts.
Financial review 
continued 31
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Corporate responsibility
Highlights from 2013 Objective for 2014
Clarity and focus
A 22% decrease in our accident rate from 133 
in 2012 to 104 recorded accidents this year. 
Launch a new ‘Domino Code’ for suppliers to 
ensure the sustainability of our supply chain.
Commitment
Our Safety Data Sheets and label designs have 
been brought in line with the requirements 
of the Global Harmonisation System two 
years ahead of regulatory deadlines.
Achieve ISO 18001 certification at our newly 
expanded Cambridge, UK manufacturing site.
Energy 
and urgency
A significant increase in our reporting score 
with the Carbon Disclosure Project to 74C.
Reduce our CO
2
 footprint per square metre 
of our facilities space by 3 per cent.
Listening 
and honesty
Online Safety Data Sheet system (MY-SDS). The 
Group now has its entire ink product SDS 
information available on its website, on a 24/7 basis, 
in 29 languages, with full customer support linkage.
Refresh training for all staff on anti-bribery 
legislation and the Group’s ethics policy.
Team work
Provided over 30,000 hours of formal training to 
support our employees’ personal development.
Establish an apprentice scheme at our main 
manufacturing site.
Attitude Group-wide over £52,000 in charitable donations.
Build on our support for educational initiatives by 
helping young people develop business skills with the 
support of our expert staff.
As a global manufacturing business we have 
an effect on society and the environment. 
Recognising the importance of this, our 
Corporate Responsibility Policy covers 
accountability to all of our stakeholders. 
This includes striving for the highest ethical 
standards of business practice; supporting, 
developing and rewarding our employees; 
minimising our impact on the environment; 
and supporting and engaging with the 
communities in which we operate.
We believe that by operating on a strong 
ethical basis we reduce our business risk and 
create long-term value for our shareholders, 
customers, suppliers and staff. This is 
expressed in our core values – clarity and 
focus, commitment, energy and urgency, 
listening and honesty, team spirit and positive 
attitude. These values are the essence of 
our identity and drive us to be at our best 
in every decision and business relationship.
We place great emphasis on taking a proactive 
approach to corporate responsibility. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
32
At our sites
 w Energy usage
 w Waste generation
 w VOC emissions
On the road
 w Fleet fuel usage
 w Logistics fuel usage
Our products
 w Energy usage of printers 
during lifetime
 w VOC emissions
 w Waste reduction
Business ethics
 w Preventing corruption
 w Protecting human rights
Our workforce
 w Diversity and inclusion
 w Engagement
 w Training and development
Our products
 w Quality
 w Product stewardship
Our workforce
 w Employee social activities
 w Local hiring practices 
Health and safety
 w Occupational illness 
and accidents
 w Work environment
 w Safety of workforce on the 
road and at customers’ sites
Our communities
 w Community impacts from 
business activity
 w Supporting community 
projects and charitable 
initiatives
Environment Workplace
Value chain Community
Corporate responsibility
continued
Clarity and focus
Setting a clear agenda for 
sustainable development
In line with our core value of ‘clarity and 
focus’ we ensure that every business and 
channel in the Group acts to address 
corporate responsibility. Our Corporate 
Responsibility Policy, established in 2011, 
continues to provide the necessary 
framework for our approach to 
environmental and ethical challenges. 
We have established a sound understanding 
of our business impacts, both environmental 
and social. This has been achieved through 
the application of ISO 14001 at our ink plants, 
reviewing our health and safety procedures 
at our main manufacturing sites, carrying out 
a Life Cycle Analysis of our continuous ink 
jet printer and conducting an anti-bribery 
business risk analysis across the Group. This 
information enables us to manage future 
risks, to seek out new sources of competitive 
advantage and to set priorities and action 
to deliver our corporate responsibility 
objectives. Material impacts are summarised: 33
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Our corporate responsibility programme 
is led by the Group Human Resources 
Director who chairs the Group Environmental 
Committee. The Committee monitors, 
among other issues, performance 
against our sustainability priorities and 
implementation of associated policies 
across all of the operating companies. 
Human rights
The Group is committed to upholding 
the protection of internationally 
proclaimed human rights throughout our 
value chain. For our business the most 
significant areas for human rights are: 
 w respecting the diversity of our staff and 
looking after their health and safety; 
 w ensuring our suppliers respect 
the rights of their staff;
 w maintaining a firm stance 
against corruption; and 
 w contributing positively to the wellbeing 
of the communities where we operate.
Commitment
Consistently delivering on 
our responsibilities
We are committed to advancing our 
policies and objectives across the Group to 
ensure that we address all aspects of our 
corporate responsibility impacts. We are 
delighted that this commitment has been 
recognised with our fifth consecutive year 
of listing on the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Compliance is the foundation for sound 
environmental practice. During this past year 
we have implemented a range of system 
updates to ensure our compliance two years 
ahead of the deadlines in all territories for 
the Globally Harmonised System for chemical 
hazard classification. We have also put 
training in place for all our operations staff 
and an online training tool has been devised 
to ensure updates can be disseminated 
quickly and efficiently. We shall continue to 
proactively monitor developments in the 
regulatory compliance arena with specific 
focus on topics such as new chemicals being 
identified in the Candidate List of Substances 
of Very High Concern under the REACH 
regulation and the new Biocidal Product 
regulation. Around the world we have worked 
across our business to ensure conformance 
with other regional requirements such as 
the Korean REACH. We also continue to 
work closely with our customers to ensure 
compliance with regulations and guidelines 
which impact their sectors directly. 
Improving sustainability throughout 
our supply chain
We operate in global markets, with our own 
operations covering 16 countries and our 
value chain reaching even further to over 
140 countries. Wherever we have an impact 
we take seriously our duty of care towards 
all persons in the value chain from suppliers 
to customers. We base our actions on the 
UN Declaration of Human Rights and the 
UN Convention Against Corruption. 
All suppliers are contractually required to 
follow the Domino Supplier Standard, which 
mandates the minimum expected ethical, 
labour and health and safety standards. It 
is also our policy to audit our production 
suppliers operating in countries deemed 
as ‘high risk’ by the Maplecroft Human 
Rights Risk Atlas. Using the standards set 
by the International Labour Organisation 
we seek to ensure suppliers are protecting 
the human rights of their employees.
We want to ensure that all our customers 
have the health and safety information 
they need so, as well as providing the 
necessary Safety Data Sheets with our 
inks as they are shipped, we have also set 
up an online resource with all our Safety 
Data Sheets available in 29 languages, 
with full customer support linkage.
We know that sustainability is as important 
to our customers as it is to us, therefore we 
are committed to reducing the environmental 
footprint of our products. This year the 
innovative design of our i-Tech ink system 
in Domino’s A420i continuous ink jet 
printer won a highly commended award 
for sustainable innovation in the coatings 
sector from the British Coatings Federation. 
The A420i delivers ultra-low make up 
usage linked to reduced volatile organic 
compound (‘VOC’) emissions. It also reduces 
ink wastage by 90% and has energy saving 
software to enable automatic shutdown 
when our customers’ production lines stop. 
In the design of our next generation of 
CIJ printers, we have utilised a Life Cycle 
Analysis tool which provides insight 
into the impact of changes to product 
architecture at the earliest stage of design.  Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
34
Waste generation by site – all sites
Cambridge (UK)
Waste generated (tonnes)
Liverpool (UK)
Rotherham (UK)
Gurnee factory (USA)
Gurnee ofce (USA)
Fort Worth (USA)
Oakville (Canada)
Mexico City (Mexico)
Shanghai (China)
Seoul (Korea)
Gurgaon (India)
Rambouillet (France)
Houten (Netherlands)
Hamburg (Germany)
Mainz (Germany)
Gottmadingen
 (Germany)
Malmö (Sweden)
Dubai (UAE)
Recycling
Incineration
Landll
Reuse
Compost
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
Corporate responsibility
continued
Energy and urgency
Driving positive action in pursuit of 
sustainability 
The Group’s fluids plants in the UK and USA 
have now completed their 12th year with 
ISO 14001 accreditation for environmental 
management and improvement and our China 
fluids plant is in its ninth year of accreditation.
This year has seen Domino UK, 
Domino Benelux and Citronix move 
into new operational facilities. We are 
very pleased to have found buildings 
with improved energy efficiency. 
We have continued our efforts to drive 
down waste to landfill. Our total waste 
tonnage is 1,298 tonnes across the Group 
of which 44 per cent was recycled. 
We are tackling VOC emissions in our 
manufacturing processes. This year we have 
reduced the amount of these chemicals 
used during our main manufacturing site’s 
testing process by around 30 per cent. 
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting
We have been working hard to improve the 
breadth and depth of our understanding 
about our greenhouse gas emissions and 
are in our third year of reporting to the 
Carbon Disclosure Project. We were 
particularly pleased this year to have 
increased our reporting score by 11 points.
This year we have reported on Group 
sites covering 97 per cent of our full 
time employees, an increase on our 
2012 coverage of 93 per cent. 
Our greenhouse gas footprint is 10,187 
tonnes of CO
2
e. In addition to this 
footprint we collect information on our 
refrigerants use and our air travel. Our 
total footprint is 11,591 tonnes of CO
2
e.
This footprint is a report on all of the emission 
sources required under the Companies 
Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Director’s 
Reports) Regulations 2013. These sources are 
under our operational control. We have used 
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology 
for compiling our greenhouse gas data. We 
have not reported this year on one of our 
subsidiary companies, Graph-Tech, but have 
started collecting data from their two sites. 
We also have 36 very small sites that are non-
manufacturing locations (typically local sales 
branches). Collectively they account for less 
than 3 per cent of full time equivalent staff. 
Due to their small size, low energy intensity 
activities and low staff numbers in each 
building we are not collecting data on their 
emissions. The graph shows a breakdown 
of our emissions by site across the Group.
Since 2011 we have been measuring our 
emissions at our baseline sites (the four 
largest plants across the Group
1
). At these 
sites we have seen an 11 per cent increase in 
our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions; 
this is due to production increases.
1 Cambridge, UK head office and manufacturing site; 
Liverpool, UK fluids plant; Shanghai site; and Gurnee, 
USA fluids plant.
Domino Printing Sciences’ greenhouse gas footprint
 Year ended  
31 October 2013
Total footprint (tonnes of CO
2
e) 10,187
Combustion of fuel (tonnes of CO
2
e) 5,330
Electricity, heat and cooling purchased for our use (tonnes of CO
2
e) 4,857
Tonnes of CO
2
e per £m of revenue 30.3 
Tonnes of CO
2
e per full time employee 4.6
Tonnes of CO
2
e per m
2 
of facilities space 0.2  35
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Greenhouse gas emissions by site – all sites   
3,500
Cambridge (UK)
GHG emissions (tonnes CO
2
)
Liverpool (UK)
Rotherham (UK)
Basingstoke (UK)
Gurnee (USA)
 Fort Worth (USA)
Oakville (Canada)
Mexico City (Mexico)
Shanghai (China)
Seoul (Korea)
Gurgaon (India)
Rambouillet (France)
Houten (Netherlands)
Hamburg (Germany)
Mainz (Germany)
Gottmadingen (Germany)
Malmö (Sweden)
Madrid (Spain)
Porto (Portugal
Dubai (UAE)
Scope 1
Scope 2
Scope 3
3,000
2,500
1,500
1,000
500
2,000
Baseline sites environmental impacts 
Impact Units 2013 2012 2011
% change 
from 
2011
Scope 1 (direct emissions from 
fuel combustion and industrial 
processes)
tonnes 
CO
2
e 2,891 2,977 3,091 –6%
Scope 2 (indirect emissions 
from purchased electricity)
tonnes 
CO
2
e 4,052 3,067 3,152 +29%
Scope 3 (business travel)
tonnes 
CO
2
e 755 498
Not 
collected N/A
Listening and honesty
Engage with and understand 
our stakeholders
As one of the world’s leading companies in 
the development, production and support 
of equipment for coding and marking, 
we have always been market led, with 
customer requirements at the centre 
of all our operations. Working with and 
listening to our stakeholders, particularly 
customers and employees, has enabled 
us to consistently meet the ever-growing 
requirements for coding and marking from 
businesses across the world. For example, 
this year we launched our new mineral oil 
free ink for secondary package printing. 
This was designed in response to our 
customers requiring a safer ink alternative 
for food packaging. We have also designed 
a heat seal ink for flexible food packaging 
which is helping our customers’ efforts to 
reduce the weight of their packaging.
We ensure open discussion with our 
employees on the status of the business in 
all areas of our operations. In addition, we 
run internal surveys annually to find out 
how employees view Group management. 
Following our 2012 survey we put in place 
actions to support our staff’s personal 
development such as a new career and talent 
management process, enhancements to our 
online training tool and increased provision 
of formal training courses. The results of 
our 2013 survey show that staff are more 
engaged and feel supported at work.
Being honest with ourselves and others
We are proud of our reputation for high 
quality products. Domino manufacturing 
plants in the UK, USA, India, China, 
Germany and Sweden, as well as our 
offices in the UK, Spain, France and 
Benelux are all certified to 1SO 9001.
We operate our business with honesty 
and transparency. We never make 
untrue claims regarding our products or 
services. We welcome our customers’ 
interest in our operations and respond 
to many questionnaires each year. We 
are always pleased to host visits from 
customers to our operations worldwide.
We take a zero-tolerance approach to 
corruption and align ourselves with all 
relevant legislation. Our comprehensive 
ethics policy requires that all our employees, 
agents and business partners demonstrate the 
highest standards of professionalism, fairness 
and integrity when conducting business 
on our behalf. In addition, our whistle-
blowing policy allows individuals to raise 
concerns confidentially and any comments 
received are reviewed and investigated.
We participate in industry groups and 
support important initiatives such as the 
Carbon Disclosure Project, to increase our 
knowledge and awareness of corporate 
responsibility issues and allow full 
transparency of our sustainability efforts. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
36
At the end of 2013,  
we employed more  
than 2,400 people  
(by headcount)  
in over 25 locations 
worldwide.
Corporate responsibility
continued
Team spirit
Investing in our employees
We aim to employ a workforce that reflects 
the diversity of our customers and the 
communities we operate in. We apply our 
equal opportunities policy rigorously across 
the Group and our recruitment practices 
are designed to attract and retain high-
calibre individuals. At the end of 2013, we 
employed more than 2,400 people (by 
headcount) in over 25 locations worldwide.
To sustain our competitive advantage, the 
Group maintains an environment where 
all employees can develop to their fullest 
potential, have the opportunity to give back to 
their communities, and advance their careers. 
Across the Group this year we delivered over 
30,000 hours of formal training to our staff; an 
average of 12.7 hours per person. We also ran 
classes for UK and German employees where 
we have a significant number of staff for 
whom English or German is a second language 
and they need to improve their competence 
in technical and business vocabulary.
We do not tolerate misconduct or 
harassment in any form and investigate 
any accidents and take appropriate action. 
Our grievance procedure ensures that 
employees have an opportunity to raise 
complaints formally and to be sure these 
will be dealt with promptly, fairly and by 
the appropriate level of management.
Our employee benefits package is designed 
to respond to the needs of staff at every 
stage of life. Our employees are proud 
to be members of the Double Five Club 
which is an award recognising 10, 20 and 
30 years of service. Each Group business 
unit tailors its particular benefits to serve 
the specific needs of its employees such as 
private medical insurance, bonus schemes 
and childcare vouchers. In the UK, where 
the Group’s shares are listed, we provide 
a Share Incentive Plan and Save As You 
Earn scheme for qualifying employees. 37
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Strategic report
Creating a safer working environment
The health and safety of our staff, contractors 
and visitors that come on to our sites is of 
paramount importance. We operate an 
established process for annual assessments in 
all our sales channels and business units and 
employees are expected and encouraged to 
be proactive on health and safety issues. 
Our Board receives regular reports on 
compliance with health and safety standards 
across the Group. As part of our ongoing 
commitment to continuous improvement 
we have conducted reviews and updates 
of our health and safety procedures at 
our Cambridge, UK and Gurnee, USA 
sites. We have also retrained all managers 
and key staff and, across the Group for 
all staff, we have provided over 6,000 
hours of health and safety training. All 
of our ink plants have maintained their 
certification to ISO 18001. As a result our 
accidents have reduced this year to 104, an 
average of 0.043 accidents per person.
Attitude
Taking the lead in industry
Domino seeks to take the lead in cross-
industry collaboration as well as sharing our 
expertise with regulators. We are active 
board members of the British Coatings 
Federation as well as chairing its Printing 
Inks Technical Committee and sitting as 
members of the Sustainability Committee 
and Environmental Panel. We also advise 
government as a member of the Health 
and Safety Executive’s stakeholder panel 
on the Global Harmonisation System. 
From our HQ we are promoting corporate 
responsibility to other businesses through 
our role as partners in the Business in Action 
programme which is run by the world 
leading Addenbrookes medical campus. 
Giving back to our communities
We work best as a business when we 
work together with our local communities. 
While our business operations do not have 
the potential to have a significant negative 
impact on the communities around our 
production sites or offices, we do ensure 
that we are meeting high standards for 
environmental protection and that our 
freight operations do not cause disruptions. 
We have excellent engagement with 
charitable and philanthropic causes 
throughout the Group. This year we have 
donated over £30,000 to charitable causes 
with a further £22,000 donated by our 
staff. In the UK, we fielded the second 
largest team for the London to Cambridge 
bike ride with 40 staff taking part, raising 
£3,000 for a breast cancer charity. As well 
as donating money, Domino China has 
found ways to support schools in poorer 
areas of the country by collecting donations 
of clothes, school bags and books, while 
Domino India has donated sitting mats to 
a charity setting up job training and literacy 
classes for women. We also give our staff 
time to volunteer their skills to community 
projects. Domino Germany has donated 
money to support local welfare services for 
children and this year they also sent a team 
of volunteers to work for a day improving 
the play area at a local children’s nursery. 
Our commitment to the Domino Values 
is driving us to achieve our sustainability 
strategy. We also recognise that 
sustainability requires an unrelenting 
long-term commitment to operate our 
business according to a strong set of 
values and ethical practices. This is our 
aim and through increasing visibility of 
our performance we are looking to 
enhance engagement through our value 
chain: new employee initiatives, increased 
sustainability in our products lines and 
improved efficiencies in business operation.
Board approval of the Strategic Report
Nigel Bond Andrew Herbert
Group Managing Group Finance
Director Director
11 December 2013 11 December 2013 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
38
Board of Directors
Peter Byrom
Chairman
Background and experience
Non-Executive Director of 
Rolls-Royce plc from 1997 to 2013 
and of Amec plc from 2005 
to 2011
Director of NM Rothschild & 
Sons Ltd from 1977 to 1996
Date of appointment
Appointed to the Board on 22 
March 1996 and appointed 
Chairman on 22 November 1996
External appointments
None
Committee Membership
Chairman of Nomination 
Committee
Nigel Bond
Group Managing Director
Background and experience
Chartered Accountant, joined 
Domino as Financial Controller in 
1987, subsequently became 
President of US operations
Date of appointment
Appointed Group Managing 
Director on 22 November 1997
External appointments
None
Committee Membership
Nomination Committee
Garry Havens
President North America &
Group Executive Director
Background and experience
Chartered Management 
Accountant, joined Domino in 
1988 and has held senior 
management positions in Europe 
and Asia
Date of appointment
Appointed Group Commercial 
Director on 15 March 2002.
Retired 31 December 2013
External appointments
None
Committee Membership
None
Andrew Herbert
Group Finance Director
Background and experience
Chartered Management 
Accountant, joined Domino in 
1986 and has held senior financial, 
operations and general 
management positions in both UK 
and US
Date of appointment
Appointed Group Finance 
Director on 11 May 1998
External appointments
None
Committee Membership
None 39
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
Philip Ruffles
Non-Executive Director
Background and experience
Formerly Director of Engineering 
and Technology at Rolls-Royce plc
Date of appointment
Appointed Non-Executive 
Director on 15 March 2002
External appointments
None
Committee Membership
None
Sir Mark Wrightson
Non-Executive Director
Background and experience
Formerly Co-Chairman of Close 
Brothers Corporate Finance Ltd, 
a subsidiary of Close Brothers 
Group plc, Chairman of the 
London Investment Banking 
Association Corporate Finance 
Committee and a member of the 
Panel on Takeovers and Mergers
Date of appointment
Appointed Non-Executive 
Director on 1 February 2007
External appointments
Non-Executive Director of 
Amlin plc
Committee Membership
Chairman of Audit Committee.
Member of Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees
Appointed Senior Independent 
Director on 15 September 2011
Sir David Brown
Non-Executive Director
Background and experience
Formerly Chairman of 
Motorola Ltd
Date of appointment
Appointed Non-Executive 
Director on 1 August 2008
External appointments
Chairman of the British Standards 
Institution and DRS Data & 
Research Services plc. Non- 
Executive Director of TTG Global 
Group Ltd
Committee Membership
Chairman of Remuneration 
Committee
Member of Audit and 
Nomination Committees
Christopher Brinsmead
Non-Executive Director
Background and experience
Formerly President of Astra 
Zeneca UK Ltd and the 
Association of the British 
Pharmaceutical Industry
Date of appointment
Appointed Non-Executive 
Director on 11 June 2008
External appointments
Chairman of Diagnostic Capital 
Ltd, Non-Executive Director of 
United Drug plc, the Wesleyan 
Assurance Society, Kinapse Ltd 
and Proveca Ltd 
Committee Membership
Member of Audit,
Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
40
Corporate governance
For the year ended 31 October 2013
Peter Byrom
Chairman
Chairman’s introduction
We are committed to achieving high standards of corporate 
governance and we have established policies and procedures 
which are designed to facilitate good governance in a practical 
and workable way. 
The reports on the following pages explain our governance 
arrangements in detail and describe how we have applied the 
principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2012.
We have expanded the information provided in our Audit Committee 
report to take account of the new Code requirements. Considerable 
time and effort has also been spent during the year in the review of 
our remuneration policies and in ensuring that the Remuneration 
report provides the required level of disclosure.
We believe that succession planning is an important contributor to the 
long-term success of the business and our Nomination Committee 
carefully reviews succession plans. Following this year’s review, new 
arrangements have been put in place to ensure that senior managers 
have the opportunity to meet with and present to the Board. This has 
the dual benefit of providing valuable experience to the individual 
managers and allowing the Board to assess their potential.
Peter Byrom
Chairman
Corporate governance compliance statement
The Company fully supports the principles of corporate 
governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2012 (the ‘Code’).
Except as stated in the section on dialogue with shareholders, the 
Company has, throughout the year, been in compliance with the 
Code Provisions and has applied the principles set out in the Code. 
An explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out 
in this report and in the reports of the Committees. 41
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
Board
Membership
 w Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and 
three Executive Directors
Key responsibilities
 w determining strategy
 w setting controls and values
 w monitoring performance
Executive Management Committee
Membership
 w three Executive Directors 
and six senior executives
Key responsibilities
 w implementing strategy set 
by Board
 w supervising operational 
performance
Audit Committee
Membership
 w three Non-Executive 
Directors
Key responsibilities
 w the integrity of financial 
reporting
 w auditor arrangements
 w internal controls and  
risk management
◆	 For more detailed information on the Audit Committee,  
please see page 45
Remuneration Committee
Membership
 w three Non-Executive 
Directors
Key responsibilities
 w policy for remuneration of 
Executive Directors
 w implementation of 
remuneration policy
◆	 For more detailed information on the Remuneration Committee, 
please see page 50
Nomination Committee
Membership
 w Chairman, three Non-
Executive Directors, 
Group Managing Director
Key responsibilities
 w composition of the Board
 w succession planning
 w evaluation of Board 
effectiveness
◆	 For more detailed information on the Nomination Committee, 
please see page 49
Risk Committee
Membership
 w one Executive Director 
and six senior executives
Key responsibilities
 w monitoring risk 
management policy and 
process
 w identifying significant risks Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
42
Board overview
The aim of the Board is to promote the long-term success of the 
Company. It is responsible for creating a framework of strategy 
and controls within which the Group operates. The Board takes 
account of the impact of its decisions not only on shareholders but 
also on a wider group of interested parties including employees 
and local communities. The Board is responsible for monitoring 
the implementation of strategy by the management team.
A number of key items are specifically reserved for the Board’s 
approval. For example, budgets, major acquisitions and significant new 
product programmes. Other matters are delegated to the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees. There are terms of 
reference for each of these Committees which specify their 
responsibilities which are available on the Company’s website.
Board membership 
Information about the Directors is given on pages 38 and 39. 
Attendance
All Directors attended each Board meeting
The Chairman
The role of the Chairman is to provide leadership to the Board and to 
ensure that the Board and its Committees operate effectively. He sets 
the agenda for Board meeting and chairs the meetings to facilitate 
open and constructive debate.
The Managing Director
The Managing Director is responsible for the day-to-day management 
of the business and for the development of strategy for approval by 
the Board. 
There is a formal document agreed by the Board setting out the 
division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Managing 
Director.
Senior Independent Director
The role of the Senior Independent Director is to act as a sounding 
board to the Chairman and to provide an additional point of contact 
for shareholders. He acts as an intermediary for other Directors and is 
responsible for the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors have a wide range of senior level, 
international skills and experience. Details of their background are 
given on page 39. Their role is to provide an independent element to 
the Board and to constructively challenge management.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
The Board has reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive 
Directors and concluded that they are independent. The review took 
into account the results of the performance evaluation together with 
the factors listed in the Code. The only one of these terms relevant to 
the Group is the length of service of Phil Ruffles who has been on the 
Board since 2002. Despite this length of service the Board has 
determined that no connection or relationship has arisen which affect 
Mr Ruffles independence.
The Board believes that to be judged independent each Director:
 w should be free from any relationship or connection which could 
affect his ability to discharge his responsibilities impartially; and
 w should have demonstrated a scrupulously independent approach by 
conducting himself impartially in all matters relating to the Group 
and by challenging the views of management and other Board 
members in a robust and constructive manner.
Time commitment
The Non-Executive Directors are expected to spend approximately 
20 days per year on Group business. This includes attendance at Board 
and Committee meetings, preparation for the meetings and the 
provision of the advice and assistance to the Group outside of the 
Board and Committee meetings.
Board meetings
There are regular scheduled Board and Committee meetings throughout 
the year and ad hoc meetings may be held as necessary. This year 
there were nine Board meetings including a two-day strategy meeting.
Some of the topics covered at the strategy meeting
 w Sales effectiveness and growth programmes
 w Digital printing
There is an annual work plan which lists the recurring items to be dealt 
with at each scheduled Board and Committee meeting.
Board papers
The Directors receive detailed Board papers in advance of each 
scheduled meeting. These include routine reports on the performance 
of the business and on any matters for Board decision. Standard 
formats have been developed for the reports to make it easy to track 
progress against targets and identify key facts. In addition to written 
reports, presentations are also given to the Board.
Topics of some of the presentations given to the Board 
during the year
 w TEN Media 
 w Product management initiatives
A detailed agenda is prepared for each meeting to make sure there is 
sufficient time allocated to deal with all issues. The Chairman and 
Non-Executive Directors generally meet the evening before the Board 
meeting to discuss significant agenda items.
Corporate governance
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 43
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
Conflicts of interest
The Company has adopted and followed a procedure under which 
Directors must declare actual or potential conflicts of interest as they 
arise. The Board reviews potential conflict of interest situations arising 
from other posts held by Directors on an annual basis.
During the year authorisation has been given for potential conflicts 
arising as a consequence of other positions held by some Directors. 
No actual conflicts of interest arising in respect of specific 
arrangement or transaction have been declared to the Board.
In determining whether to authorise conflicts of interest, only those 
Directors who have no interest in the matter may make the decision 
and they must act in good faith in the manner most likely to promote 
the Company’s success.
Dialogue with shareholders
The Company actively seeks to enter into a dialogue with institutional 
shareholders and holds regular meetings with them. In order to 
assist Non-Executive Directors to develop an understanding of the 
views of major shareholders, reports are made of meetings with such 
shareholders. Sir Mark Wrightson, the Senior Independent Director 
has not attended meetings with a range of major shareholders 
as suggested by Code provision E.1.1. The Board considers that 
Sir Mark has a good understanding of the issues and concerns 
of major shareholders and such attendance was unnecessary.
Over the last 18 months the investor relations section of the 
corporate website has been enhanced to ensure key information is 
readily available for investors and potential investors. The Executive 
Directors have undertaken an extended round of meetings with 
investors both in the UK and abroad.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity for 
communication with private shareholders. All the Directors 
attend the meeting and are available to answer questions. 
Time is set aside after the formal business of the AGM for 
shareholders to talk informally with the Directors.
AGM 2013
2013 AGM held on 15 March 2013 at Domino’s offices in Bar Hill, 
Cambridge
All resolutions passed
High level of voting (up to 85 per cent of the issued share capital) 
All Directors were re-elected to the Board with at least 97 per 
cent of the votes cast in favour
Financial control
The key internal financial controls that were in operation during the 
year were:
Financial reporting
All operating units complete business plans and budgets for the year. 
Each month, the unit produces written reports in a defined format on 
its performance against these plans and provides updated business 
forecasts. The reports and forecasts are reviewed by the Executive 
Directors and significant issues are reported to the Board.
Accounting policies and procedures
The Group has written accounting policies and procedures. Local 
management are required to provide written confirmation of 
compliance with the policies and procedures. There is a formal internal 
audit process which seeks to verify that policies and procedures have 
been correctly applied and to confirm that there is an effective 
process of management and control within the business. Internal audits 
are carried out by suitably qualified and experienced staff who have 
no current connection with the operation being audited. Further 
information about the internal audit programme for the year is given in 
the Audit Committee report on pages 45 to 48.
Security of the Group’s computer systems
The Group relies on financial and management information 
processed by, and stored on, computer systems. Controls and 
procedures have been established to endeavour to protect the 
security and integrity of data held on the system, with standby 
arrangements in the event of failure of a major systems. Tests are 
conducted on an annual basis to assess the security of the systems. 
This year there has been a particular focus on cyber security 
and a presentation was made to the full Board on this issue.
Treasury
The treasury function operates under guidelines approved 
by the Board and regular reports are made to the Board on 
treasury activities.
Capital investment
The Group has defined procedures for the review and control of 
capital expenditure. Expenditure requires different levels of approval 
according to the amount. Significant expenditure requires full Board 
approval and all approval requests are presented in a defined format 
to ensure that full justification is provided. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
44
Operational controls
All Group business are required to operate in accordance with 
detailed standards and procedures which cover all material aspects of 
their operations. Compliance with these standards is subject to 
assessment by internal and external review.
There have been no significant control failures during the year.
Compliance
There is a Group policy on standards of conduct and business ethics 
and a separate anti-bribery policy. Both documents are available on 
the website.
There is a schedule of delegated authority designed to ensure that 
all material transactions are considered at the appropriate level 
within the Group and are subject to review by the head office legal 
department. All subsidiaries have access to local lawyers and the 
head office legal department.
Risk management
There is a risk management sub-committee chaired by Andrew 
Herbert, the Group Finance Director which meets at least quarterly. 
The role of the sub-committee is to:
 w promote effective identification and management of risk throughout 
the Group;
 w maintain a risk register identifying significant risks, risk control 
measures and responsibility for control measures:
 w review and confirm that all significant risks have been identified and 
suitable control measures adopted;
 w monitor implementation of risk control measures for all significant 
risks; and
 w ensure all subsidiaries operate an effective risk management process.
The risk management sub-committee receives presentation on topics 
selected by it.
Some of the topics considered by the sub-committee 
during the year
 w Cyber security 
 w Intellectual Property 
 w Quality systems
A senior manager is given responsibility for devising and implementing 
control measures for each significant risk. The manager is required to 
provide a quarterly report to the sub-committee on the status of 
implementation of control measures to manage that risk.
Corporate governance
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued
The sub-committee reports to the executive management committee 
which in turn reports to the Board. A formal risk management review 
of each subsidiary is conducted as part of the internal audit 
programme. Monthly reports to the Executive Directors submitted by 
subsidiaries and business units cover risk control issues relevant to the 
particular subsidiary or business unit. Information about significant risks 
faced by the Group and the risk management measures adopted is 
given in the Strategic Review on pages 22 to 25.
Internal control and compliance statement
The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. They 
have established a system that is designed to provide reasonable 
but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or 
loss and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to 
achieve business objectives. There is a continuing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the 
Group that has been in place for the year under review and up to 
the date of approval of the annual report. The process is regularly 
reviewed by the Board and accords with the revised Turnbull 
guidance. Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control 
further into the operations of the business and to deal with any 
issues that come to the Board’s attention. The Directors have 
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control. 45
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
Audit Committee report
Chairman’s introduction
I am pleased to present the Audit Committee’s report describing our 
work during the past year.
We have considered the provisions of the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the FRC Guidance on audit committees and 
modified our terms of reference to take account of them. We have 
also expanded our report to provide more detail on the significant 
issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial 
statements and on how these issues were addressed.
We place considerable emphasis on ensuring that the audit is 
thoroughly planned and that the key areas of focus are identified. We 
have scheduled an additional Committee meeting in September each 
year to ensure plenty of time is available to review the audit plan.
In order to save costs we have deferred our plans to have our 
environmental impact disclosures externally verified. We remain 
committed to reducing any adverse impact which our operations 
have on the environment and in measuring and reporting on the 
level of impact. The report on pages 31 to 37 provides more detail.
Stuart Henderson, the Deloitte engagement partner, will stand 
down in 2014 under the normal rotation arrangements. The FRC 
recommends that this is a suitable point to put the audit out to tender 
so we will embark on the tendering process next year in order that 
the successful firm is in a position to conduct the audit in 2015.
Sir Mark Wrightson 
Audit Committee Chairman
Membership
Sir Mark Wrightson (Chairman and member with financial 
experience), Chris Brinsmead and Sir David Brown.
Key responsibilities
 w the integrity of the financial statements
 w audit arrangements
 w review of internal controls and risk management
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on 
Domino’s website 
www.domino-printing-sciences.com
Attendance
All Committee members attended each meeting.
Sir Mark Wrightson
Chairman of Audit Committee Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
46
Audit planning
The Committee oversees the plans for the audit to ensure it is 
comprehensive, risk based and cost effective.
As in previous years, Deloitte drafted an initial audit plan in 
conjunction with executive management and presented it for review 
by the Committee. The plan described the proposed scope of the 
work and the approach to be taken. It also proposed the materiality 
levels to be used based on forecast profit.
In order to focus the audit work on the right areas the auditor 
identified particular risk issues based on its knowledge of the business 
and operating environment, discussions with management and the half 
year review. 
In the past consideration of the audit plan has taken place at 
the meeting of the Audit Committee held in June. Following an 
appraisal of the process it was decided to hold an additional 
Audit Committee meeting in September to give more time 
for preparation of the plan. Devising the plan later in the 
year also facilitates the identification of significant risk issues. 
The fee for the audit is also agreed at this meeting.
Review of financial statements and audit findings 
The Committee reviewed the full and half year financial statements 
and the report of the auditors on these statements. The Deloitte 
partner responsible for the Domino audit attends the Audit 
Committee meetings to present the reports and answer questions 
from Committee members. Senior Deloitte staff who have had 
day-to-day involvement in the conduct of the audit also attend.
The Committee considered the following significant issues: 
Issue Assessment
Valuation of 
investment in TEN 
Media
Management identified an impairment 
of £27.1 million as at 30 April 2013 
to reduce the carrying value to £3.2 
million. Although the impairment cannot 
be reversed, an updated valuation 
was required at the year-end. The 
Committee dealt with this issue by 
reviewing information presented by 
executive management regarding TEN 
Media in conjunction with the report of 
the auditors. As at 31 October 2013, the 
investment has been written down to nil.
Carrying value of 
goodwill and other 
intangibles
The carrying value is based on judgements 
about the achievability of business 
plans. The Committee addressed this 
matter by reviewing the assumptions 
underlying these judgements. Key business 
plans are subject to Board approval. 
This is also an area of focus for the 
auditor and the Committee receives 
detailed reports from the auditor.
Valuation of 
contingent 
consideration in 
respect of acquired 
businesses
The valuation of contingent consideration 
requires assumptions to be made about 
the future profitability of the acquired 
businesses. The Committee reviews these 
assumptions. This is also an area of focus 
for the auditor and the Committee 
receives detailed reports from the auditor.
Revenue recognition Management judgement has to be 
applied in some cases to determine 
the point at which revenue on a sale 
is recognised. This is an area of focus 
for the audit and Deloitte carry out 
detailed testing and provided a detailed 
report on this issue to the Committee. 
The Committee has reviewed the annual report and accounts to 
ensure that they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. The Committee considers 
whether the report and accounts contains sufficient information to 
enable shareholders to make this assessment. It also considers whether 
the information is presented in a comprehensible and balanced 
manner and that sufficient prominence is given to critical issues. 
Audit Committee report
continued 47
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
Fees payable to Deloitte (£’000)
Total 
non-audit fees
Total 
audit fees
400
300
200
100
■ Audit of the Company’s annual accounts
■ Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries
■ Audit-related assurance services
■ Taxation compliance services
■ Other taxation advisory services
■ Other services
Assessment of auditor
The Committee is required to assess the qualifications, expertise, 
resources and independence of the external auditor and the 
objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process. This assessment was 
carried out during the year on the basis of the Committee’s own 
appraisal of the performance of the auditor and the views of the senior 
management team as well as consideration of materials provided by 
the auditor. The criteria used for this assessment remained unchanged 
from last year and were as follows:
 w delivery of a thorough and efficient global audit in compliance with 
agreed plan and timescales;
 w provision of accurate, robust and perceptive advice on key 
accounting and audit judgements, technical issues and best practice;
 w a high level of professionalism and technical expertise consistently 
demonstrated by all audit staff; and
 w maintenance of continuity within the core audit team; and
 w strict adherence to independence policies and other regulatory 
requirements.
Independence of auditor 
The Committee monitors arrangements to ensure that the partner in 
charge of the audit is changed every five years and that the relationship 
between the auditor and management does not affect the auditor’s 
independence.
The Committee is responsible for devising and maintaining a policy 
for the engagement of the auditor to provide non-audit services. 
In order to seek to minimise any potential impairment of the 
auditor’s independence, the Company’s policy is that, except for tax 
compliance and acquisition due diligence work, the auditor will not 
be engaged to provide non-audit services without the consent of the 
Committee. The Committee considers that it is cost effective to use 
the auditors for tax and due diligence work because of its expertise 
in these areas coupled with in-depth knowledge of the business.
During the year Deloitte has provided the following non-audit 
services:
 w audit related assurance services
 w taxation compliance services
 w taxation advisory services
 w other services (minor)
None of this work was carried out on a contingency fee basis.
The Committee considered the nature of the potential threat to 
independence posed by the provision of non-audit services and the 
safeguards applied. It concluded that the non-audit work undertaken 
by the auditor did not impair independence.
Service 
provided 
Potential 
threat to 
independence
Safeguards applied
Tax 
computation 
for subsidiary 
entities
Self-review 
threat
Separate reviews by 
the audit partner and 
tax audit partner have 
been performed. The 
teams performing the 
computation and the 
audit work were separate 
and independent
Due diligence 
work for the 
acquisition of 
Graph-Tech 
completed in 
June 2012. 
Self-interest 
threat
Specific approval for this 
work was obtained from 
the Audit Committee. The 
latest guidance indicates 
that the level of fees 
charged would not be 
considered inappropriate 
by an informed third party.
During the year, the Committee introduced a formal policy requiring 
that the recruitment of staff from the auditor to senior management 
positions within the Group would be subject to the prior approval of 
the Committee. Recruitment of staff from the auditor to junior 
positions would be notified to the Committee.
Internal audit
The Group has an established internal audit process where 
trained finance staff, unconnected with the entity being audited, 
carry out internal audit according to defined procedures and an 
annual programme. 
The Committee reviewed the internal audit programme for the year 
and received reports on progress. The reports included a list of the 
outstanding points raised by the audits. Summaries of internal audit 
reports were circulated to all Committee members and full reports 
were available on request. As a result of resource constraints, a 
reduced number of audits have been undertaken during the year 
and all audits completed have been self-audits. These involved the 
completion of a detailed self-audit questionnaire and a review by 
telephone with the assigned auditors to follow-up on any issues 
requiring clarification. The Committee is reviewing the internal audit 
programme for the current year to ensure that available resources 
are deployed effectively.
The Group Financial Controller, who heads the internal audit function, 
has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Committee. Under a 
change to the Committee terms of reference introduced last year the 
Group Financial Controller is required to meet with the Committee 
at least once a year without the Executive Directors being present. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
48
Risk management review
The Committee reviewed the scope and effectiveness of systems 
to identify and address financial and non-financial risk. The review 
was based on the report of the Risk Management sub-committee 
which identified the key risks, risk control measures and the 
implementation status of risk control measures. The report was 
presented to the committee by the Finance Director who also chairs 
the Risk Management sub-committee. The report on pages 22 to 
25 provides further information on the risk management process.
Whistleblowing policy
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the Group 
whistleblowing policy. Last year a dedicated e-mail address 
was introduced to enable staff anywhere in the Group to 
raise issues directly with head office. E-mails sent to this 
address are initially received by the Group HR Director and 
the Company Secretary and investigated appropriately. Any 
concerns raised are reported to the Audit Committee.
Meetings
The Committee met three times during the year and all Committee 
members attended each meeting. Representatives of the auditor 
including the partner responsible for the Domino audit also attended 
each meeting. The Executive Directors are invited to attend the 
meetings but at two meetings the Committee arranged to speak 
with the auditor without the Executive Directors being present 
and on one occasion the Committee met with the Group Financial 
Controller without the Executive Directors being present.
The following table lists the standing agenda items which have been 
dealt with by the Committee.
Meeting date Standing agenda Items
June w Review half year financial statement before 
consideration by the Board.
 w Committee to meet with auditor without 
Executive Directors being present.
 w Review Audit Committee terms of reference 
and make recommendations to the Board.
September w Approve the audit proposal covering terms 
of engagement of auditor, remuneration and 
the nature and scope of the audit.
 w Review and monitor the qualifications, 
expertise, resources and independence of 
the external auditor and the objectivity and 
effectiveness of the audit process.
Meeting date Standing agenda Items
December w Review full year preliminary statement and 
draft announcement before consideration by 
the Board.
 w Review financial controls, audit report and 
management response.
 w Review letter of representation (before 
approval by the Board).
 w Review statement on internal control and 
risk management for report and accounts 
prior to approval by the Board.
 w Review annual report and advise Board 
whether it is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the 
information necessary for the assessment of 
the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
 w Assess scope and effectiveness of systems 
established by management to identify and 
manage risk.
 w Review policy on appointment of auditor to 
provide non-audit services.
 w Review the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function and programme. Ensure internal 
audit function is adequately resourced and 
has appropriate standing within the 
Company. 
 w Review the remit and work plans of the 
internal audit function.
 w Review procedures for detecting, monitoring 
and managing the risk of fraud including the 
method by which staff can raise concerns.
 w Committee to meet with auditor without 
Executive Directors being present.
Auditor tenure
Deloitte has been the Company’s auditor since 1993 and there 
has been no tender held for audit services during that time. 
The Committee considers that the auditor’s knowledge of the 
Group’s business and systems gained through experience has 
significantly contributed to the rigour and effectiveness of the 
audit process. However, the Committee intends to comply 
fully with the FRC Audit Committees Guidance regarding the 
frequency of audit tender. The current audit engagement partner 
steps down next year under the standard rotation process so 
the audit will be put out to tender next year so the successful 
firm will be in a position to undertake the audit in 2015.
Terms of reference
The Committee keeps its terms of reference under review and makes 
recommendations for changes to the Board. This year the terms of 
reference have been amended to reflect the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code and the new FRC Guidance on Audit Committees. 
The full terms of references are available on Domino’s website at 
www.domino-printing-sciences.com.
Audit Committee report
continued 49
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
Membership
Peter Byrom (Chairman), Sir Mark Wrightson, Chris Brinsmead, 
Sir David Brown and Nigel Bond.
Key responsibilities
 w Board composition
 w Succession planning for the Board and senior executive team
 w Board and Committee evaluation
The full terms of reference are available on the website  
www.domino-printing-sciences.com 
Attendance
All Committee members attended each meeting.
Board Composition 
The Committee keeps the membership of the Board under 
review to ensure that it has the required combination of skills, 
knowledge and experience. The Board fully appreciates the 
benefits of diversity and is committed to equal opportunities for 
all. A copy of Domino’s equal opportunities policy is available 
on the website www.domino-printing-sciences.com 
In selecting candidates for Board appointments the Committee 
would assess the then current composition of the Board and take 
this into account in devising the requirement specification for the 
recruitment. Selection for Board appointments will be made on merit 
against this specification and not by reference to a prescribed quota. 
Last year the Committee’s terms of reference were amended to 
specifically require the Committee to consider diversity, including 
gender, in evaluating the composition of the Board and in identifying 
suitable candidates for Board appointments.
The posts of Group Operations Director, Group Technical 
Director, and Group Human Resources Director are held by 
women. These are not main Board appointments but form 
part of the next tier of management below the Board. The 
holders of these posts sit on the Executive Management 
Committee and comprise one third of its membership.
There is an established procedure for the appointment of a new 
Director. This requires that a detailed job specification is drawn 
up and a recruitment consultancy engaged to identify suitable 
candidates. Candidates are assessed against the specification 
and selected candidates are interviewed by members of the 
Nomination Committee, other Directors and senior managers. 
The final appointment decision is made by the full Board. 
Following appointment, a tailored induction programme will 
be put in place to ensure the new Director rapidly gains the 
necessary knowledge to discharge his or her duties.
Nomination Committee report
Succession planning
There is a detailed succession plan which is reviewed by the 
Committee on an annual basis. In the plan all senior posts are graded 
according to the impact and likelihood of the post-holder leaving the 
Company. Where possible, suitable successors are identified together 
with the training and experience required by the successor to take 
over the post. 
When no immediate successor is identified the plan includes details of 
interim arrangements and staff development schemes.
The Company has a graduate recruitment programme and a 
development programme for high flyers to ensure there is a pool of 
talent available to meet the leadership needs of the Company over the 
longer term.
Board and Committee evaluation
In 2012, an external facilitator, Independent Audit Limited, was used 
to assist in the evaluation of the performance of the Board and its 
Committees. The evaluation identified two particular issues for 
further consideration: 
 w the nature of the strategic review process
 – in response to this point the Board modified the approach taken 
at its strategy review meeting to include more detailed 
consideration of certain aspects of the business and the 
macroeconomic environment in which it operates.
 w the mechanism for capturing messages and opinions from inside 
the business 
 – in response to this point revised arrangements were put in place 
for employee consultation meetings and regular employee 
engagement surveys.
This year the Nomination Committee carried out the evaluation of 
the Board and its Committees without external assistance. The 
evaluation was based on a questionnaire covering a variety of matters 
and specifically tailored to the Company. 
The appraisal process raised a concern about the opportunities for 
executives below Board level to interact with the Board. In response a 
programme of Board presentations by senior managers has been put 
in place.
The Chairman appraised the individual performance of the Directors 
and the Non-Executive Directors met under the chairmanship of  
the Senior Independent Director to appraise the performance of 
the Chairman.
Meetings
The Committee met once during the year. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
50
Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee 
Chairman
Dear Shareholder, 
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 October 2013. This 
report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and 
approved by the Board.
The Committee is supportive of the spirit of the UK Department 
for Business, Innovation & Skills’ drive to improve the transparency 
and clarity in the reporting of Directors’ remuneration. In our 2012 
report we made changes to improve the quality of disclosure made 
and were very pleased with the level of shareholder support for 
the 2012 Remuneration Report, for which we received 97.7 per 
cent votes in favour. Our aim this year has been to maintain these 
high standards of remuneration disclosure, augmented by our 
compliance with the new remuneration reporting regulations.
Global trading conditions in the year have remained difficult, but 
despite this, the Group has grown year-on-year, delivering sales of 
£335.7 million, underlying profits of £53.0 million and net cash inflow 
from operating activities before taxation of £54.9 million. Also, good 
overall progress has been made during the year towards the delivery 
of the Group’s major strategic priorities. The results which have 
been achieved are testimony to the calibre of leadership and the 
commitment of our employees in tough conditions. These factors 
have been taken into account by the Committee and are reflected 
in the remuneration awarded to the Executive Directors in 2013.
Remuneration report
For the year ended 31 October 2013
During these continuing difficult times, it remains a core 
objective of our Remuneration Policy that we can attract, retain 
and motivate high quality individuals to execute our business 
strategy within the prevailing economic conditions. We believe 
that our Remuneration Policy and the focus we place on 
linking remuneration to individual and business performance, 
through salaries and our incentive based structures, continue 
to be appropriate and are in the interests of shareholders.
The Committee and the Executive Directors alike are ever-
mindful of the need to temper reward with restraint. In that 
context, it is noteworthy that, notwithstanding the Group’s 
operational and strategic achievements during the year, Nigel Bond 
and Andrew Herbert waived their 2013 salary increases. Garry 
Havens, the third of the three Executive Directors, retires on 31 
December 2013 so was not eligible for a 2013 salary review.
A key part of our Remuneration Policy is that our Annual Bonus Plan 
and our Long-Term Incentive Plan are underpinned by challenging 
performance conditions. In respect of the Annual Bonus Plan, this year 
the Group profit and cash targets were not achieved. For Nigel Bond 
and Andrew Herbert this resulted in no bonus payments being made 
to them for 2013 despite their having made considerable achievements 
against their personal objectives. To ensure a smooth handover on 
his retirement, the Annual Bonus Plan targets for Garry Havens were 
specific to the development and growth of the Group’s USA business 
and therefore did not include Group profit and cash, and he was 
awarded a bonus of 90.5 per cent of salary. The vesting level under 
the Long-Term Incentive Plan was 100 per cent reflecting the Group’s 
performance over the period December 2009 to December 2012.
In documenting the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, which 
will be put to a binding vote at the forthcoming AGM, the 
Committee has sought to strike a sound balance between 
flexibility, discretion and judgement consistent with the guidance 
published by the GC100 and Investor Group, such that the 
policy is likely to be properly responsive to the dynamic markets 
in which the Group operates for fully three years ahead.
I look forward to receiving your support for the resolutions seeking 
approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration at our forthcoming 
AGM and of the Remuneration Policy applicable to our Executive 
Directors which will apply from the date of the AGM.
Sir David Brown
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Sir David Brown
Remuneration Committee Chairman 51
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of how the Company’s Remuneration Policy for Directors was implemented during 
the financial year ended on 31 October 2013.
AUDITED INFORMATION 
1. Single total figure of remuneration
Executive Directors
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director paid in the 2013 financial year. 
Comparative figures for 2012 have also been provided. Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the new remuneration 
disclosure regulations (The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013).
Salary
1
£’000
Taxable 
benefits 
£’000
Annual 
bonus 
£’000
Long-term 
incentives
2
£’000
Pensions
3
£’000
Total 
£’000
Nigel Bond 417 18 0 658 95 1,188
Nigel Bond (2012) 411 17 0 876 91 1,395
Garry Havens 228 72 207 360 56 923
Garry Havens (2012) 217 56 0 480 56 809
Andrew Herbert 257 16 0 406 58 737
Andrew Herbert (2012) 254 16 0 541 56 867
1 Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert waived their 2013 salary increases. Therefore their salaries were unchanged throughout 2013 at £417,000 and £257,000 respectively.
2 Long-term incentives shows the value at vesting of awards granted in 2010 where the performance period ended in the 2013 financial year. The figures shown for 2012 have been restated 
on the same basis as how the 2013 figures have been prepared and, therefore, may be different from those figures included in our 2012 annual report.
3 Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert joined the supplementary pension plan with effect from 6 April 2011. Cash payments are included in the Company contribution of 25.5 per cent of 
salary. Income tax and National Insurance is deducted from cash payments made under this supplementary plan. Payments are also reduced by the amount of the Company’s additional 
employer’s National Insurance cost arising in respect of the payments.
Taxable benefits consist of the cost of providing a car benefit, life assurance, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, dental 
insurance and, in respect of Garry Havens, US accommodation costs.
Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director in relation to the 2013 
financial year. 
Non-Executive Director Roles
Fees
1
 
£’000
Taxable 
benefits
£’000
Total
£’000
Peter Byrom
2
Chairman
Chairman of Nomination Committee
172 – 172
Peter Byrom (2012) As above 167 – 167
Philip Ruffles Non-Executive Director 42 – 42
Philip Ruffles (2012) As above 41 – 41
Sir Mark Wrightson Senior Independent Director
Chairman of Audit Committee
Member of Remuneration and Nomination Committees 42 – 42
Sir Mark Wrightson (2012) As above 41 – 41
Sir David Brown Chairman of Remuneration Committee
Member of Audit and Nomination Committees 42 – 42
Sir David Brown (2012) As above 41 – 41
Chris Brinsmead Member of Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees 42 – 42
Chris Brinsmead (2012) As above 41 – 41
1 No Chairman or Non-Executive Director fee increases were made in November 2013.
2 Fees totalling £68,470 (2012: £66,800) were paid to Stockbridge Limited, a company of which Mr Byrom is a Director.
Annual report on remuneration Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
52
2. Additional details on variable pay in single figure table
In order to execute its business strategy, the Company needs high-quality Directors and the remuneration packages need to be able to attract, 
retain and motivate such individuals. The annual bonus and the Long-Term Incentive Plan are used to ensure that, when merited by 
performance, an opportunity is offered to earn total remuneration at the upper quartile of the market.
The Committee considers that performance conditions for all incentives are suitably demanding, having regard to the business strategy, 
shareholder expectations and external advice regarding the market benchmarks. To the extent that any performance condition is not met, the 
relevant part of the award will lapse. There is no retesting of performance.
The main components of the Remuneration Policy, and how they are linked to and support the Company’s business strategy, are summarised in 
each of the following sections.
Annual bonus plan awards
In respect of the year under review, the Executive Directors’ performance was carefully reviewed by the Committee, in consultation with the 
Group Managing Director in respect of the other Executive Directors, and performance as against the annual bonus plan measures in relation 
to Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert was as follows:
Weighting
Threshold 
performance 
required
Maximum 
performance 
required
Annual bonus value for 
threshold and maximum 
performance (% salary)
Actual  
performance
Annual bonus  
value achieved
N Bond A Herbert N Bond A Herbert
Group profit
(Underlying pre-tax 
profit)
30% £53.7m £60.5m 0%–30% £53.0m £53.0m 0% 0%
Group cash
(Operating cash flow 
before taxation)
20% £58.5m £62.5m 0%–20% £54.9m £54.9m 0% 0%
Personal 50% Personal objectives in the year  
were a combination of divisional  
sales and profit targets, business 
process improvement targets  
and strategic objectives. Given the 
commercial sensitivity and individual 
nature of these targets, we have not 
disclosed the precise measures here.
Minimum 0%
Maximum is 100% 
of the total % 
achieved under
Group Profit and 
Group Cash 
performance 
conditions
58% 73% 0% 0%
Total 100% 0% of 
salary
0% of 
salary
Total £’000 £0 £0
The Group profit and cash components operate separately and payments are made on a straight-line basis between the threshold and 
maximum levels. If an Executive Director achieves his personal objectives, a multiplier is applied to the amount earned under the financial 
conditions. The value of the multiplier is dependent on the level of achievement, with the maximum that can be earned under this element 
being 50 per cent of salary by means of a multiplier of 2. However, the personal objectives multiplier will only be applied if the Executive 
Director has reached and maintained his shareholding requirement, as set by the Committee. 
If the Executive Director meets his personal objectives but the financial conditions are not achieved, then no bonus payment will be made. This 
ensures that any bonus payments are aligned to the strategic objectives of the Group and that payments are made only when the Group’s 
financial performance justifies this. 
No part of these bonuses was deferred as the Committee believes that the Executive Directors have sufficient long-term alignment with the 
interests of shareholders through the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the shareholding requirements imposed. However, the Committee reviews 
the structure of the annual bonus on a regular basis and considers its appropriateness both in terms of the Company’s strategy as well as 
market practice and corporate governance principles.
Annual report on remuneration
continued 53
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
2. Additional details on variable pay in single figure table 
continued
Annual bonus plan awards for Garry Havens
To ensure a smooth handover from Mr Havens on his retirement from 
the Company on 31 December 2013, Mr Havens was set a different 
set of targets for his annual bonus compared to the other Executive 
Directors during this performance year, focused around the 
development and growth of the USA business.
The table below provides the breakdown of the 2013 performance 
measures for Mr Havens’ annual bonus. The detailed targets set for 
the sales and profit measures have not been disclosed as they are 
specific to the operation of the USA business and, in the view of the 
Committee constitute commercially sensitive information particularly 
in relation to our positioning against our competitors who operate in 
the same markets and territories. The Committee expects these 
specific detailed targets to remain commercially sensitive indefinitely 
and so makes no commitment to disclosing them at any time in the 
future. Intending not to disclose detailed targets in the future is not a 
Committee Policy and the Committee feels that in these particular 
circumstances only is it justified.
Performance condition Weighting
Annual bonus 
value for 
threshold and 
maximum 
performance 
(% salary)
Annual 
bonus value 
achieved
Sales 50% 0%–50% 40.5%
Profit 50% 0%–50% 50.0%
Total 100% 90.5%
Total £’000 £207
The payments for sales and profit operate independently with 
straight-line allocation of the bonus between the achievement of 
threshold and maximum targets.
It is vital that the USA business is equipped to continue its sales and 
profit growth in future years. Therefore, in determining the final bonus 
payable the Remuneration Committee has taken into account the 
following factors:
 w the organisational capability at the end of the year in respect of sales 
team competence and other factors;
 w a smooth transfer in US leadership succession; and
 w overall performance of the USA business.
No adjustment was made to the bonus award in respect of 
these factors.
Long-Term Incentive Plan 1997
The last awards made under this plan were granted in 2007. 
Conditional awards of shares were granted annually to all the 
Executive Directors and certain senior managers. There was no 
maximum award value stated in the plan but in practice a limit was 
adopted of 60 per cent of the individual’s base salary. Vesting of the 
award was subject to the satisfaction of objective performance 
conditions – relative TSR (50 per cent) and growth in EPS (50 per 
cent). Awards vested subject to the satisfaction of these conditions at 
the end of the three year performance period. 
The resulting shares were then held in trust for a further three years. 
During this period, additional awards were made annually based on 
the number of shares allocated based on performance levels achieved 
at vesting in 2010, giving a possible maximum addition of 72 per cent 
of the original award. This deferred element was included in assessing 
the value of the original conditional award up to the point of vesting. 
At the end of this deferral period, the Executive is free to deal with 
the shares as he or she wishes. The value of these shares has not been 
included in the single total figure of remuneration as they vested in 
2010 and the performance period ended in 2010. 
All shares held in trust in relation to the 2007 awards (which vested in 
2010) were released in January 2013. The table below details the 
shares released from the trust.
Director
Number of shares 
released from trust
Nigel Bond 38,139
Andrew Herbert 23,252
Garry Havens 20,178 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
54
2. Additional details on variable pay in single figure table continued
Long-Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) awards
The awards granted under the LTIP are subject to performance conditions to be met over a performance period of three years or more. For 
awards made in 2008 and subsequent years, including 2013, the performance period is three years. At the end of the performance period the 
awards will vest to the extent the performance conditions have been satisfied. There is no retesting of performance conditions and if they are 
not satisfied, the awards will lapse. The LTIP was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 19 March 2008.
The performance conditions applicable to the LTIP are set out below. 
The Committee assessed the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied for the 2010 award which were tested in 2013, 
with the following results:
Condition Weighting 
Threshold 
performance 
required 
Maximum 
performance 
required 
LTIP value for meeting 
threshold and maximum 
performance (% salary) 
Performance 
achieved 
Vesting 
% 
EPS growth 50% RPI + 12% RPI + 30% 12.5%–50% RPI + 38% 50%
Relative TSR 50% Median of the  
FTSE 250
Upper quartile of the 
FTSE 250
12.5%–50% Upper quartile 50%
Total 100% 100%
Between threshold and maximum, vesting will take place on a straight-line basis.
3. Long-term incentives awarded in the 2013 financial year
The table below sets out the details of the LTIP awards granted in the 2013 financial year where vesting will be determined according to the 
achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods. 
Director Award type LTIP awarded
1
 
Face value 
of award
2
 
Percentage of 
award vesting 
at threshold 
performance 
Maximum 
percentage of 
face value that 
could vest 
Performance 
period end date Performance conditions 
Nigel Bond
LTIP – annual  
cycle of awards
100% of salary 
(100% of maximum 
award)
£417,000
25% 100%
17 December 
2015
EPS growth 
Relative TSR (see below  
for further details of  
the 2013 conditions) Andrew Herbert £257,000
1 Mr Havens was not granted an LTIP award in the 2013 financial year.
2 Maximum number of shares multiplied by 566.50p (share price at date of grant, 18 December 2012).
The performance conditions applicable to awards granted in the 2013 financial year are set out below:
Condition Weighting 
Threshold 
performance required 
Maximum 
performance required 
LTIP value for meeting 
threshold and maximum 
performance (% salary) Basis for measurement
EPS growth 50% RPI + 12% RPI + 30% 12.5%–50% Underlying EPS figure reported in the audited 
results of the Group for the last complete 
financial year ending before the start of the 
performance period and the last complete 
financial year ending before the end of the 
performance period will be used.
RPI is as published by the 
Office for National Statistics.
Relative TSR 50% Median of the
 FTSE 250
Upper quartile of the 
FTSE 250
12.5%–50% Average of the Group’s closing mid-market 
share price over the three months preceding 
the start of the performance period 
and preceding the end of the performance 
period will be used.
Data is taken from the 
Return Index produced by Thomson One.
Total 100%
Between threshold and maximum, vesting will take place on a straight-line basis.
Annual report on remuneration
continued 55
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
Oct 08 Oct 09 Oct 10 Oct 11 Oct 12 Oct 13
250
200
300
350
400
150
100
50
0
Domino Printing Sciences plc
Five year period from 1 November 2008 to 31 October 2013
FTSE Mid 250 Total Return Index
TSR % from 1 November 2008
Five year total shareholder return performance
3. Long-term incentives awarded in 2013 financial year continued
Save As You Earn (‘SAYE’) and Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’)
The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the SAYE and SIP schemes. On 6 September 2013, Andrew Herbert exercised a SAYE 
option over 4,308 Domino shares at an exercise price of £2.27. Each Executive Director has contributed £125 per month to the SIP.
4. Pension entitlements
The Executive Directors are entitled to be members of the defined contribution scheme that is available to all Domino UK employees. They do 
not participate in any defined benefit scheme.
For the year commencing 1 November 2012, the Company contribution was 25.5 per cent of salary for the Executive Directors, a portion 
of which was taken as a cash supplement by Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert under the terms of the supplementary pension plan which 
they joined with effect from 6 April 2011. The value of the cash supplement was £95,000 and £58,000, respectively. The value of such cash 
supplement is not taken into account when calculating annual bonus and LTIP award levels, which are determined by reference to base 
salary only.
5. Statement of Directors’ shareholding
The Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a holding of at least 40,000 Domino shares. 
The table below summarises the Directors’ interests in shares and the extent to which the shareholding requirement applicable to Executive 
Directors has been achieved as at 31 October 2013. In each case, the shareholding requirement has been achieved, excluding unvested LTIP share:
Interests counted towards 
shareholding requirement
Interests not counted  
towards shareholding requirement
Director
Shares 
required to 
be held
Shareholding 
requirement 
met?
Beneficial 
interests in
shares
1
 
LTIP interests subject to 
performance conditions
Interests  
in Share 
Incentive Plan
2
Unvested 
SAYE 
options
Vested (but 
unexercised) 
SAYE options
Total of all interests 
in shares held at 
31 October 2013
Nigel Bond 40,000 Yes 82,777 224,330 130 2,825 – 310,062
Andrew Herbert 40,000 Yes 45,388 138,527 130 4,255 – 188,300
Garry Havens 40,000 Yes 50,378 81,255 130 3,830 – 135,593
1 Beneficial interests include shares held directly or indirectly by connected persons. This may include unrestricted shares held in the Share Incentive Plan.
2 This column shows the quantity of shares held under the Share Incentive Plan which were subject to forfeiture as at 31 October 2013. Other shares held in the Share Incentive Plan are 
shown in the Beneficial interests column.
On 6 September 2013, Andrew Herbert exercised a SAYE option 
over 4,308 shares at an exercise price of £2.27. The share price on the 
date of exercise was £6.795, resulting in a gain on exercise of £19,508. 
Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding 
requirement. Details of their interests in shares are set out below 
and all interests are beneficial interests, unless otherwise stated:
Director
Shares held 
31 October 
2013
Shares held 
31 October 
2012
Peter Byrom
1
302,000 302,000
Sir David Brown 10,000 10,000
Chris Brinsmead 10,000 10,000
Philip Ruffles 30,000 30,000
Sir Mark Wrightson
2
40,935 40,935
1 Mr Byrom has a non-beneficial interest in a further 36,000 shares.
2 Sir Mark Wrightson has a non-beneficial interest in a further 1,050 shares.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
6. Performance and pay 
The graph below shows the Group’s performance, measured by TSR, 
compared with the performance of the FTSE Mid 250 Total Return 
index for the period 1 November 2008 to 31 October 2013. The 
Committee considers that the FTSE Mid 250 is the appropriate index 
because the Company has been a member of this index throughout 
the period.  Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
56
6. Performance and pay continued 
The table below shows the single figure total remuneration and the levels of pay out and vesting under the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP 
respectively for the Group Managing Director’s remuneration over the past five years
1
. 
Year
Group MD Single  
figure of total  
remuneration (£’000)
Annual bonus  
pay out %  
against maximum
LTIP vesting rates  
against maximum  
opportunity %
2013 1,188 0% 100%
2012 1,395 0% 100%
2011 1,452 25% 100%
2010 943 90% 68%
2009 675 33% 77%
1 LTIP shows the value of awards vesting in each year. The figures have been restated on the same basis as how the 2013 figures have been prepared and, therefore, may be different from 
those figures included in previous annual reports.
7. Percentage increase in the Group Managing Director’s remuneration
The table below compares the percentage increase in the Group Managing Director’s pay (including salary, fees, benefits and annual bonus) with 
the wider UK employee population.
1
 The Company considers the UK employee population (employees and managers) to be an appropriate 
comparator group for a UK-based Group Managing Director and is a stable point of comparison rather than a comparison against an aggregate 
of increases across our worldwide employee base. Methodology: per cent increase in Group Managing Director’s remuneration compared with 
UK employee population average pay and bonus per capita of all UK employees, excluding the Group Managing Director’s salary and bonus.
2013 
(£’000)
2012 
(£’000) % change
Group MD Salary 417 411 1.46%
Benefits 112 108 3.70%
Annual bonus 0 0 0%
UK employees Salary 35.8 35.2 1.56%
(per capita) Benefits 5.0 5.3 –7.5%
2
Annual bonus 0.5 0 N/A
1 The Group Managing Director’s salary is reviewed annually in May. The salary of UK employees is reviewed annually in July.
2 The UK employees’ benefits figure is sensitive to the benefit-in-kind value of the healthcare scheme. The aggregate value of healthcare claims reduced year on year, thus reducing the 
benefit-in-kind value determined by the healthcare scheme provider. Since the scheme benefits are unchanged, this year on year reduction in the benefit-in-kind value is to the employees’ 
advantage.
8. Relative importance of spend on pay
The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2013 financial year and 2012 financial year compared with other 
disbursements from profit (including distributions to shareholders and retained profit).
1
 
Disbursements from  
profit in 2013 financial year
Disbursements from  
profit in 2012 financial year
(£m)
(% total 
spend) (£m)
(% total 
spend)
% 
change
Profit distributed by way of dividend
2
 23.5 20% 21.5 15% 9%
Overall spend on pay including Directors
3
 102.0 85% 90.0 61% 13%
Corporation tax paid for year
4
 12.0 10% 16.6 11% –28%
Loss/profit retained in the Group
5
(17.6) –15% 17.2 13% –192%
1 An holistic view on profit allocation during the 2013 financial year has been taken in considering the disbursements disclosed. 
2 Refer to note 13 of the financial statements.
3 Refer to note 6 of the financial statements.
4 Refer to note 33 of the financial statements. Corporation tax is the amount paid by all Group companies.
5 Being profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement less dividend distributions.
Annual report on remuneration
continued 57
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
9. Implementation of policy in coming year
The Remuneration Policy and its implementation for the forthcoming financial year is summarised below:
Package structure The main elements of executive remuneration effective from 19 March 2014 (being the date of the AGM at which 
shareholder approval for this report will be sought) are: 
 w Base salary 
 w Annual bonus plan with maximum opportunity of 100 per cent of base salary based on Group profit (30 per 
cent), Group cash (20 per cent) and personal objectives (50 per cent).
 w Long-Term Incentive Plan with maximum opportunity of 100 per cent of base salary delivered in shares based on 
EPS growth (50 per cent) and relative Total Shareholder Return (50 per cent).
 – Under the EPS growth element, 25 per cent of the element (12.5 per cent of the total award) vests for EPS 
growth of RPI +12 per cent over the performance period, increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting 
(50 per cent of the total award) for EPS growth of RPI +30 per cent.
 – Under the Relative Total Shareholder Return element performance is measured against the FTSE 250. 25 per 
cent of the element (12.5 per cent of the total award) vests at median performance of the index, rising on a 
straight-line basis to full vesting (50 per cent of the total award) for upper quartile performance.
Pay for performance w Key principle for the short- and long-term incentives is to provide a strong link between reward and individual 
and Group performance to align the interests of Executives with those of shareholders.
 w When merited by performance, an opportunity is offered to earn total remuneration at the upper quartile 
levels of remuneration paid, against companies of a similar market capitalisation and with similar revenues to 
the Company.
The details of the targets applicable to the annual bonus plan for the coming year are considered by the Committee to be commercially 
sensitive as they are the key metrics which are critical to the operation of the Company, so they have not been disclosed as the Committee 
feels it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to do so. However details of the targets and the extent to which they have been 
satisfied will be disclosed in the 2014 annual report on remuneration.
10. Composition and terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee
This Committee deals with all aspects of remuneration of the Executive Directors, Group HR Director and Company Secretary, including:
 w Setting salaries
 w Agreeing conditions and coverage of annual incentive schemes and long-term incentives
 w Policy and scope for pension arrangements
 w Determining targets for performance related schemes
 w Scope and content of service contracts
 w Deciding extent of compensation (if any) on termination of service contracts.
The Committee is also responsible for recommending and monitoring the level and structure of senior management remuneration and setting 
the Chairman’s fees. From a broader employee perspective, the Committee determines the issue and terms of all share-based plans available to 
all employees and is aware of and advises on any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group. The Remuneration 
Committee’s Terms of Reference are available on the Company website (www.domino-printing.com).
The Committee’s members are currently Sir David Brown (Committee Chairman), Sir Mark Wrightson and Mr Chris Brinsmead.  Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
58
10. Composition and terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee continued
The Chairman, the Group Managing Director, the Group HR Director and Mr Philip Ruffles are invited to attend the Committee meetings but 
do not participate in decisions. These attendees were present when the Committee considered matters relating to the Directors’ remuneration 
for the year ended 31 October 2013. The Committee met five times during the year. The Committee’s activities for the 2013 financial year 
have included: 
Meeting Standing agenda items Other agenda 
items
November 2012 w Assess achievement of objectives and determine annual bonus for Executive Directors 
(conditional on auditor’s confirmation of underlying pre-tax profit figure)
 w Discuss objectives and bonus targets for the 2013 financial year
 w Approve LTIP award allocation schedule
 w Review executive share options
 w Review and approve Remuneration Committee report for the 2012 financial year
 w Review expenses policy for Chairman and Directors
December 2012 w Approve bonus payment for Executive Directors now underlying pre-tax profit figure 
confirmed by auditor
 w Approve objectives and bonus targets for the 2013 financial year
 w Approve revised schedule for grant of executive share options
 w Review performance conditions for 2010 LTIP awards and approve vesting levels
June 2013 w Executive Directors’ salary review
 w Salary review for HR Director and Company Secretary
 w Review level and structure of remuneration for senior executives
 w Review Remuneration Committee terms of reference
September 2013 w Executive management team salary review
 w 2013 draft Remuneration Report
 w Executive Directors’ total remuneration benchmarking data
October 2013 w 2013 draft Remuneration Report
 w Executive Directors’ total remuneration benchmarking data
11. Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
Mrs Sanderson, the Group HR Director, has provided advice to the Committee on salaries and benefits for the Executive Directors and senior 
management. In doing this she has relied upon remuneration data provided by a number of third party providers, including PwC. In addition, 
PwC has provided advice to the Committee on the preparation of this report as well as on market practice and trends. PwC is a member of 
the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration 
consulting in the UK. The Committee is satisfied that advice received from PwC during the year was objective and independent.
Adviser Appointed by Services provided to the Committee
Fees in relation to  
remuneration advice (£’000)
PwC Remuneration Committee in 2012 Advice on market practice and trends.
Preparation of the 2013 Remuneration Report.
37
12. Shareholder context
The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2012 Remuneration report at the AGM held on 19 March 2013. 
Votes for % Votes Against %
Votes 
withheld
2012 Remuneration report 93,455,474 97.74% 1,850,233 1.94% 102,594
Annual report on remuneration
continued 59
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of the 
Company’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy that will govern the 
Company’s future remuneration payments.
The policy described will be applicable from the date of the AGM 
and is subject to approval by shareholders at the Company’s AGM 
in March 2014.
The Company’s business strategy is to provide industrial customers 
with a full suite of products to meet their coding and marking and 
identification needs. The objective is to enable Domino to continue to 
grow its market share in this industry and deliver a sustained increase 
in profitability, cash flow and shareholder value. To achieve these 
objectives, it is vital that the Remuneration Policy devised and applied 
by the Committee supports this strategy. 
Directors’ remuneration policy
In order to execute this strategy, the Company needs high-quality 
Directors and the remuneration packages need to be able to attract, 
retain and motivate such individuals. Salary and benefit packages 
for Executive Directors are linked to both individual and business 
performance and are designed to ensure that the Group is managed 
in the interests of shareholders. Whilst salaries are generally set 
by reference to the median of the market, the annual bonus and 
Long-Term Incentive Plan are intended to give Executive Directors an 
opportunity to earn total annual remuneration at the upper quartile of 
the market in terms of payments made when merited by performance.
The main components of the Remuneration Policy, and how they 
are linked to and support the Company’s business strategy, are 
summarised below:
1. Policy table
Executive Directors
Objective and 
link to the 
strategy
Operation Maximum  
potential value
Performance 
conditions and 
assessment
Base 
salary
Reflects level of 
responsibility and 
achievement of 
individual
Base salary is set annually on 1 May.
Salary levels are reviewed on an 
annual basis by reference to the 
median for comparable positions in 
FTSE 250 companies of a similar 
market capitalisation and with 
similar revenues to the Company. 
Broadly, the Company seeks to 
pitch base salary around the median 
level for such comparable positions, 
without tracking it mechanistically.
Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert 
waived their 2013 salary increases 
and their salaries for the coming 
year are unchanged at £417,000 
and £257,000 respectively.
A salary increase of 2.62 per cent 
was awarded to the Group’s UK 
employees and managers in 
July 2013.
Broadly pitched around the 
median level for comparable 
positions, without tracking it 
mechanistically.
When considering any increases 
to base salaries in the normal 
course (as opposed to a change in 
role or responsibility), the 
Committee will take into 
consideration:
 w Reference to the increases 
provided to executives in the 
comparator group
 w Pay and employment conditions 
of employees throughout the 
Group, including increases 
provided to the employee 
population
 w Inflation.
N/A Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
60
1. Policy table continued
Objective and 
link to the 
strategy
Operation Maximum potential value Performance 
conditions and 
assessment
Annual 
Bonus 
Plan
The annual bonus 
aligns reward to key 
Group strategic 
objectives and 
drives short-term 
performance. 
Cash payments.
Executive Directors participate in 
an annual performance related 
bonus scheme. The performance 
period is one financial year.
Taken together with the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan, it is intended to 
provide an opportunity to earn 
an upper quartile level of total 
remuneration as compared to 
actual remuneration earned by the 
comparator group.
The Committee has discretion not 
to pay a bonus even if performance 
conditions are met.
Maximum 100 per cent of base 
salary. At threshold levels of 
performance, 0 per cent of base 
salary can be earned, with a 
straight-line pro-rate allocation 
between threshold and maximum.
Bonus performance 
conditions:
Group profit 
(underlying pre-tax 
profit before 
discretionary bonus 
provision)
1
Group cash 
(operating cash flow 
before taxation
1
)
Personal objectives
Long-
Term 
Incentive 
Plan
The Long-Term 
Incentive Plan aligns 
Executive Director 
interests with those 
of shareholders and 
drives superior 
long-term 
performance. 
Share awards.
Awards are made annually to the 
Executive Directors and certain 
senior managers who are in a 
position to influence significantly 
the performance of the Group.
The awards granted under the 
Long-Term Incentive Plan are 
subject to performance conditions 
to be met over a performance 
period of three years.
Taken together with the Annual 
Bonus, it is intended to provide 
an opportunity to earn an upper 
quartile level of total remuneration 
as compared to actual 
remuneration earned by the 
comparator group
The performance conditions have 
been chosen to align the LTIP with 
the performance of the business. 
Awards granted prior to the 2014 
AGM will vest in accordance with 
the provisions of the LTIP rules, as 
approved by shareholders at the 
date of adoption of the plan.
Maximum 100 per cent of base 
salary and minimum vesting is 
25 per cent of salary upon 
achievement of the threshold 
performance levels.
Total Shareholder 
Return (‘TSR’)
2
 
relative to 
comparator group 
with vesting subject 
to satisfactory 
financial performance 
over the period. 
Cumulative earnings 
per share (‘EPS’)
2
.
1 Group profit and Group cash together provide alignment with shareholders and balance the incentive to drive short-term performance with the delivery of the conditions necessary to 
achieve key strategic objectives.
2 TSR provides focus on improving profitability and driving up growth in shareholder value. It also provides alignment with shareholders. EPS provides focus on improving profitability, which 
in turn drives up growth in shareholder value.
Directors’ remuneration policy
continued 61
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
1. Policy table continued
Objective and link to 
the strategy
Operation Maximum  
potential value
Performance 
conditions and 
assessment
Pension To provide competitive 
levels of retirement 
benefit.
Salary supplement of 25.5 per cent of 
base salary in lieu of pension 
contributions.
Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert 
pay this salary supplement into a 
supplementary pension plan with 
effect from 6 April 2011
1
N/A N/A
Other 
benefits
To provide competitive 
levels of employment 
benefits.
Benefits include:
 w Car benefit or equivalent.
 w Private medical insurance.
 w Permanent health insurance.
 w Life assurance of four times 
base salary.
The level of benefits provided is 
reviewed annually to ensure they 
remain market competitive.
Cost of providing a car 
benefit, life assurance 
private medical 
insurance and 
permanent health 
insurance.
N/A
Shareholding 
policy
To ensure that Executive 
Directors’ and other senior 
executives’ interests are 
aligned with those of 
shareholders over a longer 
time horizon.
Requirement to build and maintain a 
holding of at least 40,000 Domino shares.
Executive Directors may be required 
to forfeit up to 50 per cent of their 
annual bonus if the shareholding 
requirement is not met.
N/A N/A
1 Participants who have pension savings at or close to the lifetime pension allowance may choose to stop contributions to the Company scheme and receive the amounts that would 
otherwise have been made by the Company as a cash payment. Nigel Bond and Andrew Herbert have chosen to pay this amount into the supplementary pension plan. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
62
1. Policy table continued
Chairman
Objective and link 
to the strategy
Operation Maximum potential value Performance 
conditions and 
assessment
Fees To attract a Chairman 
with the requisite skills 
and experience to 
perform the role.
Fee levels are set at the level paid 
for the comparable role at 
companies of a similar size and 
complexity to Domino within the 
FTSE 250.
Fee levels are reviewed annually 
in November.
The Chairman’s fees are 
determined by the Remuneration 
Committee which decided that 
the fees would not be increased 
in November 2013.
Fee levels are set by reference to the 
median of this peer group and to 
reflect the value contributed by the 
Chairman to the Company.
When considering any increases to 
fee levels in the normal course, the 
Committee will take into 
consideration:
 w Increases provided to comparable 
roles in the comparator group;
 w Pay and employment conditions of 
employees throughout the Group, 
including increases provided to the 
employee population; and
 w Inflation.
N/A
Non-Executive Directors
Objective and link 
to the strategy
Operation Maximum potential value Performance 
conditions and 
assessment
Fees To attract Non-
Executive Directors 
with the requisite skills 
and experience to 
perform the role. 
Fee levels are set at the level paid 
for comparable roles at 
companies of a similar size and 
complexity to Domino within the 
FTSE 250.
The Non-Executive Director 
fee structure is a matter for the 
full Board.
The Non-Executive Directors’ 
fees were not increased in 
November 2013.
Fee levels are set by reference to the 
median of this peer group. Fee levels 
are reviewed annually in November. 
When considering any increases to 
fee levels in the normal course, the 
Board will take into consideration:
 w Increases provided to comparable 
roles in the comparator group;
 w Pay and employment conditions of 
employees throughout the Group, 
including increases provided to the 
employee population; and
 w Inflation.
N/A
Directors’ remuneration policy
continued 63
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
2. Recruitment Remuneration Policy
Our principle is that the pay of any new recruit would be determined following the same principles as for the Executive Directors disclosed in 
the policy table, unless specific circumstances arise, such that the Committee deems it appropriate and necessary to respond to a clear business 
case for securing the desired candidate by making remuneration arrangements specific to that candidate.
The Committee will not pay more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred candidate and is mindful of guidelines and shareholder 
sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short- or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any 
performance conditions associated with an award.
The table below summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration:
Salary w Set by reference to market and taking into account individual experience and expertise in the 
context of the role.
Maximum variable incentive w Annual bonus and long-term incentive of 100 per cent of base salary each (i.e. 200 per cent total) 
in line with our current policy for Executive Directors.
Sign-on payments w Payments made to a Director upon joining the Company e.g. by way of a one-off bonus payment 
or share award may be made on a case-by-case basis.
 w Where deemed appropriate we will provide a payment via a cash and/or share award. Such 
payment/award may be subject to performance conditions.
Share buy-outs w Any previous outstanding share awards which the executive holds may be compensated. Where 
this is the case, the general principle is that the outstanding award will be valued using a recognised 
valuation methodology by an independent party and the equivalent ‘fair value’ may be awarded as 
a combination of cash and shares.
 w To ensure effective retention of the executive upon recruitment, any new award may be granted 
subject to performance conditions and vesting may be over the same period as those forfeited from 
the previous employer or a new three year period. The exact terms will be determined by the 
Committee on a case-by-case basis taking into account all relevant factors.
Relocation policies w In instances where the new executive is non-UK domiciled, the Company may provide, as a one-off 
or ongoing as part of the Director’s relocation benefits, compensation to reflect the cost of 
relocation for the executive in cases where they are expected to spend significant time away from 
their country of domicile as determined appropriate and on a case-by-case basis. 
 w The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case-by-case basis but will take into 
consideration any cost of living differences, housing allowance and schooling. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
64
3. Service contracts
The Company’s policy on directors’ service contracts is that they should be on a rolling basis without a specific end date.
Director Effective term Notice period
Nigel Bond Rolling (with no fixed expiry date) 12 months by the Company, 6 months by Executive Director
Andrew Herbert Rolling (with no fixed expiry date) 12 months by the Company, 6 months by Executive Director
Under their letters of appointment, the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are entitled to receive six months’ notice of the 
termination of their appointment.
Termination payments
Approach Application of Remuneration 
Committee discretion
Base salary Salary is paid in lieu of notice. None
Benefits Benefits are also provided in lieu of notice, 
including pension, medical, permanent health 
insurance, life assurance, travel cover, car 
allowance.
None
Annual bonus plan If the individual is a good leaver, bonus will 
be paid on a pro-rata basis in respect of the 
period from the start of the financial year in 
which the period of absence from work 
commenced to the date such period of 
absence commenced.
A good leaver is defined as a participant 
ceasing to be in employment by reason of 
death, injury, ill health, disability, pregnancy, 
redundancy or retirement.
A bad leaver is a participant who does not 
fall within the category of ‘good leaver’ and 
bad leavers will forfeit any entitlement to a 
bonus payment. 
None
Long-Term Incentive Plan A bad leaver is defined as a participant 
ceasing to be in employment by reason of 
incompetence, misconduct or resignation. 
Where employment terminates for a bad 
leaver reason, all unvested awards lapse 
immediately.
A good leaver is defined as a participant 
whose employment ceases for any reason 
other than a bad leaver reason.
Awards held by a good leaver will vest 
immediately on cessation of employment 
to the extent that performance conditions 
(as waived, varied or amended by the 
Committee) are satisfied and time pro-rated 
(unless the Committee decides otherwise).
On cessation of employment the 
Committee has the ability to waive or 
amend performance conditions. The 
Committee also has discretion not to apply 
time pro-rating to awards in the case of 
good leavers. The Committee would only 
use this discretion in exceptional 
circumstances.
Other contractual obligations None None
Directors’ remuneration policy
continued 65
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
1,600
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
Minimum On-target
Group MD
Maximum Minimum On-target
Group FD
Maximum
Remuneration (£’000)
Annual variable
Multiple period variable
Fixed element
3. Service contracts continued
Other Committee discretion
In certain circumstances, the Committee will be required to exercise its discretion, taking into consideration the particular circumstances of the 
executive’s departure and/or the recent performance of the Company in determining the specific level of payments to be made. 
Under the terms of the annual bonus, on a change of control, the Committee has discretion as to whether or not to pro-rate the resulting 
payment under the annual bonus to reflect the portion of the financial year which has been completed up to the date of the change of control. 
Whether or not such discretion would be exercised will depend upon the particular circumstances at the relevant time.
Under the terms of the LTIP, on a change of control, the Committee has the ability to waive or amend performance conditions. The Committee 
also has discretion not to apply time pro-rating to awards. The Committee would only use this discretion in exceptional circumstances.
4. Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy 
The graph below seeks to demonstrate how pay varies with performance for the Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director based 
on our stated Remuneration Policy.
Element Description
Fixed Total amount of salary, pension and benefits.
Annual variable Money or other assets received or receivable for the reporting period as a result of the achievement of 
performance conditions that relate to that period (i.e. annual bonus payments). Maximum annual bonus 
opportunity is 100 per cent of base salary for Executive Directors.
Multiple period variable Money or other assets received or receivable for multiple reporting periods as a result of the 
achievement of performance conditions over a given period ending in the year ended 31 October 2013 
or shortly after (i.e. LTIP payments). Maximum LTIP opportunity is 100 per cent of base salary for 
Executive Directors.
Assumptions used in determining the level of pay out under given scenarios are as follows:
Scenario Description
Minimum Fixed pay only (no variable payments under annual bonus and Company’s LTIP).
On-target This has been based on 50 per cent of base salary annual bonus award being paid and 
50 per cent vesting of the LTIP.
Maximum This has been based on 100 per cent of base salary annual bonus award being paid and 
100 per cent vesting of the LTIP. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
66
5. Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company in developing policy
The Remuneration Policy for all employees is determined in terms of best practice and ensuring that the Company is able to attract and retain 
the best people. This principle is followed in the development of our Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors. However, employee views 
are not specifically sought in determining this policy.
Salary and benefit packages are linked to both individual and business performance. All employees participate in bonus schemes, which, 
together with salary reviews linked to business performance, enable all employees to share in the success of the Group. All employees are 
eligible to participate in the SAYE and SIP, with subsidiary general managers and other senior managers also eligible to participate in the 
Executive share option schemes as outlined below.
Save As You Earn (‘SAYE’) share option schemes
All UK-based employees including Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the SAYE scheme. This is not subject to any performance 
conditions. Since this is a standard, HMRC approved scheme open to all employees it was not considered appropriate to include such 
conditions.
Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’)
The Company operates a HMRC approved SIP to enable employees to invest in the Company’s shares in a tax efficient way. This plan is open 
to all UK-based employees.
Executive share option schemes
The Company has operated Executive share option schemes since 1985. Executive Directors and other senior executives do not participate in 
these schemes. Executive share options are currently granted to subsidiary general managers and other senior managers. 
The exercise of executive options granted after 2003 is conditional on EPS growth exceeding the level of growth in the RPI plus 9 per cent. For 
options granted before 2005, basic EPS was used for the performance condition. For options granted in 2005, and subsequent years, underlying 
EPS is used. 
Achievement of EPS performance conditions is assessed by reference to earnings per share as reported in the Group’s audited results and the 
RPI published by the Office for National Statistics.
6. Consideration of shareholder views 
The views of our shareholders are very important to us and the Committee is happy to receive constructive feedback with respect to our 
remuneration policies or structure which we take on board to formulate our arrangements. 
Based on feedback received, last year we made some key changes to the service contracts for our Executive Directors whereby we 
subsequently received 97.7 per cent of votes in favour of our Remuneration Report. In preparing this report, we have had regard to comments 
provided over the year by shareholders and institutional investor representative bodies. Any future consultations with shareholders and 
institutional investors will be led by Sir David Brown
Directors’ remuneration policy
continued 67
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
For the year ended 31 October 2013
The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 31 October 2013.
Research and development
The Group remains firmly committed to research and development to 
maintain its position as a market leader in the design, manufacture and 
sale of a wide range of printing equipment and associated consumables 
and support services that encompass ink jet, thermal and laser 
technologies. During the year, the Group spent £19.5 million (2012: 
£16.7 million) on research and development.
Results and dividends
The results of the Group are set out on page 74. The Directors 
recommend a final dividend of 14.06 pence per share for the year 
ended 31 October 2013. This, together with the interim dividend of 
7.60 pence per share paid on 16 August 2013, amounts to 21.66 pence 
per share (2012: 20.63 pence). Subject to approval at the Annual 
General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 11 April 2014 to 
shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on 
7 March 2014. 
Directors
The Directors who were in office at the end of the year and their 
interests in the shares of the Company are shown in note 7 to the 
financial statements. All the Directors listed in note 7 held office 
throughout the financial year. As previously announced, Garry Havens 
will retire from the Board on 31 December 2013 and Phil Ruffles has 
stated that he does not intend to stand for re-election at the next 
Annual General Meeting.
Other than Phil Ruffles, all of the Directors then in office will retire at 
the next Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
All the Executive Directors have service contracts with the Company 
that are terminable on 12 months’ notice. The Chairman and Non-
Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company. 
The appointments of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are 
terminable on six months’ notice.
No Director was interested during or at the end of the year in any 
contract that was significant in relation to the Group’s business.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 31 October 2013, the Company had been notified, in accordance 
with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the 
following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares:
Name of holder 
Percentage of 
voting rights 
and issued 
share capital 
Number 
of ordinary 
shares
Nature of 
Holding
Schroders PLC 9.7 10,842,799 Indirect
Blackrock Inc. 8.5 9,560,385 Indirect
Ameriprise Financial Inc. 5.2 5,861,969 Direct & 
Indirect
Heronbridge Investment 
Management LLP
5.0 5,660,205 Indirect
Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 5.0 5,640,561 Indirect
Montanaro Asset Management 4.7 5,331,451 Direct
Norges Bank 4.0 4,527,407 Direct
Legal & General Group plc 3.8 4,322,528 Direct
Report of the Directors
During the period commencing on 1 November 2013 and ending on 
11 December 2013 the Company has not received any notifications of 
significant holdings.
Authority of the Directors to issue shares
At the last Annual General Meeting on 19 March 2013, the Directors 
were given authority to allot up to £1,675,609 in nominal value of 
relevant securities. This figure represented approximately 30 per cent 
of the Company’s total issued ordinary share capital at that time.
Also at the last Annual General Meeting the Directors were given 
authority to allot shares in the Company for cash without regard 
to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006. This 
authority expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be 
held on 19 March 2014 and the Directors will seek to renew this 
authority for the following year under the Companies Act 2006.
Purchase of own shares
At the last Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the 
Company to make market purchases on the London Stock Exchange 
of up to 16,197,554 ordinary shares, representing approximately 
14.5 per cent of its issued share capital at that time. This authority 
will expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the 
Company unless renewed at that meeting.
Amendment to articles of association
The Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’) may be amended by special 
resolution of the shareholders.
Appointment of Directors
The Articles give the Directors the power to appoint additional or 
replacement Directors. The Articles also require Directors to retire 
and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General 
Meeting following appointment and for one third of the Directors to 
retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting. The Board has 
decided that each Director will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
The Non-Executive Directors were appointed for specific terms 
subject to re-election and to the Companies Act provisions relating 
to the removal of a Director. The terms of appointment of the 
Non-Executive Directors are available on the Company’s website 
or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Power of Directors
The Directors may exercise all powers of the Company subject to 
relevant statutes, any directions given by shareholder resolution and 
the Memorandum and Articles. The Articles, for example, contain 
specific provisions relating to the Company’s power to borrow money. 
The Articles also contain powers relating to the issue of shares and the 
purchase of the Company’s own shares.
Independent legal advice
There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent 
professional advice at the Company’s expense if this is necessary in 
connection with their duties. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
68
Directors’ insurance and indemnity arrangements
The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year 
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance. The Directors also have the 
benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Company’s Articles 
of Association. The Company has made qualifying third party 
indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors. 
Significant agreements and other arrangements
The Company has various contractual arrangements for the supply of 
materials, components and equipment. It also has contractual 
arrangements in place for the distribution of its products by third 
party distributors and also for the distribution of third party products 
by the Domino Group.
The Company has a borrowing facility agreement which includes 
change of control provisions. On a change in control of the Company 
this facility could be withdrawn or renegotiated.
There are a number of other agreements that may be terminated on a 
change in control. None is considered to be significant in terms of the 
potential impact on the Group.
Capital structure
Details of share capital are shown in note 25. The Company has one 
class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. Each 
share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the 
transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions 
of the Articles and prevailing legislation. The Directors are not aware 
of any agreements between holders of the Company’s shares that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share 
capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Share schemes – waiver of dividends
The trustees of the Company’s employee benefit trust and the 
qualifying employee share trust (the ‘Trusts’) have agreed to waive 
dividends payable on the Company’s shares held by the Trusts, except 
for the shares relating to the Share Incentive Plan. As at 11 December 
2013 the number of shares over which a dividend waiver was in place 
was 245,813 representing 0.22 per cent of issued shares.
Share schemes – voting rights regarding control of 
the Company
The trustees of the qualifying employee share trust have the discretion 
to sell the shares held in the trust or to consent to the acquisition of 
control of the Company by another party. The trustees of the Share 
Incentive Plan have the discretion to seek direction from participants 
as to how to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares held in 
the trust. If no direction is given the trustees are prohibited from 
exercising the voting rights.
For shares held in trust under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 
trustee has discretion as to the exercise of voting rights in respect of 
shares held in trust.
Environmental, social and ethical issues
The Board takes account of the significance of environmental, social 
and ethical matters to the business of the Group and a separate 
Corporate responsibility report is set out on pages 31 to 37. This 
report contains disclosures of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions. 
Nigel Bond is the Director responsible for environmental, social and 
ethical issues. 
Political donations
No political donations were made (2012: £nil).
People with disabilities
Applications for employment made by disabled persons are given full 
and fair consideration, having regard to the abilities and aptitudes of 
the candidates. If existing employees become disabled, every effort is 
made to accommodate them within their existing jobs or, if this proves 
to be impossible, to find them suitable alternative employment. 
Opportunities for development and promotion are open to all 
employees.
Employee involvement
Employee communication is organised both centrally and locally. 
Centrally organised communication deals with the affairs of the Group 
as a whole and the media used for this purpose include the annual 
report and accounts, information circulars and meetings. New 
arrangements have been put in place for the current year under which 
Directors and other senior managers will provide regular briefings by 
Webinar to managers throughout the Group. Operating units organise 
local presentations by Directors or managers and hold briefings to 
pass on information to employees and to ascertain their views. Regular 
employee engagement surveys are also used.
Corporate governance
Reports on corporate governance are set out on pages 38 to 66.
Report of the Directors
continued 69
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Corporate governance
Going concern
The Group’s business activities together with the factors likely to affect 
its future development, performance and position are described 
within the Strategic Report pages 1 to 37. The financial position of the 
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also 
described on pages 28 to 30.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with a broad 
spread of customers across different geographic areas and industries. 
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed 
to manage its business risks successfully. The Directors have also 
considered the Group’s forecasts and projections. After making 
enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual 
report and accounts.
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Company’s auditor will 
be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditor
The following applies to each of those persons who were Directors at 
the time this report was approved:
 w so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware, and
 w he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director 
in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that 
information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board.
Richard Pryn
Company Secretary
11 December 2013
Registered Office: Bar Hill, Cambridge, CB23 8TU 
Registered Number: 1363137 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
70
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors are required to 
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European 
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to 
prepare the Parent Company financial statements under IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU. Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss 
of the Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 w properly select and apply accounting policies;
 w present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
 w provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
 w make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 w the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs, give a 
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole;
 w the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face; and
 w the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are 
fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
Nigel Bond Andrew Herbert
Group Managing Director Group Finance Director
11 December 2013 11 December 2013 71
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
Opinion on financial statements of Domino Printing 
Sciences plc
In our opinion:
 w the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 October 2013 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 w the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) 
as adopted by the European Union;
 w the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 w the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, 
Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, Consolidated and 
Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, Consolidated and 
Parent Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 33. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
Independent Auditor’s report to the  
members of Domino Printing Sciences plc
preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ 
statement contained within the Director’s Report that the Group 
is a going concern. We confirm that:
 w we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern 
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements 
is appropriate; and
 w we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast 
significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those 
that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Valuation of investment in TEN Media LLC:
The valuation of the investment in TEN Media LLC (‘TEN Media’) is 
complex and highly judgmental and is based on assumptions about 
future profitability of the investment. TEN Media is a start‑up 
business and has been impaired in full in the period, as disclosed in 
note 5 to the financial statements.
We considered and challenged management’s view that in the 
light of ongoing delays in the project and the requirement for 
additional funding from the Company which is not expected to 
be forthcoming, the investment should be impaired in full. 
Valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets:
The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible 
assets, is a judgemental process which includes assumptions around 
future profits and revenue growth, hence there are inherent 
uncertainties to these models. Goodwill and other intangible assets 
are material balances within the Group financial statements and 
Domino Printing Sciences plc operates in a global market which 
is susceptible to economic change. Group management’s key 
judgments are disclosed in note 15 to the financial statements.
We evaluated management’s assumptions in the cash flow forecasts 
used in the value in use calculation for goodwill and other intangible 
assets, described in note 15 to the financial statements. These 
included the cash flow projections, growth rates and sensitivities 
used. We have challenged the discount rate applied to the separate 
cash generating units by comparing this against industry 
benchmarks on similar assets utilising valuation experts, the 
prevailing Group cost of capital at the year end, and our 
understanding of the future prospects of the business. We have 
considered the level of risk adjustment applied to each of the cash 
generating units. In order to challenge the medium‑term growth 
rate applied to the cash flow projections we have considered 
market data and benchmarked the rate against comparator 
companies. We have applied sensitivities to the model. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
72
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Valuation of contingent consideration:
The assessment of the carrying value of contingent consideration is 
a judgemental area as it is based on the same cash flow forecasts 
as used in the impairment review of goodwill and other intangible 
assets. These cash flows are then used to assess the total amounts 
payable to the previous owners of acquired businesses where the 
consideration owed is determined based on future profitability of 
the underlying business. As described in note 23 to the financial 
statements, the provision has reduced by £2.8 million this year to 
£8.0 million.
We considered the appropriateness of management’s assumptions 
used in the forecasts which support both the quantum and the 
timing of future payments for contingent consideration in light of 
the reassessment made to the provision. We confirmed that the 
movement in contingent consideration for each acquisition is 
consistent with the underlying forecasts and that the balance 
reflects the agreed repayment schedules. 
Revenue recognition:
There are significant judgements involved in applying the Group’s 
revenue recognition policies in relation to contract accounting for 
significant contracts with multiple revenue streams (e.g. installation, 
implementation and support), and the cut‑ off applied to all revenue 
streams. The Group’s policy on revenue recognition is set out in 
note 1 to the financial statements.
We carried out tests relating to controls over revenue recognition, 
including the accounting for multiple element arrangements and the 
timing of revenue recognition. We reviewed the terms of individual 
sales spanning the year end period and the treatment of these 
contracts in the financial statements to assess whether the revenue 
recognition is consistent with those terms, the Group’s policy and 
relevant accounting standards.
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on  
page 46.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the 
context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to 
express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion 
on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the 
risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these 
individual matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the 
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic 
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed 
or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope 
of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £4.0 million, which 
is approximately 7.5 per cent of underlying pre‑ tax profit and 2 
per cent of equity. As set out in note 3 to the financial statements, 
pre‑ tax profit is adjusted by excluding the effect of separately 
disclosed exceptional non‑ recurring items and certain non‑ cash 
items as these can be volatile and so the underlying measure 
provides a more comparable measure with similar organisations.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
the Committee all audit differences in excess of £80,000, as well 
as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted 
reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit 
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when 
assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the 
Group and its environment, including Group‑ wide controls, and 
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based 
on that assessment, we focused our work primarily on 19 locations.
 w 11 of these locations, accounting for 93 per cent of the Group’s 
net assets and 93 per cent of the Group’s revenue, were subject 
to a full audit.
 w At a further 8, accounting for 7 per cent of the Group’s net assets 
and revenue we carried analytical procedures to confirm our 
conclusion that there were no significant risks of material 
misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the 
remaining operating locations not subject to audit or audit of 
specified account balances.
Our work at each location was carried out at levels of materiality 
applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group 
materiality. We also tested the consolidation at the parent level.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned 
visits that has been designed so that a partner or a senior member of 
the Group audit team visits each of the locations where the Group 
audit scope was focused at least once every two years, with a senior 
member of the Group audit team attending the planning and close 
meetings either by phone or in person every year.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
 w the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
 w the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Independent Auditor’s report to the 
members of Domino Printing Sciences plc
continued 73
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 w we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 w adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
 w the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in 
our opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not 
been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report. We have nothing to report 
arising from these matters or our review.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of 
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the annual report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual 
report is:
 w materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
 w apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
 w otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified 
any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit 
and the Directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is 
fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the 
Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We 
confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or 
misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of 
significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the 
financial and non‑ financial information in the annual report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based 
on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us 
in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any 
apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Stuart Henderson ACA
(Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Cambridge, England
11 December 2013 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
74
Note
2013 
Before 
exceptional 
items 
£’000
2013 
Exceptional 
items 
(note 5) 
£’000
2013 
Total 
£’000
2012 
Total 
£’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 3 335,673 – 335,673 312,062
Cost of sales (174,210) (210) (174,420) (156,948)
Gross profit 161,463 (210) 161,253 155,114
Selling and distribution expenses (62,290) (1,308) (63,598) (55,715)
Administrative expenses (excluding amortisation of acquired intangibles and reassessment 
of contingent consideration) (26,965) (32,060) (59,025) (29,196)
Research and development expenses (19,499) (370) (19,869) (16,679)
(108,754) (33,738) (142,492) (101,590)
Operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangibles and 
reassessment of contingent consideration 52,709 (33,948) 18,761 53,524
Reassessment of contingent consideration 1,943 – 1,943 –
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (3,321) – (3,321) (2,489)
Operating profit 3 51,331 (33,948) 17,383 51,035
Investment income 9 1,117 – 1,117 782
Finance costs 10 (827) – (827) (679)
Profit on disposal of available for sale investment prior to acquisition of subsidiary – – – 2,806
Profit before taxation 3, 4 51,621 (33,948) 17,673 53,944
Taxation 11 (12,873) 1,028 (11,845) (13,245)
Profit for the year 38,748 (32,920) 5,828 40,699
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the Company 5,822 40,692
Non‑ controlling interest 6 7
5,828 40,699
Basic earnings per share (pence) 14 5.22p 36.90p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 14 5.18p 36.57p
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 October 2013 75
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Profit for the year 5,828 40,699
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments 2,783 (3,517)
Increase in value of available for sale investment – 2,806
Disposal of available for sale investment prior to acquisition of subsidiary – (2,806)
Foreign exchange adjustment on available for sale investment 990 752
Foreign exchange adjustment on available for sale investment recycled to profit or loss (1,742) –
Gains on cash flow hedges arising during the period 183 176
Reclassification adjustments for gains on cash flow hedges included in profit (176) (125)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (82) (146)
Total comprehensive income and expense in the year 7,784 37,839
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the Company 7,778 37,832
Non‑ controlling interest 6 7
7,784 37,839
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 October 2013 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
76
Company Registration No. 1363137
Note
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 15 89,342 87,537
Other intangible assets 16 18,228 21,864
Property, plant and equipment 17 29,239 26,471
Available for sale investments 18 – 31,035
Investment in associates 18 356 289
Deferred tax assets 24 7,199 7,335
144,364 174,531
Current assets
Inventories 19 39,809 37,968
Trade and other receivables 20 71,865 62,708
Cash and cash equivalents 59,373 47,591
Derivative financial instruments 27 392 459
171,439 148,726
Total assets 315,803 323,257
Current liabilities
Bank loans and overdrafts 28 (33,458) (28,378)
Trade and other payables 21 (64,986) (55,910)
Derivative financial instruments 27 (209) (283)
(98,653) (84,571)
Net current assets 72,786 64,155
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 24 (9,913) (10,718)
Bank loans 28 (406) (5,606)
Other payables 22 (8,479) (9,828)
(18,798) (26,152)
Total liabilities (117,451) (110,723)
Net assets 198,352 212,534
Equity share capital 25 5,610 5,572
Reserves
Own shares (1,123) (2,467)
Share premium account 39,732 37,463
Capital redemption reserve 908 908
Revaluation reserve 1,367 1,308
Taxation reserve 942 967
Exchange reserve 13,250 11,212
Retained earnings 137,626 157,537
Total reserves 192,702 206,928
Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company 198,312 212,500
Non‑ controlling interest 40 34
Total equity 198,352 212,534
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
Nigel Bond Andrew Herbert
Group Managing Director Group Finance Director
11 December 2013 11 December 2013
Consolidated balance sheet
As at 31 October 2013 77
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 October 2013
Investment 
in own 
shares 
£’000
Called‑ up 
 share 
capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
account 
£’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£’000
Revaluation 
reserve 
£’000
Taxation 
reserve 
£’000
Exchange 
reserve 
£’000
Retained 
earnings 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Non‑ controlling 
interest 
£’000
Total 
equity 
£’000
At 1 November 2011 (6,931) 5,553 36,561 908 1,285 1,419 13,926 140,110 192,831 359 193,190
Profit for the period – – – – – – – 40,692 40,692 7 40,699
Other comprehensive income 
for the period – – – – – (146) (2,714) – (2,860) – (2,860)
Total comprehensive income 
for the period – – – – – (146) (2,714) 40,692 37,832 7 37,839
Shares issued during the period – 19 902 – – – – – 921 – 921
Own shares acquired (71) – – – – – – – (71) – (71)
Shares awarded to share 
scheme participants 4,439 – – – – – – (3,826) 613 – 613
Withdrawal of SIP matching 
shares 96 – – – – – – – 96 – 96
Credit to equity in respect of 
share‑ based compensation 
charges – – – – – – – 1,731 1,731 – 1,731
Tax on items taken to equity – – – – 36 (306) – – (270) – (270)
Dividends (note 13) – – – – – – – (21,512) (21,512) (3) (21,515)
Acquisition of remaining 
interest in Mectec – – – – – – – 285 285 (285) –
Acquisition of remaining 
interest in APS – – – – – – – 44 44 (44) –
Transfer of amount equivalent 
to additional depreciation on 
revalued assets – – – – (13) – – 13 – – –
At 31 October 2012 (2,467) 5,572 37,463 908 1,308 967 11,212 157,537 212,500 34 212,534
Profit for the period – – – – – – – 5,822 5,822 6 5,828
Other comprehensive income 
for the period – – – – – (82) 2,038 – 1,956 – 1,956
Total comprehensive income 
for the period – – – – – (82) 2,038 5,822 7,778 6 7,784
Shares issued during the period – 38 2,269 – – – – – 2,307 – 2,307
Own shares acquired (911) – – – – – – – (911) – (911)
Shares awarded to share 
scheme participants 2,170 – – – – – – (2,067) 103 – 103
Withdrawal of SIP matching 
shares 85 – – – – – – – 85 – 85
Debit to equity in respect of 
share‑ based compensation 
charges – – – – – – – (211) (211) – (211)
Tax on items taken to equity – – – – 72 57 – – 129 – 129
Dividends (note 13) – – – – – – – (23,468) (23,468) – (23,468)
Transfer of amount equivalent 
to additional depreciation on 
revalued assets – – – – (13) – – 13 – – ‑ At 31 October 2013 (1,123) 5,610 39,732 908 1,367 942 13,250 137,626 198,312 40 198,352 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
78
Note
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Net cash inflow from operating activities 33 42,976 39,725
Investing activities
Interest received 1,117 782
Interest paid (784) (630)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 301 266
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (9,021) (6,103)
Purchase of intangible assets (378) (551)
Payment of contingent acquisition consideration (155) (7,808)
Proceeds on disposal of intangible assets 1 –
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, net of cash acquired – (14,447)
Net cash used in investing activities (8,919) (28,491)
Financing activities
Dividends paid (23,468) (21,515)
Repayment of borrowings (353) (228)
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (12) (28)
Own shares used to satisfy share option exercises 103 613
Own shares purchased (911) (71)
Issue of equity share capital 2,307 921
New bank loans raised – 18,200
Net cash used in financing activities (22,334) (2,108)
Effects of foreign exchange on cash balances 59 (644)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 11,782 8,482
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 47,591 39,109
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 59,373 47,591
Comprising:
Cash and cash equivalents 59,373 47,591
Bank overdrafts 28 – –
59,373 47,591
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 October 2013 79
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
Company Registration No. 1363137
Note
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 16 86 248
Property, plant and equipment 17 1,514 1,516
Investments in subsidiaries 18 139,359 138,493
Deferred tax assets 24 443 1,195
141,402 141,452
Current assets
Receivables 20 22,679 50,001
Cash and cash equivalents 11,596 8,130
Derivative financial instruments 27 392 459
34,667 58,590
Total assets 176,069 200,042
Current liabilities
Bank loans and overdrafts 28 (35,249) (32,241)
Payables 21 (31,340) (66,388)
Derivative financial instruments 27 (209) (283)
(66,798) (98,912)
Net current liabilities (32,131) (40,322)
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 24 (239) (324)
Bank loans 28 – (5,000)
Other payables 22 (7,923) (9,231)
(8,162) (14,555)
Total liabilities (74,960) (113,467)
Net assets 101,109 86,575
Equity share capital 25 5,610 5,572
Reserves
Own shares (1,020) (2,352)
Share premium account 39,732 37,463
Capital redemption reserve 908 908
Revaluation reserve 993 921
Taxation reserve 386 748
Exchange reserve 841 1,199
Merger premium reserve 22,869 22,869
Retained earnings 30,790 19,247
Total reserves 95,499 81,003
Equity attributable to shareholders 101,109 86,575
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
Nigel Bond Andrew Herbert
Group Managing Director Group Finance Director
11 December 2013 11 December 2013
Parent Company balance sheet
As at 31 October 2013 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
80
Investment in 
own shares 
£’000
Called‑ up 
share capital 
£’000
Share 
premium 
account 
£’000
Capital 
redemption 
reserve 
£’000
Revaluation 
reserve 
£’000
Taxation 
reserve 
£’000
Exchange 
reserve 
£’000
Merger 
premium 
reserve 
£’000
Retained 
earnings 
£’000
Total 
equity 
£’000
At 1 November 2011 (6,791) 5,553 36,561 908 885 1,636 2,748 22,869 35,989 100,358
Profit for the period – – – – – – – – 6,931 6,931
Other comprehensive 
income for the period – – – – – – (1,549) – – (1,549)
Total comprehensive 
income for the period – – – – – – (1,549) – 6,931 5,382
Shares issued during the 
period – 19 902 – – – – – – 921
Shares awarded to share 
scheme participants 4,439 – – – – – – – (3,826) 613
Tax on items taken to 
equity – – – – 36 (888) – – – (852)
Credit to equity in 
respect of share‑ based 
compensation charges – – – – – – – – 1,665 1,665
Dividends (note 13) – – – – – – – – (21,512) (21,512)
At 31 October 2012 (2,352) 5,572 37,463 908 921 748 1,199 22,869 19,247 86,575
Profit for the period – – – – – – – – 37,359 37,359
Other comprehensive 
income for the period – – – – – – (358) – – (358)
Total comprehensive 
income for the period – – – – – – (358) – 37,359 37,001
Shares issued during the 
period – 38 2,269 – – – – – – 2,307
Own shares acquired (838) – – – – – – – – (838)
Shares awarded to share 
scheme participants 2,170 – – – – – – – (2,067) 103
Tax on items taken to 
equity – – – – 72 (362) – – – (290)
Credit to equity in 
respect of share‑ based 
compensation charges – – – – – – – – (281) (281)
Dividends (note 13) – – – – – – – – (23,468) (23,468)
At 31 October 2013 (1,020) 5,610 39,732 908 993 386 841 22,869 30,790 101,109
Parent Company statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 October 2013 81
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
Note
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Net cash inflow from operating activities 33 27,772 20,340
Investing activities
Interest paid (532) (438)
Interest received 19 34
Purchase of intangible assets (47) (256)
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings – (18,263)
Net cash used in investing activities (560) (18,923)
Financing activities
Dividends paid (23,468) (21,512)
Issue of equity share capital 2,307 921
Own shares purchased (838) –
Own shares used to satisfy share option exercises 103 613
New bank loans raised – 17,901
Net cash used in financing activities (21,896) (2,077)
Effects of foreign exchange on cash balances 152 (179)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5,468 (839)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 4,110 4,949
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 9,578 4,110
Comprising:
Cash and cash equivalents 11,596 8,130
Overdrafts 28 (2,018) (4,020)
9,578 4,110
Parent Company cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 October 2013 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
82
1. Basis of preparation and accounting policies
General information
Domino Printing Sciences plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the registered 
office is given on page 123. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in note 3 and in the Report of the 
Directors on pages 67 to 69.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, being the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group 
operates. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out below.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the 
European Union (‘EU’) and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The Company has elected to also prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The financial information has been prepared under the historical cost convention, except in respect of revalued properties (as permitted by 
IFRS 1) and certain financial instruments of the Group and Company, and has been prepared on a basis consistent with the IFRS accounting 
policies set out below.
Standards and interpretations that have become effective in the current financial year but have had no material impact on the financial 
statements include:
IAS 1 (amended 2011)  Presentation of Other Comprehensive Income
IAS 12 (amended 2010)  Recovery of Underlying Assets
Annual Improvements to IFRSs
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these 
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective:
IFRS 1 (amended 2012)  Government Loan with a Below‑ Market Rate of Interest
IFRS 7 (amended 2011)  Offsetting of Assets and Liabilities
IFRS 7 (amended 2011)  Deferral of IFRS 9 and Transition Disclosures
IFRS 7 (amended 2013)  Additional Hedge Accounting Disclosures
IFRS 9    Financial Instruments
IFRS 10    Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 11    Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12    Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
IFRS 13    Fair Value Measurement
IAS 19 (amended 2011)  Post‑ Employment Benefits and Termination Benefits
IAS 19 (amended 2013)  Contributions from Employees or Third Parties Linked to Service
IAS 27 (amended 2011)  Separate Financial Statements
IAS 28    Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
IAS 32 (amended 2011)  Offsetting of Assets and Liabilities
IAS 36 (amended 2013)  Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non‑ Financial Assets
IAS 39 (amended 2013)  Novations of Derivatives
IAS 39 (amended 2013)  Fair Value Hedges
IFRIC 20    Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine
Annual Improvements to IFRSs
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial 
statements other than the enhanced disclosure requirements in IFRS 9, IFRS 12 and IFRS 13.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are described within 
the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 37. The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also 
described in the Strategic Report. In addition, note 30 to the financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
managing its capital and risk along with details of exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 83
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
1. Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued
The Group has considerable financial resources together with a broad spread of customers across different geographic areas and industries. As 
a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully. The Directors have also considered 
the Group’s forecasts and projections. After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group 
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being at least 12 months from authorisation of the 
Financial Statements. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the entities controlled by the Group.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of the Group’s subsidiaries. The cost of acquisition is measured at the 
fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued, and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. For acquisitions made before 
the year ended 31 October 2010, costs directly attributable to the transaction are also included in the measurement of acquisition cost, in 
accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 3 (revised 2008). For subsequent acquisitions, costs directly attributable to the transaction 
are recognised in the Income Statement as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are initially measured at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non‑ controlling interest. The 
excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets is recorded as goodwill.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or 
up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, subsidiaries’ accounting policies are amended to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The Company’s investments in its subsidiaries are carried at cost less provision for any impairments.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Associates
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but does not control, generally with a shareholding of 20 per cent to 
50 per cent of the voting rights.
The Group has a 25 per cent holding in Mectec Coding Benelux BV (‘Mectec BV’), a company incorporated in The Netherlands, and a 40 per 
cent holding in Mectec Coding Benelux BVBA (‘Mectec BVBA’), a company incorporated in Belgium, both of which have been accounted for 
as associates.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. The results and assets and liabilities of the Group’s associates are wholly 
immaterial to the Group’s results and balance sheet and therefore disclosure of the information required by IAS 28, ‘Investments in Associates’, 
has not been made.
Non-controlling interests
Non‑ controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. Non‑ controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non‑ controlling interest’s 
share of changes in equity since the date of combination. Losses applicable to the non‑ controlling interest in excess of the non‑ controlling 
interest’s interest in the subsidiary’s equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the non‑ controlling interest 
has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration is payable to the former shareholders of current Group subsidiaries at amounts based on the future performance of 
those subsidiaries as agreed at the time of acquisition. These liabilities have been measured at their fair value based on management estimates of 
the expected consideration payable and after discounting the amounts payable to their present value. Movements in these liabilities arising from 
a reassessment of their fair value at the balance sheet date are taken to profit or loss.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset 
at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for 
impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
84
1. Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units expected to benefit from the 
combination. Cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently where there is 
an indication that the unit may be impaired. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using 
a pre‑ tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the 
estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of 
the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets 
of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a 
subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the 
profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being 
tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included 
in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Acquired intangible assets – business combinations
Intangible assets that are acquired as a result of a business combination, and that can be separately and reliably measured at fair value, are 
separately recognised on acquisition. Amortisation is charged on a straight‑ line basis to the Income Statement over their expected useful lives. 
The periods over which the assets are being amortised are:
Technology  5–10.5 years
Customer relationships 5–13 years
Non‑ compete agreements 5 years
Trademarks  10 years
Order backlog  2 years
Proprietary rights
Proprietary rights are measured at cost and amortised on a straight‑ line basis over their estimated useful economic lives (currently 10 years).
Software
Software that is not integral to an item of hardware is classified as an intangible asset. Amortisation is charged on a straight‑ line basis over the 
shorter of the licence term and three years.
Research and development expenditure
IAS 38, ‘Intangible assets’, requires development spend to be recognised in the Income Statement as incurred unless the expenditure meets 
certain criteria, in which case it is capitalised and written off to the Income Statement over a suitable period. The criteria used to determine the 
accounting treatment relate to the technical and commercial feasibility of the product or process, as well as the intention and ability of the entity 
to complete development, use or sell the resulting asset and reliably measure the development expenditure attributable to that asset. Through 
its formal Product Creation Process, the Group monitors the extent to which development expenditure meets these criteria. It capitalises this 
expenditure and writes it off to the Income Statement over a suitable period. All other development expenditure is charged to the Income 
Statement as incurred. There was no expenditure capitalised in the period (2012: £nil).
Borrowing costs
All borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs and other exceptional costs and after the share of results of associates and any 
profit or loss arising on the disposal of available for sale investments, but before investment income and finance costs.
Property, plant and equipment
All property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation with the exception of certain properties at the Group’s 
Headquarters in Cambridge which are stated at deemed cost following transition to IFRS, being valuation less accumulated depreciation 
at 1 November 2004. The Directors have considered the value of the assets that are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and are 
satisfied that the aggregate value of those assets is not less than the aggregate amount at which they are stated in the Company’s accounts.
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 85
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
1. Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued
Depreciation of fixed assets is provided on a straight‑ line basis so as to write off their cost over their expected useful working lives. The annual 
rates applied are:
Freehold land   nil
Buildings    2.5 per cent
Motor vehicles – owned  20 per cent
Motor vehicles – leased  Lease term
Plant and machinery   5–20 per cent
Computer equipment  20–33 per cent
Fixtures and fittings   15–20 per cent
Leasehold improvements  Lease term
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in 
order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other 
assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. An intangible asset with an 
indefinite useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre‑ tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset 
(or cash generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant 
asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of 
its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no 
impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income, 
unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Leased assets
Property, plant and equipment leased under finance leases is capitalised and depreciated over its expected useful life. The finance charges are 
allocated over the primary period of the lease in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
The costs of operating leases are charged to the Income Statement as they accrue.
Equipment leased to customers
Equipment leased to customers under operating leases is capitalised and depreciated on a straight‑ line basis over its useful working life. Costs 
capitalised comprise materials, direct labour and attributable overheads.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets
Non‑ derivative financial assets are classified as either ‘available for sale’ financial assets or ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends on 
the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified 
as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, balances on bank accounts, cash in transit and 
cash floats held in the business. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
86
1. Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued
Bank overdrafts and interest bearing bank loans are recorded at the proceeds received, net of issue costs. Finance charges are accounted for on 
an accruals basis and charged to the Income Statement when payable.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire; or it transfers the financial 
asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest 
in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the 
proceeds received.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’), are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet 
date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial 
recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
For shares classified as available for sale (‘AFS’), a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to 
be objective evidence of impairment. For all other financial assets, including redeemable notes classified as AFS and finance lease receivables, 
objective evidence of impairment could include:
 w significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or
 w default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or
 w it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently 
assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Group’s past 
experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well as 
observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade 
receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is considered 
uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the 
allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
When an AFS debt instrument is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in equity including the related 
foreign exchange gains or losses are reclassified to profit or loss in the period.
With the exception of AFS equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be 
related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through 
profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the 
amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of AFS equity securities, impairment losses previously recognised through profit or loss are not reversed through profit or loss. Any 
increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised directly in equity.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are classified as ‘other financial liabilities’.
Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities include borrowings and trade and other payables and are initially measured at fair value net of transaction costs. Other 
financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 87
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
1. Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued
Derivative financial instruments and cash flow hedges
The Group uses forward contracts to hedge its exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. The Group designates these instruments as cash 
flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, 
along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge 
and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the 
hedged item.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity. The 
gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, in the same line of 
the Income Statement as the recognised hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or 
exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is 
recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, 
the cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The fair value of the Group’s and Company’s forward contracts is shown as a financial asset and/or liability at the balance sheet date. In the 
Company’s books, these forward contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 and accordingly the movement in fair value 
between the two balance sheet dates is taken through profit or loss.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Inventories
Inventories are shown at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated 
costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Cost represents materials, direct labour and overheads attributable to the stage of production. Cost is calculated using a weighted average 
method.
Investment in own shares
The cost of the Company’s shares held by various trusts to satisfy equity‑ settled compensation schemes are deducted from equity attributable 
to shareholders in the Company and Group balance sheets.
Revenue
Revenue comprises sales to customers after discounts and excludes sales taxes.
Sales of products are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, the sales price 
agreed and the receipt of payment is reasonably certain.
Sales of services are recognised when the service has been performed and the receipt of payment is reasonably certain. Revenue on longer‑ term service contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the service, generally on a straight‑ line basis over the life of 
the contract.
Operating lease income is accounted for on a straight‑ line basis with any rental increases recognised during the period to which they relate.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the 
rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount.
Segment reporting
The Group’s primary reporting segment, as defined by IFRS 8, ‘Operating segments’, is geographic by location of subsidiary, which reflects how 
the Board of Directors assesses segment performance and makes decisions about resource allocation. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
88
1. Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2, ‘Share‑ based payments’. In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, IFRS 2 has 
been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005.
The Group issues equity‑ settled share‑ based payments to certain employees. Equity‑ settled share‑ based payments are measured at fair value at 
the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight‑ line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the 
number of shares that will eventually vest. There are both non‑ market and market based performance conditions attached to the vesting and 
exercising of equity instruments.
Where plans have market based performance criteria, fair value is measured by the use of a Monte Carlo model, and by Black‑ Scholes models 
in all other cases. The expected life used in the models is based on management’s best estimate of behavioural consideration based on historic 
exercise patterns. No changes to the fair value are made when the expected or actual level of awards vesting differs from the original estimate 
due to the non‑ attainment of market based conditions.
Charges made to the Income Statement in respect of share‑ based payments are credited back to Retained Earnings.
Foreign currency translation
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it 
operates (its ‘functional currency’). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group 
company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated 
financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency are 
recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for 
the year.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies in the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rates 
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The trading results and cash flows from operations of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the 
average rate of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences arising in the consolidated accounts on the retranslation at the closing rate of the Group’s opening net investments in 
foreign subsidiaries, together with any differences arising between the average rate and the closing rate in the Income Statement, are shown 
within a separate reserve in equity (the ‘Exchange Reserve’).
Under IFRS, goodwill and intangible assets arising on acquisition of overseas subsidiaries must be considered to be denominated in the 
functional currency of the acquired company. As such, foreign exchange differences arise due to the movement in exchange rates between 
balance sheet dates. The differences arising are shown within the Exchange Reserve.
Pension scheme arrangements
The Group operates a money purchase pension scheme for its UK employees and has similar schemes in other countries. The pension cost 
charge represents contributions payable in respect of the period.
Taxation
Current taxation is provided at amounts expected to be paid, or recovered, using the tax rates and laws in the relevant territory that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. The tax charged for the period reflects the expected tax payable for the period 
along with adjustments for tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences. Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it 
is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 89
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
1. Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued
Deferred tax is measured at the rates that are expected to apply in the period when the temporary differences are expected to reverse, 
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. The Group’s deferred tax provision is 
measured on an undiscounted basis.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement except when it relates to items charged or credited directly in equity, in which 
case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Taxation reserve
Elements of current and deferred tax arising on share‑ based compensation charges are recognised in the taxation reserve. Where the accrued 
tax deduction in respect of these charges exceeds the cumulative remuneration expense recognised in profit or loss, the excess is recognised in 
this reserve.
Current taxation on the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges is also recognised in 
the taxation reserve of the Group. The taxation relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in Group profit or loss.
In the Company’s books, since these forward contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39, the current taxation on changes in fair 
value is taken to profit or loss.
Dividends
Final dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by the 
Company’s shareholders. Dividends are shown as a component of the movement in shareholders’ equity.
2. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 1, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and 
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in 
which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects 
both current and future periods.
(a) Critical accounting judgements
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations (which are dealt with separately below), that the Directors 
have made in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the 
financial statements.
Intangible assets acquired through the purchase of subsidiary undertakings
In accordance with IFRS 3, ‘Business Combinations’, the Group is required to recognise, on the acquisition of a subsidiary, internally generated 
intangible assets which the acquired company may hold but are not reflected in the balance sheet of the subsidiary. Examples of such assets 
would be trademarks, customer lists and networks, intellectual property rights and technology portfolios. These assets are recognised 
separately from acquired goodwill.
Valuing such assets is dependent on numerous factors, including company forecasts and market benchmark data. Because of the complexity 
and subjectivity of this work, the Group engages independent, third party valuation experts to advise on the value of material assets to be 
recognised on acquisition and the period over which these assets should be charged to the Income Statement.
(b) Key sources of estimation and uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation and uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant 
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which goodwill has been 
allocated. The value in use calculation requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and 
a suitable discount rate to calculate present value. The nature of the markets in which the Group operates means there is some uncertainty in 
future cash flows and in identifying a suitable risk‑ adjusted discount rate for each unit. The carrying value of goodwill at 31 October 2013 was 
£89.3 million. Goodwill is initially measured as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income 
statement and is not subsequently reversed. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
90
2. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty continued
Contingent consideration
The Group initially estimates the amounts payable under ‘earn‑ out’ plans to the former shareholders of acquired companies based on the 
business model produced at the time of acquisition. Earn‑ out clauses within acquisition agreements typically contain provisions for amounts 
payable to the former shareholders based on future financial performance. In order to calculate the expected future payments, the acquisition 
business model contains estimates of the future financial performance for the acquired business.
The post‑ acquisition performance and expected future performance of acquired companies is reviewed throughout the year. Any adjustments 
required to contingent consideration arising from a significant departure of financial performance from the original acquisition plan are made as 
required. A corresponding adjustment is made to goodwill for acquisitions made before the year ended 31 October 2010, in accordance with 
the transitional provisions of IFRS 3 (revised 2008). For subsequent acquisitions, the corresponding adjustment is made to the Income 
Statement, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 (revised 2008).
Available for sale financial assets
Unlisted shares held by the Group that are traded in an active market are classified as being available for sale financial assets, in accordance with 
IAS 39, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, and are stated at fair value. These assets are included in non‑ current assets, as 
management do not intend to dispose of the investments within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Group owns 3.5 per cent of epc Solutions Inc and 14.85 per cent of TEN Media LLC.
In assessing the fair value of these investments, the Directors consider factors such as the recent performance of the company, the relatively 
small percentage shareholding, the shareholder structure, the unquoted status of each of the companies’ shares and any recent transactions 
involving the equity instruments of the companies.
Provisions
The Group assesses the carrying value of both debtor and inventory balances based on past losses, current trading patterns and anticipated 
future events.
Provisions for expected future cash outflows are made based upon past experience and management’s assessment of likely outflow, after taking 
the appropriate professional advice when necessary.
3. Segmental information
Information reported to the Group Managing Director for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance is 
categorised by location of subsidiary into three main regions: Europe, The Americas and Rest of World. These are therefore defined as the 
Group’s reportable segments under IFRS 8.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies as described in note 1. Transactions 
between segments are accounted for on an arm’s length basis. The Group has subsidiary companies operating in these segments in the 
following countries:
Europe:  United Kingdom, France, Spain, Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, The Netherlands, Portugal and Belgium
Americas:  USA, Canada and Mexico
Rest of World: China, Korea, Singapore and India
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 91
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
3. Segmental information continued
(a) Segment revenue and result
2013
By location of subsidiary
Europe 
£’000
Americas 
£’000
Rest of 
World 
£’000
Total
£’000
Eliminations 
£’000
Group 
£’000
External revenue 179,327 71,539 84,807 335,673 – 335,673
Inter‑ segment sales 155,458 7,019 948 163,425 (163,425) –
Total revenue 334,785 78,558 85,755 499,098 (163,425) 335,673
Segment result before exceptional items 56,208 4,523 13,466 74,567 (3,367) 70,830
Exceptional items (excluding research and development) (29,525) (1,606) (6) (31,507) (2,441) (33,578)
Total segment result 26,683 2,917 13,460 43,060 (5,808) 37,252
Central research and development (19,869)
Operating profit 17,383
Add back: amortisation of acquired intangibles 3,321
Add back: exceptional items (note 5) 33,948
Less: reassessment of contingent consideration (1,943)
Investment income 1,117
Finance costs excluding accounting for discounted contingent consideration (784)
Underlying profit before taxation 53,042
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (3,321)
Exceptional items (note 5) (33,948)
Reassessment of contingent consideration 1,943
Interest charge on discounted long‑ term contingent consideration (43)
Profit before taxation 17,673
Taxation (11,845)
Profit for the year 5,828
The segment result for Europe includes the impact of the impairment of the Group’s investment in TEN Media (note 5). Although TEN Media is 
a business based in the USA, the Group’s investment is held by Squid Ltd which is a UK resident company.
2012 
By location of subsidiary
Europe 
£’000
Americas 
£’000
Rest of 
World 
£’000
Total
£’000
Eliminations 
£’000
Group 
£’000
External revenue 175,231 66,889 69,942 312,062 – 312,062
Inter‑ segment sales 126,577 6,396 156 133,129 (133,129) –
Total revenue 301,808 73,285 70,098 445,191 (133,129) 312,062
Segment result 52,084 4,569 13,774 70,427 (2,713) 67,714
Central research and development (16,679)
Operating profit 51,035
Add back: amortisation of acquired intangibles 2,489
Investment income 782
Finance costs excluding accounting for contingent consideration (630)
Underlying profit before taxation 53,676
Amortisation of acquired intangibles (2,489)
Profit on disposal of available for sale investment prior to acquisition of 
subsidiary 2,806
Interest charge on discounted long‑ term contingent consideration (49)
Profit before taxation 53,944
Taxation (13,245)
Profit for the year 40,699 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
92
3. Segmental information continued
By location of external customer
Europe 
£’000
Americas 
£’000
Rest of 
World 
£’000
Group 
£’000
2013 137,625 83,090 114,958 335,673
2012 128,255 76,653 107,154 312,062
(b) Segment assets and liabilities
2013
By location of subsidiary
Europe 
£’000
Americas 
£’000
Rest of 
World 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Eliminations 
£’000
Group
 £’000
Segment assets 414,769 85,282 66,147 566,198 (250,395) 315,803
Segment liabilities (208,416) (45,614) (21,443) (275,473) 158,022 (117,451)
2012
By location of subsidiary
Europe 
£’000
Americas 
£’000
Rest of 
World 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Eliminations 
£’000
Group
 £’000
Segment assets 461,832 82,473 54,046 598,351 (275,094) 323,257
Segment liabilities (233,536) (44,399) (18,767) (296,702) 185,979 (110,723)
(c) Other segment items
2013
By location of subsidiary
Europe 
£’000
Americas 
£’000
Rest of 
World 
£’000
Group 
£’000
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 5,095 2,194 1,732 9,021
Purchase of intangible assets 278 4 96 378
Amortisation of intangible assets 4,129 123 127 4,379
Depreciation 3,281 1,753 840 5,874
2012
By location of subsidiary
Europe 
£’000
Americas 
£’000
Rest of 
World 
£’000
Group 
£’000
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 2,418 1,392 2,293 6,103
Purchase of intangible assets 399 92 60 551
Amortisation of intangible assets 2,462 237 120 2,819
Depreciation 3,929 912 1,145 5,986
Company
The Company’s business is to invest in its subsidiaries and associates and, therefore, it operates in a single segment.
(d) Revenue by type
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
Continuing operations
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
From sale of goods 305,921 282,490
From rendering of services 29,752 29,572
335,673 312,062
Investment income 1,117 782
Total revenue 336,790 312,844
(e) Reconciliation of revenue and result
Revenue
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Total reportable segment revenue 499,098 445,191
Elimination of inter‑ segment sales (163,425) (133,129)
Total Group revenue 335,673 312,062
The Group has a large number of customers and no single customer makes up more than 10 per cent of total Group revenue.
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 93
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
3. Segmental information continued
Result
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Total reportable segment result before eliminations 43,060 70,427
Add back: amortisation of intangibles recognised within segments 216 124
Amortisation of intangibles recognised on acquisition (3,321) (2,489)
Central exchange adjustment (424) 98
Central research and development (19,869) (16,679)
Consolidation adjustments relating to intra‑ Group transfers (2,441) –
Other central adjustments 162 (446)
Group operating profit 17,383 51,035
Profit on disposal of available for sale investment prior to acquisition of subsidiary – 2,806
Investment income 1,117 782
Finance costs (827) (679)
Group profit before taxation 17,673 53,944
(f) Reconciliation of assets
Assets
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Total reportable segment assets 566,198 598,351
Elimination of inter‑ company investments on consolidation (172,307) (170,864)
Elimination of inter‑ company balances on consolidation (166,725) (195,558)
Additional goodwill recognised on consolidation 80,182 78,497
Reclassification of investment in own shares (1,123) (2,467)
Recognition of acquired intangibles 14,169 18,790
Other central adjustments (4,591) (3,492)
Group total assets 315,803 323,257
(g) Information about products and services
The Group develops, manufactures and sells industrial printing equipment and related products. Total revenue from external customers in 
respect of these products and services was £335,673,000 (2012: £312,062,000).
(h) Information about geographical areas
External revenue
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
UK 21,978 21,149
USA 53,923 47,217
China 41,921 37,644
Other 217,851 206,052
Group external revenue 335,673 312,062
External revenues attributable to the UK and all overseas countries in total have been disclosed, in accordance with IFRS 8. Where revenue 
attributable to individual overseas countries is material (deemed to be in excess of 10 per cent of total Group revenue), these amounts are 
disclosed separately.
Non‑ current assets
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
UK 132,895 162,368
USA 36,878 36,680
Germany 31,463 30,254
Other and consolidation (64,071) (62,106)
Total 137,165 167,196
Deferred tax assets 7,199 7,335
Group non‑ current assets 144,364 174,531 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
94
4. Profit before taxation
Group 
2013 
£’000
Group 
2012 
£’000
Company 
2013
 £’000
Company 
2012 
£’000
Profit before taxation is arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (381) 1,039 1,020 735
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 105,670 97,609 – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
– on owned assets 5,827 5,959 2 2
– on assets held under finance leases 47 27 – –
Amortisation of proprietary rights 27 13 19 13
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired through business combination 3,321 2,489 39 23
Amortisation of other intangibles 1,031 317 8 –
Loss/(profit) on disposal of fixed assets 168 (28) – –
Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables (note 20) 403 1,928 – –
Amounts recovered from previously impaired trade receivables (note 20) (1,395) (535) – –
Share‑ based compensation (credits)/charges (211) 1,731 (281) 1,665
Operating lease rentals:
– plant and machinery 2,909 2,765 – –
– land and buildings 2,361 1,732 – –
Auditor’s remuneration:
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for the audit of the Company’s annual 
accounts 332 342 78 78
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for other services to the Group:
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 37 38 – –
Total audit fees 369 380 78 78
Audit‑ related assurance services 25 32
Taxation compliance services 52 77
Other taxation advisory services 10 38
Corporate finance services – 81
Other services 10 24
Total non-audit fees 97 252
Total fees payable to Company’s auditor 466 632
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates for non‑ audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because the 
consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
5. Exceptional items
The Group has incurred exceptional costs in the year totalling £33,948,000 (2012: £nil).
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Restructuring and redundancy costs 3,665 –
Foreign exchange adjustment on available for sale investment recycled to profit or loss (1,742) –
Impairment of available for sale asset 32,025 –
33,948 –
The Group holds a 14.85 per cent stake in TEN Media LLC (‘TEN Media’). TEN Media has not yet raised the new finance necessary to meet its 
anticipated capital needs. While the Group has successfully demonstrated that it can meet the operational requirements of the exclusive supply 
arrangement, there is no certainty that TEN Media will have sufficient capital to enable it to commercialise its systems. In light of this the Group 
has written down the carrying value of the investment to £nil (an impairment of £32,025,000). The cumulative foreign exchange gain of 
£1,742,000 in respect of this investment has been recycled from the exchange reserve to profit or loss and is included within exceptional items.
The restructuring of the Group’s North American, UK and European operations led to exceptional costs of £3,665,000. These organisational 
changes were made to improve efficiency and to redirect investment towards areas of greater opportunity.
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 95
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
6. Employees
The average number employed by the Group within each category of persons was:
2013 
Number
2012 
Number
Production and technical staff 663 672
Sales and service staff 1,365 1,282
Administrative staff (including Directors) 288 316
2,316 2,270
The costs incurred in respect of these employees were:
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Wages and salaries 84,460 72,418
Social security costs 11,483 10,330
Defined contribution pension costs 6,237 5,488
Share‑ based compensation charges (211) 1,731
101,969 89,967
7. Directors
(a) Directors’ remuneration
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Fees 338 331
Salaries and taxable benefits 1,216 971
Amounts receivable under long‑ term incentive schemes 1,954 2,552
3,508 3,854
Money purchase pension scheme contributions 209 203
Gains on share options 20 7
Total remuneration 3,737 4,064
2013 
Number
2012 
Number
Number of Directors in money purchase pension schemes 1 1
(b) Directors’ interests in shares
The Directors who were in office at the end of the year and their beneficial interests in the shares of the Company were as set out below:
Interest 
in Share 
Incentive 
Plan shares 
Number
Other 
shares held 
Number
31 October 
2013 
Total 
Number
31 October 
2012 
Total 
Number
P Byrom
1
– 302,000 302,000 302,000
N Bond 5,518 77,389 82,907 113,898
Sir David Brown – 10,000 10,000 10,000
G Havens 5,518 44,990 50,508 66,722
A Herbert 5,518 40,000 45,518 71,158
C Brinsmead – 10,000 10,000 10,000
P Ruffles – 30,000 30,000 30,000
Sir Mark Wrightson
1
– 40,935 40,935 40,935
1  Mr Byrom has a non‑ beneficial interest in a further 36,000 shares (2012: 36,000 shares) and Sir Mark Wrightson has a non‑ beneficial interest in a further 1,050 shares (2012: 1,050 shares). 
No other Director had a non‑ beneficial interest in the shares of the Company or any other Group company.
During the year the mid‑ market price for the Company’s shares moved between 522 pence and 717 pence. On 31 October 2013, the mid‑ market price for the shares was 692 pence. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
96
7. Directors continued
(i) Interests in Long-Term Incentive Plan
The conditional allocations of shares made to Directors under the Company’s Long‑ Term Incentive Plan at 31 October 2013 were as follows:
Total at 
31 October 
2013
Allocation on 
18 December 
2012 
Mid‑ market 
share price 
568p
Vested on 
12 December 
2012 
Mid‑ market 
share price 
570p
Total at 
31 October 
2012
N Bond 224,330 73,610 (115,385) 266,105
G Havens 81,255 – (63,211) 144,466
A Herbert 138,527 45,366 (71,237) 164,398
444,112 118,976 (249,833) 574,969
The shares comprised in conditional allocations will be allocated to the extent that the performance conditions described in the Remuneration 
Report on pages 50 to 66 are met over the three‑ year performance period.
The Directors have received the following awards of shares under the Long‑ Term Incentive Plan which were released from trust during the year:
Number of shares vesting on: N Bond G Havens A Herbert
24 January 2013 (mid‑ market share price 650 pence) 6,874 3,637 4,191
24 January 2012 (mid‑ market share price 584 pence) 5,100 2,698 3,109
24 January 2011 (mid‑ market share price 635 pence) 3,991 2,112 2,433
24 January 2010 (mid‑ market share price 328 pence) 22,174 11,731 13,519
38,139 20,178 23,252
Released from Trust on 24 January 2013 (mid‑ market share price 650 pence) (38,139) (20,178) (23,252)
Total held in trust as at 31 October 2013 – – –
(ii) Interests in Share Incentive Plan
The following purchases of shares have been made by and on behalf of the Directors under the terms of the Share Incentive Plan. These shares 
are held in trust for the Directors under the terms of the plan.
31 October 
2013 
Number
31 October 
2012 
Number
N Bond 5,518 5,245
G Havens 5,518 5,245
A Herbert 5,518 5,245
No Director had beneficial or family interests at any time during the year in the share capital of any of the Company’s subsidiaries. There has 
been no change in Directors’ interests between 31 October 2013 and 11 December 2013 except the following purchases of shares made on 
behalf of Directors under the terms of the Share Incentive Plan. These shares are held in trust for the Directors under the terms of the plan.
Number of 
shares
N Bond 21
G Havens 21
A Herbert 21
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 97
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
7. Directors continued
(c) Interests in share options
Under the terms of the SAYE schemes, Directors held the following options over shares:
Granted 
28 July
 2009 
Number
Granted 
28 July 
2011 
Number
Granted 
13 August 
2012 
Number
At 
31 October
2013 
Number
N Bond – 2,825 – 2,825
G Havens 3,830 – – 3,830
A Herbert 3,211 – 1,044 4,255
Exercise price (pence) 203 546 517
The options granted are exercisable within a six‑ month period commencing three, five or seven years from the date of grant.
Details of options exercised in the year are as follows:
Number
Exercise 
price 
Pence
Market price 
at exercise 
date 
Pence
Gain on 
exercise 
£’000
A Herbert 4,308 227 679.5 20
8. Share-based payments
Operating profit for the year ended 31 October 2013 is stated after crediting £211,000 in respect of share‑ based compensation (2012: a charge 
of £1,731,000).
The assumptions used in the calculations of share‑ based compensation charges are as follows:
2013
Executive 
Option schemes
SAYE
 schemes
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan
Expected life (years)
1
4.5 Term
2
 plus 0.25 3–6
Vesting period (years) 3 Term
2
3–6
3
Expected volatility of Domino share price
4
31–46% 26–44% 26–45%
Volatility of benchmarked index N/a N/a 11–29%
Expectation of ceasing employment/discontinuing SAYE contributions before 
vesting 0–5% 5–67% 0%
Expectation of meeting non‑ market based performance criteria 0–100% N/a 0–25%
Risk free rate
5
0.86–4.26% 0.17–5.02% 0.51–4.62%
Expected dividend yield
6
2.96–4.38% 2.7–5.94% 2.87–4.38%
2012
Executive 
Option schemes
SAYE
 schemes
Long‑ Term 
Incentive Plan
Expected life (years)
1
4.5 Term
2
 plus 0.25 3–6
Vesting period (years) 3 Term
2
3–6
3
Expected volatility of Domino share price
4
31–44% 26–44% 26–45%
Volatility of benchmarked index N/a N/a 11–29%
Expectation of ceasing employment/discontinuing SAYE contributions before 
vesting 0‑ 13% 5–70% 0%
Expectation of meeting non‑ market based performance criteria 100% N/a 50–100%
Risk free rate
5
0.9–4.26% 0.17–5.02% 0.51–4.62%
Expected dividend yield
6
2.96–5.94% 2.33–5.94% 2.7–5.94%
1 The expected life used in the models is based on management’s best estimate of behavioural consideration based on historic exercise patterns.
2 Domino SAYE schemes have maturity periods of three, five or seven years.
3 Initial awards relating to the 1997 scheme vest after three years and are placed in trust for the benefit of the participants for a further three years. Bonus awards follow on the fourth, fifth 
and sixth anniversaries of the date of grant. Initial awards under the 2008 scheme vest unconditionally after three years.
4 The Domino share price volatility used is based on a volatility percentage calculated from historic share price data.
5 The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds consistent with the assumed expected life at the date of grant.
6 The expected dividend yield used at the date of grant is the dividend per share for the previous financial year divided by the share price at the end of that financial year. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
98
8. Share-based payments continued
The Company has two share option schemes for employees of the Group.
The Executive Option scheme has a vesting period of three years. If options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of 
grant, the options expire. Options are forfeited if the employee resigns from the Group before the options vest. Options are exercisable at a 
price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s shares over the three days prior to the date of grant.
The SAYE schemes have vesting periods of three, five or seven years. Options are exercisable for a period of six months from the date of 
vesting, after this period the options expire. Options are exercisable at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the Company’s 
shares over the three days prior to the date of invitation discounted by a maximum of 20 per cent.
Details of share options granted, exercised, lapsed and outstanding at the end of the year are as follows.
2013
 Share 
options 
Number
2013 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
2012 
Share 
options 
Number
2012 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
Executive Option schemes
Outstanding at beginning of year 2,256,289 3.88 2,307,245 3.26
Granted in year 551,000 5.67 507,000 4.78
Forfeited in year (20,000) 5.30 (56,500) 1.72
Exercised in year (648,197) 2.98 (501,456) 2.07
Outstanding at end of year 2,139,092 4.60 2,256,289 3.88
Exercisable at end of year 597,592 2.64 682,789 2.52
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £6.49. The options outstanding at 
31 October 2013 had exercise prices ranging from £1.72 to £5.67 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 7.02 years. In the financial 
year ended 31 October 2013, options were granted on 18 December 2012. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on 
that date is £871,000. In the financial year ended 31 October 2012, options were granted on 14 December 2011. The aggregate of the estimated 
fair values of the options granted on that date is £754,000.
2013
 Share 
options 
Number
2013 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
2012 
Share
 options 
Number
2012 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
£
SAYE schemes
Outstanding at beginning of year 764,589 3.47 840,016 2.99
Granted in year 142,101 5.17 222,256 4.46
Expired in year – – (2,882) 3.70
Forfeited in year (28,244) 4.44 (65,337) 5.24
Exercised in year (194,264) 2.63 (229,464) 2.20
Outstanding at end of year 684,182 4.03 764,589 3.47
Exercisable at end of year 14,727 2.43 7,419 2.03
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £6.75. The options outstanding at 
31 October 2013 had exercise prices ranging from £2.03 to £5.46 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.68 years. In the 
financial year ended 31 October 2013, options were granted on 13 August 2013. The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options 
granted on that date is £302,000. In the financial year ended 31 October 2012, options were granted on 2 August 2012. The aggregate of the 
estimated fair values of the options granted on that date is £389,000.
9. Investment income
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Bank interest receivable 1,117 782
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 99
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
10. Finance costs
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Interest payable on:
– bank overdrafts and other borrowings 577 486
– finance leases – 4
– accounting for discounted contingent consideration (see note 23) 43 49
– other 207 140
827 679
11. Tax on profit
(a) Analysis of tax charge for the year
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Corporation tax
Corporation tax charge for the year 4,143 5,934
Foreign tax 9,693 8,492
Over provision for earlier years (939) (876)
Current tax charge 12,897 13,550
Deferred tax
Timing differences, origination and reversal (667) 211
(Decrease)/increase in tax rate (663) 36
Prior period adjustment 278 (552)
Total deferred tax (1,052) (305)
Tax on profit 11,845 13,245
Effective tax rate (per cent) 67.0 24.6
(b) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Profit before taxation 17,673 53,944
Tax on profit on ordinary activities at UK standard rate of 23.4% (2012: 24.8%) 4,139 13,396
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 389 42
Additional recognition and utilisation of deferred tax balances (554) (213)
Impairment of available for sale investment 7,091 –
Research and development tax credits (579) (298)
Non‑ taxable profit on disposal of available for sale investment – (697)
Withholding taxes 1,239 917
(Decrease)/increase in tax rate (663) 36
Difference between local and UK tax rates 1,444 1,490
Prior period adjustments (661) (1,428)
Tax charge for the year 11,845 13,245
The standard rate of tax for the year, based on a weighted average of the UK standard rate of corporation tax, is 23.4 per cent (2012: 24.8 per 
cent). The actual tax charge for the current and preceding year differs from the current rate for the reasons set out in the above reconciliation.
Tax for the period is charged at a composite tax rate of 67.0 per cent (2012: 24.6 per cent). The underlying rate (excluding the impact of the 
£30,283,000 non‑ deductible impairment of the Group’s investment in TEN Media and the non‑ taxable gain of £1,943,000 arising on the 
reassessment of acquisition related contingent consideration) is 25.7 per cent (2012: 25.9 per cent, excluding the impact of the non‑ taxable 
profit of £2,806,000 arising on the Group’s investment in Graph‑ Tech).
The Finance Act 2013, which provides for reductions in the main rate of corporation tax from 23 per cent to 21 per cent effective from 1 April 
2014 and to 20 per cent effective from 1 April 2015, was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. These rate reductions have been reflected in the 
calculation of deferred tax at the balance sheet date
In addition to the amount charged to the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income, a credit of £129,000 relating to tax has 
been recognised directly in equity (2012: debit of £270,000). This principally comprises the element of the deferred tax movement that has 
been recognised in equity in respect of share options and the current tax credit for excess tax deductions related to share‑ based payments on 
exercised options. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
100
12. Profit for the year
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Profit dealt with in the accounts of the Parent Company 37,359 6,931
The Company has taken advantage of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and consequently an Income Statement for the Company alone 
is not presented.
13. Dividends
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 October 2012 of 13.39 pence per share (2011: 12.17 pence) 14,966 13,498
Interim paid of 7.60 pence per share (2012: 7.24 pence) 8,502 8,014
23,468 21,512
Distributions to non‑ controlling interests – 3
23,468 21,515
The Board recommends a final dividend of 14.06 pence per share. The proposed final dividend is subject to approval at the Annual General 
Meeting and has not been included as a liability at 31 October 2013. Subject to approval, the dividend will be paid on 11 April 2014 to those 
shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on 7 March 2014.
14. Earnings per share
(a) Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year 
(111,838,837) less the weighted average shares in the Company purchased by the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust (182,703) less the 
weighted average shares issued to the Company’s QUEST scheme (35,867) less the weighted average number of shares held to satisfy the 
Group’s Share Incentive Plan (33,826). The weighted average number of shares used is 111,586,441 (2012: 110,270,863).
(b) Diluted earnings per share
The weighted average number of shares used in the diluted earnings per share calculation is the figure used in the basic earnings per share 
calculation adjusted by 860,165, being the number of shares deemed to be issued for no consideration if all share options had been exercised. 
The weighted average number of shares used is 112,446,606 (2012: 111,262,293).
The earnings used in the diluted earnings per share calculation is the profit on ordinary activities attributable to shareholders.
(c) Underlying earnings per share
The Group presents an alternative measure of earnings per share before the post‑ tax effects of:
 w amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations (2013: £2.6 million; 2012: £1.8 million);
 w the non‑ cash interest charge on discounted contingent consideration (2013: £0.1 million; 2012: £0.1 million);
 w the non‑ cash credit arising on reassessment of acquisition related contingent consideration (2013: £1.9 million; 2012: £nil);
 w exceptional costs arising on impairment of goodwill, acquisition intangibles and available for sale investments, business restructuring and 
redundancies (2013: £32.9 million; 2012: £nil); and
 w the exceptional profit arising on disposal of the Group’s available for sale investment in Graph‑ Tech prior to acquisition (2013: £nil;  
2012: £2.8 million).
The effect of the above items on both basic and diluted earnings per share is presented below:
Basic 2013 2012
Earnings per share (pence) 5.22 36.90
Effect of acquired intangibles amortisation (pence) 2.28 1.61
Effect of exceptional items (pence) (note 5) 29.50 (2.53)
Effect of interest charge on discounted contingent consideration (pence) 0.04 0.04
Effect of reassessment of contingent consideration (pence) (1.74) –
Underlying earnings per share (pence) 35.30 36.02
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 101
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
14. Earnings per share continued
Diluted 2013 2012
Earnings per share (pence) 5.18 36.57
Effect of acquired intangibles amortisation (pence) 2.26 1.60
Effect of exceptional items (pence) (note 5) 29.28 (2.51)
Effect of interest charge on discounted contingent consideration (pence) 0.04 0.04
Effect of reassessment of contingent consideration (pence) (1.73) –
Underlying earnings per share (pence) 35.03 35.70
15. Goodwill
Group 
£’000
Cost
At 1 November 2011 73,159
Exchange differences (1,805)
Adjustments to contingent consideration 606
Additions 18,865
At 1 November 2012 90,825
Exchange differences 1,805
At 31 October 2013 92,630
Impairment losses
At 1 November 2011, 1 November 2012 and 31 October 2013 (3,288)
Carrying value
At 31 October 2013 89,342
At 1 November 2012 87,537
At 1 November 2011 69,871
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated upon acquisition to the cash generating units (‘CGUs’) that are expected to benefit 
from that business combination. The composition of CGUs has been reassessed during the year and the decision has been taken to amalgamate 
three previously disclosed CGUs into the Domino core products CGU. This better reflects the risks and rewards of the products sold and the 
composition of the Group.
The previously identified CGUs which have been amalgamated into the Domino core products CGU are as follows: Print and Apply product 
range, Thermal Transfer Overprinting product range and Thermal Ink Jet product range.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows:
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Domino core products 70,145 68,321
Citronix product range 10,003 9,975
Purex product range 4,812 4,859
PostJet product range 4,382 4,382
89,342 87,537
The Group tests annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations 
are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. Management 
estimates discount rates using pre‑ tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money. The growth rates are based on 
industry growth forecasts within the CGUs. Likewise, changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on recent history and expectations of 
future changes in the market. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
102
15. Goodwill continued
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management and, where applicable, 
business plans relating to acquired businesses. Cash flow projections for the next five years are prepared based on these sources and estimated 
growth rates. Cash flows beyond five years are then calculated into perpetuity using a growth rate of 2 per cent, on the basis that these 
businesses are held for the long‑ term benefit of the Group. This rate does not exceed the average long‑ term growth rate for the relevant 
markets. The cash flow forecasts for each CGU have also been considered and, where deemed appropriate, adjusted to reflect risks specific to 
the CGU.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows for each CGU is 11.5 per cent. The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis increasing the 
discount rate to 14.5 per cent. At this level, the minimum headroom attributable to any CGU is £1,194,000 and, as such, no impairment would 
be required to be recorded.
16. Intangible fixed assets
(a) Group
Proprietary 
rights 
£’000
Application 
software 
£’000
Technology
1
£’000
Customer
relationships
1
£’000
Other
1,2
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost or valuation
At 1 November 2011 941 4,718 11,351 10,282 – 27,292
Additions 49 226 – – – 275
Disposals – (2,308) – – – (2,308)
Reclassification from plant and machinery – 3,624 – – – 3,624
Acquisitions – 13 3,235 7,799 1,224 12,271
Exchange adjustment – 15 (343) (332) – (660)
At 1 November 2012 990 6,288 14,243 17,749 1,224 40,494
Additions 23 355 – – – 378
Disposals – (197) – – – (197)
Exchange adjustment – 23 176 314 6 519
At 31 October 2013 1,013 6,469 14,419 18,063 1,230 41,194
Amortisation
At 1 November 2011 840 4,178 5,001 5,357 – 15,376
Charge for the year 13 317 1,247 1,131 111 2,819
On disposals – (2,308) – – – (2,308)
Reclassification from plant and machinery – 2,731 – – – 2,731
Exchange adjustment – 12 – – – 12
At 1 November 2012 853 4,930 6,248 6,488 111 18,630
Charge for the year 27 1,031 1,403 1,610 308 4,379
On disposals – (197) – – – (197)
Impairment – – 143 – – 143
Exchange adjustment – 11 – – – 11
At 31 October 2013 880 5,775 7,794 8,098 419 22,966
Net book value
At 31 October 2013 133 694 6,625 9,965 811 18,228
At 1 November 2012 137 1,358 7,995 11,261 1,113 21,864
At 1 November 2011 101 540 6,350 4,925 – 11,916
1 Intangible assets acquired through business combinations.
2 ‘Other’ intangible assets comprise order backlogs, non‑ compete agreements and trademarks.
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 103
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
16. Intangible fixed assets continued
(b) Company
Software 
£’000
Proprietary 
rights 
£’000
Technology
1
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost
At 1 November 2011 170 443 – 613
Additions – 49 207 256
Disposals – (338) – (338)
Transfer to another Group company – (81) – (81)
At 1 November 2012 170 73 207 450
Additions 27 20 – 47
Disposals (62) – – (62)
At 31 October 2013 135 93 207 435
Amortisation
At 1 November 2011 170 342 – 512
Charge for the year – 13 23 36
Disposals – (338) – (338)
On transfer to another Group company – (8) – (8)
At 1 November 2012 170 9 23 202
Charge for the year 8 19 39 66
Impairment – – 143 143
Disposals (62) – – (62)
At 31 October 2013 116 28 205 349
Net book value
At 31 October 2013 19 65 2 86
At 1 November 2012 – 64 184 248
At 1 November 2011 – 101 – 101
1 Intangible assets acquired through business combinations. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
104
17. Property, plant and equipment
(a) Group
Land and 
buildings 
£’000
Motor 
vehicles 
£’000
Plant and 
machinery 
£’000
Fixtures and 
fittings 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Cost or valuation
At 1 November 2011 31,708 1,610 30,280 9,547 73,145
Exchange adjustment (321) (49) (576) (68) (1,014)
Additions 1,422 272 4,035 374 6,103
Reclassification to software – – (3,624) – (3,624)
Acquisitions – 21 532 6 559
Disposals (16) (463) (6,148) (1,041) (7,668)
At 1 November 2012 32,793 1,391 24,499 8,818 67,501
Exchange adjustment 165 (19) 277 51 474
Additions 2,636 143 5,384 858 9,021
Transfer from inventory – – 530 – 530
Disposals (148) (249) (3,861) (1,219) (5,477)
At 31 October 2013 35,446 1,266 26,829 8,508 72,049
Depreciation
At 1 November 2011 15,148 1,118 21,819 7,749 45,834
Exchange adjustment (213) (26) (343) (46) (628)
Charge for the year 1,119 179 4,185 503 5,986
Reclassification to software – – (2,731) – (2,731)
Disposals (16) (425) (5,954) (1,036) (7,431)
At 1 November 2012 16,038 846 16,976 7,170 41,030
Exchange adjustment 178 2 167 38 385
Charge for the year 995 196 4,031 652 5,874
Transfer from inventory – – 529 – 529
Disposals (150) (201) (3,451) (1,206) (5,008)
At 31 October 2013 17,061 843 18,252 6,654 42,810
Net book value
At 31 October 2013 18,385 423 8,577 1,854 29,239
At 1 November 2012 16,755 545 7,523 1,648 26,471
At 1 November 2011 16,560 492 8,461 1,798 27,311
‘Plant and machinery’ includes assets held for use in operating leases with an aggregate cost of £7,865,000 (2012: £5,561,000) and accumulated 
depreciation of £4,544,000 (2012: £3,407,000).
Included in Group fixed assets are assets with a net book value of £230,000 (2012: £18,000) held under finance leases.
(b) Company
Freehold land 
and buildings 
£’000
Cost or valuation
At 1 November 2011, 1 November 2012 and 31 October 2013 1,579
Depreciation
At 1 November 2011 61
Charge for the year 2
At 1 November 2012 63
Charge for the year 2
At 31 October 2013 65
Net book value
At 31 October 2013 1,514
At 1 November 2012 1,516
At 1 November 2011 1,518
The Company has no fixed assets held under finance leases.
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 105
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
18. Fixed asset investments
(a) Group
 
Associates 
£’000
Available  
for sale 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Valuation
At 1 November 2011 277 32,640 32,917
Share of retained profit in associate 29 – 29
Increase in fair value of investment prior to acquisition of subsidiary – 2,806 2,806
Disposal of available for sale investment prior to acquisition of subsidiary – (4,609) (4,609)
Exchange adjustment (17) 752 735
At 1 November 2012 289 31,589 31,878
Share of retained profit in associate 53 – 53
Impairment of available for sale investment – (32,025) (32,025)
Exchange adjustment 14 990 1,004
At 31 October 2013 356 554 910
Provisions and amortisation
At 1 November 2011 – 873 873
Disposal of available for sale investment prior to acquisition of subsidiary – (319) (319)
At 1 November 2012 and 31 October 2013 – 554 554
Net book value
At 31 October 2013 356 – 356
At 1 November 2012 289 31,035 31,324
At 1 November 2011 277 31,767 32,044
Both the total net book value of associates and the share of associates’ results are immaterial to the Group. As such, the Group does not 
disclose any summarised financial information in respect of these associates.
The Group owns 3.5 per cent of epc Solutions Inc and 14.85 per cent of TEN Media LLC. In assessing the fair value of these investments, the 
Directors consider factors such as the recent performance of the company, the relatively small percentage shareholding, the shareholder 
structure, the unquoted status of each of the companies’ shares and any recent transactions involving the equity instruments of the companies.
In the case of epc Solutions Inc, the investment was fully impaired in 2008. The Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to continue to 
record this investment at nil value as at 31 October 2013. The valuation and the considerations on which it is based are therefore not based on 
published price quotations or observable market data.
In the case of TEN Media LLC, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to write down the carrying value of the investment £nil as at 
31 October 2013 (an impairment of £32,025,000). The estimated fair value of TEN Media LLC as at 31 October 2013 is £nil (2012: 
£31,035,000). The change in the estimated fair value of the investment has been recognised as an exceptional item in profit or loss (see note 5).
The Group also holds a 25 per cent investment in the equity of Mectec Coding Benelux BV, a company incorporated in the Netherlands, and 
a 40 per cent investment in the equity of Mectec Coding Benelux BVBA, a company incorporated in Belgium. These entities make up their 
accounts to 31 December (since they are not controlled by the Group) and are accounted for as associates under the equity method. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
106
18. Fixed asset investments continued
(b) Company
Unlisted 
subsidiaries
£’000
Available 
for sale 
investments 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Shares
At 1 November 2011 81,057 1,803 82,860
Additions 28,196 – 28,196
Disposal of available for sale investment prior to acquisition of subsidiary 4,290 (1,803) 2,487
Adjustments to contingent consideration 568 – 568
At 1 November 2012 and 31 October 2013 114,111 – 114,111
Loans
At 1 November 2011 26,283 – 26,283
Exchange adjustment (1,254) – (1,254)
Additions 3,049 – 3,049
At 1 November 2012 28,078 – 28,078
Exchange adjustment 866 – 866
At 31 October 2013 28,944 – 28,944
Provisions
At 1 November 2011 3,696 319 4,015
Disposal of available for sale investment prior to acquisition of subsidiary – (319) (319)
At 1 November 2012 and 31 October 2013 3,696 – 3,696
Net book value
At 31 October 2013 139,359 – 139,359
At 1 November 2012 138,493 – 138,493
At 1 November 2011 103,644 1,484 105,128
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 107
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
18. Fixed asset investments continued
(c) Subsidiaries
The following are the subsidiaries which affected the Group’s results or net assets:
Country of incorporation 
and operation
Alpha Dot Limited England and Wales
1
Domino UK Limited England and Wales
Domino Printing Sciences QUEST Trustees Limited England and Wales
Purex International Limited England and Wales
Domino Deutschland GmbH Germany
Domino Holdings Deutschland GmbH Germany
Wiedenbach Apparatebau GmbH Germany
2
Domino Laser GmbH Germany
2
Pri‑ Ma‑ Tech Verwaltungs GmbH Germany
2
aps Alternative Printing Services GmbH Germany
2
APS France SARL France
2
APS Asia‑ Pacific Pty Ltd Australia
2
Domino Amjet BV The Netherlands
Domino Holdings France SARL France
Domino SAS France
2
Domino Amjet Iberica SA Spain
Thermoscribe AB Sweden
Mectec Elektronik AB Sweden
2
Easyprint A/S Denmark
Domino Portugal Producao Commercializacao De Equipmento Electronico LDA Portugal
1,2
Labeljet – Comércio e Indústria de Etiquetas, S.A. Portugal
Marque TDI – Technologias de Codificação S.A. Portugal
2
Domino Holdings Inc. USA
Domino Amjet Inc. USA
2
Citronix Inc. USA
2
Wiedenbach Corporation USA
2
Wiedenbach Company LP USA
2
Domino Printing México SA de CV Mexico
Domino Printing Solutions Inc. Canada
Purex North America Limited Canada
Domino Printech India Private Limited India
Domino China Limited China
Domino Coding (Hong Kong) Limited China
Domino Asia Limited China
Domino Asia Pte Limited Singapore
Domino Korea Pte Limited Korea
Domino Coding Automation AS Norway
Domino Printing Sciences Investments Corporation USA
Squid Limited England and Wales
2
Graph‑ Tech AG Switzerland
PostJet Systems Limited England and Wales
1 Dormant companies.
2 Indirectly held.
The Company directly or indirectly owns 100 per cent of the ordinary share capital of all subsidiaries, other than Domino Coding Automation 
AS, which is 98 per cent owned.
All subsidiaries make up their accounts to 31 October except, for local statutory reasons, Domino Printech India Private Limited which makes 
up its accounts to 31 March, and Domino Printing México SA de CV, Domino Coding Automation AS, Domino China Limited, Domino Coding 
(Hong Kong) Limited and Domino Asia Limited which make up their accounts to 31 December. For these subsidiaries, interim accounts are 
prepared to the Group’s year end.
All the trading subsidiaries are engaged in providing customers with coding solutions. These include ink jet products, Laser products, outer case 
coding products, controller technology, digital ink jet equipment, Print and Apply Labelling Machinery and Thermal Transfer Overprinting products. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
108
19. Inventories
Group
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Raw materials and consumables 18,324 17,953
Work in progress 1,432 1,118
Finished goods and goods for resale 20,053 18,897
39,809 37,968
The Directors do not consider that the replacement cost of inventories and work in progress is materially different from the value stated above.
20. Trade and other receivables
Group Company
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Trade receivables 64,999 58,168 – –
Less: Credit note provision (1,105) (772) – –
Less: Allowance for impairment of receivables (2,850) (3,985) – –
Trade receivables – net 61,044 53,411 – –
Amounts owed by Group companies – – 22,390 48,543
Prepayments and accrued income 5,046 4,282 289 366
Corporation tax recoverable 2,381 1,319 – 1,092
Other receivables 3,394 3,696 – –
71,865 62,708 22,679 50,001
Included within Group receivables are trade receivables of £330,000 (2012: £499,000) due after more than one year. The Company has no 
receivables falling due after more than one year.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 62 days (2012: 61 days). An allowance has been made for the estimated irrecoverable 
amounts from the sale of goods and services of £2,850,000 (2012: £3,985,000). This allowance has been determined by reference to past 
default experience. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
The ageing of past due but not impaired trade receivables at the reporting date was:
Group Company
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Past due 0–30 days 8,621 6,411 – –
Past due 31–60 days 3,415 2,233 – –
Past due 61–90 days 1,140 1,098 – –
Past due >90 days 1,253 817 – –
14,429 10,559 – –
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts:
Group
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
At 1 November (3,985) (2,863)
Impairment losses recognised (403) (1,928)
Amounts written off as uncollectable 240 431
Amounts recovered during the year 1,395 535
Exchange adjustment (97) (160)
At 31 October (2,850) (3,985)
The Company has no trade receivables and therefore no provision for doubtful debts.
All impaired trade receivables are in excess of 90 days past due.
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 109
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
20. Trade and other receivables continued
Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances, cash and trade and other receivables. The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable 
to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. The Group seeks to limit 
credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments through trading only with counterparties that are banks with high credit ratings 
assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting 
date was:
Group Company
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Cash and cash equivalents 59,373 47,591 11,596 8,130
Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 66,819 58,426 – 1,092
126,192 106,017 11,596 9,222
The maximum exposure to credit risk for total trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was:
Group Company
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Europe 40,729 35,868 – –
Americas 9,864 10,614 – –
Rest of World 14,406 11,686 – –
64,999 58,168 – –
21. Current liabilities – Trade and other payables
Group Company
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Trade payables 19,714 18,123 – –
Obligations under finance leases 3 12 – –
Corporation tax payable 7,044 5,460 – –
Other taxation and social security 3,677 3,502 – –
Other payables 327 1,237 – –
Accruals and deferred income 34,104 26,432 502 960
Contingent consideration for acquisitions (see note 23) 117 1,144 20 943
Amounts owed to Group companies – – 30,818 64,485
64,986 55,910 31,340 66,388
Amounts payable in respect of defined contribution pension schemes were £1,071,000 (2012: £883,000).
Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken 
for trade purchases is 35 days (2012: 34 days). The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid 
within the credit timeframe.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
110
22. Non-current liabilities – Other payables
Group Company
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Trade payables 25 – – –
Obligations under finance leases – 3 – –
Contingent consideration for acquisitions (see note 23) 7,923 9,652 7,923 9,231
Accruals and deferred income 528 171 – –
Other 3 2 – –
8,479 9,828 7,923 9,231
‘Obligations under finance leases’ all fall due within the second to fifth years inclusive.
23. Contingent consideration
The Group makes estimates of the amounts expected to be paid to the former shareholders in respect of the acquisitions of Control 
Information Technology GmbH (‘Control’), Domino Coding Automation AS (‘Domino Coding’), Graph‑ Tech AG (‘Graph‑ Tech’) and PostJet 
Systems Ltd (‘PostJet’) as the amounts payable will ultimately be determined with reference to post‑ acquisition performance. It makes similar 
estimates of the amounts expected to be paid to the shareholders of MikroJet Systems GmbH (‘MikroJet’), from which certain assets were 
acquired. These estimates are established by applying the contractual calculations of contingent consideration to budgeted performance, 
discounting the result back to the present value. Discount rates vary between 0.35 per cent and 0.86 per cent, being the rates that have been 
applied to the calculations for Graph‑ Tech and PostJet respectively. Suitable exchange rates have been used where necessary to express the 
amount in sterling at the balance sheet date.
The amounts expected to be paid and the maturity profile of those obligations is expected to be as follows:
Group 2013
Control 
£’000
Domino 
Coding 
£’000
MikroJet 
£’000
PostJet 
£’000
Graph‑ Tech 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Current – 20 97 – – 117
Non‑ current – – – 876 7,047 7,923
At 31 October 2013 – 20 97 876 7,047 8,040
Group 2012
Control 
£’000
Domino 
Coding 
£’000
MikroJet 
£’000
PostJet 
£’000
Graph‑ Tech 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Current 2 30 360 752 – 1,144
Non‑ current – 36 421 1,745 7,450 9,652
At 31 October 2012 2 66 781 2,497 7,450 10,796
The liabilities to the former shareholders of PostJet and Graph‑ Tech have been discounted to their estimated present values in accordance with 
IFRS 3. A finance charge in the year of £43,000 (2012: £49,000) has been made as a result of this treatment.
Company 2013
Domino 
Coding 
£’000
MikroJet 
£’000
PostJet 
£’000
Graph‑ Tech 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Current 20 – – – 20
Non‑ current – – 876 7,047 7,923
At 31 October 2013 20 – 876 7,047 7,943
Company 2012
Domino 
Coding 
£’000
MikroJet 
£’000
PostJet 
£’000
Graph‑ Tech 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Current 30 161 752 – 943
Non‑ current 36 – 1,745 7,450 9,231
At 31 October 2012 66 161 2,497 7,450 10,174
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 111
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
24. Deferred taxation
(a) Movement in the year
It is Group policy to measure deferred tax at the rates that are expected to apply in the period when the temporary differences are expected 
to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
As at 31 October 2013, the following rates have been applied to UK balances:
Rate applied
UK deferred tax assets and liabilities expected to be settled in the year ending 31 October 2014 21.8%
UK deferred tax assets and liabilities expected to be settled in the year ending 31 October 2015 20.4%
Other deferred tax assets and liabilities 20.0%
The net impact to the Group of revaluing the applicable UK deferred tax assets and liabilities to these rates is a credit to income of £61,000.
The net impact to the Group of revaluing all deferred tax assets and liabilities to the applicable rates is a credit to income of £663,000.
Assets 
Group 
£’000
Assets 
Company 
£’000
Liabilities 
Group 
£’000
Liabilities 
Company 
£’000
Deferred taxation
Balance at 1 November 2011 7,012 2,245 (6,507) (316)
Adjustment in respect of prior year 631 – (79) –
On recognition of acquired intangible assets – – (3,169) –
Increase/decrease in tax rate (3) (162) (33) 35
Exchange adjustment (27) – 14 –
Charge to other comprehensive income – – (159) –
Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity (888) (888) 36 36
Credit/(charge) for the year 539 – (802) (79)
Other movements in the year 71 – (19) –
Balance at 1 November 2012 7,335 1,195 (10,718) (324)
Adjustment in respect of prior year 151 – (429) (389)
Increase/decrease in tax rate (208) (1) 871 15
Exchange adjustment (11) – – –
Charge to other comprehensive income – – (82) –
Deferred tax on items taken directly to equity (362) (362) 72 72
Credit/(charge) for the year 294 (389) 373 387
At 31 October 2013 7,199 443 (9,913) (239)
(b) Balances at year end
Deferred taxation balances consist of the following amounts:
Group
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Assets
Temporary differences relating to:
– share‑ based compensation charges 445 1,254
– depreciation in excess of capital allowances 21 304
– accrued holiday pay entitlement not taken 282 178
– unutilised tax losses 5 –
– other temporary differences 6,446 5,599
7,199 7,335
Liabilities
Temporary differences relating to:
– capital allowances in excess of depreciation (895) (661)
– valuation of intangibles acquired through business combination (4,471) (5,877)
– revaluation of properties (154) (240)
– other temporary differences (4,393) (3,940)
(9,913) (10,718) Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
112
24. Deferred taxation continued
The majority of other temporary differences recognised as an asset relate to deferred tax on unrealised profits in stock and fixed assets 
throughout the Group, and deferred tax on a range of items in Domino Amjet Inc. The majority of other temporary differences recognised 
as a liability relate to deferred tax on unremitted profits from Domino China Ltd, Domino Asia Ltd and Domino Printech India Private Ltd.
A deferred tax asset of £5,000 has been recognised at the balance sheet date in respect of unutilised tax losses (2012: £nil).
At the balance sheet date the Group had £nil of unprovided deferred tax assets (2012: £nil) relating to tax losses (which would become 
recoverable if appropriate companies were to make taxable profits in the future) of £nil (2012: £nil).
With the exception of a deferred tax liability of £3,587,000 in respect of unremitted earnings in China and India where management intend 
to remit earnings in the foreseeable future, no liability has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with undistributed 
earnings of subsidiaries on the basis that the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is 
probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Company
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Assets
Temporary differences relating to:
– share‑ based compensation charges 434 1,185
– other temporary differences 9 10
443 1,195
Liabilities
Temporary differences relating to:
– capital allowances in excess of depreciation (3) (3)
– revaluation of properties (154) (240)
– other temporary differences (82) (81)
(239) (324)
At the end of the year the Company had £nil of unprovided deferred tax assets (2012: £nil). The following are the movements
in the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group during the year.
Share‑ based 
payments 
£’000
Accrued 
holiday pay 
£’000
Tax losses 
£’000
Accelerated 
capital 
allowances 
£’000
Acquisition 
related 
intangibles 
£’000
Revaluation 
of properties 
£’000
Other 
temporary 
differences 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Balance at 1 November 2011 2,234 108 – (1,006) (2,292) (312) 1,773 505
(Charge)/credit for the year (10) (1) – 634 (119) – (767) (263)
Charge to other comprehensive income – – – – (159) – – (159)
Tax on items taken directly to equity (888) – – – – 36 – (852)
Acquisition of subsidiary – – – – (3,169) – – (3,169)
Adjustment in respect of prior year 87 65 – (61) – – 461 552
Exchange differences (9) (5) – (7) 17 – (9) (13)
Effect of change in tax rate (160) 11 – 83 (155) 36 149 (36)
Other movements – – – – – – 52 52
Balance at 1 November 2012 1,254 178 – (357) (5,877) (240) 1,659 (3,383)
(Charge)/credit for the year (444) 130 5 (409) 840 – 545 667
Charge to other comprehensive income – – – – (82) – – (82)
Tax on items taken directly to equity (362) – – – – 72 – (290)
Adjustment in respect of prior year – (2) – (179) – – (97) (278)
Exchange differences (3) (12) – 18 7 – (21) (11)
Effect of change in tax rate – (12) – 53 641 14 (33) 663
Other movements – – – – – – – –
At 31 October 2013 445 282 5 (874) (4,471) (154) 2,053 (2,714)
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 113
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
25. Called-up share capital
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Authorised:
155,000,000 (2012: 155,000,000) ordinary shares of 5 pence each 7,750 7,750
Issued and fully paid:
112,196,081 (2012: 111,431,420) ordinary shares of 5 pence each 5,610 5,572
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
During the year a total of 764,661 new ordinary shares of 5 pence each (‘shares’) were issued under the Company’s Executive Option and SAYE 
schemes for £2,307,000. The prices at which the shares were issued ranged between 172 pence and 567 pence per share.
26. Share capital and reserves
(a) Movements
The cumulative amount of goodwill written off by the Group directly to reserves is £35.8 million (2012: £35.8 million).
(b) Investment in own shares
The Domino Printing Sciences Employee Benefit Trust holds 178,949 (2012: 630,552) ordinary shares of 5 pence each. This represents  
0.2 per cent of issued shares at 31 October 2013. The shares are stated at cost. The market value of these shares at 31 October 2013 was 
£1,237,433 (2012: £3,417,592).
The QUEST holds 35,867 (2012: 35,867) ordinary shares of 5 pence each intended to satisfy SAYE options under the Domino Printing Sciences 
plc Savings Related Option Scheme 1993, which are held at nil valuation. The market value of these shares at 31 October 2013 was £248,020 
(2012: £194,399).
The Halifax Corporate Trustee Limited holds 30,997 (2012: 36,945) ordinary shares of 5 pence each intended to satisfy obligations under the 
Domino Share Incentive Plan which are held at cost. The market value of these shares at 31 October 2013 was £214,344 (2012: £200,242).
27. Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s treasury and currency policies are described in the Strategic Report on page 30.
The Company is party to a number of forward foreign exchange contracts, which are used to hedge significant future transactions and expected 
cash flows in foreign currencies. The instruments purchased are primarily in the currencies of the Group’s principal markets.
At the balance sheet date, the total amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts to which the Company is committed are as 
below (at contractual rates). These contracts were due to mature between 15 November 2013 and 31 October 2014.
Group and Company
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts 22,281 21,940
These arrangements are designed to address significant exchange exposures for the coming year and are renewed on a revolving basis in line 
with the Group’s treasury policy.
At 31 October 2013, the fair value of the Group’s and the Company’s forward contracts is estimated to be a net asset of
approximately £183,000 (2012: a net asset of £176,000). These amounts are based on the market values of equivalent instruments at the 
balance sheet date and comprise £392,000 (2012: £459,000) of financial assets and £209,000 (2012: £283,000) of financial liabilities.
All of the Group’s forward contracts are designated as effective cash flow hedges under IAS 39 for the purposes of hedge accounting and the 
movement in the value between 1 November 2012 and 31 October 2013 has been taken directly to equity in the consolidated accounts. In the 
Company, the movement in value has been taken through the Income Statement, in accordance with the provisions of IAS 39. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
114
28. Borrowings
In order to service its global funding requirements, the Group is financed by a mixture of cash, borrowings and local overdraft facilities.
Group Company
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Unsecured borrowing at amortised cost
Bank overdrafts – – 2,018 4,020
Bank loans 33,231 33,222 33,231 33,221
33,231 33,222 35,249 37,241
Secured borrowing at amortised cost
Bank loans 633 762 – –
633 762 – –
Total borrowings at amortised cost
Amounts due within 12 months 33,458 28,378 35,249 32,241
Amounts due after 12 months 406 5,606 – 5,000
33,864 33,984 35,249 37,241
Analysis of borrowings by currency:
Group Company
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Sterling 29,000 29,200 31,018 33,219
Euro 4,231 4,022 4,231 4,022
Korean won 633 762 – –
33,864 33,984 35,249 37,241
The other principal features of the Group’s borrowings are as follows:
(i) Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. Overdrafts are not secured.
(ii) The Group has two principal bank loans of €5,000,000 and £29,000,000 (2012: €5,000,000 and £29,200,000). Both loans were advanced 
on 31 October 2013 under the Group’s revolving loan facility for a term of one month. The loans carry a fixed interest rate at 1.09 per cent 
and 1.49 per cent per annum respectively.
The weighted average interest rates paid during the year were as follows:
2013 
Per cent
2012 
Per cent
Bank loans 1.50 1.71
29. Operating lease arrangements
(a) The Group as lessee
At 31 October 2013, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non‑ cancellable operating leases 
which fall due as follows:
Land and 
buildings 
2013 
£’000
Other 
2013 
£’000
Land and 
buildings 
2012 
£’000
Other
 2012 
£’000
Within one year 1,793 2,979 1,285 2,674
In the second to fifth years 3,477 3,744 2,230 3,634
After more than five years 1,669 – 824 –
6,939 6,723 4,339 6,308
The majority of leases of land and buildings are subject to rent review at periodic intervals ranging between three and five years.
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 115
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
29. Operating lease arrangements continued
(b) The Group as lessor
The Group offers operating lease packages (‘pay per code’ arrangements) to customers comprising machine, related consumables, spare parts 
and service support. Revenues realised under such arrangements were £3,947,000 for the year ended 31 October 2013 (2012: £3,400,000).
At 31 October 2013, the Group had contracted with customers for the following future minimum lease payments under non‑ cancellable 
operating leases:
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
Within one year 3,521 2,916
In the second to fifth years 6,927 5,640
10,448 8,556
30. Financial instruments
Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to the following key risks related to its financial instruments:
(i) credit risk;
(ii) market risk; and
(iii) liquidity risk.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for 
measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these 
consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities.
The Audit Committee of the Board oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management framework in relation 
to the risks faced by the Group.
Capital risk management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base to retain investor, creditor and market confidence and to support future development of 
the business. Domino intends to reinvest its surplus cash balances in the business either through higher levels of investment in working capital 
and fixed assets or through further acquisition activity to support the long‑ term ambitions of the Group.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, bank loans as disclosed in note 28 and equity attributable to the equity 
holders of Domino Printing Sciences plc, comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 25 and the 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis 
on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in 
note 1 to the financial statements. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
116
30. Financial instruments continued
Categories of financial instruments
Group Company
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Financial assets
Derivative instruments 392 459 392 459
Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents) 123,811 104,698 33,986 56,673
Available for sale financial assets – 31,035 – –
124,203 136,192 34,378 57,132
Financial liabilities
Derivative instruments (209) (283) (209) (283)
Amortised cost (91,546) (86,978) (74,512) (112,860)
(91,755) (87,261) (74,721) (113,143)
Fair value measurements recognised in the Balance Sheet
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into 
Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
 w Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
 w Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the 
asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
 w Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on 
observable market data (unobservable inputs).
2013 2012
Group
Level 1 
£’000
Level 2 
£’000
Level 3 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Level 1 
£’000
Level 2 
£’000
Level 3 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Financial assets
Derivative instruments in designated hedge 
accounting relationships – 392 – 392 – 459 – 459
Available for sale financial assets – – – – – – 31,035 31,035
– 392 – 392 – 459 31,035 31,494
Financial liabilities
Derivative instruments in designated hedge 
accounting relationships – (209) – (209) – (283) – (283)
– (209) – (209) – (283) – (283)
2013 2012
Company
Level 1 
£’000
Level 2 
£’000
Level 3 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Level 1 
£’000
Level 2 
£’000
Level 3 
£’000
Total 
£’000
Financial assets
Derivative instruments – 392 – 392 – 459 – 459
– 392 – 392 – 459 – 459
Financial liabilities
Derivative instruments – (209) – (209) – (283) – (283)
– (209) – (209) – (283) – (283)
There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 or into or out of Level 3 during the year. The Group movement in Level 3 assets in the year 
relates primarily to the impairment of TEN Media LLC (note 5). A reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets is 
given opposite.
A net gain of £7,000 (2012: net gain of £51,000) was recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the change in fair value of 
derivative instruments in designated hedging relationships. Information about the valuation of Level 3 assets is given in note 2.
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 117
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
30. Financial instruments continued
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets
Group
Available 
for sale 
£’000
Balance at 1 November 2011 31,767
Increase in fair value of investment prior to disposal 2,806
Disposal of investment prior to acquisition of subsidiary (4,290)
Foreign exchange adjustment on available for sale investment 752
Balance at 1 November 2012 31,035
Impairment of available for sale investment (32,025)
Foreign exchange adjustment on available for sale investment 990
Balance at 31 October 2013 –
Company
Available
 for sale 
£’000
Balance at 1 November 2011 1,484
Increase in fair value of investment prior to disposal 2,806
Disposal of investment prior to acquisition of subsidiary (4,290)
Balance at 1 November 2012 and 31 October 2013 –
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Group’s income 
or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures 
within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Group manages foreign currency risk as detailed below. The Group does not currently enter into any interest rate swaps or other 
derivative financial instruments to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates.
Foreign currency risk management
The Group manufactures products in the UK, Europe, the USA and Asia and sells its products and services across global markets in a range 
of currencies. This creates an exposure to both transactional and translational risk as rates of exchange fluctuate. Exchange rate exposures are 
managed within approved treasury policy parameters utilising forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group is principally exposed to the impact of movements in the euro, the US dollar and the Chinese renminbi. The carrying amounts of 
the Group’s monetary assets and monetary liabilities denominated in these currencies at the reporting date are as follows:
Group Company
2013
 £’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Assets
Euro 28,496 22,648 2,167 2,921
US dollar 19,224 19,010 1,507 1,189
Renminbi 33,679 26,829 – –
81,399 68,487 3,674 4,110
Liabilities
Euro (22,015) (18,820) (4,231) (4,022)
US dollar (9,751) (6,826) – –
Renminbi (7,646) (4,866) – –
(39,412) (30,512) (4,231) (4,022) Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
118
30. Financial instruments continued
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The following table details the Group’s sensitivity to a 10 per cent increase and decrease in sterling against the relevant foreign currencies. 
10 per cent represents management’s assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a 10 per cent change in foreign currency rates on:
(i) Foreign currency monetary assets and monetary liabilities outstanding at the balance sheet date.
(ii) The value to the Group of its investments in foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is the euro, the US dollar or the Chinese 
renminbi.
Group
Equity 
£’000
Profit 
or loss 
£’000
2013
Euro 2,723 (876)
US dollar 2,290 416
Renminbi 2,523 934
7,906 99
2012
Euro 2,330 (365)
US dollar 2,523 934
Renminbi 2,440 689
7,293 1,258
Company
Equity 
£’000
Profit 
or loss 
£’000
2013
Euro – 944
US dollar – 1,495
Renminbi – 1,870
– 2,684
2012
Euro – 1,519
US dollar – 1,870
Renminbi – 415
– 3,804
The movement in profit for the year is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to exchange movements in US dollar, euro and renminbi 
denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The movement in equity is mainly as a result of the Group’s exposure to its investments 
in subsidiaries in Europe, the USA and China, in addition to US dollar and euro denominated long‑ term intercompany loans made by 
the Company.
In management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis above is not fully representative of the inherent foreign exchange risk to which the Group is 
exposed as it does not take account of the impact on the Income Statement of translation of the annual profits and losses made by overseas 
subsidiaries. For further details of the impact of foreign exchange on the Group, see the Treasury section of the Strategic Report on page 30.
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 119
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
30. Financial instruments continued
Forward foreign exchange contracts
It is the policy of the Group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover anticipated receipts and purchases in selected foreign 
currencies within 50 per cent to 90 per cent of the net exposure generated. Contracts denominated in euros and US dollars are placed on a 
rolling 12‑ month basis. Smaller contracts are also placed, typically over no more than three months, in a variety of other currencies in which the 
Group trades.
All of the Group’s forward foreign exchange contracts are designated as effective cash flow hedges under IAS 39 for the purposes of hedge 
accounting.
The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with forward foreign exchange contracts that are designated as cash 
flow hedges are expected to occur:
Group and Company
Carrying 
amount 
£’000
Expected 
cash flows 
£’000
Less than 
3 months 
£’000
3–6 
months 
£’000
6–12
 months 
£’000
2013
Forward foreign exchange contracts 183 22,281 4,161 7,854 10,266
2012
Forward foreign exchange contracts 176 21,940 2,935 8,033 10,972
Interest rate risk management and sensitivity
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow and deposit funds at both fixed and floating interest rates. The risk is 
managed by the Group by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate cash deposits and borrowings.
The sensitivity analysis below assumes that for floating rate cash deposits and liabilities, the quantum as at the balance sheet date was in place 
for the whole year.
If interest rates had been 1 per cent higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit for the year ended 31 October 
2013 would increase/decrease by £255,000. The Company’s profit for the year ended 31 October 2013 would decrease/increase by £237,000.
Credit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group 
has adopted a cautious approach to credit risk management, only entering into transactions with counterparties with recognised credit 
ratings, either through independent third party appraisal or through the Group’s own trading records and other publicly available financial 
information. The Group’s exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored and credit exposure is controlled 
by counterparty limits.
The Group seeks to limit credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments through trading only with counterparties that are banks 
with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Disclosures related to the credit risk associated with trade receivables are shown in note 20. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
120
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued
30. Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk management
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring 
forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The following tables detail the Group’s and the Company’s remaining contractual maturity for its non‑ derivative financial liabilities. The tables 
have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required 
to pay.
The tables include both interest and principal cash flows. The contractual maturity of derivative financial instruments is considered in note 27.
Group
Less than 
1 year 
£’000
1–2 years 
£’000
2–5 years 
£’000
>5 years 
£’000
Total 
£’000
2013
Non‑ interest bearing 64,866 531 – – 65,397
Fixed interest rate instruments 33,348 640 7,345 – 41,333
Variable interest rate instruments 227 227 179 – 633
98,441 1,398 7,524 – 107,363
2012
Non‑ interest bearing 54,754 173 – – 54,927
Fixed interest rate instruments 29,522 5,850 8,909 – 44,281
Variable interest rate instruments – – 606 – 606
84,276 6,023 9,515 – 99,814
Company
Less than 
1 year 
£’000
1–2 years 
£’000
2–5 years 
£’000
>5 years 
£’000
Total 
£’000
2013
Non‑ interest bearing 31,320 – – – 31,320
Fixed interest rate instruments 33,251 640 7,345 – 41,236
Variable interest rate instruments 2,018 – – – 2,018
66,589 640 7,345 – 74,574
2012
Non‑ interest bearing 65,445 – – – 65,445
Fixed interest rate instruments 29,164 5,545 8,791 – 43,500
Variable interest rate instruments 4,020 – – – 4,020
98,629 5,545 8,791 – 112,965
The liquidity risk inherent in the contractual maturities of the Group’s financial liabilities is managed in conjunction with non‑ derivative financial 
assets.
Fair value of financial instruments
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined as follows:
(i) The fair value of a non‑ derivative financial asset and financial liability is the carrying amount, as this approximates their fair value.
(ii) The fair value of a derivative is estimated by calculating the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price 
at the balance sheet date for the residual maturity of the contract.
The carrying amounts of all financial assets and liabilities in the financial statements approximate their fair values. 121
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
31. Financial commitments and contingent liabilities
(a) Future capital expenditure
Group Company
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Contracted for but not provided in the accounts 810 173 – –
(b) Contingent liabilities
The Company has provided guarantees in respect of the borrowing facilities of subsidiary companies, which amount to £50,000,000 
(2012: £50,000,000). At the balance sheet date, there were net borrowings against these facilities of £nil (2012: £nil).
Domino Printech India Private Ltd (‘Domino India’) has received notification from the Indian tax authorities of unpaid excise duty for its inks 
(including penalties and interest charges). Advice has been taken from external legal counsel and as a result management believes the grounds 
for the claim to be without foundation. The Group has not recognised a provision in respect of this notification at the balance sheet date. 
Advisers have estimated that the maximum possible payment to settle the case, were it to be upheld, would be £2,642,000 (INR 260,805,000). 
The claim is currently pending a hearing with the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal.
32. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note. Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below. Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are 
also disclosed below.
(a) Trading transactions
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group:
Sale of goods Purchase of goods
Amounts owed  
by related parties
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012
 £’000
2013 
£’000
2012
 £’000
Associates
Mectec BV 496 400 207 154 81 64
Mectec BVBA 161 167 130 103 15 62
657 567 337 257 96 126
Sale of goods to related parties were made at the Group’s usual list prices. Purchases were made at market price discounted to reflect the 
quantity of goods purchased and the relationships between the parties.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No provisions have been made 
for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
(b) Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of the Executive Directors and Non‑ Executive Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out 
below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Further information about the remuneration of 
individual Directors is provided in note 7.
2013 
£’000
2012
 £’000
Short‑ term employee benefits 1,554 1,302
Post‑ employment benefits 209 203
Share‑ based payments 1,974 2,559
3,737 4,064
(c) Company
The Company has provided guarantees to banks in respect of the borrowing facilities held by subsidiary companies. Details of the borrowing 
balances are given in note 31.
Other transactions with related parties include the receipt of dividends of £64,310,000 (2012: £2,780,000) from subsidiary companies. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
122
33. Net cash inflow from operating activities
Group
2013 
£’000
2012
 £’000
Operating profit 17,383 51,035
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5,874 5,986
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired through business combination 3,321 2,489
Amortisation of other intangible assets 1,058 330
Share‑ based compensation (credits)/charges (211) 1,731
Increase in inventories
1
(1,386) (287)
Increase in receivables
1
(7,249) (1,797)
Increase/(decrease) in payables
1
7,956 (2,979)
Reassessment of contingent consideration (1,943) –
Impairment of available‑ for‑ sale investment 30,283 –
Non‑ cash write down of intangible assets 143 –
Other non‑ cash items (289) (143)
Net cash inflow from operating activities before taxation 54,940 56,365
Tax paid (11,964) (16,640)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 42,976 39,725
1 Net of effect of change in exchange rates.
Company
2013 
£’000
2012
£’000
Operating profit 38,226 3,929
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2 2
Amortisation of intangible assets 66 36
Interest received from subsidiary undertakings 635 698
Interest paid to subsidiary undertakings (93) (85)
Payment of contingent consideration – (6,807)
Share‑ based compensation charges (281) 1,665
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 26,820 (2,104)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (34,596) 22,577
Non‑ cash movement arising on investment adjustment (866) 1,254
Profit arising on reassessment of contingent consideration (1,943) (30)
Non‑ cash write down of intangible assets 143 –
Gains on cash flow hedges (7) (51)
Other non‑ cash items (3) –
Net cash inflow from operating activities before taxation 28,103 21,084
Tax paid (331) (744)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 27,772 20,340
Notes to the accounts
For the year ended 31 October 2013 continued 123
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial statements
Share price
Information about the Company’s share price may be obtained from 
the following sources:
FT Cityline Service Telephone 09058 171 690
The financial pages of The Times newspaper
Website at www.domino‑ printing‑sciences.com
Other financial websites under the EPIC symbol DNO
Shareholder enquiries
All administrative enquiries regarding shareholdings such as questions 
about dividend payment or lost share certificates should be addressed 
to the Company’s Registrars:
Capita Asset Services
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
T: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras, 
lines are open Monday to Friday 9.00am to 5.30pm)
T: (overseas): +44 208 639 3399
email: shareholderenquiries@capita.co.uk
Website at www.capitaassetservices.com
Share Portal
The Share Portal is a secure online site where you can manage your 
shareholding quickly and easily. You can:
 w View your holding and get an indicative valuation
 w Change your address
 w Arrange to have dividends paid into your bank account
 w Request to receive shareholder communications by email rather 
than post
 w View your dividend payment history
 w Make dividend payment choices
 w Buy and sell shares and access a wealth of stock market news and 
information
 w Register your proxy voting instruction
 w Download a stock transfer form.
To register for the Share Portal just visit www.capitashareportal.com. 
All you need is your investor code, which can be found on your share 
certificate or your dividend tax voucher.
Sign up to electronic communications
Help us to save paper and get your shareholder information quickly 
and securely by signing up to receive your shareholder 
communications by email.
Registering for electronic communications is very straightforward.  
Just visitwww.capitashareportal.com. All you need is your investor 
code, which can be found on your share certificate or your dividend 
tax voucher.
Choose to receive your next dividend in your local currency
If you live outside the UK, Capita has partnered with Deutsche Bank 
to provide you with a service that will convert your sterling dividends 
into your local currency at a competitive rate. You can choose to 
receive payment directly into your local bank account, or alternatively, 
you can be sent a currency draft.
You can sign up for this service on the Share Portal (by clicking 
on ‘your dividend options’ and following the on screen instructions) 
or by contacting the Customer Support Centre.
 
For further information contact Capita:
By phone – UK – 0871 664 0385 (UK calls cost 10 pence per minute 
plus network extras). From overseas – +44 20 8639 3405. Lines are 
open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
 
By e‑ mail – ips@capita.co.uk
Information rights of beneficial owners’ shares
Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been 
nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive 
information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are 
required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their 
shares rather than to the Company’s Registrar, Capita Asset Services.
Company Secretary
Richard J Pryn LLB
Investor contact
Andrew Herbert
Group Finance Director
Domino Printing Sciences plc
Bar Hill
Cambridge
CB23 8TU
T: +44 (0) 1954 781 888
F: +44 (0) 1954 782 713
email: andrew.herbert@domino‑ printing.com
Information
Information about the Company is available on the Internet. Domino’s 
website address is www.domino‑ printing‑ sciences.com
The website has general information about the Group and details of 
its product ranges. The text of Domino’s results announcements is 
also posted on this site.
Timetable
7 March 2014 Record date for final dividend
19 March 2014 Annual General Meeting
11 April 2014 Payment date for final dividend
Investor information Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
124
Deloitte LLP, Cambridge
Auditor
Ashurst, London
Solicitors
Simmons & Simmons, London
Solicitors
National Westminster Bank plc, Cambridge
Principal Bankers
NM Rothschild & Sons Limited, London
Merchant Bankers
Jefferies Hoare Govett, London
Stockbrokers
Capita Asset Services
Registrars
Smithfield Consultants Limited
Financial Public Relations
Advisers  Domino Printing Sciences plc
Trafalgar Way
Bar Hill
Cambridge
CB23 8TU
T +44 (0)1954 782551
F +44 (0)1954 782874
www.domino-printing-sciences.com
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
