 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2009
Juno Drive, Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, CV31 3RG
T el: 01926 455 755   Fax: 01926 455 749
e-mail: info@agarangemaster.com
Website: www.agarangemaster.com
AGA RANGEMASTER GROUP PLC    ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2009 A limited edition ‘Emma Bridgewater’ 
3 oven AGA, with Bastide kitchen 
furniture by Grange and tiles from 
the ‘Emma Bridgewater’ collection at 
Fired Earth.
Business performance
& financial review
Introduction
Strategic and operational highlights  1
Chairman’s statement 2
Chief executive’s review 4
Key risks & uncertainties 12
Corporate social responsibility 14
Governance
The board and its advisers 20
Directors’ report 22
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 26
Corporate governance 27
Remuneration report 34
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 42
Consolidated statement of
 comprehensive losses/income 43
Consolidated balance sheet 44
Consolidated cash flow statement 45
Consolidated statement of
 changes in equity 46
Notes to the accounts 48
Independent auditor’s report – Group 79
Five year financial history 80
Parent company accounts 81
Notes to the company accounts 82
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 87
Independent auditor’s report – Company 88
Contents
The AGA Rangemaster Group is a leading international premium consumer brands 
business which manufactures and distributes some of the best known and loved kitchen 
appliances and interior furnishings in the world.
Our brands include:
Known for its longstanding heritage, technical excellence and innovation, the Group 
now operates production facilities in the UK, North America, France, Canada and 
Ireland and has worldwide wholesale and retail distribution.
Introduction
The new AGA Marvel factory became 
operational in March 2009 and has 
already obtained ISO 9001:2008 
and ISO 14001:2004 accreditation the 
quality and environmental standards.
CAMBRIDGE Strategic and
operational highlights
•
 Cash balances increased to £28.0 million from 
£5.8 million in the year reflecting the emphasis 
placed on strong business processes, good working 
capital management and on cash generation.
•
 The Group made a profit before tax in an 
extremely tough year for its core product lines 
internationally.
•
 Markets improved as the year progressed. 
Rangemaster orders were up in the year whilst 
AGA cooker orders were ahead in the last quarter.
•
 New products backed by strong commercial 
offers are designed to maintain the momentum 
established at the end of 2009.
•
 The Group expects to contribute an additional £2 
million this year and next to the Group’s pension 
scheme.
William McGrath, Chief Executive commented: 
“The generation of cash was the big achievement 
of 2009 and that remains the focus given the 
caution needed in the current market.  Our lead 
indicators, however, are positive and after a slow 
order intake at the start of the year, the prospects 
are encouraging heading into the Spring.”
Year to 31st December
2009 2008
£m £m
Revenue 245.0 279.4
EBITDA 
(before non-recurring costs)
12.6 24.6
Operating profit
before amortisation
0.1 12.4
Operating (loss)/profit (1.5) 11.1
Profit before tax 0.5 14.4
Basic earnings per share 2.5p 14.4p
Shareholders’ equity 133.8 214.7
Net cash 28.0 5.8
a b c
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 1
a)  La Cornue central island.
b)  Rangemaster, Professional+ 100.
c)  AGA Classic, 2 oven with 
integrated module.  2 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 3
The new generation Rayburn 600, an 
all-in-one cooker and boiler, reinforces 
our position in the home heating 
market.
Overview
The Group responded quickly and well to the downturn 
in the consumer markets caused by the recession which 
made 2009 a tough year. The Group was well placed to do 
so having maintained a net cash position after returning 
£140 million in cash to shareholders in May 2008 
following the well timed Foodservice disposal at the end 
of 2007. The board prioritised remaining profitable and 
having more cash at the end of the year than at the start 
thereby ensuring that the Group’s long-term financing 
arrangements organised in early 2008 remained unaltered. 
The stable financial base meant that the Group was free 
to direct its energies to work to integrate operations and 
to have a set of disciplined business processes that apply 
across the Group. These steps helped to reduce costs 
in a way that would be in the long-term interests of the 
Group and to sustain product investment, positioning the 
business for an upturn.
Trading performance in 2009
2009 saw sharp falls in demand in the first half before 
levelling out and, in some areas, strengthening later in the 
year. These trends were reflected in first half sales down 
18.8% and sales down 12.3% for the full year. This put 
2009 revenues at £245.0 million down from £279.4 
million in 2008. EBITDA (pre non-recurring costs) fell 
from £24.6 million to £12.6 million. There was an operating 
loss in the first half of £1.7 million and a small operating 
profit in the second half. Non-recurring rationalisation 
costs were incurred in the year of £3.6 million primarily 
from business integration costs and provisions against 
the carrying value of properties no longer required after 
the integration. With net finance income in the year and 
with pension credits arising, there was an overall profit 
before tax in the year. Given the sharp profit fall and the 
continuing market uncertainties the board concluded it 
would not be appropriate to pay a dividend in respect of 
2009.
Strategy for 2010
The 300 years of innovation we highlighted last year put 
us in good stead to deal with the current economic cycle. 
The warmth felt towards our key brands led by AGA came 
through strongly in the year – notably through the 300th 
anniversary of the first smelting of iron ore with coke at 
the AGA foundry which is where the Industrial Revolution 
began. Our confidence that the power of our brands will 
drive strong performance remains. The market conditions 
of 2009, however, required us to modify our ambitions for 
the business in the short-term and focus on cutting costs 
and cash generation to ensure we emerged stronger from 
the recession. We now have new opportunities to improve 
further our market positions.
Our key objectives are:
•  T o continue to grow and create new markets for 
our range cookers and cooker/boilers. The board 
sees energy management in the home - seen in new 
Government initiatives to boost renewable energy - as 
a major theme for the years ahead and believes that the 
product offering it has been developing over the last 
decade is particularly well attuned to future consumer 
requirements.
•  T o widen the position of range cookers in the UK and 
Ireland and on the continent as being at the heart of family 
life and show that the look and functionality of the range 
cooker brings benefits over built-in equivalents which 
make up the larger part of the market.
•  T o become a significant force in the North American 
appliance market under the AGA Marvel brand – 
highlighting the best of European style range cooking 
and USA made undercounter refrigeration.
•  T o use the high level of consumer response we receive, 
to look to all our brands to increase the overall sales 
opportunities in the home by effective customer 
relationship management.   2 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 3
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Chairman’ s
stat ement
With our well managed financial position, we have the 
financial flexibility to back our brands and to ensure that 
we use the capacity we have available to best effect. 
The board’s strategy remains to focus on being the major 
force in the range cooker market internationally and to use 
that to attract consumers to the wider product offering. 
We will enhance our marketing effort to support our 
product introductions and will take market opportunities 
that saw the acquisition of Mercury in 2009 and saw that 
of La Cornue, Heartland and Stanley in earlier years.
We have to take into account our pension scheme to 
which we have already provided £50 million in guarantees 
of contingent liabilities. We are finalising funding 
arrangements with the trustee taking account of the 
2008 actuarial valuation. We expect to make additional 
payments of £2 million into the scheme in 2010 and 2011. 
T otal pension contributions could equate to £10 million 
per annum from 2012 depending on the outturn of the 
2011 actuarial valuation.
In achieving these objectives the Group is dependent on 
the skills and commitment of its employees. It was an 
exceptionally difficult year in which short-time working 
was needed in some factories and staff reductions were 
made. The continuing enthusiasm and energy in the 
Group ensured that confidence grew over the year. The 
board is, of course, grateful to all the employees for their 
contributions. Helen Mahy left the board after six years. 
I should like to thank her in particular for her important 
contribution, notably in the development of our corporate 
governance practices.
Current trading
Economic uncertainties remain as markets seek to recover 
from the long and difficult recession and against that 
background we remain cautious and conservative in our 
trading and financial expectations. We have focused on 
having strong business processes and disciplines. We will 
continue to drive down costs and to generate cash as we 
did in 2009. In 2010 the Group will continue to keep capital 
expenditure below depreciation and to reduce inventory 
levels. The important benefits of integrating AGA and 
Rangemaster in the UK will show through. Overall the key 
factor is the extent of the revenue recovery. 
The board has thus taken the right steps to ensure the 
Group is best placed to take advantage of improved 
conditions while remaining cautious and able to continue 
with the defensive approach of 2009 that saw costs cut 
and cash generation set as a key driver. At present the 
board would hope that the current year will show a real 
improvement. A decision on dividend payments will be 
made when the earnings outlook becomes clearer.
The cold weather may have slowed short-term activity 
but it has also highlighted the virtues of our heat storage 
and stove products and home survey numbers are ahead 
of 2009 and confidence in the AGA shops is high. For 
Rangemaster the start of the year has been slower after 
the VAT rate assisted end of 2009 but the trend lines 
continue to be positive. For Fired Earth and Grange 
improvement plans covering both broadening of markets 
and cost reductions are well underway. Headed into the 
Spring the Group expects revenues to run ahead of the 
prior year.
John Coleman
Chairman
12th March 2010  4 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 5
Rangemaster induction was 
launched in 2007 and is now a firmly 
established product line.
Business and finance review
T oday’s AGA Rangemaster Group has its strength in its 
much loved brands and well-developed sales channels and 
structures. In 2008 we concentrated the resources of the 
Group on our consumer operations as they have long-term 
significant growth potential arising from investments made 
over many years. We focus on producing products for the 
kitchen – the heart of family life – led by our outstanding 
range cookers. Looking back, key decisions in the creation 
of the Group had been to make AGA the centre stage 
brand in 2001 and the decision to concentrate resources 
on Rangemaster and the premium range cooker market 
and to sell off the lower added value brands in 2002. 
The AGA and Rangemaster operations have since then 
worked increasingly closely together. In 2009 we decided 
to integrate the operational management of the two 
businesses. This has worked well for all the core processes 
from product identification and now for manufacturing and 
distribution. It means that the Group has a single strong 
core cooker operation in the British Isles – encompassing 
the Group’s Irish brand, Stanley. 
We knew early in 2009 that it would be a difficult year 
but we remained determined not to lose sight of the key 
objectives we had set in 2007 for the development of the 
Group. We discuss below the progress made towards 
those objectives and related ‘Key Performance Indicators’ 
(‘KPI’). With strong links across our international 
operations, the appliance-led activities are now well 
assimilated and able to benefit from the economies of 
scale and the customer-led opportunities of being part of 
a Group.
KPI I: Grow sales of cast iron cookers
2007 2008 2009
19,600 15,400 12,150
Sales in 2007 have proved to be a peak – when a good level 
of Irish state supported orders assisted Stanley sales. From 
mid 2008 it became clear that customers were deferring 
expenditure because of weakening markets while at the 
same time there was enthusiasm for our modernisation 
programmes. Our response was to continue with the 
development themes of making the AGA programmable 
across the range and adding upgrade options for products 
in the field. This focus on customers who may have 
acquired their AGA many years ago was a major new 
development making all existing owners potential new 
customers. The Group does expect a significant number 
of owners to upgrade their existing model or return their 
existing model for recycling and purchasing a new product 
over the next few years. As consumers focused on what 
they found essential in their home, we also emphasised 
how the warmth and reliability of cast iron cookers was 
relevant to modern needs.
2009 also saw the Group increase its focus on Rayburn – 
and not only the successful upgraded wood burning model 
but now a restyled oil series. Rayburn – the all-in-one 
cooker/boiler – is not only a great cooker but its boiler – 
soon to have condensing oil as well as gas models – makes 
it tremendously flexible and an attractive alternative 
to standard boiler systems. With Rayburn launching a 
second generation of control systems linking to renewable 
energy sources, it is a highly relevant modern product. The 
objective is to ensure Rayburn is seen as a clear option 
to consumers and their installers assessing ‘heating and 
eating’ options.
In Ireland cast iron cooker sales fell again and for the first 
time the stove business was a similar revenue generator 
to cookers. Growth in stove sales in Ireland and the UK 
is set to continue as consumers ensure that given energy 
cost and availability concerns, that they have more than 
one energy source in their homes.  4 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 5
Chief	
e x ecutiv e’ s
r e vie w
The Group continues to make the foundry and factory 
complex in Shropshire more efficient. It has ample capacity 
to produce above the targeted level.
KPI II: Grow sales of Rangemaster made cookers
2007 2008 2009
76,000 67,900 60,600
Rangemaster and our wider range cooker brands all proved 
resilient – with volumes lower but average selling prices up – 
and towards the end of 2009 orders were running well ahead 
of 2008 levels. Rangemaster was 14% down in order values 
at the half year but full year order values were just ahead 
of the prior year. The performance reflects the breadth of 
product and the international reach of Rangemaster – with 
sales on the continent where there is sustained expansion 
in France and now growth in Belgium and Holland and more 
recently Germany, being up. Ireland, in contrast, was again 
well down. The purchase of Mercury in August added a 
further modern style to our range and with new products to 
come to market this year under the Mercury brand aimed 
particularly at the independent kitchen specialist market - it 
is proving an important addition. 
The range cooker market in the UK is estimated to be around 
113,000 units per annum. The total UK equivalent premium 
built-in cooker market is larger. In 2010 Rangemaster and 
the related brands will emphasise the case for having the 
highly functional, attractive range at the heart of modern 
family life. Our efficient Leamington Spa factory has the 
capability of producing well above the targeted volumes. 
With higher volume expectations, notably with anticipated 
sales in North America of the new AGA Pro+ range, progress 
can be made in 2010 towards our performance objective.
Our cookware operations comprise AGA Cookware and 
Divertimenti and 2009 was a good year. Divertimenti has 
a new catalogue and has the potential to grow appreciably. 
The newly upgraded web shopping sites of both brands 
have been successful.
KPI III : Return Fired Earth and Grange to profit
Fired Earth specialises in tiles and paint. It had another 
tough year as consumers deferred major projects. Sales 
on a like-for-like basis were down 17% and did not show 
a marked improvement in the last quarter. Fired Earth has 
become tightly run and is admired for its quality and style. 
T o balance the business, Fired Earth has set out to ensure 
it attracts consumers looking for quality products for 
everyday purposes at appropriate prices. This development 
of diffusion lines, combined with the new catalogue and 
the provision of consumer credit, is expected to boost Fired 
Earth with a wider audience. Additionally, a move into fitted 
kitchens, with Charles Smallbone designed product with an 
affordable luxury message made by Grange, is an exciting 
development. The first kitchen in the range attracted the 
Editor’s prize at the House Beautiful 2009 Awards and 
features in our Marylebone High Street store and soon to 
be seen in our Adderbury and Cobham stores.
Grange similarly had a difficult year as revenues fell sharply 
- hitting the US design centre business particularly hard. 
Short time working was in place in the factories for much of 
the year. There was also a major production rationalisation 
programme in Lyon, France with three factories being 
merged into one. The confidence of the dealer base in 
the product range and prospects of Grange continues to 
improve. Orders at the start of 2010 are more encouraging. 
Particular effort will be made this year to raise Grange’s UK 
profile using the database resources of the Group.
One of the key strategic objectives and a key performance 
indicator for the Group remains to see Grange and Fired 
Earth return to profit and for the inter-relationships with the 
wider customer base to prove effective.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  6 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 7
KPI IV : International expansion with half the business 
to be outside the UK
The largest market for the Group is in the UK. The objective 
is to make overseas markets account for over half the 
business – up from the current 36%. On the continent we 
continue to progress where the Grange, La Cornue and 
Falcon brands are all well established.
In North America the Group set about revisiting its 
approach – accelerated by the three year decline in the 
appliance market which is now just bottoming out. We 
have integrated our activities under AGA Marvel to provide 
our overall market positioning as having available from 
Europe the best range cookers as with refrigeration “at 
its best” – made in North America at our new Greenville, 
Michigan factory. We are delighted with our new Greenville 
production facility which became fully operational in Spring 
2009 and has already received ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 
quality and environmental accreditation. It is producing at 
a substantially lower unit cost than was practical at our 
two previous facilities. We would like to acknowledge the 
excellent support of the State of Michigan in the successful 
delivery of the project. We have just launched the AGA 
Pro+ in Canada at C$4,000 - a Rangemaster made product 
with a single oven and self cleaning features aimed at a 
competitive price in the North American market. This is 
backed by a suite of appliances including refrigerators 
and dishwashers similar to that found in design centres in 
the UK. We feel that dealers can look to our hot and cold 
offering to anchor their sales efforts.
We look to markets less mature than the UK for our products 
to provide sustained sales impetus taking us towards our 
KPI.
KPI V : Leveraging the Group’s customer database
The Group’s contact with its customers is generated 
by advertising, direct marketing and through our retail 
operations. This continues through our service support for 
the products in the field – many of which last for decades. 
This all provides the Group with a large customer database 
in addition to that of dealers selling the Group’s products.
The Group has 670,000 customers on its UK database and 
nearly another 600,000 prospective customers who have 
contacted the Group. In 2009 the Group received nearly 
60,000 sales enquiries into the contact centre. It has nearly 
200,000 customers contactable by email. It has 120,000 
specifically AGA owners on the database – of which nearly 
18,000 were added in 2009. 
Web traffic increased across the brands in 2009 with AGA 
receiving over 700,000 visitors and Fired Earth nearly 
600,000 visitors. At the start of 2010, web enquiries and 
brochure requests have increased markedly and for Fired 
Earth and Rangemaster web traffic is up over 20%. The 
Group sees the development of customer contact and 
the development of closer links in the eyes of customers 
across the brands as an important source of growth in the 
years ahead.
KPI VI : Return on sales
The Group believes that by raising efficiencies while also 
investing in product that there is appreciable operational 
gearing available in the business. An initial target of a 
return on sales of 10% was set in 2007. Some of the 
Group’s operations achieved returns above that – but the 
average was below 10% when the recession impacted the 
Group. This has not deflected us from the belief that the 
brands and their strength with identifiable customer bases 
is such that returns at or above it – a peak cycle return on 
sales target is 12% - remain a reasonable expectation.
The new Fired Earth Tile Basics range 
comprises one hundred wall and floor 
tiles starting at 36p per tile, providing 
tiles for every budget.  6 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 7
Chief	e x ecutiv e’ s	r e vie w
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
The new generation of Mercury 
products, manufactured in 
Leamington Spa by Rangemaster, adds 
to Mercury’s design icon status as a 
contemporary cooker suited to the 
minimalist look.
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 7  8 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 9
Raising efficiencies across the Group to improve 
operational gearing
During the recession the Group has accelerated plans 
to cut costs, raise efficiencies and improve operational 
gearing. In particular, structures have been streamlined 
further – as with AGA and Rangemaster and in the North 
American operations – production facilities integrated 
– as for AGA Marvel and Grange. Company-wide 
procurement strategies have helped control costs. Over 
the last two years the Group has reduced the cost base 
by over £9 million through such measures. In addition 
to major structural programmes it continues to identify 
and implement a comprehensive programme of process 
improvement initiatives which senior managers have 
identified.
Home energy management and new product 
investments
An underlying theme for the Group is investing in 
new product. A key area is looking into home energy 
management. The Group has the background and the 
technologies to play an important part in the changing 
approach to energy management in the home. The 
Government’s new initiatives to boost the renewable 
energy market will further stimulate interest. The electric 
AGA uses a small amount of energy over a long period 
and can store energy. This works well with the intermittent 
nature of wind and solar micro generation. The Rayburn is 
primarily an all-in-one cooker and boiler. Its burners can 
use biofuels : we have field trials with methane produced 
from biomass and a blended Bio kerosene oil. We are 
now linking Rayburns with wood burning stoves and solar 
collectors in a comprehensive home heating package. 
Our investment programmes align our products to the 
renewables markets as they develop. We aim to make 
our products more flexible – future-proofing purchasers 
so that they can, if not immediately then in due course, 
take advantage of the rapidly increasing output of micro 
generation and of reliability of non-fossil fuels. This has 
seen:
•  The introduction of the 13 amp electric AGA in 2005; 
made programmable in 2007;
•  The launch of the gas condensing boiler Rayburn in 
2006;
• Introduction of the programmable gas AGA in 2008.
•  The burner upgrade programmes for oil to electric and 
gas AGA models in 2009;
•  The launch of the remodelled Rayburn 600 Series in 
2009;
•  2010 will see the second generation of products to link 
energy from wood burning stoves and other renewable 
sources with Rayburn boilers providing back up.
Consumers are concerned to ensure that their homes 
remain warm and comfortable and that they have reliable 
energy sources throughout the year. This means that having 
more than one energy source in the home is particularly 
attractive. We expect the rapid growth in stove sales to 
continue. We sold over 20,000 stoves in 2009 and they 
are now the core activity of Stanley in Ireland and they are 
a growing part of sales in the UK.
A household with an AGA at the heart of the home will 
require appreciably fewer other household appliances or 
can use them far less. The AGA substitutes substantially 
for radiators, being itself a very efficient radiator – hence 
an AGA household could use less energy than one 
without. The AGA CO
2
 emission tonnages run at around 
four tonnes for an electric 3-oven product – half the output 
of a 4-person household. In due course it is likely that the 
AGA will link with energy sources generated at the point 
of use – the combined heat and power units; solar power 
and wind turbines.
Pension scheme funding
The Group continues to consider carefully its obligations 
to its defined benefit pension scheme which is large, 
reflecting the Group’s long industrial history in the 
Midlands. The scheme has around 14,000 members of 
which circa 650 are current employees.
Burner upgrades can make 
most existing AGA cookers 
programmable saving customers up to 
25% on fuel costs.  8 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 9
Chief	e x ecutiv e’ s	r e vie w
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
The triennial valuation as at 31st December 2008 is close 
to finalisation. It is likely to show a deficit of well over £100 
million at a date when there was a £57.5 million surplus on 
an accounting basis. Rolled forward a year to 31st December 
2009, the actuarial deficit is considered to be potentially 
around £50 million above the accounting deficit of £40.5 
million. The Group has previously provided £50 million of 
guarantees in support of the Group’s potential obligation 
to the scheme in 2020. The Group currently expects to 
be asked to contribute an additional £2 million per annum 
in 2010 and 2011. From 2012 the Group expects to be 
asked to contribute around £10 million annually to meet 
the current service cost and deficit contributions or to 
add to the guarantees already provided. The 2011 triennial 
valuation is expected to be concluded before these cash 
contributions or additional guarantees are required.
The Group continues to work hard and closely with the 
trustee of the scheme to ensure that the obligations to 
members are met and the costs to the Group are carefully 
monitored and managed as the scheme moves towards 
the targeted self-sufficiency position in 2020.
As part of the management of pension costs, following 
consultations, the current member pensionable salaries 
were frozen. This gave rise to a curtailment gain in 2009 
against the previous IAS 19 valuation assumptions for future 
salary inflation when applied to higher paid employees of 
£3.8 million and will give rise to a curtailment gain in 2010 
of around £15 million when applied to all other current 
members.
The Group would like to reduce the contingent risks the 
scheme creates – should markets make that sensible 
economically for all relevant parties.
Finance strategy
The Group maintains its conservative approach to finances 
in light of the difficult markets and the scale of the Group’s 
pension scheme. The Group looked to maintain profits 
during the recession while investing carefully in product 
for the future.
The Group had moved to a net cash position at the end of 
2007 and we took further action to manage the business 
through a severe economic downturn. We set the objective 
of having more cash at the end of the year than at the start. 
It is, therefore, pleasing against this background to report 
cash of £28.0 million compared to £5.8 million. This gives 
us a strong position upon which we can build.
Revenue
Group revenues decreased by 12.3% to £245.0 million 
from £279.4 million in 2008. In constant currency the 
revenue decrease was 15.7%. Second half revenues of 
£127.2 million were down 5.3% from £134.3 million which 
was much improved on the first half when revenues of 
£117.8 million were down 18.8% from the £145.1 million 
reported in the first half of 2008. Of total revenues 36% 
were outside the UK. 
Operating profit
The operating loss for the year was £1.5 million (2008: 
profit £11.1 million). The first half loss of £1.7 million was 
partly offset by a small second half profit. The results for 
the year reflect the significant fall in revenues. We took 
action early to address the revenue decrease by reducing 
headcount by a further 200 to below 2,600 following on 
from a reduction of around 400 in 2008. Non-recurring 
costs in the year totalled £3.6 million (2008: £5.3 million). 
The further reorganisations undertaken in the year were 
at a cost of £2.8 million. T aken together, cost cutting 
measures implemented in the last two years have led to 
cost savings of over £9 million.  10 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 11
The Group’s woodburning stoves have 
re-emerged as a key appliance in the 
efficient modern home – providing 
a degree of independence as an 
additional eco-friendly heating source.
Finance income
Net finance income for the year was £0.2 million (2008: 
£3.2 million). The movement was principally due to 
lower interest income resulting from the substantial 
reduction in cash balances following the £140 million 
cash return to shareholders in 2008, lower interest rates 
on cash deposits offset by £0.8 million of interest on a tax 
repayment received.
T axation
The Group’s tax charge was nil on profits before tax of 
£0.5 million. The Group considered the level of tax paid 
for years yet to be finalised with the revenue and sought 
a tax repayment which was received in the second half. 
There was altogether a net tax repayment of £4.0 million 
relating to prior tax years.
Moving forward the Group expects to pay tax at around 
the UK standard rate of 28% once the benefit of tax losses 
arising during the recession have been utilised.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 2.5 pence (2008: 14.4 
pence) based on an average number of shares in issue of 
69.2 million (2008: 85.9 million). 
Dividends
While no interim dividend has been paid or a final dividend 
proposed for 2009, the board will continue to keep this 
under review and intends to return to paying a dividend as 
soon as it is appropriate to do so.
Cashflow
One of the most encouraging features of the year was 
the cashflow from operational activities which at £25.3 
million (2008: £4.5 million) was £20.8 million higher. The 
increase was mainly due to action taken in the first part 
of the year to destock in response to the downturn – the 
value of inventory held by the Group fell in the year by 
£15.3 million. Particular focus was also placed on debtor 
and creditor management across the Group. The net 
inflow from working capital was £22.9 million in the year 
(2008: outflow of £8.9 million).
New capital expenditure projects in the year totalled £3.4 
million which makes the net cash flow on capital items, 
including intangibles, £8.1 million in the year. This figure 
includes the £2.8 million final payment on the AGA Marvel 
factory in the US. The depreciation and amortisation of 
intangibles charge in 2009 was £8.7 million (2008: £8.1 
million).
The resulting net cash position at 31st December 2009 
was £28.0 million (2008: £5.8 million).  10 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 11
Chief	e x ecutiv e’ s	r e vie w
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Confidence and creativity - Fired 
Earth’s collage collection from the Tile 
Basics range together with Fired Earth 
brassware.
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 11  12 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 13
A B
C D
The new Divertimenti Directory and 
website have brought many new 
customers to Divertimenti – the much 
loved cook’s emporium.
RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT STRATEGY TO MITIGATE
Economic conditions
The economic environment may impact 
consumer spending plans.
A swift economic recovery may increase 
raw material prices.
A lack of consumer confidence may 
reduce Group sales, primarily of 
consumer appliances and household 
products impacting production levels and 
profitability.
Reduced profitability and availability of 
components.
•  The Group monitors economic conditions in 
particular housing market trends.
•  The Group seeks to diversify sales away 
from the UK to reduce individual market 
dependency.
•  Internal processes continually monitor 
prices and the availability of raw materials.
Competition
Competitors introduce upgraded products 
and add to marketing programmes.
Downward pressure on pricing if sector 
accepts lower margins.
Market share could be lost to competitors 
without continuing product innovation and 
strong marketing support.
Reduced demand for our products and 
negative operational gearing if we were to 
become less price competitive.
•  Introduce new products that are well 
researched and market tested.
•  Investment in new product development and 
design capabilities.
•  Monitor our market position and competitor 
strategies.
•  Constant value engineering programmes to 
be price competitive.
Intellectual property
Failure to identify the violation of our rights 
could lead to unfair competition.
Others may imitate our products breaching 
our patents, trademarks and copyrights 
damaging our brands and profitability.
•  Monitor the market to identify breaches of 
our proprietary rights.
•  T ake legal action wherever appropriate.
Customer/supplier relationships
Some key relationships are central to 
trading performance.
Loss of critical suppliers/ customers could 
have a material impact on individual 
company volumes.
Interruption to supply can stop production 
and impact profitability.
•  Sales teams meet regularly with senior 
management of key customers.
•  Regular monitoring of customer service.
•  The supply chain team holds regular review 
meetings with suppliers.
•  Where possible we maintain multiple supply 
sources.
•  Group seeks to avoid one sales account 
or supplier being material to overall 
performance.
Manufacturing
External events, fires or workforce action 
could disrupt production.
Manufacturing techniques and processes 
can become outdated.
Disruption to manufacturing for a sustained 
period can impact profits.
Product lines age or become obsolete or 
uneconomic.  
•  Disaster recovery plans are in place at all 
units.
•  Manufacturing technology is shared so that 
best practice levels are maintained.
•  Maintain regular communication with 
workforce/unions.
•  Investment in new technologies and 
equipment is prioritised.
•  Ensure business operating standards are 
high as seen in ISO 9001 : 2008 and ISO 
14001 : 2004 accreditations.    12 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 13
KEY RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES
RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT STRATEGY TO MITIGATE
Environment
Manufacturing our product impacts the 
environment.
Energy to run our products is excessive.
Failure to manage our environmental 
impacts could damage our brand, lead to 
government/regulatory actions resulting in 
fines or enforcement notices.
•  We invest to improve environmental 
performance.
•  We have environmental impact targets 
as part of our ISO 14001 : 2004 and 
Environmental Management System 
programmes.
•  We undertake to be a responsible 
manufacturer and ensure compliance with 
all new production regulations.
•  We treat effective energy management in 
the home as a priority.
•  The results are monitored at board level.
People
Health and safety.
Failure to attract, retain and motivate 
employees.
Failure to meet the appropriate standards 
can have a significant impact on our people, 
damage the brand and lead to significant 
financial and operational costs.
Loss of key people could damage the future 
prospects of the Group.
•  We are committed to the highest standards 
and conduct regular audits as seen in our BS 
OHSAS 18001 accreditation.
•  Health and safety is a key agenda item at 
operational and board meetings.
•  Incentive and remuneration packages are 
designed to attract, retain and motivate key 
staff.
•  Succession planning is in place and reviewed 
regularly by the board.
Financial
Foreign exchange and interest rates as we 
manufacture and sell across the world.
The Group uses bank facilities that require 
renewal from time to time.
Significant movements can impact both 
profitability and cash flow of the Group.
Underperformance could lead to breaches 
in bank covenants, a lack of finance 
availability and increased costs.
•  Group offsets currency flows within the 
Group wherever possible.
•  Forward foreign exchange contracts are 
entered into where necessary.
•  T reasury policy sets framework for hedging 
currency and interest rate risks.
•  Covenants are maintained against forecasts.
•  Consistent dialogue held with banking 
group.
Pensions
The funding requirement of the Group’s 
pension scheme could increase 
significantly.
The finances of the Group could be 
significantly constrained by required 
pensions contributions.
•  The Group and the trustee have agreed a 
long-term funding structure and manage 
closely both assets and liabilities.
Dividend policy
Weak markets could impact the Group’s 
ability to restore dividend payments.
Low dividend levels restrict the investment 
case.
•  The Group maintains a medium-term 
dividend cover policy of it being covered 2.5 
times out of fully taxed profits.
K e y	risk s	&	unc er tainties  14 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 15
Introduction
Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) is integral to all 
aspects of our operations and our Statement of Core 
Principles sets out our undertaking to act ethically and 
responsibly in all our business relationships and dealings 
with stakeholders. We are committed to continuous 
improvements in all aspects of CSR – our policies, our 
systems, our performance and our reporting. 
Our programmes to enhance the sustainability of our 
business and products include responsible sourcing, our 
community activities, our health, safety and environmental 
programmes and our engagement with employees, 
customers and other stakeholders. As a supplier of 
premium consumer appliances, the Group sees product 
stewardship as a key part of its CSR programme. We 
work to design our products to be more energy efficient 
in use, to have a high degree of recyclability and to utilise 
eco-friendly and sustainable energy solutions. 
In addition to this report, the Group provides CSR related 
information on its website and its 2009 CSR Report will be 
published online in May 2010. The CSR Report will include 
further details of our policies and performance with case 
study examples describing policy implementation and 
effectiveness. 
Management of CSR
The chief executive is accountable to the board for the 
Group’s CSR policies and procedures. He is supported by 
the Group HR director and by the executive management 
committee. The management of each operation has 
responsibility for CSR and is accountable to the chief 
executive in respect of all CSR matters. Environmental, 
health and safety policies are included in the schedule of 
matters reserved for board approval and CSR is included 
in the ongoing risk management process. 
In 2009 the Group continued with its rolling programme of 
internal CSR audits which now include an extended range 
of compliance matters. The audits are undertaken by 
functional specialists reporting to the Group HR director 
with support from external advisers, where appropriate. 
Our objective is to audit each production site at least once 
every two years with a systematic programme of visits to 
our retail sites. During the year all operations were covered 
by the CSR/ compliance audit process. The CSR audit 
programme assists with the development of benchmark 
standards of best practice across the Group. We plan to 
implement a new internet based improvement notice 
system that will streamline the issue resolution process 
across the Group whilst supporting our ongoing working 
relationships with suppliers and external contacts. 
The AGA Rangemaster Group is a 
member of the FTSE4Good index and 
uses this index in conjunction with 
stakeholder consultations and other 
benchmarks to help identify key priorities 
and to drive progress. 
Employment and stakeholder engagement
The Group engages in proactive two way dialogue 
with stakeholders and in particular liaises with 
shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, local 
communities, government bodies, other authorities 
and non-governmental organisations. This engagement 
includes reviews of the impact of our operations on local 
communities. 
Management hold face-to-face briefing sessions to keep 
employees informed of developments across the Group 
and to receive feedback. Employee communications are 
supported by local newsletters. During 2009 the Company 
rolled out its Group-wide intranet. The intranet is regularly 
updated with information from all Group companies and 
Grange is renowned for its French
cabinet making expertise and its skill 
and craftsmanship is at the centre of 
creating contemporary furniture for 
the family kitchen and home.  14 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 15
C orpor at e	social	r esponsibilit y
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
is used as a communications medium and to reinforce 
policies and common themes, including health and 
safety, environmental, core values and employee benefits. 
We continue to develop content and comments from 
employees are welcomed. Employees are encouraged to 
access the Group’s websites and the intranet. During 2010 
we plan to extend awareness to include employees who 
do not have access to computers as part of their duties. 
This includes a trial which will provide computer access in 
a number of factories.
Human resources
We recognise that our people are key to the Group’s 
ongoing success and the Group HR director now takes an 
active role in developing and embedding best practice and 
procedure benchmarking around the Group. 
During the year the Group employed an average of 2,656 
people in six countries. Some 71% of our staff are located 
in the UK, 19% elsewhere in Europe and 10% in North 
America. Over 99% are permanent employees, 70% are 
male and 30% are female. Of those in management roles 
75% are male and 25% are female.
Voluntary staff turnover during the year was on average 
7% across the Group. T otal staff turnover was 13%. 
In view of the difficult economic and market conditions, the 
Group has maintained short time working in selected areas 
as part of its policy to avoid compulsory redundancies, 
where possible. It has also accepted selected voluntary 
redundancies whilst ensuring key skills and capabilities 
are retained. The Group regularly reviews resourcing 
levels and has on-going dialogue with employees, union 
representatives and other employee representatives in 
this regard.
Human resources policies
The Group’s policy is to invest in its people and to 
encourage them to develop to their maximum potential 
according to the needs of our operations and our 
customers. The Group’s Code of Conduct for employees 
outlines the standards of integrity and honest conduct 
expected, and explains that breaches of Company policy 
may result in disciplinary action and dismissal. The 
Code of Conduct is published on the Group’s website 
and includes the whistleblowing policy which enables 
employees and others to report any breaches of the Code 
of Conduct, fraud or any other criminal acts in confidence 
and without fear of retribution. All employees worldwide 
may use the internal whistleblowing provisions and UK 
and US employees may alternatively use the external 
independent services available in those areas. All reports 
are logged and monitored by the audit and risk committee 
and appropriate investigations and action undertaken. 
We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights 
at Work concerning the fundamental rights including 
freedom of association and the effective recognition of the 
right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms 
of forced or compulsory labour, the effective abolition 
of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in 
respect of employment and occupation. 
The Group requires that its operations comply with 
its equal opportunities policy and it does not tolerate 
harassment or discrimination in any form. Each 
operation must ensure that there is equal opportunity of 
employment, retention, promotion and training regardless 
of race, ethnic or national origin, gender, marital status, 
age, sexual orientation, religion, trade union membership 
or disability and that appropriate consideration is given to 
disabled applicants in terms of employment taking into 
account local legislation.   16 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 17
Training and development 
The Group invests in the capabilities of its employees and 
encourages them to be fully involved in their development 
and training. Some 2,180 days of ‘off-the-job’ training were 
recorded during the year. This is in addition to ‘on-the-job’ 
and ‘tool-box training’. 
The in-house AGA Management Programme was 
launched in March 2009 with the Institute of Leadership 
and Management ('ILM'). The programme focuses on 
leadership, management and supervisory skills. Employees 
successfully completing the programme are awarded 
ILM certificates after completing five training modules 
and a work-related project which is externally verified by 
Mercia Management. A total of 66 AGA and Fired Earth 
employees have been enrolled on the programme with 31 
awards made to date. In addition AGA currently has a total 
of 84 manufacturing and warehouse based employees 
studying for National Vocational Qualifications in the UK.
Environmental, health and safety
The Group is committed to the continuous improvement of 
its environmental, health and safety (‘EHS’) performance 
and to enhancing the overall sustainability of its operations, 
products and services. A summary of our progress during 
the year is included here and further details will be included 
in our 2009 CSR Report. 
The Group’s EHS policies are underpinned by detailed 
procedures within each of the Group’s operations. 
Management are responsible for their implementation 
and for keeping all concerned informed of best practice 
and the statutory frameworks. Policies and practices 
are reviewed and updated for changes in legislation 
and employees are made aware of the policies and 
their responsibility to ensure that these are effectively 
applied. The chief executive is accountable to the board 
for EHS matters, supported by the Group HR director. In 
practice all employees are responsible for implementing 
our EHS policies and for identifying opportunities for 
improvement. 
The Group HR director ensures performance is regularly 
reviewed, that targets are set for improvement and for the 
benchmarking, leveraging and promoting best practice. 
As noted above, the system of CSR/ compliance audits 
supports this work and external consultants are utilised 
when specific needs arise. 
Health and safety targets and performance 
The Group uses a number of key performance indicators 
(‘KPIs’), to monitor accident frequencies, accident causes 
and the amount of time lost at all operations and sets 
annual improvement targets. 
All our locations have health and safety management 
systems in place. During the year, the Group’s four UK 
manufacturing sites were accredited to BS OHSAS 18001: 
2007, the occupational health and safety standard. 
Our long-term aim is to have no accidents, and we made 
progress towards this goal during the year. Across the Group 
the frequency of lost time accidents (‘LTAs’) per 100,000 
hours was down by 19.5% to 0.9 LTAs per 100,000 hours 
worked. This was ahead of our improvement target of 5%. 
The lost time due to accidents as a proportion of working 
time increased by 9% to 0.22% against our improvement 
target of a 15% decrease. This was due to an increase in 
the average lost time per LTA to 30 days. This was up by 
35% against a targeted 10% reduction. The increase was 
in part due to two accidents, one of which occurred in 
2008 with the employee only returning to work part-time 
during 2009. The other occurred in January 2009 and the 
employee did not return to work during the year. Other 
than these two cases, our risk management and ‘return 
to work’ initiatives targeting specific locations with below 
average performance resulted in a general improvement 
in performance. 
We monitor accident causes on a consistent global basis, 
with the most common cause of accidents across the 
Group being cuts and abrasions. We will continue to focus 
A Rangemaster Design Centre 
bringing together the latest range 
of products for customers to view 
and receive expert advice from 
Rangemaster trained advisers.  16 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 17
C orpor at e	social	r esponsibilit y
on reducing accidents in this area at locations with below 
average performance. 
from 89,635m
3
 in 2008 to 53,125m
3
 in 2009 and water 
intensity was down 27% over the two years 2007-09 to 
210m
3
 of water per £million sales. Our two year target 
was for a 5% reduction. 
Reported waste intensity was down by 2% in the year to 30 
tonnes per £million sales, bringing the reduction over the 
period 2007-09 to 21%. This was driven by a large reduction 
in 2008 and was ahead of our two year reduction target of 
5%. T otal waste was down from 9,276 tonnes in 2008 to 
7,647 tonnes in 2009. The proportion of total waste which 
was recycled increased by 12 percentage points from 62% 
in 2008 to 74% in 2009. 
The Group supports the adoption and implementation 
of environmental management systems across the 
LTA* frequency
LTAs/100k hours worked
2009
2008
2007
0.9
1.1
1.4
2009
2008
2007
Lost time
% of working time lost
0.22%
0.20%
0.25%
2009
2008
2007
Lost time per accident
Days lost per LTA
30.0
22.2
21.6
All KPIs are for the continuing operations only, with 2007 restated 
accordingly.
*LTAs are defined as those resulting in lost time of one or more days not 
including the day of the accident.
Environmental targets and performance
We work to minimise the environmental impact of 
our business on the environment and to enhance the 
sustainability of the products we make and sell. The Group’s 
environmental impacts include energy use and transport 
and the resultant climate change related emissions, water 
consumption and the waste and recycling arising from our 
manufacturing processes and general business operations. 
The environmental data in this report covers 100% of our 
manufacturing locations and the retail sites for which the 
data is available, in total some 98% of Group revenue. 
Further details of our performance will be included in the 
2009 CSR report. 
As a result of efficiency and reduction programmes across 
the Group our CO
2
 emissions intensity over the two years 
2007-09 was reduced by 8% to 102 tonnes per £million 
of sales. This was ahead of our two year target of a 5% 
reduction. T otal 2009 CO
2
 emissions due to energy use 
and in-house transport were some 25,900 tonnes, down 
from 32,200 tonnes in 2008 and 34,800 tonnes in 2007. 
Achieving reductions in water use was a major focus at 
operations within the AGA and Rangemaster operating 
segments during the year. As a result, water use was down 
operations. Some eleven locations have environmental 
management systems in place covering over 80% of 
production, including the two Rangemaster sites which 
are accredited to ISO 14001:2004. Following the year end, 
the new AGA Marvel site in Greenville, Michigan, USA 
was accredited to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004. 
We are now also reviewing plans for the two AGA sites in 
the UK to achieve ISO 14001 accreditation in 2011. 
T otal CO
2
 intensity*
T onnes CO
2
 per £m sales
2009
2008
2007
102
107
107
2009
2008
2007
T otal waste intensity
T onnes waste per £m sales
30
31
38
2009
2008
2007
Water intensity
m
3
 water use per £m sales
210
299
286
All KPIs are for the continuing operations only, with 2007 restated 
accordingly.
*Includes emissions due to energy use and due to in-house transport 
operations.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  18 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 19
Environmental improvement initiatives
The Company has a number of programmes in place to 
support and facilitate environmental improvements across 
the Group. The 2009 Group environmental competition 
inspired entries from across the operations and a variety 
of energy saving and waste reduction ideas were received 
from employees. The winning entries came from AGA 
Marvel and Rangemaster employees. Both entries were 
based on the same theme - to reuse waste heat from air 
compressors and exhaust gases and to convert this into 
a useful, environmentally friendly source of heat for the 
premises and for curing painted parts. These initiatives 
were implemented during the year and will help increase 
efficiency, save costs and reduce our carbon footprint. 
At Grange, a new drying process was introduced by 
creating separation in the existing dryer, combined with 
a slight increase in temperature and improved ventilation. 
This cut the drying time per operation by 70% and has 
significantly reduced energy usage.
We continue to make improvements in waste intensity and 
we are extending the use of waste compactors across the 
Group which helps cut disposal costs and CO
2 
emissions 
due to fewer skip removals. 
Fired Earth was the winner of the Oxfordshire Waste 
Partnership Sustainability Award in 2009, reflecting an 
ongoing commitment to the environment. Fired Earth has 
introduced a number of initiatives including eco-friendly 
and reusable packaging and it recovers as much packaging 
as possible to prevent it going into the waste stream. In 
2009, Fired Earth reduced packaging use per £million 
sales by 11% and recycled 90% of all waste.
Compliance
There were no environmental or health and safety related 
fines, penalties or prosecutions by any regulatory body 
during the year. 
Product stewardship
The Group continues to place great emphasis on 
consumer and environmental issues. We are committed 
to minimising the environmental impact of our products 
during manufacture, in use and at the end of life. We aim 
to offer our customers well designed, quality products 
which have been sustainably sourced, are energy efficient 
and have a high degree of recyclability. We work to ensure 
that the products we make and sell are compliant with 
the REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation 
of Chemicals); the RoHS (Restriction of the use of certain 
Hazardous Substances) and WEEE (Waste, Electrical and 
Electronic Equipment) Directives. 
We are also pursuing eco-friendly and sustainable energy 
solutions to help ensure that our products address 
increasing concerns over the use of energy and the related 
CO
2
 emissions. Further details of the economic and 
environmental performance of our cast iron cookers and 
the resulting conclusions are set out in the ‘Aganomics’ 
and ‘Rayburnomics’ papers available on our website. 
These emphasise the multi¬functional nature of the 
products, their recyclability and their long lives. Increased 
flexibility, burner upgrades, energy management systems 
and the potential to link with alternative sources of 
energy confirms the relevance of cast iron cooking to 
contemporary needs. 
Supply chain - ethical trading policy
The board recognises the importance of managing its 
supply chain to ensure, so far as is practicable, that its 
direct and indirect suppliers adopt the same core principles 
as the Group. The Group first introduced an ethical trading 
policy in 2002. This encompasses a set of global sourcing 
principles covering fair terms of employment, human 
rights, health and safety, equal opportunities and good 
environmental practice. All operating companies are 
required to review supplier compliance with this policy, 
identify any areas of non-conformance and take action 
where appropriate. The Group monitors quality, design 
and availability of all sourced components and products, 
Falcon is a fast growing brand on the 
continent.  18 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 19
C orpor at e	social	r esponsibilit y
to ensure high standards are maintained. The Group’s 
supplier development programme has been updated to 
include a more comprehensive monitoring questionnaire 
to help ensure suppliers conform to standards set by the 
Group. 
All print and paper sourced by the Group is accredited to 
Forest Stewardship Council (‘FSC’) and the Program for the 
Endorsement of Forest Certification (‘PEFC’) standards. 
Customers 
The Group’s customer service strategy is to respond 
rapidly to evolving customer demand, to identify and 
anticipate emerging needs and to continuously improve 
product availability, quality and value. Our quality 
management systems help ensure that our products meet 
or exceed customer requirements with 70% of the Group’s 
manufacturing capacity accredited to ISO 9001:2008. 
In the coming year we will further engage with our 
customers to reinforce our product stewardship and other 
customer related initiatives. Our customer relationship 
management team keeps owners and potential owners 
of our products up to date on our new product and sales 
initiatives. 
Community involvement 
Each of our operations and their employees are 
encouraged to become involved with and to support 
local community projects, educational establishments, 
charities and other causes. This support takes various 
forms including donations, fundraising, payroll giving or 
personal time and commitment. Our retail operations also 
organise events and allow charities to hold meetings in 
their outlets. Charitable initiatives include financial and 
product donations, equipment maintenance and employee 
involvement. 
Liaison on community issues is encouraged and comments 
are logged, responded to and reviewed at Group level. 
In 2009, the Group began working to raise funds and 
awareness for The Place2Be - an innovative and award 
winning UK registered charity that works inside schools to 
improve the emotional well-being of children, their families 
and the whole school community. Our retail shops have 
hosted a number of fundraising events for The Place2Be.
Fired Earth launched a campaign to raise funds to support 
the work of the National T rust in the UK. Between 20p and 
50p per can of paint sold through Fired Earth stores and 
independent stockists is donated to the National T rust. 
The Group continues to support Birchfield Harriers - the 
UK's premier athletics club and its members as they 
prepare for the London 2012 games.
Details of other initiatives to support local charities and 
community events will be included in the Group’s 2009 
CSR report.
Verification 
In addition to our internal CSR audit programme, those 
operations certified to ISO 14001:2004: and other 
standards are subject to regular external audits. Since 
March 2002 the Group has also been advised by CSR 
Consulting Ltd, who assist the Company in evaluating its 
policies and procedures and with the reporting and review 
of its CSR related performance. CSR related risks are 
included in the Group’s risk management process and at 
present the board does not believe that an overall external 
CSR audit would be appropriate. However, where required 
the Group utilises external specialists as necessary. The 
information in this CSR report is not subject to audit by 
Ernst & Y oung LLP. 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  20 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 21
T he	boar d
John Coleman (B*, A, N*, R)
Chairman (independent)
John Coleman was appointed an independent non-executive director in March 2008 and 
became chairman of the board in May 2008. John chairs the nomination committee and 
became a member of the audit and risk and remuneration committees in January 2010. 
John is currently executive chairman of Holidaybreak plc and a non-executive director of 
T ravis Perkins plc. He was chief executive of House of Fraser plc from 1996 to 2006. Prior to 
that he was chief executive of T exas Homecare and held a number of senior management 
positions within the Burton Group PLC. He is a chartered management accountant.
William McGrath (B)
Chief executive
William McGrath was appointed chief executive in March 2001. William joined the 
Group as finance director in October 1997 from Aggregate Industries plc where he had 
become finance director in 1992. He had previously worked in the investment banking and 
construction sectors. He is a qualified accountant and a history graduate.
Shaun Smith (B)
Finance director
Shaun Smith was appointed to the board as finance director in March 2001. Shaun joined 
the Group from Marks and Spencer plc in 1989 and worked in treasury becoming the group 
treasurer in 1999. He is a co-opted member of the audit committee of Birmingham City 
University. He is a qualified treasurer and economics graduate.
Pam Sissons
Company secretary
Pam Sissons joined the Group in 1999 and was appointed company secretary in October 
2004. She is a Fellow of the Chartered Insurance Institute and an Associate of the Chartered 
Institute of Secretaries and Administrators.
B - Board member
A - Audit and risk committee member
N - Nomination committee member
R - Remuneration committee member
* denotes chairman of the board or committee  20 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 21
T he	boar d	and	its	adviser s
Paul Dermody OBE (B, A*, N, R)
Non-executive director (independent) 
Paul Dermody joined the board in March 2004 and chairs the audit and risk committee. 
Paul is a non-executive director of Majestic Wine PLC and chairman of the trustees of 
The National Football Museum. He was formerly chief executive of De Vere Group Plc, 
having spent his career with its predecessor Greenalls. He is a chartered management 
accountant.
Peter T om CBE (B, A, N, R*)
Non-executive director (senior independent director)
Peter T om joined the board in February 2004 and chairs the remuneration committee. Peter 
has spent his career in the aggregates industry. He started his career at Bardon Hill Quarries 
Limited and was appointed chief executive of Aggregate Industries plc in 1997, until the 
sale of the company in 2005. Peter is the chairman of Leicester Football Club plc (Leicester 
Tigers), Rapid Realisations Fund Limited and Marwyn Materials Limited and is a director of 
NewRiver Retail Limited. 
Paul Jackson (B, A, N, R)
Non-executive director (independent) 
Paul Jackson joined the board in December 2005. Paul has spent his career in advertising. 
He started his career with Saatchi & Saatchi and later became executive managing partner 
and vice chairman of Ammirati Puris Lintas. He joined Ogilvy & Mather, part of WPP Group, 
in 1999. He was a director at Ogilvy Group and chief executive of Ogilvy & Mather, until 
2007. He has wide experience in brand and international product development.
Advisers
Auditor 
Ernst & Y oung LLP 
No 1 Colmore Square 
Birmingham 
B4 6HQ
Bankers 
Svenska Handelsbanken AB 
HSBC Bank plc 
Lloyds TSB Bank plc 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc
Financial advisers 
and stockbrokers
Numis Securities Limited 
The London Stock Exchange Building 
10 Paternoster Square 
London EC4M 7LT
Execution Noble & Company Limited 
Block D 
The Old T ruman Brewery 
91 Brick Lane 
London E1 6QL
Registrar 
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA 
T elephone UK: 0871 384 2355 
International: 00 44 121 415 7046
Solicitor 
Allen & Overy LLP 
One Bishops Square 
London E1 6AD
THE BOARD  22 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 23
Dir ect or s’	r epor t
Directors’ report
The directors present their report on the affairs of the 
Company and the Group, together with the financial 
statements and the independent auditor’s reports for the 
year ended 31st December 2009. 
Principal activities and business review
AGA Rangemaster Group plc is the holding company of 
the Group. Detailed information on the Group’s principal 
activities, its performance during the past year and its 
prospects for future development are reported in the 
chairman’s statement on pages 2 to 3, the chief executive’s 
review on pages 4 to 11; key risks and uncertainties on 
pages 12 to 13 and corporate social responsibility on pages 
14 to 19. The statements and reviews are incorporated into 
this report by reference. The principal trading subsidiaries 
and the countries in which they operate are shown on 
page 78. 
Results and dividends
The profit attributable to equity shareholders for the 
period was £1.7m (2008: £12.4m) and is shown in the 
consolidated income statement. No interim dividend was 
paid in the year (2008: 4.0p per share). No final dividend is 
recommended for the financial year ended 31st December 
2009 (2008: nil per share). 
Directors and their interests 
The names and biographical details of those persons 
serving as directors of the Company as at the date of this 
report are shown on pages 20 to 21. Details of changes 
to the board during the year and of the directors offering 
themselves for re-election at the AGM are set out on 
page 30.
Details of directors’ service agreements are set out in the 
directors’ remuneration report on page 39. 
The interests of the directors in shares of the company are 
set out in the directors’ remuneration report in the table 
on page 37.
Directors’ indemnities
Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries 
benefit from directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
cover in respect of legal actions brought against them. 
This provision, which is a qualifying third party indemnity 
provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies 
Act 2006 ('CA2006'), was in force throughout the 
financial year and remains in force. In addition, directors 
of the Company are indemnified in accordance with the 
Company’s articles of association and to the maximum 
extent permitted by law. All directors have deeds of 
indemnity that are in force as at the date of this report. 
Neither the insurance nor the indemnities provide cover 
where the relevant director or officer has acted fraudulently 
or dishonestly.
The T rust Deeds to the Company’s principal UK pension 
scheme includes the provision of an indemnity from 
the Company to the scheme trustee’s directors, save in 
the case of gross negligence or conscious bad faith and 
only to the extent that the provision of the indemnity 
to such directors would not infringe applicable legal 
requirements. 
Articles of association
The board of directors may exercise all the powers of the 
Company, subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, 
the Company’s articles of association (the ‘Articles’) 
and any directions given by a special resolution of 
the shareholders. The Articles, for instance, contain 
certain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the 
Company’s power to borrow money. Powers relating to 
the issuing and buying back of shares are included in the 
Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders 
each year at the AGM. The rules for the appointment and 
removal of directors set out in the Articles are detailed in 
the corporate governance report on pages 29 and 30.
The Articles can only be changed by a special resolution 
passed in a general meeting of shareholders. The Company 
is committed to ensuring it keeps pace with changing 
legislation and regulation. Accordingly, the directors 
propose to recommend to shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting ('AGM') that the current Articles be 
updated primarily to reflect the implementation of the 
Companies (Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2009 and 
the remaining provisions of the CA 2006. Full details are 
set out in the Notice of AGM.
Charitable and political donations
Charitable donations made during the year were £4,801 
(2008: £22,952). These donations were made across 
the operations principally to local charities serving the 
communities in which the Group operates. No political 
donations or political expenditure were made during the 
year (2008: nil). 
Employees
The average number of employees within the Group is 
shown in note 5 to the accounts. The Group is committed 
to the fair and equitable treatment of all its employees, 
irrespective of sex, race, age, religion, disability or sexual 
orientation. T o this end, policies have been implemented to 
ensure this is practised at recruitment and then continues   22 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 23
Dir ect or s’	r epor t Dir ect or s’	r epor t
throughout an individual’s employment with the Group. 
The Group encourages recruitment, training, career 
development and promotion on the basis of aptitude and 
ability, without regard to disability. It is also committed 
to retaining and retraining as necessary employees who 
become disabled during the course of their employment.
The Group has a policy of actively communicating 
information to employees concerning the development 
of the Group and how this may affect their interests 
and of ensuring their appropriate involvement. We have 
introduced a Group wide intranet which employees 
can access which provides up to date information on 
developments around the Group. Employee involvement 
in the Group’s performance continues to be encouraged 
through share ownership. Further details of the Group’s 
human resources policies are provided on pages 15 to 16 
of the CSR section.
Health, safety and environmental
It is important for the Group to provide and maintain a 
safe environment for all employees, customers and other 
visitors to its premises and the wider workplace. The Group 
complies with the relevant health and safety legislation in 
the jurisdictions in which it operates. The Group’s health 
and safety policy and performance is regularly reviewed 
by the board. 
The Group also recognises that it is part of the wider 
community and that it has a responsibility to act in a way 
that respects the environment and the social well-being of 
others. The Group’s environmental policy and performance 
against objectives and targets is regularly reviewed by the 
board. Further details are included on pages 16 to 18 of the 
CSR section of this report.
Research and development
Research and development plays an important role in 
the development of the Group. Product innovation has 
been a key feature of the Group’s strategy. Development 
departments across the Group are increasingly working 
together to develop products for our international customer 
base. The Group capitalises certain development spend 
under IAS 38. During the year, the Group capitalised 
expenditure on development of £1.7m (2008: £2.5m). 
Supplier payment policy 
The Group’s policy is to settle terms of payment with 
suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, 
ensuring that suppliers are made aware of the terms 
of payment and to endeavour to abide by those terms 
and conditions, subject to the supplier performing to its 
obligations.
T rade payables at the year end equated to 77 days of 
related purchases (2008: 63 days).
Treasury management
The Group’s policy on the use of financial instruments and 
the management of financial risks is set out in note 19 to 
the accounts.
Share capital
Details of authorised and issued share capital, together 
with details of the movements in the Company’s issued 
share capital are provided in note 22 to the accounts. 
Under the CA2006 companies will no longer need to have 
an authorised share capital and a resolution will be put to 
the AGM to take advantage of this deregulating measure. 
The Company has one class of ordinary share in issue 
and all issued shares are fully paid. Each ordinary share 
of 46
7
⁄8 pence carries the right to one vote on a poll at a 
general meeting of the Company. Deadlines on exercising 
voting rights are set out in the Notice of AGM and in the 
Proxy Form. 
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on 
the holding of the Company’s ordinary shares and no 
requirements for prior approval of any transfers. Under 
the Company’s articles of association, the directors have 
the power to suspend voting rights where the holder of 
shares fails to comply with a notice issued under section 
793 of the CA2006.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding 
nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by 
the general provisions of the articles of association and 
prevailing legislation. The directors are not aware of any 
agreements between holders of the Company’s shares that 
might result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or 
on voting rights. 
Details of share based payments can be found in note 23 
to the accounts. Participants in employee share schemes 
have no voting rights in respect of the shares subject to 
those awards until the allocations are exercised, at which 
time the shares rank equally with all other ordinary shares 
in issue. No such schemes have any rights with regard to 
control of the Company.
At the 2009 AGM, shareholders approved a resolution 
to permit directors to allot ordinary shares of 46
7
⁄8 pence 
each up to an aggregate nominal amount of £10,818,136 
(being approximately one third of the nominal value of the 
Company’s issued ordinary share capital) and to undertake 
market purchases of its own shares up to a maximum 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  24 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 25
Dir ect or s’	r epor t
number of 6,923,607 ordinary shares of 46
7
⁄8 pence 
each. These authorities will expire at the forthcoming 
AGM and, in accordance with current best practice, 
the Company will seek to renew them. No shares were 
allotted or bought back under these authorities during 
the year and at present the Company does not hold any 
shares in treasury.
Change of control
There are a number of agreements that take effect after, 
or terminate, upon a change of control of the Company, 
such as commercial contracts, bank facility agreements, 
guarantees, property agreements and employee share 
plans. None of these are considered to be significant in 
terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group 
as a whole. Furthermore, the directors are not aware of 
any agreements between the Company and its directors 
or employees that provide for compensation for loss of 
office or employment that occurs because of a takeover 
bid.
Substantial shareholdings
As at the date of this report, the Company had been 
notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure 
and T ransparency Rules, or through other disclosures of 
substantial interests in the share capital of the Company 
as set out in the table on page 25.
Disclosure of audit information
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of 
approval of this annual report confirms that so far as 
each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; 
and each of the directors has taken all steps that they 
ought to have taken as a director in order to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit information (as 
defined) and to establish that the Company’s auditor is 
aware of that information. Relevant audit information 
means information needed by the Company’s auditor in 
connection with preparing his report. This confirmation 
is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the 
provisions of section 418 of the CA2006.
Auditor
Ernst & Y oung LLP have expressed their willingness to 
continue in office as auditor and resolutions to re-appoint 
them and to authorise the directors to determine their 
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Going concern
The directors have assessed the financial position and the 
future funding requirements of the Group and the Company 
and compared them to the level of available committed 
borrowing facilities. Details of cash and borrowing 
facilities are set out in note 18 to the accounts. The 
Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing 
its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details 
of its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its 
exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are set out in note 
19 to the accounts.
The directors’ assessment included a review of the 
Group’s financial forecasts, financial instruments and 
hedging arrangements for the 15 months from the balance 
sheet date. The directors considered a range of potential 
scenarios within the key markets the Group serves and 
how these may impact on cash flow, facility headroom and 
banking covenants. 
The Group and Company’s business activities, together 
with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position are set out in the chief executive’s 
review on pages 4 to 11. The directors also considered what 
mitigating actions the Group could take to limit any adverse 
consequences.
Having undertaken this assessment, the directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group 
have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future and so determine that 
it is appropriate for the 2009 Company and Group financial 
statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held at Mallory Court 
Hotel, Leamington Spa, Warwickshire at 11.00 a.m. on 
7th May 2010. The notice convening the meeting, together 
with the special business to be considered and explanatory 
notes for each resolution, is distributed separately to 
shareholders. It is also available on the Company’s website: 
www.agarangemaster.com, where a copy can be viewed or 
downloaded in ‘PDF’ format by following the link to Investor 
Relations and then AGM or Report & Accounts.   24 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 25
Dir ect or s’	r epor t Dir ect or s’	r epor t
Cautionary statement
Under the CA2006, a company’s directors’ report is 
required, among other matters, to contain a fair review by 
the directors of the Group’s business through a balanced 
and comprehensive analysis of the development and 
performance of the business of the Group and the position 
of the Group at the year-end, consistent with the size and 
complexity of the business.
The directors’ report set out above, including the 
chairman’s statement, the chief executive’s review; the 
principal risks and uncertainties and corporate social 
responsibility incorporated into it by reference (together, 
the directors’ report), has been prepared solely to provide 
additional information to shareholders to assess the 
Company’s strategies and the potential for those strategies 
to succeed. The directors’ report should not be relied upon 
by any other party or for any other purpose.
The directors’ report (as defined) contains certain forward 
looking statements. These statements are made by the 
directors in good faith based on the information available 
to them up to the time of their approval of this report and 
such statements should be treated with caution due to 
the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and 
business risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking 
information.
By order of the board,
P M Sissons
Company Secretary
12th March 2010
Registered office:
Juno Drive, Leamington Spa,
Warwickshire, CV31 3RG
Company registered number: 00354715
Notifying person(s) 
% of voting rights 
and issued share 
capital 
Ordinary 
shares of 
46
7
/
8
p each
Nature of  
holding
Pension Insurance Corporation Ltd 19.00 13,155,000 direct
BlackRock Inc 11.07 6,891,243 indirect and cfd
J O Hambro Capital Management Group Ltd 9.77 6,765,120 direct
Cazenove Capital Management Ltd 6.63 4,593,253 direct and cfd
Pension Corporation GP Ltd and others 5.34 3,698,229 direct
J P Morgan Chase & Co 4.97 3,439,953 indirect
Prudential plc group of companies 3.89 2,694,715 direct
Legal & General Group Plc 3.81 2,644,302 direct
Deutsche Bank AG 3.76 2,601,902 direct
BlackRock UK Equity Recovery Fund 3.01 2,087,369 direct
DIRECTORS’ REPORT  26 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual 
report, the remuneration report and the Group and 
Company financial statements in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
directors have prepared the Group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards ('IFRS') as adopted by the European Union ('EU') 
and the Company financial statements in accordance 
with the applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (‘UK 
GAAP’)) and the remuneration report in accordance with 
the applicable law. The Group and Company financial 
statements are required by law to give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and 
of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are 
required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and apply them 
consistently;
•  make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; and
•  state that the Group financial statements comply 
with IFRS as adopted by the EU and, with regard to 
the Company financial statements, that applicable UK 
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Group and the Company 
and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial 
statements and the remuneration report comply with 
the CA2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection 
of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the Company website. The work carried out by 
the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters 
and, accordingly the auditor accepts no responsibility 
for any changes that may have occurred to the financial 
statements since they were initially presented on the 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement
Each of the directors confirm that to the best of their 
knowledge: 
•  the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted by the EU and the Company 
financial statements prepared under UK GAAP, give 
a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
•  the chief executive’s review, which is incorporated 
into the directors’ report, includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation as a whole, together with 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
they face.
By order of the board,
William McGrath Shaun Smith
Chief Executive Finance Director
12th March 2010
Stat ement	of	dir ect or s’	r esponsibilities 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 27
T able 1  
Director Board
Audit and risk 
committee
Remuneration 
committee
Nomination 
committee
W B McGrath 9/9 – – – 
S M Smith 9/9 – – –
J Coleman 9/9 – – 2/2
P B Dermody 9/9 3/3 3/3 2/2
P E Jackson 9/9 3/3 3/3 2/2
H M Mahy (resigned 31st Dec 2009) (note 1) 9/9 2/3 3/3 2/2
P W G T om (note 2) 8/9 2/3 3/3 2/2
Corporate governance
The directors of the Company are committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance in the management of 
the Company and the Group. The directors consider that 
the Company has applied the principles and complied 
with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance (the 'Code') adopted by 
the Financial Reporting Council ('FRC') in June 2008 
throughout the year ended 31st December 2009. This 
report, together with the directors' report set out on pages 
2 to 25, the remuneration report set out on pages 34 to 
41 explains our governance policies and practices and 
describes how the Company has applied each referenced 
section of the Code. Further information on the Code 
can be found on the FRC website (www.frc.org.uk). This 
statement has also been prepared in compliance with the 
Disclosure and T ransparency Rules ('DTR') made by the 
Financial Services Authority ('FSA') specifically DTR 7.2 – 
Corporate governance statements.
A. Directors
A.1 The board
The board of directors is responsible to the Company’s 
shareholders for the success of the Company, the Group’s 
system of corporate governance, setting broad strategic 
objectives, monitoring business and financial performance 
and for the stewardship of the Company’s resources. The 
board is satisfied that it meets the Code’s requirements 
for effective operation. 
The board promotes the success of the Group and provides 
leadership within a framework of prudent and effective 
controls that enable risks and opportunities to be assessed 
and managed. In pursuance of the Group’s strategy, 
the board has delegated the day-to-day operational 
management to the chief executive but it has agreed a 
formal schedule of matters reserved solely for its decision. 
The reserved powers ensure that certain transactions, 
significant in terms of size or type are undertaken only after 
board review and approval. Matters specifically reserved 
for board approval cover a range of key issues including the 
development of corporate strategy, long-term objectives 
and the approval of annual budgets, financial reporting 
and internal controls, treasury policy, major changes to 
the rules and funding of the Company’s pension schemes, 
corporate governance matters and risk management and 
social, environmental and ethical matters. The matters 
reserved for the board were reviewed and updated during 
2009. Delegated authorities are also clearly defined.
The board has a schedule of regular meetings and may 
hold additional meetings as necessary. T able 1 below sets 
out the names of each board director, their attendance at 
meetings and those board committees of which they were 
a member during the year ended 31st December 2009. 
The terms of reference of each board committee are 
reviewed annually by the board. Copies are available on 
request from the company secretary or on the Group’s 
corporate website (www.agarangemaster.com). Following 
formal consideration the board may, on occasion, delegate 
authority to a standing committee consisting of at least 
two directors to facilitate final sign-off for an agreed 
course of action within pre-defined parameters. 
The biographical details of the directors serving on the 
board at the date of this report are set out on pages 20 
to 21. During the year the board comprised two executive 
directors and five non-executive directors. The two 
executive directors are William McGrath, chief executive 
and Shaun Smith, finance director. John Coleman was 
appointed to the board in March 2008 and he became 
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended/number eligible to attend. 
note 1 - Helen Mahy was unable to attend one audit and risk committee meeting due to prior commitments, which were notified in advance.
note 2 – Peter T om was unable to attend one board and one audit and risk committee meeting due to prior commitments, which were notified 
in advance.
C orpor at e	g o v ernanc e
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  28 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 29
C orpor at e	g o v ernanc e
chairman of the board in May 2008. He met the 
independence criteria defined in the Code at the time of his 
appointment. There were four independent non-executive 
directors serving on the board - Paul Dermody, Paul 
Jackson, Helen Mahy and Peter T om. 
Helen Mahy resigned as a director on the 31st December 
2009, having served six years as a non-executive 
director. 
A.2 Chairman and chief executive
It is the Company’s policy that the roles of chairman 
and chief executive are separate, with their roles and 
responsibilities clearly defined and recorded. 
The chairman is responsible for the effective running of the 
board and its governance. The chairman’s other significant 
commitments are disclosed in his biography and changes 
to these commitments were disclosed to the board during 
the year. The board considers that these commitments 
do not hinder the chairman’s ability to discharge his 
responsibilities to the Company effectively. 
The chief executive is responsible for the leadership and 
day-to-day management of the Group. This includes 
formulating and recommending the Group’s strategy for 
board approval in addition to executing the approved 
strategy. 
The chief executive has chosen to discharge his 
responsibilities for the operational management of the 
business with the chief operating decision maker being the 
executive management committee, which meets regularly 
throughout the year. Its members currently comprise the 
executive directors, William McGrath and Shaun Smith 
and senior operational management - Mike Bufton, Gary 
Green and Richard Eagleton. The executive management 
team reviews results and makes assessments of 
performance together with decisions about resource 
allocations within the AGA and Rangemaster operating 
segments and there is regular dialogue and meetings 
with the operations. Those members of the executive 
management committee and other senior managers who 
are not directors of the Company are regularly invited to 
attend and present at board meetings. The respective 
roles of the board, executive management committee 
and operational management are discussed further under 
internal control. 
A.3 Board balance and independence
The Code recommends that at least half of the board 
excluding the chairman should comprise non-executive 
directors determined by the board to be independent. 
Each of the non-executive directors has been determined 
by the board to be independent according to the criteria 
set out in the Code and to have no business or other 
relationship that could interfere materially with the 
exercise of their judgement. The independence of the 
non-executive directors is considered at least annually. 
Each non-executive director possesses a wide range of 
skills and experience. The senior independent director 
throughout the year was Peter T om and he is available to 
meet shareholders as required. 
Directors’ conflicts of interest
Directors’ have a statutory duty to avoid a situation in 
which he has, or can have, an interest that conflicts or 
possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company. 
A director will not breach that duty if the relevant matter 
has been authorised in accordance with the Articles by 
the other directors. In line with the CA2006, the Articles 
were amended in 2008 to allow the board to authorise 
potential conflicts of interest that may arise and impose 
such limits or conditions as it thinks fit. The decision to 
authorise a conflict can only be made by those directors 
who have no interest in the matter being considered and 
in making such decision, the directors must act in a way 
they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote 
the Company’s success. 
The Company has established a procedure whereby 
actual or potential conflicts of interest are regularly 
reviewed by the board and updated as appropriate. This 
procedure has operated satisfactorily throughout the year. 
Appropriate authorisation would be considered prior to 
the appointment of any new director.
A.4 Appointments to the board/nomination 
committee
During the year the nomination committee (‘the 
committee’) comprised John Coleman (chairman), Paul 
Dermody, Paul Jackson, Helen Mahy and Peter T om. The 
chief executive, senior management and external advisers 
may be invited to attend meetings at the request of the 
committee. The committee met twice during the year and 
attendance is set out in table 1 on page 27. 
The committee’s terms of reference are available for 
review on the Company’s website and comply with the 
Code. These set out the main responsibilities of the 
committee. All non-executive directors are appointed for   28 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 29
C orpor at e	g o v ernanc e
an initial three-year term pursuant to a standard letter 
of appointment, which is available for viewing at the 
Company’s registered office during normal business hours 
and at the AGM.
During the year, the committee reviewed the re-election 
of directors under the provisions in the Articles and the 
renewal of terms of office of non-executive directors. 
Paul Dermody and Peter T om were appointed as directors 
in 2004 and their initial three year terms of office were 
renewed in 2007. During the year, following a rigorous 
review in accordance with the Code, the committee 
recommended the renewal of Paul Dermody’s and Peter 
T om’s appointments for further three year terms, subject 
to re-election by shareholders as required under the 
provisions in the Articles.
The committee, in conjunction with the board, receives 
updates from the chief executive, the Group HR director 
and other advisers, as appropriate, on succession and 
development planning for senior positions within the 
Group. On an ongoing basis, the committee reviews 
the size, structure and composition of the board and its 
committees. Such reviews take into account the balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience of the existing board 
members to establish whether any further appointments 
or changes were deemed necessary. Following the 
resignation of Helen Mahy in December 2009, the 
committee undertook a further review and also considered 
the membership of the committees of the board and made 
recommendations to the board effective from January 
2010. At present the committee does not believe further 
appointments to the board are required.
The board accepted all recommendations made by the 
nomination committee during the year. 
A.5 Information and professional development
The company secretary, under the chairman’s direction, is 
responsible for ensuring that information flows within and 
between the board and its committees, the non-executive 
directors and senior management. The company secretary 
is also responsible for advising the board, through the 
chairman, on governance matters.
The board has a forward rolling business agenda, which is 
updated after each meeting to include specific topics that 
directors have requested be reviewed at future meetings. 
The board reviews the key activities and performance 
of the business and receives papers and presentations 
from the executive management committee, other senior 
managers and external advisers to enable it to discharge 
its duties effectively. 
On joining the board all directors receive appropriate 
induction training which is tailored to the director’s specific 
needs. Major shareholders are offered the opportunity 
to meet new non-executive directors. Directors receive 
regular updates appropriate to the business throughout 
the year and the Company provides resources for directors 
to develop and refresh their knowledge and capabilities 
as required. All directors are suitably qualified, trained 
and experienced so as to be able to participate fully in 
the work of the board. T raining needs are discussed with 
each director as part of the annual board performance 
evaluation.
T o assist with the independent conduct of their function, 
the non-executive directors are able to obtain professional 
advice at the Company’s expense, if required in connection 
with their duties. A process is in place to facilitate this. 
In addition, all directors have access to the advice and 
services of the company secretary. The appointment or 
removal of the company secretary is a matter reserved for 
board decision. 
A.6 Performance evaluation
The board, as part of its commitment to ensure its 
effectiveness, carried out a formal evaluation of its 
performance and processes during the year and it also 
reviewed the performance of its committees and the 
individual directors. Each director completed a confidential 
questionnaire which considered a number of areas 
including the performance of the chairman, executive and 
non-executive directors, the operation and performance 
of the board, its committees and the committee chairman, 
governance matters and evaluation methods. 
The questionnaire was supplemented with a private 
meeting with the chairman, which covered a broad 
range of topics including discussions on specific projects 
and performance, areas for improvement, as well as a 
review of individual performance, knowledge gaps and 
training requirements. The expected time commitments 
and independence criteria were reviewed for each 
non-executive director.
Following the review, the results and observations were 
summarised by the chairman in a report to the board. 
It concluded that the board and its committees were 
operating effectively and agreed actions in respect 
of certain processes and procedures identified for 
improvement. The aim of the action plan is to continually 
improve processes, procedures and performance. The 
chairman confirmed that each director was contributing 
effectively to the Group’s performance and demonstrated 
commitment to his duties.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  30 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 31
C orpor at e	g o v ernanc e
The schedule of matters reserved for the board, statements 
outlining the roles of the chairman and chief executive, 
the terms of reference of the committees and other policy 
statements are reviewed annually as part of the formal 
evaluation process. These were last updated in December 
2009.
The chairman communicates frequently with the 
non-executive and executive directors. Directors are 
encouraged to discuss any issues or concerns with the 
chairman at any time throughout the year and to ensure 
that any unresolved issues are formally minuted. The 
chairman and non-executive directors met during the year 
without the executive directors present.
The chairman's performance was reviewed by the 
non-executive directors, led by the senior independent 
director and taking into account the views of the executive 
directors.
A.7 Re-election
In accordance with the Articles, any director appointed 
during the year will stand for election at the next general 
meeting and all directors will stand for re-election at 
least every three years. These requirements ensure that 
each board member is subject to re-election at regular 
intervals.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a term 
of three years subject to election and re-election as set 
out above, and subject to satisfactory performance, their 
three year term of appointment may be renewed. Should 
a non-executive director serve for more than six years 
their re-election would be subject to particularly rigorous 
review. Should any non-executive director serve for longer 
than nine years they would then be subject to annual 
re-election. 
This year, two directors will be standing for re-election at 
the AGM to be held in 2010, namely, William McGrath 
and Peter T om. Biographical details of both of the directors 
standing for re-election are given on pages 20 and 21. 
William McGrath is chief executive and details of his rolling 
service agreement are set out on page 39. Peter T om was 
appointed as a non-executive director in 2004 for an initial 
three year term which was renewed for a further three 
years in 2007. During the year, following a rigorous review 
in accordance with the Code, the nomination committee 
recommended the renewal of Mr T om’s appointment for a 
further three year term, subject to shareholders approving 
his re-election in accordance with the Articles. 
The board considers that the performance of the directors 
proposed for re-election continues to be effective and they 
make a valuable contribution and demonstrate a strong 
commitment to their respective roles. The directors were 
subject to performance evaluation during the year. The 
board unanimously recommends the re-election of each 
of these directors. 
B. Remuneration
Details of the directors’ remuneration and the work of the 
remuneration committee, as required by the Code and 
Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts & Reports) Regulations 2008, is 
included in the remuneration report on pages 34 to 41. 
C. Accountability and audit
C.1 Financial reporting
All communications with shareholders, regulators and 
other stakeholders are designed to present a balanced 
and understandable view of the Group’s position and 
prospects. We report to our shareholders on a half-yearly 
basis, supplemented by interim management statements 
and other market announcements, as appropriate. 
The statement of the responsibility of directors for the 
preparation of the annual report, remuneration report and 
the financial statements under IFRS and UK GAAP is set 
out on page 26. The Group going concern statement is on 
page 24.
C.2 Internal control and risk management
The board confirms that it has complied with the Code 
in respect of the revised guidance on internal control 
published in October 2005 (the T urnbull Guidance) and 
is reporting in accordance with that guidance. 
The board of directors has overall responsibility for 
reviewing and approving the Group’s system of internal 
controls and its adequacy and effectiveness. This 
established system of internal controls includes financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management 
systems. The audit and risk committee assists the board 
in discharging its review responsibilities and considers 
reports from the Group’s independent auditor and internal 
auditors on the effectiveness of the operation of internal 
control procedures. It is the role of management to 
implement the agreed policies on risk and control and to 
continually monitor risk and control systems.
Our systems of internal financial and operational control 
are designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations, 
to safeguard assets, to ensure proper accounting records 
are maintained, to provide reliable financial information   30 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 31
C orpor at e	g o v ernanc e
for use in the business and in external publications, 
to identify and manage business risks, to maintain 
compliance with appropriate legislation and to identify 
and adopt best practice. Our risk management process 
identifies the key risks facing each operation within the 
AGA and Rangemaster operating segments and the 
Group as a whole. Management reports to the audit and 
risk committee and the board on how those risks are being 
managed. 
Such a system of internal control can only manage rather 
than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives 
and can provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. It is necessary to 
take commercial risks in the course of the management 
of the Group's operations and those risks are evaluated 
as part of the decision making process. The board has not 
identified or been advised of any significant failings or 
weaknesses where action has not been taken which might 
have a material impact on the business. 
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the 
risks faced by the Group and its operations is ongoing. 
The process covers all the Group’s operations. The audit 
and risk committee formally reviews the operation and 
effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal controls 
on an annual basis. The latest review covered the financial 
year to 31st December 2009 and included the period to 
the approval of this report and financial statements.
The Group's risk management framework requires the 
operations to record formally the significant risks they 
face. The process identifies both short and long-term 
risks to business performance and takes into account 
the likelihood of occurrence and potential impact. Risks 
considered include operational and financial contingencies, 
legal and regulatory compliance and social, environmental 
and ethical issues. Management is required to identify key 
internal controls for each of the risks they are responsible 
for and to identify control owners.
The main features of the internal control and risk 
management systems include:
•  an established internal organisational structure with 
clearly defined lines of responsibility, authority and 
accountability including the segregation of certain 
duties and functions and a schedule of matters reserved 
for the board;
•  well established and clearly documented control 
structures including documented accounting policies 
and procedures with which all the Group’s operations 
are required to comply or obtain express dispensation 
from, with an agreed mitigating action plan;
•  comprehensive business planning, risk assessment and 
financial reporting procedures, including the annual 
approval of a strategic plan and budget by the board 
and preparation of detailed operational budgets for the 
following year;
•  detailed financial reporting with monthly consolidated 
management accounts reviewed by the executive 
management committee and circulated to all board 
directors. These compare actual performance to 
the annual budget, forecasts and the prior year. The 
accounts are used to update forecasts and other 
information to enable the board to assess the prospects 
of the Group;
•  specific procedures for the appraisal and authorisation 
of capital expenditure and other major projects;
•  certain of the Group’s key functions (including company 
secretarial, insurance, internal audit, pensions, taxation 
(compliance and planning) treasury and financial 
accounting) are performed centrally under the control 
of executive directors and the board receives regular 
updates on the work undertaken by these functions; 
•  regular meetings of the board and the executive 
management committee;
•  an ongoing risk management process designed to 
identify and mitigate or manage any material risks 
identified. This process is further described in this 
section and in the key risks and uncertainties on pages 
12 to 13. This includes self assessment by management 
teams and a bi-annual Group overview being undertaken 
and reviewed by the audit and risk committee.
At operational level, there are regular management 
meetings to review all aspects of the Group’s business, 
including potential and actual risks to the Group. Executive 
directors undertake frequent visits to the operations within 
the AGA and Rangemaster operating segments to discuss 
strategy, review business performance and significant 
operational and financial risks. Key procedures include 
planning, budgeting and investment appraisal. Feedback 
is provided to the board.
Local management are responsible for the implementation 
and continual monitoring of the systems of internal financial 
and operational controls and risk management and they 
are supported by suitably qualified and experienced 
personnel. They report back to internal audit annually by 
way of the controls self assessment questionnaire.
The internal audit function undertakes a rolling programme 
of visits to review internal control and risk management 
processes with particular reference to the T urnbull 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  32 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 33
C orpor at e	g o v ernanc e
Guidance. Copies of the internal auditors' reports and any 
recommendations made in them are communicated to the 
relevant level of management. The internal auditors report 
directly to the audit and risk committee on a regular basis. 
Follow up visits are arranged if considered necessary and 
the implementation of recommendations is monitored. 
C.3 Audit and risk committee
During the year, membership of the audit and risk 
committee (‘the committee’) comprised Paul Dermody 
(chairman), Paul Jackson, Helen Mahy and Peter T om. 
All members of the committee are considered by the 
board to be independent. The board has determined 
that Paul Dermody has recent and relevant financial 
experience. 
The chairman, chief executive, finance director, head of 
internal audit and the external auditor attend the majority 
of meetings by invitation. Other senior management 
and advisers are invited to attend meetings as required. 
The head of internal audit reports to the finance director 
and has direct access to the chairman of the committee. 
The committee members, all other directors and senior 
management have direct access to the external auditor 
throughout the year, to seek advice or raise any issues or 
concerns. The committee met three times during the year 
and attendance is set out in table 1 on page 27. During 
the year, the committee members met with the external 
auditor without the executive management being present. 
Following the resignation of Helen Mahy as a director 
on 31st December 2009, the nomination committee 
recommended that John Coleman become a member of, 
but not chair the committee, with effect from 1st January 
2010. John Coleman was independent at the time of his 
appointment as chairman of the board. 
The committee’s terms of reference are available for 
review on the Group’s website and comply with the Code. 
These set out the main responsibilities of the committee. 
During the year the committee’s activities have included: 
•  monitoring the integrity of and reviewing the Company's 
financial statements focussing on the key judgemental 
areas and accounting policies;
•  reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s systems 
of internal financial control; operational control 
and compliance control; risk management and 
whistleblowing arrangements;
•  monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the 
internal audit function, resourcing levels, agreeing the 
programme of work and receiving reports arising from 
the work of internal audit;
•  monitoring the performance of the external auditor and 
the effectiveness of the audit process; their findings in 
relation to the annual report and half-year report and 
the consolidation process, including their review of the 
effectiveness of controls across the Group;
•  reviewing various financial and technical updates 
during the course of the year, including the guidance 
notes issued by the FRC.
Review of the external auditor
The committee has delegated responsibility for making 
recommendations to the board on the appointment and 
removal of the external auditor. The auditor is subject 
to annual re-appointment by shareholders at the AGM. 
The committee conducts a continuous review of the 
relationship between the Group and the auditor, including 
the nature and scope of the external audit; consideration 
of the auditor's independence and objectivity and advance 
approval of any fees for non-audit services above a 
pre-agreed threshold as set out in the policy agreed by the 
committee. A breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees 
is set out in note 4 to the Group accounts. The committee 
discussed the level of fees and considered them to be 
appropriate given the recent reorganisation of the Group. 
The committee only endorses the use of the audit firm 
for taxation compliance work and some specific tax 
advisory work when the committee believes they are best 
placed to carry out the work. During the year non-audit 
work undertaken by the audit firm principally related to 
these services. The committee is satisfied that the level 
and scope of the non-audit services does not impair the 
independence and objectivity of the auditor. The Group 
is increasingly looking to use a panel of advisers going 
forward and will take into account which firm is in the best 
position to undertake the work effectively.
Ernst & Y oung LLP were appointed auditor following a 
formal tender exercise overseen by the committee in June 
2006. The auditor confirms bi-annually that their policies 
ensure audit independence and provides the committee 
with a report of their own audit quality procedures. 
The committee keeps the potential re-tendering of the 
external audit services under review and the committee 
believes that alternative advisers could be appointed in 
the event of the auditor withdrawing from the market. 
The committee made a recommendation to the board 
with respect to the level of audit fees paid to the external 
auditor and their re-appointment as independent auditor.  32 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 33
C orpor at e	g o v ernanc e
The board accepted all recommendations made by the 
audit and risk committee during the year.
Resolution 5 set out in the Notice of AGM recommends 
that shareholders re-appoint Ernst & Y oung LLP as 
the Company’s independent auditor and Resolution 6 
authorises the directors to determine their remuneration.
D. Relations with shareholders
D.1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders
In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present 
a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s 
financial position and prospects and this is outlined in 
the chief executive’s review. Relations with shareholders 
are managed mainly by the chief executive and finance 
director. There are regular institutional, analyst and 
media presentations which cover a range of relevant 
issues including strategy, performance, management and 
governance within the constraints of information already 
made publicly available. 
The chairman ensures that the views of shareholders are 
communicated to the board as a whole. The board receives 
feedback from broker and shareholder meetings. During 
the year, the chairman, chief executive and finance director 
undertook a review of the brokers used by the Company. 
This resulted in the appointment of Numis Securities and 
Execution Noble as joint corporate brokers.
The chairman held meetings with shareholders during the 
year and is available to shareholders to discuss governance 
and strategy. Following such meetings a briefing note 
is circulated to the board as a whole and the key topics 
raised by shareholders are discussed. No formal meetings 
were requested with the senior independent director or 
the other non-executive directors during the year, but they 
remain available to attend meetings on request.
The Company has taken advantage of the provisions 
within the CA2006 allowing communication to be 
made electronically to shareholders where they have 
not requested hard copy documentation. As a result the 
Company’s website has become the primary method of 
communication for the vast majority of shareholders. 
Copies of the major presentations including the annual and 
half-year results presentations, all market announcements 
and share price information are made available on the 
Group's corporate website.
D.2 Constructive use of the AGM
The AGM is attended by all members of the board and 
this provides a valuable opportunity to communicate with 
shareholders and for private investors to meet with the 
directors, senior managers and the Company’s advisers 
and to ask questions.
The Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to 
shareholders at least twenty working days before the 
meeting, and separate resolutions are proposed on each 
substantial issue. Usually at an AGM each resolution is 
dealt with on a show of hands, with details of the results of 
proxy voting announced thereafter. Immediately after the 
AGM the Company issues a market announcement setting 
out the results of the AGM and details of all votes cast are 
made available on the Group’s corporate website.
Details of the 2010 AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM 
in a separate circular issued to shareholders, along with 
details of the facilities available for proxy votes to be cast 
electronically. The Company offers shareholders the right 
to withhold their vote, if they so wish, in line with best 
practice. 
By order of the board,
 
P M Sissons
Company Secretary
12th March 2010
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  34 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 35
R emuner ation	r epor t
This report has been prepared by the remuneration 
committee and has been approved by the board. The report 
has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
& Reports) Regulations 2008 (the ‘Accounting Regulations’) 
under the CA2006. The report also meets the relevant 
requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority and describes how the remuneration committee 
has applied the principles relating to directors’ remuneration 
in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 (‘the 
Code’). 
The CA2006 requires the auditor to report to the Company’s 
members on certain parts of the directors’ remuneration 
report and state whether in their opinion those parts of 
the report have been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Accounting Regulations. The report has therefore been 
divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited 
information. 
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM which invites 
members to approve the remuneration report for the 
financial year ended 31st December 2009.
Unaudited information
Remuneration committee
During the year, the remuneration committee (‘the 
committee’) comprised Peter T om (chairman), Paul 
Dermody, Paul Jackson and Helen Mahy. All members of the 
committee are considered by the board to be independent. 
The committee met three times during the year and details 
of attendance at committee meetings can be found in table 
1 on page 27. The chairman of the board, chief executive and 
external advisers are invited to attend meetings as required. 
Following the resignation of Helen Mahy as a director on 31st 
December 2009, the nomination committee recommended 
that John Coleman become a member of, but not chair, the 
committee with effect from 1st January 2010. John Coleman 
was independent at the time of his appointment as chairman 
of the board. Neither the chairman of the board nor any 
executive director participates in any discussion relating 
to his own remuneration. No committee member has any 
personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder, or 
other conflicts of interest in relation to matters to be decided 
by the committee. The remuneration of the non-executive 
directors is decided by the board as a whole on the advice 
of executive directors, supported by external benchmarked 
data and the independent remuneration advisers to the 
committee.
The committee keeps itself fully informed of all relevant 
developments and best practice in the field of remuneration 
and seeks advice from external advisers when it considers it 
is appropriate. The committee appointed, and continued to 
use KPMG LLP ('KPMG') as its independent remuneration 
and benefits adviser. During the year, KPMG has provided 
actuarial advice to the Company, guidance on developments 
and best practice in the field of remuneration and has assisted 
the Company with the drafting of and taxation advice relating 
to the proposed introduction of a Company Share Option 
Plan (‘CSOP’). KPMG provided some non-audit services to 
the Company during the year in relation to general taxation 
advice. The fees were less than £10,000. During the year 
the committee also received advice from Alithos Limited in 
relation to performance monitoring under the Long-T erm 
Incentive Plan. Alithos has no other relationship with the 
Group.
The committee’s terms of reference are available for review 
on the Group’s website and comply with the Code. These set 
out the main responsibilities of the committee. The chairman 
of the committee is available to discuss remuneration 
arrangements with shareholder representatives as 
required. 
Items discussed by the committee during the year to enable 
it to discharge its duties in accordance with its terms of 
reference included:
•  a review of market trends and publicly available 
benchmarked data to review the competitiveness of 
remuneration policy and arrangements for the executive 
directors and senior management; 
•  a review of the overall balance of benefits between the 
fixed and variable components; 
•  a review of executive bonus scheme targets and 
agreed the bonus payable for the financial year ended 
31st December 2009;
•   a half yearly review of performance in relation to the 
awards granted under the Long-T erm Incentive Plan and 
the vesting status at the end of the performance period. 
•   a review of the share schemes and remuneration policy 
elsewhere in the Group, which led to the proposal to 
introduce a CSOP;
•   a review of the current investor guidelines on executive 
remuneration;
•  a review of the disclosures in the remuneration report.
The board accepted all recommendations made by the 
remuneration committee during the year.   34 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 35
R emuner ation	r epor t
Remuneration policy
The Group’s remuneration policy is designed to ensure 
that the remuneration of executive directors is sufficiently 
competitive to retain and motivate the existing directors 
and to attract high calibre candidates to ensure the 
continued success and development of the business. The 
performance measurement of the executive directors 
and determination of their annual remuneration package 
is undertaken by the committee, taking into account the 
level and structure of remuneration of senior management 
and pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group. 
The current policy is based around the following principles:
•  that total compensation should be set at levels that are 
competitive in comparison to companies of a similar 
profile, size by turnover and geographical spread from 
within and outside the industry sector;
•  to position base salaries around the median level in 
the relevant pay peer group and to supplement base 
salaries by variable performance related rewards 
and incentives which can raise the total value of 
the remuneration package into the upper quartile, if 
demanding performance targets, which are aligned to 
shareholder interests, are met;
•  to align management incentives with the creation of 
shareholder value over both the short and longer term.
The main elements to the remuneration package for 
executive directors and senior management are as 
follows:
Fixed
•  Basic annual salary
•  Benefits in kind and cash benefits
•  Pension benefits
Variable % of salary
•  Annual bonus related to the Group’s 
performance and strategic objectives Up to 75%
•  Annual award of nil cost options under 
the Long-T erm Incentive Plan, with 
vesting after three years subject to 
performance conditions being met Up to 100%
Basic salary 
Salaries for the executive directors are reviewed annually 
and are targeted broadly at the median position in the 
relevant pay peer group. The committee takes into 
consideration the size, complexity and responsibilities of 
the individual’s role, the individual’s experience and the 
overall business performance. In deciding the appropriate 
level, the committee considers salary practices prevailing 
in the Group as a whole and relies on independent research, 
which gives up to date information on a comparator group 
of companies. 
It also considers the balance between fixed and variable 
rewards and the total compensation achievable. Basic 
salaries were reviewed in December 2008 and the 
committee decided that in view of the general market 
conditions and previous guidance from the remuneration 
adviser there would be no increase in basic salaries for the 
executive directors effective from 1st January 2009. Basic 
salaries were reviewed by the Committee in January 2010 
and it was agreed that a 2% increase would be awarded 
effective from 1st January 2010.
Benefits in kind 
The executive directors receive certain benefits in kind, 
principally the provision of a car or car benefit; fuel or 
equivalent cash allowance; private health care and life 
assurance.
Annual bonus
The committee establishes the objectives that must be 
met each financial year if a cash bonus is to be paid. In 
setting appropriate bonus parameters, the committee 
reviewed independent research on a comparator group of 
companies compiled by the remuneration adviser. In 2008 
the maximum bonus potential was reduced from 100% 
to 75% of basic salary, subject to meeting challenging 
performance conditions. In 2009, the committee 
maintained the maximum bonus potential at 75% of basic 
salary. However, the key performance indicators were 
revised to align them with the Group’s stated strategic 
objectives. The performance targets set measured the 
improvement in profit and delivery of cash targets set in 
the budget and aligned with market expectations. This 
was subject to a sliding scale, with a maximum award of 
37.5% of basic salary being paid for superior performance 
under each of the performance targets. The committee 
approved the targets at the beginning of the year and 
reviewed performance against these targets and key 
growth objectives during and at the end of the year. The 
directors are not entitled to an award in respect of the 
profit target. However, the cash targets were exceeded 
substantially. The committee considered all the relevant 
facts, taking into account the underlying performance of 
the business, current investor guidelines and that fact that 
the directors had agreed to waive part of their bonus, as 
they had done in the prior year. The committee exercised 
its discretion and recommended that a bonus award 
of 20% of basic salary be made to the directors for the 
financial year ended 31st December 2009.
REMUNERATION REPORT  36 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 37
R emuner ation	r epor t
Share option schemes
All equity based awards granted under the Company's 
share plans are subject to qualifying services. 
Commitments to issue new shares or reissue treasury 
shares, when aggregated with awards under all the 
Company's other share schemes, may not exceed 10% 
of the issued share capital in any ten year period (5% of 
the issued share capital in any rolling ten year period in 
respect of discretionary schemes, this limit may only be 
exceeded if vesting is dependent on significantly more 
stretching performance conditions).
Long-T erm Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) 
The LTIP seeks to motivate and retain executive directors 
and other senior executives, to enable them potentially 
to benefit from improved total shareholder return (‘TSR’) 
and the earnings per share (‘EPS’) performance of the 
Company. The committee administers the LTIP and the 
grant of nil cost options under the LTIP. The maximum 
annual nil cost option award that can be made to an 
individual is equivalent to 100% of basic salary. The 
options granted will only become exercisable (vest) if the 
performance conditions are met. 
In considering the balance between fixed and variable 
rewards and the total compensation achievable and 
awards made under the LTIP in recent years, the committee 
decided not to make any awards under the plan during 
2009. The authority to grant options under the LTIP 
expired in May 2009.
A full summary of the performance conditions attaching 
to outstanding awards can be found in note 23 to the 
accounts. T o the extent that these performance conditions 
are not met at the end of the three year period, the options 
will lapse. Once an option has vested, the percentage of 
the options which have vested may be exercised during the 
remainder of a ten year period from the date of the grant 
of the option. The committee believes the performance 
conditions remain appropriate. The committee regularly 
receives reports on actual Company performance against 
the relevant conditions from Alithos Limited. The LTIP 
options granted in 2006, which had completed the three 
year performance period and were available for vesting 
during the year, lapsed as the performance condition had 
not been met.
The committee does not plan to renew the authority for 
the LTIP at present. It is, however, recommending that a 
CSOP be adopted (see below).
Sharesave Plan
The Group also operates an HMRC approved Sharesave 
Plan which is open to eligible employees, including the 
executive directors, on the completion of a minimum 
service period at the time of invitation. The committee 
considers whether to offer invitations annually, but did 
not proceed with an invitation in 2009. Savings contracts 
are of three or five year terms and subject to a maximum 
monthly savings limit of £250. The committee has the 
discretion to grant options at a discount of 20% of the 
market value at the date of grant. (2008 options were 
granted at market value). Their exercise is not subject to 
performance conditions. 
Company Share Option Plan
The Senior Executive Share Option Scheme lapsed in 
2004. 
Following advice from KPMG in 2009, the committee 
recommended that a new HMRC approved Company Share 
Option Plan be introduced. This will enable the committee 
to make grants of approved and unapproved share options 
to employees (subject to headroom limitations). This will 
enable participants to benefit from an increased market 
capitalisation of the Company. If the CSOP is adopted the 
committee will be responsible for supervising the plan 
and the grant of options under its terms. The performance 
criteria will be set by the committee at the time an option 
is awarded. The first award, will require the Company’s EPS 
to increase to a minimum of 10p per share for minimum 
vesting and up to 20p per share for full vesting over the 
three consecutive financial years commencing with the 
financial year in which the grant is made. Upon vesting 
the option may be exercised for the rest of its ten year life 
without further test.
The Company’s policy is to grant options to the directors 
at the discretion of the committee taking into account 
individual performance. The committee will be able to 
make awards of up to 100% of basic salaries in exceptional 
circumstances, and subject to headroom. However, grants 
will be limited to a maximum of 50% of basic salary in the 
first year. It is the Company’s policy to phase the granting 
of share options rather than award them in a single large 
block to any individual.
Further details of the plan rules are set out on pages 11 to 
12 of the Notice of AGM and Resolution 12 will be put to 
shareholders to approve and adopt the new CSOP.  36 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 37
R emuner ation	r epor t
Directors’ interests
The beneficial interests of the directors serving at the 
year ended 31st December 2009 in the ordinary shares 
of AGA Rangemaster Group plc are shown in the table 
below. Directors’ interests include the interests of their 
spouses, civil partners and infant children or step children 
as required by section 822 of the CA2006.
At 
12th March 
2010 
At 
31st December 
2009 
At
31st December
2008
W B McGrath 102,632 102,632 102,632
S M Smith 85,278 85,278 85,278
J Coleman 5,000 5,000 5,000
P B Dermody 13,166 13,166 13,166
P E Jackson 2,032 2,032 2,032
H M Mahy – 5,222 5,222
P W G T om 15,000 15,000 15,000
The executive directors are required to build a significant 
holding in the Company. Directors will be expected to 
retain 50% of the shares vesting under share plans. In 
practice the executive directors have retained 100% of 
options exercised over the last five years and neither of 
the executive directors has sold any shares during the last 
five years.
Pension arrangements 
The committee takes into account pension arrangements 
and associated costs in reviewing remuneration policy. 
Pensions and retirement benefits provided to executive 
directors are currently considered by the committee to be 
appropriate but are kept under review in light of changing 
circumstances including the planned changes to restrict 
tax relief on contributions to the pension scheme for 
higher earners. 
The executive directors are members of the Group’s UK 
pension scheme on a defined benefit basis of pension 
provision. Their dependants are eligible for dependants’ 
pensions and the payment of a lump sum in the event of 
death in service. On their retirement from service at their 
normal retirement age of 60, the arrangements provide 
for a pension of two-thirds of final pensionable salary. 
The pensions of William McGrath and Shaun Smith are 
subject to the statutory earnings cap. No other payments 
are pensionable and there are no unfunded pension 
promises or similar arrangements for directors. William 
McGrath and Shaun Smith receive additional salary in lieu 
of pension on remuneration above the statutory cap as 
detailed in table 2 on page 40.
On death after retirement the spouse’s pension payable 
will be 50% of the member’s pre commutation pension 
for William McGrath and 63% of the member’s pre 
commutation pension for Shaun Smith.
Post retirement pension increases for William McGrath’s 
pension will be in line with statutory requirements. Shaun 
Smith’s pension will receive annual post retirement 
increases on pension earned prior to 1st October 2001 
at the increase in RPI subject to a maximum of 5% and a 
minimum of 3%; on pension earned between 1st October 
2001 and 30th September 2005 at the increase in RPI 
subject to a maximum of 5% and on pension earned on 
and from 1st October 2005 at the increase in RPI subject 
to a maximum of 2.5%. The Trustee of the pension scheme 
with the consent of the Company has the discretion to 
grant pension increases above these rates.
The transfer values corresponding to the directors’ 
accrued pensions at 31st December 2009 after deduction 
of contributions paid by them, are shown in table 3 on 
page 40. Executive directors receive life assurance cover 
equal to four times their basic salary. During the year 
the Company paid premiums respectively of £2,346 and 
£1,488 to provide life assurance cover on that part of 
William McGrath’s and Shaun Smith’s basic salary above 
the statutory cap for the year. 
The Company closed the Group’s UK pension scheme 
to new members on a defined benefit basis of pension 
provision in 2001 and froze the pensionable salaries 
of current active defined benefit members of the UK 
Pension Scheme at the end of 2009 for higher earners 
and in January 2010 for all other active defined benefit 
members. From 2002 new members of the scheme join 
on a defined contribution basis of pension provision.
Performance graph
The following graph shows the comparative TSR 
performance of the Company against the FTSE All 
Share Index during the previous five financial years. 
The TSR indices used in the chart have been calculated 
in accordance with paragraph 5 of Schedule 8 of the 
Accounting Regulations relative to a base date beginning 
on 31st December 2004. This requires that when 
calculating TSR, all cash payments made to the Company’s 
shareholders, including special payments in addition to 
ordinary dividends, are treated as immediately reinvested 
in further ordinary shares in the Company at the prevailing 
market price on the date of receipt by shareholders. 
Therefore the Company’s TSR performance as reflected in 
the graph below reflects the substantial special payment 
REMUNERATION REPORT  38 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 39
R emuner ation	r epor t
to shareholders by the Company in May 2008 of 121 pence 
per share. As the Company’s share price fell markedly in 
the second half of 2008, this special payment exacerbates 
the deterioration in the Company’s TSR as presented. If 
shareholders did not in fact immediately reinvest their 
special payments into the Company’s shares, but retained 
the payment in cash until 31st December 2009, then their 
actual return would have been better as demonstrated by 
the dotted line.
The FTSE All Share Index has been selected as a comparator 
because the Group believes it is the most meaningful 
market index of which the Company is a member. 
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09
AGA with return of capital 
re-invested
AGA with return of 
capital not 
re-invested
FTSE All Share
Name of 
director 
 
Date of
appointment 
Date of last
re-election
at an AGM
J Coleman March 2008 2008 AGM
P B Dermody April 2004 2009 AGM
P E Jackson December 2005 2009 AGM
P W G T om (note 1) February 2004 2007 AGM
note 1 Peter T om will stand for re-election at the AGM to be held on 
7th May 2010.
Copies of the letters of appointment, the consultancy 
agreement and deeds of indemnity will be available for 
inspection prior to and during the AGM and are also 
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office 
during normal business hours.
The remuneration of the chairman is determined by the 
committee. The remuneration of non-executive directors 
is determined by the board on the recommendation 
of the executive directors within the limits set out in 
the Articles and on the basis of independent advice or 
publicly available benchmarked data which takes into 
consideration the level of fees paid to non-executive 
directors of comparator companies. The Group’s policy in 
respect of non-executive directors is to pay annual fees 
which reflect the time commitment, responsibilities and 
duties placed upon them, whilst also having regard to 
market practice.
The chairman and non-executive directors are not 
eligible to participate in the Company’s LTIP, share option 
schemes, annual bonus scheme, receive any payment on 
termination and are not eligible to join the Company’s 
pension scheme. They are allowed to claim reasonable out 
of pocket expenses in connection with the performance of 
their duties. 
The fees of the non-executive directors were last reviewed 
in January 2010. It was determined that they should not 
be changed. The current fee structure is shown in the 
following table:
Role Last reviewed Fee
Chairman January 2010 £125,000
Non-executive director January 2010 £35,000
Committee chairman January 2010 £5,000
Directors' contracts
Non-executive directors
The chairman and the non-executive directors have letters 
of appointment stating their annual fee and that their 
appointment is initially for a term of three years subject to 
satisfactory performance and their re-election at AGMs in 
accordance with the Articles.
The services of Peter T om are provided by a consultancy 
agreement dated 15th July 2008 with Rise Rocks Limited. 
The consultancy agreement may be terminated by either 
party subject to one month’s notice. Fees for services 
provided during 2009 have been paid to Rise Rocks 
Limited. 
The table below shows the dates of appointment and the 
most recent re-election dates for the chairman and the 
non-executive directors.  38 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 39
R emuner ation	r epor t
In addition, a per diem rate has been agreed in the event 
that the chairman’s hours exceed the expected time 
commitment for the role. No additional payments were 
made during 2009.
No additional fees are paid for attendance or being a 
member of a board committee, but a fee of £5,000 is 
paid for chairing the audit and risk committee and the 
remuneration committee. 
Executive directors
The service agreements of the executive directors are 
summarised in the table below:
Executive Notice period Date of contract 
Unexpired 
term of 
contract
W B McGrath 12 months September 1998 Rolling 
contract
S M Smith 12 months March 2001 Rolling 
contract
It is the Company’s policy that executive directors 
should have contracts with an indefinite term providing 
for a maximum of one year’s notice in line with the best 
practice provisions set out in the Code. In the event of 
early termination, the directors’ contracts provide for 
compensation of up to a maximum of one year’s basic 
salary for the notice period. The committee does not 
consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders for 
directors’ contracts to provide explicitly for pre-determined 
compensation in the event of early termination. However, 
the principle of mitigation would be applied to reduce any 
compensation payable to departing directors, with each 
case being taken on its own merits.
The service agreements will terminate when the director 
reaches the retirement age as determined by the board, 
which in normal circumstances is 60, and are otherwise 
terminable on giving 12 months notice.
External appointments
The board recognises the benefit which the Group can 
obtain if the executive directors serve as non-executive 
directors of other companies. Subject to review in each 
case, the board’s general policy is that each executive 
director may accept one non-executive directorship with 
another company from which any fees received may be 
retained. At present neither of the executive directors 
hold any outside directorships and do not earn fees for any 
other services outside employment with the Company. 
Shaun Smith has a voluntary role as a co-opted member 
of the audit committee of Birmingham City University.
Audited information
Directors’ emoluments
The remuneration of each director, excluding share 
options, LTIP awards and pensions during the year ended 
31st December 2009 is set out in table 2 on page 40. There 
were no taxable expenses in 2008 or 2009 for any of the 
directors. 
Pension arrangements
The executive directors are members of the Group’s UK 
pension scheme on a defined benefit basis of pension 
provision. T able 3 on page 40 shows the directors’ accrued 
pensions under the scheme and the corresponding transfer 
values calculated in a manner consistent with regulations 
7 to 7E of the Occupational Pensions Scheme (T ransfer 
Values) Regulations 1996. 
Directors’ share options 
Directors’ emoluments disclosed in table 2 on page 40 do 
not include any value in relation to the options to acquire 
ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the 
directors.
The interests of directors in options held under the LTIP 
(which lapsed in 2009) and the Sharesave Plan at the 
beginning and end of the financial year are shown in table 
4 on page 41.
On behalf of the board,
P W G T om
Chairman of the remuneration committee
12th March 2010 
REMUNERATION REPORT  40 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 41
R emuner ation	r epor t
T able 2 
Salary/
fees  
£000
Salary in lieu of 
pension above 
earnings cap 
£000
Benefits in 
kind and 
cash benefits 
£000
Annual
bonus  
£000
2009  
T otal  
£000
2008  
T otal  
£000
W B McGrath 487 80 26 97 690 595
S M Smith 280 35 23 56 394 339
J Coleman (appointed March 2008) 125 - - - 125 102
P B Dermody 40 - - - 40 40
P E Jackson 35 - - - 35 35
H M Mahy (resigned December 2009) 35 - - - 35 35
P W G T om (note 1) 40 - - - 40 40
V Cocker (resigned May 2008) - - - - - 40
T otal 1,042 115 49 153 1,359 1,226
note 1 Relates to consultancy fees in respect of qualifying services to the Company, paid under a consultancy agreement.
T able 3
Accrued 
pension at 31st 
Dec 2009  
£000 pa
Increase 
in accrued 
pension over 
the year  
£000 pa
T ransfer value 
of accrued 
pension at 31st 
Dec 2008  
£000
T ransfer value 
of accrued 
pension at 
31st Dec 2009 
(note 1)  
£000
Increase 
in transfer 
value over 
the year, net 
of director’s 
contributions 
(note 2)  
£000
Increase 
in accrued 
pension over 
the year (net of 
inflation)  
£000 pa
T ransfer value 
of increase 
in accrued 
pension over 
the year, net 
of director’s 
contributions 
(note 3)  
£000
W B McGrath 48 6 317 651 330 4 43
S M Smith 52 5 341 640 295 3 25
The transfer values calculated have been verified by a consulting actuary.
note 1 T ransfer values at 31st December 2009 were calculated using a revised T rustee’s transfer value basis effective from 1st January 2009. 
note 2 The increase in transfer values over the year (net of director's contributions) reflects the comparison of the transfer value of the accrued 
pensions at the start and end of the period. T ransfer values are not cash payments due to the individual concerned but are the present actuarial 
value of the directors’ pension benefits payable in the future. They are therefore discounted amounts which take into account market conditions 
and may change materially from year to year, even though no additional benefits were promised during the year.
The increase in transfer values over the year largely arises from the effect of using the revised transfer value basis at 31st December 2009 referred 
to in note 1 above. The transfer value basis used at 31st December 2008 applied a market value adjustment based on actual equity market 
conditions, whereas the transfer value basis used at 31st December 2009 applied a market value adjustment derived from a model of projected 
equity market performance. It is considered that the methodology underlying the revised transfer value basis is now the most appropriate for 
calculating transfer values and the revised basis should result in greater stability of transfer values in the future.
If the transfer values at 31st December 2008 were restated on a basis consistent with the transfer values at 31st December 2009, the restated 
transfer value in respect of William McGrath’s accrued pension would be £469k and the transfer value in respect of Shaun Smith’s accrued 
pension would be £507k and therefore the increase in transfer value over the year, net of director’s contributions, on a restated basis would be 
£178k and £130k respectively.
note 3 The transfer value of the increase in accrued pensions over the year (net of director's contributions) reflects the transfer value of the 
increase in the accrued pensions over the period only.  40 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 41
R emuner ation	r epor t
T able 4
Sharesave  
Plan  
approved  
in 2008
Long-T erm Incentive  
Plan approved in 1999
W B McGrath
At 1st January 2009 8,014 28,149 33,922 121,262 85,391
Lapsed 8th May - - (33,922)                                - -
At 31st December 2009 8,014 28,149 - 121,262 85,391
S M Smith
At 1st January 2009 8,014 - 19,486 69,656 49,051
Lapsed 8th May - - (19,486)                                - -
At 31st December 2009 8,014 - - 69,656 49,051
Option grant date 26 Sep 08 13 Oct 03 27 Apr 06 14 May 07 12 May 08
Exercisable period 01 Dec 13  
to  
31 May 14
13 Oct 06  
to  
12 Oct 13
27 Apr 09  
to  
26 Apr 16
14 May 10  
to  
13 May 17
12 May 11  
to  
11 May 18
The exercise price per share in respect of options granted under the Sharesave Plan in 2008 is 209 pence per share. Subject to performance 
conditions, the LTIP consists of a right to acquire shares under option at an aggregate price of £1 per award.
Qualifying performance conditions for the LTIP are shown in note 23 to the accounts.
No options were exercised by the directors during the year and therefore no gains were made during 2009 (2008: £56,422).
The mid-market price of ordinary shares on 31st December 2009 was 120.0 pence and the highest and lowest mid-market prices during the 
financial year were 162.0 pence and 55.25 pence respectively.
REMUNERATION REPORT C onsolidat ed	inc ome	stat ement
F OR	THE	YEAR	ENDED	31S T	DE CEMBER
 42 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 43
Notes
2009
£m
 2008
£m
Revenue 3 & 4 245.0 279.4
Net operating costs 4 (246.5) (268.3)
Group operating (loss)/profit 4 (1.5) 11.1
Net pension credit 6 5.4 5.4
Non–recurring cost 4 (3.6) (5.3)
Profit before net finance income and income tax 0.3 11.2
Finance income 7 1.1 4.8
Finance costs 7 (0.9) (1.6)
Profit before income tax 0.5 14.4
Income tax expense 8 – (2.7)
Profit for year 0.5 11.7
Profit attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 1.7 12.4
Minority shareholders (1.2) (0.7)
Profit for year 0.5 11.7
Earnings per share 11 p p
Basic 2.5 14.4
Diluted 2.5 14.4
Dividend per share 10 p p
Interim paid – 4.0
Final proposed – –
T otal ordinary dividend – 4.0
Cash return 10 – 121.0
All operations are continuing.
Notes to the accounts are on pages 48 to 78.  42 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 43
C onsolidat ed	stat ement	of	c ompr ehensiv e	
(los ses )/ inc ome	 F OR	THE	YEAR	ENDED	31S T	DE CEMBER
Notes
 2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Profit for year 0.5 11.7
Exchange adjustments on hedge of net investments 1.6 (3.2)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (9.3) 23.0
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 6 (104.5) (28.7)
Deferred tax on actuarial losses 21 29.3 7.9
Other comprehensive losses for the year (82.9) (1.0)
T otal comprehensive (losses)/income for the year (82.4) 10.7
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (81.1) 11.0
Minority interests (1.3) (0.3)
T otal comprehensive (losses)/income for the year (82.4) 10.7
 
Notes to the accounts are on pages 48 to 78.  44 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 45
C onsolidat ed	balanc e	sheet
AS	A T	31ST	DE CEMBER
Non–current assets Notes
2009 
£m
2008 
£m
Goodwill 12 66.9 70.9
Intangible assets 13 23.2 24.0
Property, plant and equipment 14 50.8 58.7
Retirement benefit surplus 6 – 58.7
Deferred tax assets 21 21.7 5.5
162.6 217.8
Current assets
Inventories 15 46.0 63.5
T rade and other receivables 16 31.7 39.9
Current tax assets 1.8 2.1
Cash and cash equivalents 18 45.0 42.9
124.5 148.4
Assets held for sale 14 3.1 1.9
T otal assets 290.2 368.1
Current liabilities
Borrowings 18 (1.3) (9.7)
T rade and other payables 17 (63.2) (66.8)
Current tax liabilities (18.4) (11.6)
Current provisions 20 (2.4) (4.3)
(85.3) (92.4)
Net current assets 39.2 56.0
Non–current liabilities
Borrowings 18 (15.7) (27.4)
Retirement benefit obligation 6 (40.5) (1.2)
Deferred tax liabilities 21 (6.1) (21.9)
Provisions 20 (8.3) (8.7)
(70.6) (59.2)
T otal liabilities (155.9) (151.6)
Net assets 134.3 216.5
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital 22 32.5 32.5
Share premium account 29.6 29.6
Other reserves 25 85.8 95.5
Retained (losses)/ earnings (14.1) 57.1
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 133.8 214.7
Minority interest 0.5 1.8
T otal equity 134.3 216.5
The accounts on pages 42 to 78 were approved by the board of directors on 12th March 2010 and were signed on its behalf 
by:
W B McGrath Chief Executive S M Smith Finance Director
Notes to the accounts are on pages 48 to 78.  44 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
C onsolidat ed	cash	flo w	stat ement
F OR	THE	YEAR	ENDED	31ST 	DE CEMBER
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 45
Cash flows from operating activities Notes
2009
£m
2008
£m
Profit before income tax 0.5 14.4
Reconciliation of profit before income tax to net cashflows:
Net finance income (0.2) (3.2)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 7.1 6.8
Impairment of assets held for sale 0.8 –
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 1.6 1.3
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.3
Share based payments expense 0.2 –
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 15.3 (3.6)
Decrease in receivables 5.6 5.4
Increase/(decrease) in payables 2.0 (10.7)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (1.3) 0.5
Movement in pensions (6.4) (6.7)
Cash generated from operating activities 25.3 4.5
Finance income 1.1 5.0
Finance costs (0.9) (1.6)
T ax receipt/(payment) 4.0 (2.7)
Net cash generated from operating activities 29.5 5.2
Cash flows from investing activities
Disposal proceeds from sale of subsidiaries less costs 9 (0.4) (2.4)
Purchase of Mercury 24 (0.5) –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (6.2) (10.2)
Expenditure on intangibles 13 (1.9) (3.3)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.5
Net cash used in investing activities (9.0) (15.4)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid and cash returned to shareholders 10 – (151.2)
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital and cost of share consolidation – (0.1)
Repayment of borrowings (20.5) (1.5)
New bank loans raised 2.6 22.7
Net cash used in financing activities (17.9) (130.1)
Effects of exchange rate changes (0.5) 1.7
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2.1 (138.6)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 42.9 181.5
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18a 45.0 42.9
Notes to the accounts are on pages 48 to 78.  46 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 47
C onsolidat ed	stat ement	of	chang es	in	equit y
F OR	THE	YEAR	ENDED	31S T	DE CEMBER	2009
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share 
capital
(note 22) 
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Other 
reserves
(note 25)
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m
T otal
£m
Minority
 interests 
£m
T otal 
equity 
£m
At 1st January 2009 32.5 29.6 95.5 57.1 214.7 1.8 216.5
Comprehensive income
Profit/(loss) for the year – – – 1.7 1.7 (1.2) 0.5
Other comprehensive 
(losses)/income:
Exchange adjustments on 
hedge of net investments – – 1.6 – 1.6 – 1.6
Exchange differences 
on translation of foreign 
operations  – – (9.2) – (9.2) (0.1) (9.3)
Actuarial losses on defined 
benefit pension schemes – – – (104.5) (104.5) – (104.5)
Deferred tax on actuarial 
losses – – – 29.3 29.3 – 29.3
T otal comprehensive losses 
for the year to 31st December 
2009 – – (7.6) (73.5) (81.1) (1.3) (82.4)
T ransfer between reserves – – (2.1) 2.1 – – –
Share based payments – – – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
At 31st December 2009 32.5 29.6 85.8 (14.1) 133.8 0.5 134.3
The cumulative amount of goodwill taken direct to reserves since 1985 in respect of businesses that were members of the 
Group at 31st December 2009 is £6.3m (2008: £6.3m). 
On the 30th December 2009 the minority interest in Grange SA decreased from 25% to 5%.
For each currency, exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign currency borrowings used to finance foreign 
currency investments have been offset as reserves movements against exchange differences arising on the retranslation 
of the net investment in that currency. In total, net exchange gains on foreign currency borrowings of £1.6m (2008: losses 
£3.2m) have been taken to reserves.  46 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 47
C onsolidat ed	stat ement	of	chang es	in	equit y
F OR	THE	YEAR	ENDED	31ST 	DE CEMBER	2008
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share 
capital
(note 22) 
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Other 
reserves
(note 25)
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
T otal
£m
Minority 
interests
£m
T otal 
equity
£m
At 1st January 2008  32.4 68.8 37.1 216.7 355.0 2.1 357.1
Comprehensive income
Profit/(loss) for the year – – – 12.4 12.4 (0.7) 11.7
Other comprehensive 
(losses)/income:
Exchange adjustments on 
hedge of net investments – – (3.2) – (3.2) – (3.2)
Exchange differences 
on translation of foreign 
operations  – – 22.6 – 22.6 0.4 23.0
Actuarial losses on defined 
benefit pension schemes – – – (28.7) (28.7) – (28.7)
Deferred tax on actuarial 
losses – - – 7.9 7.9 – 7.9
T otal comprehensive income/
(losses) for the year to 31st 
December 2008 – – 19.4 (8.4) 11.0 (0.3) 10.7
Dividends and cash return  – – – (151.2) (151.2) – (151.2)
Shares issued 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 – 0.3
Costs associated with share 
consolidation – (0.4) – – (0.4) – (0.4)
T ransfer between reserves – (39.0) 39.0 – – – –
At 31st December 2008 32.5 29.6 95.5 57.1 214.7 1.8 216.5
Notes to the accounts are on pages 48 to 78. Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 48 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 49
1. Corporate information
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for 
the year ended 31st December 2009 were authorised for 
issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 
11th March 2010. 
The Group is a public limited company incorporated and 
domiciled in the UK whose shares are publicly traded on 
the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture 
and sale of range cookers and related home fashions 
product. 
2. Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The Group financial statements presented in this document 
have been prepared on the basis of all International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’), including International 
Accounting Standards (‘IAS’) and International 
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) 
interpretations issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (‘IASB’) and its committees, and as 
interpreted by any regulatory bodies applicable to the 
Group published by 31st December 2009 and adopted by 
the European Union. The financial statements have also 
been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets 
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and 
the reported revenues and expenses during the year. 
Although these estimates are based on management’s best 
knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results 
ultimately may differ from those estimates. It also requires 
management to exercise its judgement in the process of 
applying the Group’s accounting policies. The key sources 
of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of 
causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the 
measurement of defined benefit pension obligations, see 
note 6 and the provision for taxes, see current and deferred 
tax accounting policy, for further details.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations 
to existing standards have been adopted for the first time 
in the Group’s annual report: 
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (revised) • 
The revised standard separates owner and non-owner 
changes in equity. The consolidated statement of changes 
in equity is a primary statement and  includes details of 
transactions with owners and with non-owners. In addition, 
the standard introduces the consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income in place of the statement of 
recognised income and expense. This presents all non-
owner items of recognised income and expense, either 
in one single statement, or in two linked statements. The 
Group has elected to present two statements. 
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes • 
This interpretation clarifies where goods and services 
are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive that 
the arrangement should be accounted for as a sale of 
two components – the goods/services and the incentive. 
Amounts due from the customer should be allocated 
between these two elements in proportion to their fair 
values and recognised as revenue at different times. The 
adoption of this interpretation did not have any material 
impact on the financial position or performance of the 
Group.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign • 
Operation
This interpretation provides guidance on the accounting 
for a hedge of a net investment. It provides guidance on 
identifying the foreign currency risks that qualify for hedge 
accounting in the hedge of a net investment, where within 
the Group the hedging instruments can be held in the hedge 
of a net investment and how an entity should determine 
the amount of foreign currency gain or loss, relating to 
both the net investment and the hedging instrument, to 
be recycled on disposal of the net investment. The Group 
has elected to recycle the gain or loss that arises from the 
direct method of consolidation, which is the method the 
Group uses to complete its consolidation. As the Group did 
not dispose of any net investment it has no impact on the 
financial position or results.
The adoption of the following amendments resulted in 
changes to accounting policies which either had no or no 
material impact on the financial position or performance or 
disclosures of the Group.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements • 
Assets and liabilities classified as held for trading in 
accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition 
and Measurement are not automatically classified as 
current in the balance sheet. 
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment • 
The term ‘net selling price’ has been replaced with ‘fair 
value less costs to sell’. 
IAS 38 Intangible Assets • 
Expenditure on advertising and promotional activities is 
recognised as an expense when the Group either has a 
right to access the goods or has received the service.   48 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 49
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
2. Accounting policies (continued)
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments – Disclosures • 
The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair 
value measurement and liquidity risk. In particular, the 
amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements 
by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs (revised) • 
This revision requires capitalisation of borrowing costs that 
are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of a qualifying asset. The Group’s previous 
policy was to expense borrowing costs as they were 
incurred. In accordance with the transitional provisions of 
the amended IAS 23, the Group has adopted the standard 
on a prospective basis. However, there were no such 
borrowing costs in 2009.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 • 
Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising 
on Liquidation
The standards have been amended to allow a limited scope 
exception for puttable financial instruments to be classified 
as equity if they fulfil a number of specified criteria.
Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to 
existing standards have been published that are mandatory 
for the Group’s future accounting periods but which the 
Group has not early adopted. The relevant ones effective 
for the year ended 31st December 2010 are set out below:
IAS 27 (revised) Consolidated and Separate Financial • 
Statements
IAS 38 (amendments) Intangible Assets • 
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and • 
Measurement
IFRS 1 (amended)/IAS 27 (amended) Cost of an • 
Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or 
Associate
IFRS 2 Share-based Payments – Group Cash-settled • 
Share-based Payment T ransactions 
IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations • 
IFRS 5 (amendment) Non-current Assets Held for Sale • 
and Discontinued Operations
IFRIC 17 Distributions on Non-cash Assets to Owners • 
IFRIC 18 T ransfers of Assets from Customers • 
The Group has considered the above standards, 
interpretations and amendments. The Group intends to 
comply with these from the effective date. The directors 
anticipate that the adoption of these standards and 
interpretations in future periods will have no material 
impact on the financial statements. A summary of the 
principal Group IFRS accounting policies is set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated income statement and balance sheet 
include the accounts of the parent Company and all its 
subsidiaries made up to the end of the financial year and 
include the results of subsidiaries and businesses acquired 
and sold during the year from or up to their effective date 
of acquisition or sale. The Group defines a subsidiary as an 
entity that the Group has the power to control. All intra-
group balances and transactions, including unrealised 
profits arising from intra-group transactions, are 
eliminated in full. Unrealised losses are eliminated unless 
the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
asset transferred.
Minority interests represent the proportion of profit or 
loss and net assets that are not held by the Group and 
are presented separately in the consolidated income 
statement and within equity in the consolidated balance 
sheet, separately from the parent shareholders’ equity.
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the 
acquisition method. Shares issued as consideration for 
the acquisition of companies have a fair value attributed 
to them, which are normally their market value at the date 
of acquisition. Net assets acquired are consolidated at a 
fair value to the Group at the date of acquisition. Changes 
to those assets and liabilities, and the resulting gains and 
losses that arise after the Group has gained control of the 
subsidiary, are credited and charged to the post-acquisition 
income statement or the statement of comprehensive 
income/losses, where appropriate. On the acquisition of 
minority interests the difference between cost and the 
minority interest is taken to goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1998 was written off 
to reserves. From 1998, goodwill, being the difference between 
the fair value of the purchase consideration and the fair value 
of the assets acquired, was capitalised in the balance sheet as 
goodwill and until 31st December 2003 was amortised on a 
straight line basis over its estimated useful life, not exceeding 
20 years. 
Segmental reporting
An operating segment is described in IFRS 8 as a component 
of an entity that engages in business activities from which 
it may earn revenues and incur expenses, whose operating 
results are regularly reviewed by the chief executive and 
his senior management team to make decisions about the 
resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its 
performance and for which discrete financial information 
is available. Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 50 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 51
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Segmental reporting (continued)
There are two operating segments, namely AGA and 
Rangemaster,  which meet the aggregation criteria of IFRS 8 
in full, therefore, the directors consider that there is only one 
reportable aggregated segment, this is consistent with the 
core principle that the result is to provide information that 
enables users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of 
the business activities in which the Group engages and the 
economic environments in which it operates. Aggregation is 
based on an assessment that the operating segments have 
similar economic characteristics, products and services, 
production processes, types and classes of customer and 
methods used to distribute products. The directors consider 
the aggregated reportable segment to be the manufacture and 
sale of range cookers and related home fashions product. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue, which excludes value added tax and intra-group 
revenue, principally represents the invoiced value of goods 
sold, services rendered and short-term maintenance 
contracts. Appropriate provisions for returns, trade 
discounts and other allowances are deducted from revenue 
as appropriate. The Group has no barter transactions. 
Revenue is recognised from the sale of goods when the 
significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods 
have passed to the buyer or can be readily measured. This 
is deemed to be when the goods have been dispatched or 
are available for delivery.
Post retirement benefits
The Group’s main pension schemes are of a defined benefit 
type. Under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ the employer’s 
portion of the current service costs, settlement gains and 
curtailment gains are charged to the income statement for 
these schemes, with the interest cost net of the expected 
return on assets in the schemes also being credited to the 
income statement. When a settlement or a curtailment 
occurs the obligation and scheme assets are remeasured 
using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain 
or loss recognised in the income statement during the year 
in which the settlement or curtailment occurs. Actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised directly in equity, in the 
statement of comprehensive income and losses, and the 
balance sheet reflects the schemes’ surplus or deficit at 
the balance sheet date. The determination of the present 
value of obligations and scheme assets is done with 
sufficient regularity that the amounts do not differ from 
the amounts determined at the balance sheet date. A full 
valuation is carried out triennially using the projected unit 
credit method.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents 
the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting 
from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the 
discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit 
obligation, taking into account material changes in the 
obligation during the year. The expected return on scheme 
assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning 
of the year of long-term market returns on scheme assets, 
adjusted for the effect on the fair value of scheme assets of 
contributions received and benefits paid in the year. 
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance 
sheet comprises the total for each scheme of the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation, using a discount 
rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less any 
past service cost not recognised and less the fair value of 
scheme assets out of which the obligations are to be settled 
directly. Fair value is based on market price information 
and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid 
price. Measurement of defined benefit obligations requires 
estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as 
well as mortality rates, and the selection of a suitable 
discount rate.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to 
the income statement as they become payable.
Intangible assets 
Expenditure relating to clearly defined and identifiable 
development projects is recognised as an intangible asset 
only after the following criteria are met: the project’s 
technical feasibility and commercial viability can be 
demonstrated, the availability of adequate technical 
and financial resources and an intention to complete 
the project have been confirmed and the correlation 
between development costs and future revenues has been 
established. The development costs are then amortised 
on a straight line basis over the life of the project, limited 
to a maximum of seven and a half years following 
the commencement of its commercial production. 
Development expenditure that has not been brought into 
use is also reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. All 
other research and development expenditure is written off 
in the year in which it is incurred. 
Computer software licences acquired, costs associated 
with the developing of software products and software that 
is not integral to a related item of hardware, are recognised 
as intangible assets and are amortised over their useful 
lives, which is limited to a maximum of five years.
Development costs mainly arise from internal development 
and brands are acquired separately.  50 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 51
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
Impairment of goodwill and intangibles
Goodwill is subject to an impairment review annually or 
when there are indications that the carrying value may 
not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised 
in the income statement for the amount by which the 
asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount. The 
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value 
less costs to sell and its discounted value in use. For the 
purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at 
the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable 
cash flows. The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to 
a cash-generating unit (CGU) is taken into account when 
determining the gain or loss on disposal of a unit. Goodwill 
arising on acquisitions prior to 1998 remains set off directly 
against reserves even if the related investment becomes 
impaired or the business is disposed of.
Separable intangible assets, such as trademarks, licences 
and brands, are recognised separately from goodwill on all 
acquisitions after 1st January 2004, the date of transition 
to IFRS, which are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and are amortised over their estimated useful 
life. Brands identified in certain business combinations 
have been assessed as having an indefinite useful life. 
In reaching this assessment, account was made of their 
market-leading position in niche markets, premium image, 
length of history and unchanging fashion. These factors 
are coupled with continuing marketing spend to maintain 
the brand. These brands are assessed for impairment on 
an annual basis or sooner where there is indication of 
impairment. The carrying values are assessed by reference 
to the net present values of forecast future cash flows. For 
brands, the Royalty Relief Methodology is used to forecast 
future cash flows. This is based on the notion of what an 
independent third party would need to pay a brand owner 
in order to use that brand name in a particular marketplace 
or defined territory. 
Assets held for sale
Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Property, plant and equipment
Under IAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ assets are 
held at cost less accumulated depreciation. Assets held at 
the date of transition are held at deemed cost. Depreciation 
is provided on property, plant and equipment, other than 
freehold land and assets in the course of construction, at 
rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a 
straight line basis down to its residual value as follows:
Freehold buildings over 50 years. i. 
Leasehold buildings over 50 years or the period of the ii. 
lease whichever is less.
Plant and equipment over a period of 3 to 12 iii. 
1
/2 years.
The Group annually reviews the assessment of residual 
values and useful lives in accordance with IAS 16. The 
carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed 
for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying 
value amount may not be recoverable.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is 
determined as the difference between the net sales 
proceeds and the carrying value of the asset and is 
recognised in income.
Leases
Under IAS 17 ‘Leases,’ assets held under leases and hire 
purchase contracts, where the Group has substantially 
all the risks and rewards of ownership, are capitalised as 
owned property, plant and equipment and the obligations 
relating thereto, excluding finance charges, are included 
in borrowings. Finance costs are charged to the income 
statement over the contract term to give a constant rate of 
interest on the outstanding balance. Finance lease assets 
held as property, plant and equipment are depreciated over 
the shorter of the asset’s expected useful life and the lease 
term. 
Payments in respect of operating leases, net of any 
incentives received, are charged in arriving at the operating 
profit on a straight line basis over the period of the lease. 
The Group treats sale and operating leasebacks as disposals 
and any profit or loss on the transaction is recognised at 
the time of the sale.
Inventories 
In accordance with IAS 2 ‘Inventories’ the Group’s 
inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first in 
first out basis and net realisable value. Cost includes a 
proportion of production overheads based on normal 
levels of activity. Provision is made for obsolete and slow 
moving items. 
Borrowings
Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when 
the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are 
measured initially at fair value less directly attributable 
transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest-
bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement 
or cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in 
finance income and finance cost.
2. Accounting policies (continued) Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 52 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 53
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the 
Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the 
liability at the balance sheet date. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise 
cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with a 
maturity of three months or less. In certain circumstances 
cash deposits with a maturity of up to six months may be 
included. For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow 
statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and 
cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank 
overdrafts.
Foreign currency translation
T ransactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in 
the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate 
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated 
at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the income 
statement, except when hedge accounting is applied and 
for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form 
part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign operation. 
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the 
net investment when the deferred cumulative amount 
recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign 
operation is recognised in the income statement.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are 
translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the 
balance sheet date. Income and expenses are translated 
at the average exchange rate for the month in which they 
arise. The main foreign currencies used are US Dollars and 
Euros. The year end rate of exchange used for the Euro was 
1.13 (2008: 1.03) and for the US Dollar was 1.61 (2008: 
1.44) and the average rates were 1.12 (2008: 1.26) and 
1.56 (2008: 1.85), respectively. The resulting exchange 
differences are taken directly to a separate component of 
equity. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the 
exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. 
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in foreign 
currency are translated using the exchange rates at the 
date when the fair value was determined.
Financial assets
Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes 
party to the contracts that give rise to them and are 
classified as financial assets at fair value through the 
income statement, these include loans and receivables, 
held-to-maturity investments or available-for-sale financial 
assets, under the requirements of IAS 39.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as held for 
trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments. 
Assets are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with 
gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Dividends
Final dividends are only recognised at the point when they 
are declared and approved by the shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting. Interim dividends are recognised 
on payment.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
Where appropriate, the Group uses derivative financial 
instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts 
and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with 
foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. The Group 
does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for 
speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised 
at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract 
is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair 
value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value 
is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is 
calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates 
for contracts with similar maturity profiles. The fair value 
of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference 
to market values for similar instruments.
Where the criteria are met for hedge accounting, it is 
applied to the forward foreign exchange contracts put in 
place to reduce exposure to currency denominated sales 
and purchases.
Where the criteria for hedge accounting are not met, or 
the Group elects not to hedge account, gains and losses on 
the fair value of forward contracts are taken to the income 
statement as they arise.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which 
hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is 
documented at its inception. This documentation identifies 
the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, 
the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness 
will be measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are 
expected to be highly effective at inception.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, a hedge is classified 
as:
a fair value hedge, i.e. a hedge of the fair value of an • 
asset or a liability;
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Borrowings (continued)  52 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 53
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
a cash flow hedge, i.e. a hedge of the variability in • 
cash flows of a recognised asset or liability or a highly 
probable forecast transaction;
a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity. • 
Fair value hedges 
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are 
designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in 
the income statement, together with any changes in the fair 
value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to 
the hedged risk. 
Cash flow hedges 
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments 
designated as cash flow hedges such as forward foreign 
exchange contracts are recognised in equity, to the extent 
that the hedges are effective. Any ineffective portion is 
recognised as a profit or loss. Amounts deferred in equity 
are released when the forecast hedged transaction impacts 
profit and loss.
Hedge of net investments in foreign entities
The Group hedges net investments in foreign entities 
primarily through currency borrowings. Any gains or 
losses on the translation of the borrowings are recognised 
in equity. As the hedge relationship is expected to remain 
highly effective, the accounting treatment will be applied 
on an ongoing basis until the Group revokes the designation 
or the investment is disposed of.
Current and deferred tax
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the 
amounts expected to be recovered from or paid to the tax 
authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted 
or substantively enacted, by the reporting date, in the 
countries where the Group operates and generates taxable 
income.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet 
liability method, on temporary differences arising between the 
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts 
in the consolidated financial statements. However, the 
deferred income tax is not accounted for, if it arises from initial 
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than 
a business combination that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred 
income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date and are expected to apply when the related deferred 
income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability 
is settled. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available 
against which the temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences 
arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that 
the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future.
The Group has not provided for deferred tax in relation 
to temporary differences associated with undistributed 
earnings of subsidiaries. However, based on current 
enacted law and on the basis that the Group is in a position 
to control the timing and realisation of these temporary 
differences, no material tax consequences are expected to 
arise.
Judgement is required when determining the provision for 
taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot 
be finally determined until a formal resolution has been 
reached with the tax authorities. T ax benefits are not 
recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be 
obtained. T ax provisions are made if it is expected that a 
liability will arise. The Group reviews each significant tax 
liability or benefit to assess the appropriate accounting 
treatment.
Employee share options
IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payments’ requires that the cost of equity-
settled transactions with employees is measured by reference 
to the fair value at the date on which they are granted and 
is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which 
ends on the date on which the relevant employees become 
fully entitled to the award. Fair value is determined by an 
external valuer using an appropriate pricing model. In valuing 
equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service 
or performance conditions (vesting conditions), other than 
performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the 
Company (market conditions).  Any other conditions which 
are required to be met in order for an employee to become 
fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting 
conditions.  Like market performance conditions, non-vesting 
conditions are taken into account in determining the grant 
date fair value. 
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately 
vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a 
market vesting condition or a non-vesting condition, which are 
treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market 
condition or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that 
all other non-market vesting  conditions are satisfied. 
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if 
it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet 
2. Accounting policies (continued) Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 54 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 55
recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed 
immediately. Any compensation paid up to the fair value of 
the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted 
from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as 
an expense in the income statement. 
The measurement of this expense is calculated only on 
options granted after 7th November 2002. Further details are 
given in note 23.
Provisions
Provisions are measured at the present value of the 
expenditures expected to be required to settle the 
obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the obligation.
Provision is made for the estimated liability on all products still 
under warranty. Product warranties of between one and three 
years are given, where appropriate, by individual businesses 
in the Group. Following the disposal programme of previous 
years certain vacant properties located in the UK remain 
with the Group. Full provision has been made for the residual 
onerous lease commitments, together with other outgoings, 
for the remaining period of the leases. The Group’s other 
provisions relate to the remaining costs in respect of earlier 
disposals, including probable warranty and indemnity claims, 
other claims and other costs from third parties in relation to 
divested businesses. Provisions are not discounted where the 
effect is not material.
Non-recurring costs
The Group presents as non-recurring items on the face of 
the income statement, those items of income and expense 
which, because of the non-recurring nature and expected 
infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit 
separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand 
better the elements of financial performance in the year, so 
as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess 
better trends in financial performance.
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Employee share options (continued)
3. Segmental analysis
An operating segment is a component of an entity that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and 
incur expenses, whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief executive and his senior management team 
to make decisions about the resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance and for which discrete 
financial information is available. 
There are two operating segments, namely AGA (which comprises the brands and operations of AGA, Fired Earth, 
Waterford Stanley and Grange) and Rangemaster (which comprises the brands and operations of Rangemaster, AGA 
Marvel, Heartland, La Cornue and Divertimenti). The two operating segments are considered to meet the aggregation 
criteria of IFRS 8 in full and so the directors consider that there is only one aggregated reportable segment, therefore the 
majority of the disclosures as required under IFRS 8 have already been given in these financial statements.
Segment assets include property, plant and equipment, intangibles, inventories, retirement benefit surpluses and 
receivables. Cash, borrowings and taxation are not included. Non-current assets exclude the retirement benefit surplus 
and deferred tax assets. Entity wide disclosures in respect of revenues from external customers, total segment assets and 
non-current assets are provided below:
2009 2008
Revenue
£m
T otal segment
 assets
£m
Non–current
 assets
£m
Revenue
£m
T otal segment
 assets
£m
Non–current
 assets
£m
United Kingdom 156.5 116.3 69.0 175.3 191.0 73.6
North America 30.6 43.2 30.5 40.0 55.0 34.4
Europe 53.8 62.2 41.4 60.0 71.6 45.6
Rest of World 4.1 – – 4.1 – –
T otal operations 245.0 221.7 140.9 279.4 317.6 153.6
T ax – 23.5 – – 7.6 –
Cash – 45.0 – – 42.9 –
T otal 245.0 290.2 140.9 279.4 368.1 153.6  54 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 55
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
4. Net operating costs
2009
£m
2008
£m
Revenue 245.0 279.4
Operating loss/(profit) 1.5 (11.1)
Net operating costs 246.5 268.3
Net operating costs
Raw materials and consumables 93.4 107.5
Staff costs (note 5) 72.6 81.4
Other operating charges 64.8 68.1
Change in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 7.5 3.7
Other operating income (0.5) (0.5)
Amortisation of intangibles (note 13) 1.6 1.3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 14) 7.1 6.8
Net operating costs 246.5 268.3
Group operating (loss)/profit for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):
2009
£m
2008
£m
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.3
T rade receivables impairment (note 16) – (0.3)
Reversal of inventory write down made in previous year (note 15) (1.1) (0.2)
Inventory provision charged in the year (note 15) 0.6 0.9
Research and development expenditure 1.5 1.3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 14) 7.1 6.8
Amortisation of intangibles (note 13) 1.6 1.3
Operating lease rentals payable:
– plant and machinery 2.6 2.6
– property 7.5 6.0
Net exchange differences (1.3) (2.0)
Auditor’s remuneration:
– Group audit fees 0.1 0.1
– Audit of Company’s subsidiaries 0.1 0.1
Other fees to auditor:
– T axation services 0.6 0.7
– All other services – 0.2
Non-recurring cost
The £3.6m (2008: £5.3m) non-recurring cost relates to £2.8m of predominantly reorganisation and redundancy 
programmes across the Group, primarily integration costs at AGA Rangemaster and factory rationalisation programmes 
at AGA Marvel and Grange. There is also £0.8m of impairment of assets now held for sale as described in note 14. In 2008 
the £5.3m non-recurring cost related to reorganisation and redundancy programmes primarily at Marvel, Rangemaster 
and Waterford Stanley. Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 56 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 57
5. Employee information
Average number of employees (including directors) 2009 2008
Production 1,364 1,429
Selling and distribution 749 773
Administration and support services 543 571
T otal 2,656 2,773
T otal staff costs (including directors) 2009
£m
2008
£m
Wages and salaries 63.1 71.7
Social security costs 8.4 8.9
Share based payments 0.2 –
Other pension costs 0.9 0.8
Staff costs (note 4) 72.6 81.4
Pension credit (note 6) (5.4) (5.4)
Net staff costs 67.2 76.0
The defined benefit pension credit of £5.4m (2008: £5.4m) is included on the face of the income statement. 
Details of directors’ compensation, share options, Long-T erm Incentive Plans and pensions are set out in the audited part 
of the remuneration report on pages 39 to 41.
6. Pensions 
The Group operates a pension scheme which covers the majority of UK employees. Membership on a defined benefit 
basis was closed in 2001 but the scheme remains open to new entrants on a defined contribution basis. The assets are 
held in trust funds separate from the Group’s assets although they are included in the Group’s balance sheet. The other 
defined benefit schemes operating within the Group are the Amari plc Pension and Life Assurance Plan in the UK and the 
Waterford Stanley pension schemes in Ireland. Various defined contribution schemes exist across the Group and the total 
contributions in the year were £0.9m (2008: £0.8m) which are included under staff costs in note 5. 
The latest full valuation of the main UK scheme was carried out by Watson Wyatt Limited, independent consulting 
actuaries, as at 31st December 2005 using the projected unit credit method. The valuation as at 31st December 2008 
is currently nearing completion. Defined benefit scheme contributions of £1.2m (2008: £1.2m) based on pensionable 
salaries were made during the year ended 31st December 2009. Contributions of £0.1m (2008: £0.1m) were owed to 
the scheme at 31st December 2009. Contributions for 2010 under the main UK scheme will be 5.5% (2009: 5.5%) and 
for all members accruing benefits on a final salary basis with the exception of six members of the former 1970 scheme 
who accrue benefits at 27.4% (2009: 27.4%) of pensionable salaries. Normal Company contributions of £1.3m and £2m 
additional contributions are expected to be paid to this scheme during 2010. A curtailment gain of around £15m, subject to 
review by the consulting actuaries, is also expected in 2010 in respect of the freezing of the pensionable salaries for those 
members whose pensionable salaries were not frozen in 2009.
The financial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit schemes’ liabilities under IAS 19 were:
UK 
Schemes 
2009
Waterford 
Stanley
Schemes
2009
UK 
Schemes 
2008
Waterford 
Stanley
Schemes
2008
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 4.0% 3.0% 2.9% 3.0%
Rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.3 – 3.6% 2.0% 2.0 – 3.2% 2.0%
Discount rate 5.7% 5.3% 6.4% 6.0%
Inflation rate 3.5% 2.0% 2.4% 2.0%
Expected rate of return on schemes’ assets 6.3% 6.0% 6.4% 5.8%  56 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 57
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
6. Pensions (continued) 
The overall expected rate of return on assets is the average of the best estimate for the expected long-term rate of return 
for each of the major asset classes weighted according to the percentage allocation of the aggregated assets to each of 
the asset classes at the reporting date.
The demographic assumptions used include rates for mortality which, for example, generally lead to an average projected 
life expectancy of 18.9 (2008: 18.1) years for male members currently aged 65 and of 20.4 (2008: 19.2) years from age 65 
for male members currently aged 50. 
Sensitivities
The value of scheme assets is sensitive to market conditions, particularly equity values. Changes in assumptions used for 
determining retirement benefit costs and obligations may have a material impact on the income statement and the balance 
sheet. The main assumptions are the discount rate, the rate of inflation and the assumed mortality rate. The following table 
provides an estimate of the potential impact on the principal pension schemes of changing each of these variables:
Higher/(lower)
pension credit
Increase/(decrease)
in liabilities
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
Discount rate  – 0.1% decrease (0.1) – 12.2 £m
 – 0.1% increase – 0.1 (11.9) (9.0)
Inflation rate  – 0.1% decrease 0.6 0.6 (9.6) (6.1)
 – 0.1% increase (0.6) (0.5) 9.6 6.1
Mortality rate – one year increase in life expectancy (2.3) (2.3) 36.8 29.9
The assets and obligations of the aggregated schemes:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Equities 248.6 197.7
Bonds 376.9 364.4
Property 76.6 75.7
Other 13.9 17.2
Fair value of schemes’ assets 716.0 655.0
Present value of funded obligation (756.5) (597.5)
(Deficit)/surplus in the schemes (40.5) 57.5
Balance sheet presentation:
Retirement benefit surplus – 58.7
Retirement benefit obligation (40.5) (1.2)
(Deficit)/surplus in the schemes (40.5) 57.5
Included above are assets with a market value of £5.1m (2008: £4.6m) and a deficit of £1.2m (2008: £1.2m) in respect of 
overseas schemes. The foreign exchange impact on the overseas schemes is £0.1m. Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 58 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 59
6. Pensions (continued) 
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Current service cost 2.3 3.5
Curtailment gain (3.8) –
Expected return on pension schemes’ assets (40.8) (48.3)
Interest cost on pension schemes’ liabilities 36.9 39.4
Net pension credit included in income statement (5.4) (5.4)
The curtailment gain relates to the freezing of pensionable salaries for certain members of the main UK scheme in the year 
ended 31st December 2009.
History of experience gains and losses:
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
2006
£m
2005
£m
Fair value of schemes’ assets 716.0 655.0 776.9 784.6 750.6
Present value of funded obligation (756.5) (597.5) (697.3) (760.2) (768.8)
(Deficit)/surplus in the schemes (40.5) 57.5 79.6 24.4 (18.2)
Experience (loss)/ gain on schemes’ liabilities (5.1) 2.0 15.3 2.4 (7.8)
Experience gain/(loss) on schemes’ assets 57.3 (137.0) (31.2) 14.6 57.2
Movement in surplus of the aggregated schemes during the year 2009
£m
2008
£m
Surplus of the schemes at 1st January 57.5 79.6
Exchange (0.1) (0.1)
Net pension credit 5.4 5.4
Company contributions 1.2 1.3
Actuarial loss (104.5) (28.7)
(Deficit)/surplus of the schemes at 31st December (40.5) 57.5
The cumulative amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive income / losses since 1st January 2004 is £71.8m 
loss (2008: £32.7m income).
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2009
£m
2008
£m
Present value of obligation at 1st January 597.5 697.3
Interest costs 36.9 39.4
Current service cost 2.3 3.5
Member contributions 0.6 0.7
Benefit payments (including lump sums on retirement) (38.8) (36.0)
Curtailments (3.8) –
Increase/(reduction) on change of actuarial assumptions 161.9 (108.3)
Other adjustments (0.1) 0.9
Present value of obligation at 31st December 756.5 597.5  58 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 59
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
6. Pensions (continued)
Changes in the fair value of the schemes’ assets are as follows: 2009
£m
2008
£m
Fair value of schemes’ assets at 1st January 655.0 776.9
Benefit payments (including lump sums on retirement) (38.8) (36.0)
Company contributions 1.2 1.3
Member contributions 0.6 0.7
Expected return on schemes’ assets 40.8 48.3
Experience gain/(loss) 57.3 (137.0)
Other adjustments (0.1) 0.8
Fair value of schemes’ assets at 31st December 716.0 655.0
The actual gain on the schemes’ assets was £98.1m (2008: loss £88.7m).
7. Net finance income 
Finance income:
2009
£m
2008 
£m
Bank interest 0.3 4.8
Interest on repayment of tax 0.8 –
T otal finance income 1.1 4.8
Finance costs: £m £m
Bank borrowings (0.9) (1.4)
Other borrowings – (0.2)
T otal finance costs (0.9) (1.6)
Net finance income 0.2 3.2
8. Income tax
United Kingdom corporation tax based on a rate of 28.0% (2008: 28.5%):
2009
£m
2008
£m
Current tax on income for year (1.6) 1.5
Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.5 2.6
United Kingdom corporation tax 1.9 4.1
Overseas current tax on income for year 1.1 1.4
T otal current tax charge 3.0 5.5
United Kingdom deferred tax credit (0.8) (1.6)
Overseas deferred tax credit in year (2.2) (1.2)
T otal deferred tax credit (3.0) (2.8)
T otal United Kingdom tax 1.1 2.5
T otal overseas tax (1.1) 0.2
T otal income tax – 2.7
Deferred tax on items taken direct to reserves was a credit of £29.3m (2008: credit £7.9m). Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 60 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 61
8. Income tax (continued)
The total tax assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK as explained below:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Profit before income tax 0.5 14.4
Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.0% (2008: 28.5%) 0.1 4.1
Effects of:
 – non-deductible expenses – 1.1
 – adjustment to tax charge in respect of prior years 3.5 2.6
 – lower rates of tax on overseas earnings (3.6) (5.1)
T otal tax charge for the year – 2.7
9. Discontinued operations
During the year further proceeds of £0.9m (2008: £4.8m) were received in respect of the Foodservice disposal and costs 
of £1.3m (2008: £7.2m) were paid during the year, leaving a net outflow of £0.4m (2008: £2.4m).
10. Dividends and cash return
2009
£m
2008
£m
Nil final dividend paid for the year ended 31st December 2008 (2007: 7.65 pence per share) – 8.7
Nil interim dividend paid (2008: 4.0 pence per share) – 2.8
Nil return of cash (2008: £1.21 per share) – 139.7
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders in the year – 151.2
The directors are not recommending a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31st December 2009 (2008: 
nil).
There was no actual dividend (ordinary or special) paid or cash returned in the year (2008: 132.65 pence per share).  60 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 61
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
11. Earnings per share
The basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity shareholders of the parent by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion 
of all potential dilutive ordinary shares. The Group has two classes of dilutive potential shares – the share options granted 
to employees and the Long-T erm Incentive Plan. In 2009 the share options granted to employees have been treated as 
contingently issuable.
The earnings and weighted average number of shares are set out below:
Earnings for the purpose of the basic and diluted EPS
2009
£m
2008
£m
Profit after tax 0.5 11.7
Minority interests 1.2 0.7
Profit attributable to equity shareholders – for basic and diluted EPS 1.7 12.4
Weighted average number of shares in issue million million
For basic EPS calculation 69.2 85.9
Dilutive effect of share options and Long-T erm Incentive Plan – 0.2
For diluted EPS calculation 69.2 86.1
Earnings per share p p
Basic 2.5 14.4
Diluted 2.5 14.4
12. Goodwill
2009
£m
2008
£m
Cost
At 1st January 70.9 60.1
Exchange adjustment (4.0) 10.8
At 31st December 66.9 70.9
The combined operations of AGA, Fired Earth, Waterford Stanley and Grange form one CGU with the combined operations 
of Rangemaster, AGA Marvel, Heartland, La Cornue and Divertimenti forming a second CGU. Given the shared resource 
and integration within these two business combinations they are deemed to be the smallest identifiable group of assets 
that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of each other.
Goodwill at 31st December 2009 is allocated over the two cash generating units as follows: AGA £38.8m (2008: £41.1m) 
and Rangemaster £28.1m (2008: £29.8m). Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 62 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 63
12. Goodwill (continued)
For goodwill impairment testing future cash flows are estimated based on the board approved, budgeted, risk adjusted 
trading cash flows for both of the relevant CGUs for the next year and 2% (2008: 2%) growth, thereafter, based on 
the current external inflation forecasts for the medium-term. The operating cash flows included within the impairment 
reviews reflect management’s current expectations of future performance incorporating judgements around the current 
economic climate and reflecting cost savings made as a result of the non-recurring costs incurred during the year. The 
future cash flows are discounted at the relevant risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) applicable to that 
particular CGU. The Group WACC of 8.4% (2008: 8.7%) has been adjusted to reflect an independent capital structure 
which incorporates management’s estimate of the incremental cost of further borrowing as required by IAS 36. In addition, 
the Group has risk adjusted the discount rate, by utilising a cautious company beta and equity risk premium.
A reasonable change in key assumptions, on which management has based its determination of the recoverable amount, 
does not cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
13. Intangible assets
Computer
software
£m
Brands
£m
Development
costs
£m
Other
£m
T otal
£m
Cost
At 1st January 2009 4.6 14.6 12.0 0.5 31.7
Exchange adjustment (0.1) (1.2) (0.5) – (1.8)
Purchase of Mercury (note 24) – 0.2 – 0.3 0.5
Additions – internally generated – – 1.5 – 1.5
Additions – externally acquired 0.2 – 0.2 – 0.4
Disposals (0.1) – – – (0.1)
At 31st December 2009 4.6 13.6 13.2 0.8 32.2
Amortisation
At 1st January 2009 3.3 – 4.2 0.2 7.7
Exchange adjustment (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.2)
Disposals (0.1) – – – (0.1)
Charge for the year 0.4 – 1.2 – 1.6
At 31st December 2009 3.5 – 5.3 0.2 9.0
Net book value at 31st December 2009 1.1 13.6 7.9 0.6 23.2
   62 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 63
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
13. Intangible assets (continued)
Computer
software
£m
Brands
£m
Development
costs
£m
Other
£m
T otal
£m
Cost
At 1st January 2008 3.8 11.2 8.7 0.4 24.1
Exchange adjustment 0.3 3.6 0.8 0.1 4.8
Additions – internally generated 0.8 – 2.5 – 3.3
Disposals (0.3) (0.2) – – (0.5)
At 31st December 2008 4.6 14.6 12.0 0.5 31.7
Amortisation
At 1st January 2008 2.9 – 3.1 0.1 6.1
Exchange adjustment 0.3 – 0.2 – 0.5
Disposals (0.3) – – 0.1 (0.2)
Charge for the year 0.4 – 0.9 – 1.3
At 31st December 2008 3.3 – 4.2 0.2 7.7
Net book value at 31st December 2008 1.3 14.6 7.8 0.3 24.0
Items included in the ‘other’ category include patents and customer lists acquired.
Brands and other intangibles are considered to have an indefinite life and are subject to impairment tests. Computer 
software and development costs are amortised and the amortisation charged directly to the income statement.
For brands impairment testing the Royalty Relief Methodology is used to forecast future cash flows. Cash flows are 
estimated using an imputed royalty rate applied to budgeted, board approved, risk adjusted revenue for the next year 
and 2% growth, thereafter, based on the current external inflation forecasts for the medium-term. Future cash flows are 
discounted at the relevant risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital applicable to that particular brand. The Group 
WACC has been adjusted to reflect an independent capital structure which incorporates management’s estimate of the 
incremental cost of further borrowing as required by IAS 36. In addition, the Group has risk adjusted the discount rate 
by utilising a cautious company beta and equity risk premium. For 2009 testing these were in the range 7.4% to 8.4% 
(2008: 6.8% to 8.7%). Imputed royalty rates used in the cash flow forecasts for brands are in the range 2.9% to 3.5%. 
Management consider the appropriateness of the royalty rates used on an annual basis. Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 64 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 65
14. Property, plant and equipment
Freehold and
long leasehold
 land and
 buildings
£m
Plant,
machinery
and
 equipment
£m
Assets in
course of
construction
£m
T otal
£m
Cost
At 1st January 2009 35.6 90.2 0.5 126.3
Exchange adjustment (1.7) (1.8) (0.1) (3.6)
Capital expenditure 0.3 2.9 0.2 3.4
Impairment of assets transferred to held for sale (0.5) – – (0.5)
T ransfer to assets held for sale (1.7) – – (1.7)
Disposals (0.4) (1.9) – (2.3)
Reclassification – 0.1 (0.1) –
At 31st December 2009 31.6 89.5 0.5 121.6
Depreciation
At 1st January 2009 9.8 57.8 – 67.6
Exchange adjustment (0.4) (1.1) – (1.5)
Charge for the year 0.9 6.2 – 7.1
T ransfer to assets held for sale (0.2) – – (0.2)
Disposals (0.4) (1.8) – (2.2)
At 31st December 2009 9.7 61.1 – 70.8
Net book value at 31st December 2009 21.9 28.4 0.5 50.8
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes £0.1m (2008: £0.1m) of assets held under finance leases. The net book 
value of these assets was £0.1m (2008: £nil). All leases have been reviewed throughout the year and are capitalised where 
appropriate.
Assets held for sale
Following the move of the head office to Leamington Spa the former head office property is surplus to requirements and is 
being marketed for sale and has been transferred to assets held for sale during the year at a fair value of £1.7m after being 
impaired by £0.5m. 
The Marvel site in Richmond, Indiana, USA, which was held for sale in 2008 has been impaired by £0.3m to a fair value of 
£1.4m. Due to turbulent market conditions in the local property market this property remained unsold in 2009. However, 
it continues to be actively marketed and we believe a sale can be agreed during the year.  64 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 65
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
14. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Freehold and
long leasehold
 land and
 buildings
£m
Plant,
machinery
and
 equipment
£m
Assets in
course of
construction
£m
T otal
£m
Cost
At 1st January 2008 28.5 82.8 1.0 112.3
Exchange adjustment 2.5 5.3 0.2 8.0
Capital expenditure 6.7 6.0 0.3 13.0
T ransfer to assets held for sale (2.0) – – (2.0)
Disposals (0.4) (4.6) – (5.0)
Reclassification 0.3 0.7 (1.0) –
At 31st December 2008 35.6 90.2 0.5 126.3
Depreciation 
At 1st January 2008 8.2 52.4 – 60.6
Exchange adjustment 1.1 3.7 – 4.8
Charge for the year 0.9 5.9 – 6.8
T ransfer to assets held for sale (0.1) – – (0.1)
Disposals (0.3) (4.2) – (4.5)
At 31st December 2008 9.8 57.8 – 67.6
Net book value at 31st December 2008 25.8 32.4 0.5 58.7
Some properties have been valued using previously revalued amounts as the deemed cost; no adjustment to the carrying 
amount as previously recorded has been made.
15. Inventories
2009
£m
2008
£m
Raw materials and consumables 9.5 14.0
Work in progress 7.0 9.0
Finished goods 29.5 40.5
T otal inventories 46.0 63.5
The Group expensed £100.9m of inventories during the year (2008: £111.2m). The Group charged £0.6m to inventory 
provisions in the year (2008: £0.9m). The Group reversed £1.1m of the inventory provision in the year that was subsequently 
not required (2008: £0.2m). The Group did not hold any inventories pledged as security for liabilities (2008: £nil). Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 66 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 67
16. Trade and other receivables
2009
£m
2008
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
T rade receivables 23.8 29.7
Less provision for impairment of receivables (0.5) (0.5)
T rade receivables – net 23.3 29.2
Other receivables 2.7 3.5
Prepayments and accrued income 4.8 6.0
T otal receivables falling due within one year 30.8 38.7
Amounts falling due after one year
Other receivables 0.9 1.2
T otal receivables 31.7 39.9
T rade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value and thereafter amortised at an effective interest rate. The 
effective interest rate used for calculating the fair value of non-current receivables was 5.7% (2008: 6.4%).
The Group provides for trade receivables on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods based on the age of 
debt, past default experience and any other information which comes to light which suggests that the recoverable amount 
may be impaired. There is a Group-wide credit insurance policy in which the main operating units in the UK participate. 
This covers 90% of individual debts in these units up to specific insured limits.
The Group uses external agencies to credit score new customers where appropriate to assess their credit quality and 
define an initial credit limit. Limits and credit scoring are reviewed as necessary. Aged debt reports are reviewed by local 
management on a regular basis with ‘debt at risk’ forms being formally submitted to Group on a monthly basis.
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade 
receivable from the date the Group first traded with that company. Credit risk is mitigated by the relatively large customer 
base.
Included in trade receivables are balances of £4.6m (2008: £7.8m) which are past due at the reporting date for which the 
Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered 
recoverable.
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables
2009
£m
2008
£m
30-60 days 2.9 4.9
60-90 days 0.7 1.6
90-120 days 0.4 0.7
120+ days 0.6 0.6
T otal receivables 4.6 7.8  66 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 67
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
16. Trade and other receivables (continued)
Movement in the provision for impairment of receivables
2009
£m
2008
£m
Balance at 1st January 0.5 0.8
Impairment losses recognised 0.1 0.1
Amounts previously impaired recovered (0.1) (0.4)
Balance at 31st December 0.5 0.5
Ageing of impaired trade receivables
2009
£m
2008
£m
60-90 days 0.1 0.1
90-120 days 0.1 0.1
120+ days 0.3 0.3
Balance at 31st December 0.5 0.5
17.  Trade and other payables
2009
£m
2008
£m
Current trade and other payables
T rade payables 35.5 39.7
Payments on account 1.1 0.8
Social security 3.9 3.9
Accruals and deferred income 14.1 15.5
Other payables 8.6 6.9
T otal current operating payables 63.2 66.8
18. Cash and borrowings
a) Cash and cash equivalents
2009
£m
2008
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 0.1 –
Short-term bank deposits 44.9 42.9
Cash and cash equivalents 45.0 42.9
Included in cash and cash equivalents was cash held for unclaimed dividends of £0.5m (2008: £0.5m).
The Group’s cash balance of £45.0m includes £22.5m, which is collateralised against a bank guarantee that the Group has 
provided to the AGA Rangemaster Group Pension Scheme.
The short-term bank deposits have a weighted average maturity of under one month (2008: four months) with an effective 
interest rate of 0.3% (2008: 1.8%). 
The fair value of cash and short-term deposits is £45.0m (2008: £42.9m). Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 68 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 69
18. Cash and borrowings (continued)
b) Financial liabilities – borrowings
Current
2009
£m
2008
£m
Bank borrowings 1.3 9.7
Current borrowings 1.3 9.7
Non-current
2009
£m
2008
£m
Non-current obligations under finance leases 0.1 –
Bank borrowings 15.6 27.4
Non-current borrowings 15.7 27.4
The non-current obligations under finance leases are due for repayment after one year but not more than five years.
The Group’s bank borrowings are primarily loan advances denominated in a number of currencies and interest is based on 
LIBOR or foreign equivalents. Bank borrowings have been classified as current and non-current liabilities with reference to 
the final maturity date of the facility agreements.
Bank borrowings comprise the following:
Interest rate
 basis
2009
£m
2008
£m
Unsecured bank loans – current Floating 1.3 9.7
Unsecured bank loans – non-current Floating 15.2 26.9
Other secured loans 2018 Floating 0.4 0.5
T otal bank borrowings 16.9 37.1
Included in the £15.2m non-current unsecured bank loans are currency denominated loan advances from committed 
revolving credit facilities, which bear interest rates based on LIBOR and margins ranging between 0.375% and 0.60%.
19. Financial instruments
Capital management
The Group’s capital comprises the equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent. The Group’s policy is to maintain a 
strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the future development of the 
business. The Group monitors the demographic spread of its shareholders and employees are encouraged to hold shares 
in the Company. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic 
conditions. T o maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return 
capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The Group also has bank facilities in place to fund the business. These are 
discussed in more detail under liquidity risk below.
The central treasury function sets out the treasury policy including guidelines for managing interest rate and cash flow rate 
risk, credit and price risk, foreign currency risk and liquidity risk as discussed below. The objective of the treasury policy 
is to manage the Group’s financial risk and to ensure that adequate financial resources are available for the development 
of the Group.  68 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 69
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
19. Financial instruments (continued)
Interest rate and cash flow risk
The Group is exposed to a number of global interest rates – notably the UK, Eurozone and US rates. Borrowings issued at 
variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates. The 
Group analyses its interest rate exposure on a regular basis. Based on various scenarios the Group calculates the impact 
on profit and loss for a defined interest rate shift. 
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant on the 
Group’s profit before tax. There were no interest rate swap agreements in place throughout 2009 (2008: nil).
Increase/
(decrease) in
basis points
Effect on
profit before
tax
£m
2009 Cash +50 / (50) 0.2 / (0.2)
Borrowings +50 / (50) (0.1) / 0.1
2008 Cash +50 / (50) 0.2 / (0.2)
Borrowings +50 / (50) (0.2) / 0.2
Credit and price risk
The Group monitors closely the availability of trade finance to its customers and suppliers – given the constraint on the 
business this can become. The ability for the Group and its principal operations to maintain trade credit insurance on our 
customers is a significant issue for the Group. Where insurers inform us it is their intention to withdraw or reduce trade 
credit insurance cover on our customers we undertake detailed analysis on commercial and financial information available 
and actively manage the terms of trade with any such customers as appropriate. In addition, the ability of our suppliers to 
maintain credit insurance on the Group and its principal operations is an important issue. We have excellent relationships 
with our suppliers and we continue to work closely with them on a normal commercial basis. There are no significant 
concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented 
by the carrying value as at the balance sheet date. The Group’s policy on minimising credit risk with respect to its trade and 
other receivables is stated in note 16 on page 66.
The Group is exposed to risk in the price movement of key raw materials and energy. The Group manages these risks 
and has in place a two year fixed price energy supply contract and a one year partially fixed steel supply contract for its 
main activities. The Group continually reviews its exposure to any remaining commodity risk to ensure that commercial 
opportunities are fully maximised and risks mitigated wherever possible.
Foreign currency risk
The Group’s main transaction exposures are in respect of products manufactured in one currency region and sold in 
another currency and exposure through the movement in exchanges rates on purchases of raw materials and other goods 
that are not denominated in sterling. These are mainly imports from Asia and the US which are denominated in US Dollars 
and imports from Europe which are denominated in Euros. These currency outflows are offset by inflows of US Dollars 
relating to UK exports to US markets and inflows of Euros in respect of UK exports to the eurozone respectively. The 
main translation risk is that the results of non-UK businesses will translate into differing sterling values depending on the 
exchange rates.
a) Forward foreign exchange contracts
As a result of the Group’s geographical presence and operations, forward foreign exchange contracts are put in place.
As at 31st December 2009, the notional amounts of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group 
was committed to were AUD nil (2008: AUD 1.1m), GBP 0.75m (2008: GBP 0.4m), CHF nil (2008: CHF 0.9m) and USD 
nil (2008: USD 1.1m). The fair value of these open forward foreign exchange contracts approximate to their carrying 
amount. The contracts have been put in place to mitigate the foreign currency risk of anticipated future sales and purchase 
commitments and mature over the next twelve months.
There were no forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at the balance sheet date (2008: nil). Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 70 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 71
19. Financial instruments (continued)
b) Hedge of net investment in foreign entities
The Group has Euro and US Dollar denominated borrowings, which it has designated as a hedge of a proportion of its 
investment in its subsidiaries in Europe and the US. The carrying value of such Euro borrowings at 31st December 2009 
was £6.6m (2008: £7.3m) and the carrying value of the US Dollar borrowings was £8.5m (2008: £6.8m). The exchange 
difference on the translation of the borrowings into sterling has been recognised in translation reserves.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s funding objective is to have sufficient long-term committed facilities, in addition to uncommitted facilities 
and finance lease agreements, to meet its funding needs. The Group maintains relationships with several large financial 
institutions. The Group’s committed loan facilities have two principal financial covenants, interest cover and net debt : 
EBITDA. The Group complied with them at the end of the year. The Group has sound and long established arrangements 
in place with its relationship banks who offer committed and uncommitted facilities, which together with cash flow 
monitoring and cash surpluses, provide adequate funding for the Group’s operations. In the ordinary course, no committed 
facilities are due for renewal until November 2010. New facilities, if required are expected to be available from existing 
lenders although this cannot be assured in light of the current market conditions. 
The Group maintains a mixture of short-term uncommitted and medium-term committed facilities to ensure a sufficient 
level of funds and guarantee facilities are available for its business operations. The £85.0m committed facilities have been 
arranged to help finance the expansion of the Group’s activities. These facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
The following table analyses utilisation of the Group’s principal committed facilities at the year-end.
2009
£m
2008
£m
Expiring within 1 year 10.0 –
Expiring between 1 and 2 years – 5.0
Expiring between 2 and 5 years 32.4 25.9
T otal undrawn committed facilities 42.4 30.9
Hedging loans 15.1 14.1
Sterling loans – 12.5
Guarantees provided 27.5 27.5
T otal committed facilities 85.0 85.0
In addition to the committed facilities detailed above, the Group also has uncommitted facilities totalling £22.5m (2008: 
£31.5m).  70 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 71
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
19. Financial instruments (continued)
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31st December 2009 and 2008 
based on contractual undiscounted payments. Floating rate borrowings are re-priced within six months from the balance 
sheet date.
2009
Interest rate
 basis
Within 1
year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-3 years
£m
3-4 years
£m
4-5 years
£m
5 years and
 over
£m
T otal
£m
Borrowings Floating 1.5 0.2 0.2 15.2 – 0.3 17.4
T rade payables 35.5 – – – – – 35.5
Other payables 8.6 – – – – – 8.6
T otal 45.6 0.2 0.2 15.2 – 0.3 61.5
2008
Interest rate
 basis
Within 1
 year
£m
1-2 years
£m
2-3 years
£m
3-4 years
£m
4-5 years
£m
5 years and
 over
£m
T otal
£m
Borrowings Floating 10.9 6.1 0.8 0.7 21.8 0.3 40.6
T rade payables 39.7 – – – – – 39.7
Other payables 6.9 – – – – – 6.9
T otal 57.5 6.1 0.8 0.7 21.8 0.3 87.2
Carrying value
The carrying value of the Group's financial assets, including trade and other receivables and cash, and financial liabilities, 
including trade and other payables and borrowings, as disclosed in the balance sheet, are equivalent to their fair value at 
the balance sheet date.
20. Provisions
Product
warranties
£m
Property &
 reorganisation
£m
Other
£m
T otal
£m
At 1st January 2009 3.3 1.3 8.4 13.0
Exchange adjustment (0.2) – (0.3) (0.5)
Charge in the year 1.5 0.9 0.2 2.6
Utilised in year (1.8) (1.7) (0.9) (4.4)
At 31st December 2009 2.8 0.5 7.4 10.7
Provisions have been allocated between current and non-current as follows:
2009
£m
2008
£m
Current 2.4 4.3
Non-current 8.3 8.7
At 31st December 10.7 13.0
Product warranties
Provision is made for the estimated liability on all products still under warranty. Product warranties of between one and 
three years are given for the Group's main products. Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 72 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 73
20. Provisions (continued)
Property and reorganisation
Following the disposal programme of previous years certain vacant property located in the UK remain with the Group. 
Full provision has been made for the residual lease commitments, together with other outgoings, for the remaining period 
of the leases. The timing of payments on vacant properties is £0.1m repayable in less than one year. The reorganisation 
provision includes costs associated with announced reorganisations within the Group which occurred during the year.
Other
The Group’s other provisions relate to the remaining costs in respect of the disposal of Pipe Systems in 2001 and Foodservice 
in 2007, including possible warranty and indemnity claims, other claims and other costs from third parties in relation to 
divested businesses. Although the majority of these provisions may be realised in the next accounting period, the exact 
timing is unclear.
21. Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated on temporary differences under the balance sheet liability method using a tax rate of 28% 
(2008: 28%). The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below:
Deferred tax – net
2009
£m
2008
£m
At 1st January 16.4 27.2
Exchange adjustment 0.2 (0.1)
T aken to equity – tax on actuarial loss (29.3) (7.9)
Credit to income statement (note 8) (3.0) (2.8)
Other 0.1 –
At 31st December (15.6) 16.4
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred 
tax assets because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities, prior to offsetting the balances, during the year is shown below:
Deferred tax liabilities
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Other
£m
Pensions
£m
T otal
£m
At 1st January 2009 3.2 4.8 13.9 21.9
Credited to income statement (0.2) (1.7) – (1.9)
T aken to equity – tax on actuarial loss – – (13.9) (13.9)
At 31st December 2009 3.0 3.1 – 6.1
Deferred tax assets
Pensions
£m
Provisions
£m
T ax losses
£m
T otal
£m
At 1st January 2009 – 0.1 5.4 5.5
Exchange adjustment – – (0.2) (0.2)
(Charged) / credited to income statement 1.6 (0.1) (0.4) 1.1
T aken to equity – tax on actuarial loss 15.4 – – 15.4
Other (0.1) – – (0.1)
At 31st December 2009 16.9 – 4.8 21.7
The utilisation of the deferred tax asset is dependent on future taxable profits being in excess of the profits arising from the 
reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.  72 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 73
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
22.  Share capital
Authorised and issued share capital 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 46
7
⁄8 p each 174.4 81.8 174.4 81.8
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At 1st January 69.2 32.5 115.2 32.4
Share consolidation – – (46.1) –
Issued on exercise of share options – – 0.1 0.1
At 31st December 69.2 32.5 69.2 32.5
During the year no ordinary shares were issued in connection with the Company’s share option schemes (2008: 0.1m 
shares for £0.3m consideration).
On 9th May 2008, shareholders approved a share capital consolidation on the basis of 3 ordinary shares for every 5 existing 
ordinary shares. This provided for all of the authorised ordinary shares of 28
1
⁄8 p each (whether issued or unissued) to be 
consolidated into new ordinary shares of 46
7
⁄8 p each, which became effective on 12th May 2008.
All of the ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting rights and rights to receive ordinary and special dividends. 
There are no restrictions on the rights to transfer shares.
Options
Options outstanding at 31st December 2009 under the schemes were as follows:
Senior Executive Share Option Scheme Long-T erm Incentive Plan
Grant date
Number of
 shares
Exercisable in
7 years to
Option price
p per share Grant date
Number of
 shares
Grant price
 p per share
Exercisable in
7 years to
June 2001 58,000 June 2011 236 October 2003 28,149 235 October 2013
May 2002 58,500 March 2012 261 May 2007 369,092 386 May 2017
October 2003 123,500 October 2013 235 May 2008 196,566 285 May 2018
T otal 240,000 T otal 593,807
Under the Long-T erm Incentive Plan a fee of £1 per award is payable and no further consideration is due. Further information 
is set out in note 23.
Under the Sharesave Plan, introduced in 2008, the following options were outstanding:
Sharesave Plan
Grant date
Number of
 Shares
Exercisable
to
Option price
 p per share
September 2008 133,338 May 2012 209
September 2008 269,399 May 2014 209
T otal 402,737 Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 74 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 75
23.  Share based payments
The Senior Executive Share Option Scheme was approved in 1994. Under the scheme the remuneration committee was 
able to grant options over shares in the Company to senior executives of the Group, although the scheme lapsed in May 
2004. Options were granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares under the option at the 
date of grant. The contractual life of an option was ten years. Options granted under the scheme will become exercisable 
on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the Group’s earnings per share exceeding, by at least 3% per 
annum, the increase in the UK’s retail price index over a period of three years beginning not earlier than the Company’s 
last financial year before the date of an option grant. The exercise of an option is subject to continued employment or 
other circumstances in the scheme rules. Options granted since November 2002 were valued using Black-Scholes option 
model.
The Long-T erm Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) was introduced in 1999 as an appropriate method to incentivise executives and senior 
management. The LTIP consists of a right to acquire shares at a nominal price of £1 per award which will be exercisable 
after a period of three years at the earliest. For options granted before 2007 the actual percentage of shares that can be 
acquired depends on two performance criteria. The first of these is a comparison of the Company’s total shareholder 
return (‘TSR’) with the TSR of companies in a comparator group approved by the remuneration committee at the date 
of grant and the second is that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the 
Company as determined by the remuneration committee.
The FTSE 250 Index is used as the comparator group for LTIP options granted in 2006, 2007 and 2008.
If the Company’s TSR places it in the top 25% (upper quartile) of the comparator companies, the participant may acquire 
all of the TSR linked shares. If the Company’s TSR is at the mid-point, 25% of the shares may be acquired. There is a 
sliding scale on a straight line basis, if the Company’s TSR is between the upper quartile position and the mid-point. If the 
Company’s TSR is below the mid-point, none of the TSR linked shares may be acquired.
In 2007, the remuneration committee revised the performance criteria so that 50% of the award was based on the TSR 
of companies in a comparator group at the date of grant and 50% of the award is monitored against an EPS target, where 
growth of at least 3% compound in excess of RPI over the three year performance period is required for 25% of the award 
to vest. If growth exceeds 10% compound in excess of RPI then all will vest. None of the EPS monitored options will vest if 
compound growth is less than 3%.
In 2008, the remuneration committee revised the performance criteria to make the EPS performance condition more 
challenging. The EPS target now requires at least 5% compound growth in excess of RPI over the next three year performance 
period for 25% of the award to vest. If growth exceeds 12% in excess of RPI then all the options will vest. None of the EPS 
monitored options will vest if compound growth is less than 5%.
The fair value per option of the Sharesave Plan options and LTIPs granted in 2008 and the assumptions used in the 
calculation are as follows:
Grant date
Sharesave Plan
26th September
2008
Sharesave Plan
26th September
2008
LTIP
12th May
2008
Share price at grant date 209p 209p 285.4p
Exercise price £2.09 £2.09 £1 in total
Number of employees 122 100 6
Shares under option 164,232 331,900 204,518
Vesting period (years) 3 5 3
Expected volatility 29.2% 35.1% 29.2%
Option life (years) 3 5 10
Expected life (years) 3 5 3
Expected dividend expressed as a dividend yield 6.0% 6.0% 5.0%
Expectations of meeting performance criteria 90% 90% 20%
Fair value per option TSR element / EPS element 21p 22p £0.89 / £2.45  74 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 75
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
23.  Share based payments (continued)
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over ten years. The expected life is the average number of years to 
the date of expected exercise. A Monte-Carlo model was used to value TSR performance conditions for the LTIP.
The total charge for the year relating to employee share based payment plans was £0.2m (2008: £nil) before tax and 
£0.1m (2008: £nil) post tax.
A reconciliation of the movements in the Senior Executive Share Option Scheme is shown below:
2009 2008
Number
‘000
Weighted 
average exercise
price (p)
Number
‘000
Weighted
 average exercise
price (p)
Outstanding at 1st January 280 239 685 258
Lapsed expired (40) 225 – –
Lapsed forfeited – – (306) 282
Exercised – – (99) 239
Outstanding at 31st December 240 242 280 239
Exercisable at 31st December 240 242 280 239
2009 2008
Range of
exercise
prices
Weighted
average
exercise
price
Number of
shares
Weighted average
remaining life:
Weighted 
average
exercise
 price
Number of 
shares
Weighted average
remaining life:
P p ‘000
Expected
years
Contractual
years p ‘000
Expected
years
Contractual
years
225-235 235 123 1.9 3.8 233 163 1.9 3.8
236-261 249 117 1.0 1.9 249 117 1.5 2.9
240 280
There were no options exercised in the year, the weighted average share price during the year for options exercised in 
2008 was 317p.
A reconciliation of the movements in the Sharesave Plan and LTIP is shown below:
Sharesave
2009
‘000
LTIP 2009
‘000
Sharesave
 2008
‘000
LTIP 2008
‘000
Outstanding at 1st January 473 778 – 869
Exercised – – – (50)
Lapsed expired – – – (242)
Lapsed forfeited (70) (184) (23) (4)
Granted – – 496 205
Outstanding at 31st December 403 594 473 778
Exercisable at 31st December – 28 – 28
Details of the Sharesave Plan are shown in the audited part of the remuneration report on pages 39 to 41. Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 76 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 77
24.  Purchase of Mercury
On 25th August 2009 the Group acquired the Mercury and Thermastone cooker brands from Lincat Group plc for a 
consideration of £0.5m.
The cost has been allocated between brands £0.2m and other intangibles £0.3m (note 13).
25.  Other reserves
Fair value
revaluation
reserve
£m
T ranslation
reserve
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Revaluation
reserve
£m
T otal
£m
At 1st January 2009 1.5 16.9 75.0 2.1 95.5
Exchange differences on translation of foreign 
operations – (9.2) – – (9.2)
T ransfer to retained earnings – – – (2.1) (2.1)
Exchange differences on hedge of net investments – 1.6 – – 1.6
At 31st December 2009 1.5 9.3 75.0 – 85.8
Fair value
revaluation
reserve
£m
T ranslation
reserve
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Revaluation
reserve
£m
T otal
£m
At 1st January 2008 1.5 (2.5) 36.0 2.1 37.1
Exchange differences on translation of foreign 
operations – 22.6 – – 22.6
T ransfer between reserves – – 39.0 – 39.0
Exchange differences on hedge of net investments – (3.2) – – (3.2)
At 31st December 2008 1.5 16.9 75.0 2.1 95.5
The fair value revaluation reserve relates to the 2005 acquisition of an additional stake in Grange which gave the Group 
a controlling interest. The translation reserve includes all exchange adjustments in respect of overseas operations. 
The capital redemption reserve has arisen through share buy-backs and the share consolidation in previous years. The 
revaluation reserve that had arisen through revaluation of property prior to the adoption of IFRS has now been transferred 
to retained earnings.
26.  Commitments
2009
£m
2008
£m
Capital commitments contracted for by the Group for property, plant  
and equipment but not provided for in the accounts 0.6 0.7  76 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 77
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
27.  Operating lease commitments 
Land and buildings Other operating leases
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases
2009
£m
2008
£m
2009
£m
2008
£m
– within 1 year 5.3 5.5 1.1 1.1
– between 1 and 5 years 15.4 15.0 2.2 1.9
– after more than 5 years 14.3 13.1 0.1 –
T otal operating lease commitments 35.0 33.6 3.4 3.0
The operating lease commitments relate to properties, motor vehicles and plant and machinery. The leases have various 
terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
28. Contingent liabilities
The Group has no other material contingent liabilities arising in the normal course of business at 31st December 2009 
(2008: nil). The Group has contingent liabilities for certain potential claims from third parties in relation to divested 
businesses. On the basis of information presently available to them, the directors believe that no material claims are likely 
to arise for which provision has not been made in these accounts.
The Group has arranged £50.0m of bank guarantees, to guarantee obligations of the Group to the AGA Rangemaster Group 
Pension Scheme which may arise in the period up to 2020, of which £22.5m is collateral as disclosed in note 18(a).
29.  Related party transactions
The Group recharges the Group pension scheme with the cost of administration and independent advisers paid by the 
Group. The total amount recharged in the year to 31st December 2009 was £0.2m (2008: £0.2m). The amount outstanding 
at the year end was £nil (2008: £nil).
The Group paid £40,000 to Rise Rocks Limited, a company wholly owned by Peter T om, a non-executive director. For 
further details see the remuneration report on page 38.
Key management’s compensation
The compensation of the key management team at the balance sheet date is set out below:
2009
£m
Restated
2008
£m
Salaries and short-term benefits 1.8 1.7
Post employment benefits 0.1 0.2
Share based payments 0.1 –
T ermination benefits 0.2 –
T otal emoluments to key management 2.2 1.9
The 2008 figures have been restated to include the executive directors. Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts
 78 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	ac c ounts	
30. Trading subsidiaries
The following is a list of the Group’s principal trading subsidiaries at 31st December 2009. A brief description of their 
activities is given in the chief executive’s review on pages 4 to 10. The share capital in each case consists, unless otherwise 
stated, wholly of ordinary shares or common stock. All companies are held by subsidiary undertakings, except for those 
marked • in which case it is held directly by AGA Rangemaster Group plc.
Where subsidiaries are not wholly owned the percentage of owned capital is stated in brackets. Unless otherwise stated 
the companies are registered in England and operate in the United Kingdom. All subsidiaries included in the consolidation 
have coterminous year-ends.
AGA Rangemaster Limited (formerly AGA Consumer Products Limited) trades in 
the UK principally under the trade and business names of: Website addresses:
AGA www.aga-web.co.uk
www.agacookshop.co.uk
www.rayburn-web.co.uk
Divertimenti www.divertimenti.co.uk
Falcon www.falconappliances.co.uk
Fired Earth www.firedearth.com
Leisure Sinks www.leisuresinks.co.uk
Mercury www.mercury-appliances.co.uk
Rangemaster www.rangemaster.co.uk
Principal overseas trade and business names:
AGA Marvel www.aga-marvel.com
www.aga-ranges.com
Falcon France (branch) www.falconfrance.com
Grange SA (France) 95% (2008: 75%) www.grange.fr
Heartland Appliances Inc (Canada) www.heartlandapp.com
La Cornue SA (France) www.lacornue.com
Northland Corporation (USA) www.northlandnka.com
Waterford Stanley Limited (EIRE) www.waterfordstanley.com
www.stanleystoves.com
Central Services:
ARG Corporate Services Limited •
AGA Rangemaster Properties Limited •
 
31. Post balance sheet event
A Deed of Amendment was signed on 12th January 2010 in respect of freezing pensionable salaries for those members 
whose salaries were not frozen in 2009. A curtailment gain to be calculated by T owers Watson, the actuary, in respect of 
liabilities accrued to date of around £15m is expected to arise in 2010. Independent	audit or's	r epor t
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 79
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF AGA RANGEMASTER GROUP PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of AGA 
Rangemaster Group plc for the year ended 31st December 
2009 which comprise consolidated income statement, the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive (losses) / income, 
consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow 
statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity 
and the related notes 1 to 31. The financial   framework that 
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as 
adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, 
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the Company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities 
statement set out on page 26, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Group financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (‘APB’s’) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs • 
as at 31st December 2009 and of its profit for the year 
then ended;
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as • 
adopted by the European Union; and
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements • 
of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006
In our opinion:
the information given in the directors’ report for the • 
financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the Group financial 
statements; and
the information given in the corporate governance • 
statement set out on pages 27 to 33 with respect to 
internal control and risk management systems in relation 
to financial reporting processes and about share capital 
structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified • 
by law are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations • 
we require for our audit
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
the directors’ statement, set out on page 24, in relation to • 
going concern; and
the part of the corporate governance statement on pages • 
27 to 33 relating to the Company’s compliance with the 
nine provisions of the 2008 Combined Code specified for 
our review.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial 
statements of AGA Rangemaster Group plc for the year ended 
31st December 2009 and on the information in the directors’ 
remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
Bruce Morton (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Y oung LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Birmingham
12th March 2010 F iv e	y ear	financial	hist ory
 80 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 81
Trading results
2009
£m
2008
£m
2007
£m
2006
£m
2005
£m
Revenue 245.0 279.4 291.8 278.6 501.8
Operating profit before non–recurring cost 3.9 16.5 30.4 29.3 41.5
Non–recurring cost (3.6) (5.3) – (1.0) –
T otal operating profit 0.3 11.2 30.4 28.3 41.5
Net finance income/(cost) 0.2 3.2 (3.4) (0.8) 1.2
Profit before income tax 0.5 14.4 27.0 27.5 42.7
Income tax expense – (2.7) (4.2) (6.2) (8.6)
Profit before disposal of businesses/
discontinued 0.5 11.7 22.8 21.3 34.1
Disposal of businesses/ discontinued – – 40.7 9.8 0.3
Profit for year 0.5 11.7 63.5 31.1 34.4
Statistics
Operating profit before non–recurring costs 
to revenue % 1.6 5.9 10.4 10.5 8.3
Dividend per ordinary share p – 4.0 11.5 10.5 9.2
Earnings per share 
Basic p 2.5 14.4 18.9 16.5 26.4
Diluted p 2.5 14.4 18.7 16.4 26.3
Balance sheet summary
 2009
£m
 2008
£m
  2007
£m
2006
£m
2005
£m
Net operating assets
Property, plant and equipment 50.8 58.7 51.7 85.7 85.3
Inventories 46.0 63.5 54.9 94.8 89.4
Operating receivables less payables and provisions (42.2) (39.9) (41.9) (38.4) (44.7)
T otal net operating assets before intangibles 54.6 82.3 64.7 142.1 130.0
Assets held for sale 3.1 1.9 – – –
Net retirement benefit (obligation)/surplus (40.5) 57.5 79.6 24.4 (18.2)
Intangibles 90.1 94.9 78.1 200.6 173.3
T otal net operating assets 107.3 236.6 222.4 367.1 285.1
Investments – – – – 0.3
T ax (1.0) (25.9) (34.4) (20.8) (4.8)
T otal net cash/(borrowings) 28.0 5.8 169.1 (10.9) 20.4
T otal net assets employed 134.3 216.5 357.1 335.4 301.0
Financed by
Ordinary shares 32.5 32.5 32.4 32.3 32.1
Reserves 101.3 182.2 322.6 301.2 266.6
T otal shareholders’ equity 133.8 214.7 355.0 333.5 298.7
Minority interests 0.5 1.8 2.1 1.9 2.3
T otal equity 134.3 216.5 357.1 335.4 301.0
The results for 2005 are not directly comparable as these have not been restated to reflect the operations discontinued in 
2007.  80 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 81
PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTS
P ar ent	c ompan y	ac c ounts	under	UK	GAAP	
C ompan y	balanc e	sheet	 AS	A T	31ST 	DE CEMBER
As noted on page 26 the Company has elected to prepare its financial statements under UK GAAP.
Notes
2009
£m
2008
£m
Fixed assets
Investments 5 468.0 457.2
T otal fixed assets 468.0 457.2
Current assets
Debtors – amounts falling due within one year 6 530.8 583.0
    – amounts falling due after one year 6 37.7 43.7
Cash at bank and in hand 7 33.8 31.4
T otal current assets 602.3 658.1
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
Creditors 8 (683.9) (704.3)
Borrowings 7 (1.4) (6.1)
T otal amounts falling due within one year (685.3) (710.4)
Net current liabilities (83.0) (52.3)
T otal assets less current liabilities 385.0 404.9
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
Borrowings 7 (15.1) (26.6)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 9 (6.1) (7.2)
T otal net assets employed 363.8 371.1
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital 10 32.5 32.5
Share premium account 11 29.6 29.6
Capital redemption reserve 11 75.0 75.0
Profit and loss account 11 226.7 234.0
T otal shareholders’ funds 363.8 371.1
The accounts on pages 81 to 86 were approved by the board of directors on 12th March 2010 and were signed on 
its behalf by: 
W B McGrath Chief Executive
S M Smith Finance Director
Notes to the accounts are on pages 82 to 86. Not es	t o	the	c ompan y	ac c ounts
 82 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009 	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 83
The directors’ report is on pages 22 to 25 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
1. Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards 
and the Companies Act 2006.
A consolidated Group cash flow statement has been included in the AGA Rangemaster Group plc consolidated accounts; 
the Company has therefore taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 1 not to produce a cash flow statement.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 from financial instrument disclosures.
Cash 
Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an 
original maturity of three months or less.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Company becomes party to the related contracts and are 
measured initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition, interest bearing loans 
and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses arising 
on the repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance revenue and finance 
cost.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the 
liability at the balance sheet date. 
Foreign currencies
The Company’s functional currency and the presentation currency is pounds sterling. T ransactions in foreign currencies 
are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of 
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the profit and loss account, except when hedge 
accounting is applied. These are taken directly to reserves until the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, at which time 
they are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided in respect of all timing differences, using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred income tax 
assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the timing 
differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are 
expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet 
date. Income tax is provided for using current rates. 
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are held at cost and reviewed for impairment annually where there are indicators that suggest 
the amount might not be recoverable.
Provisions
The Company’s other provisions relate to the remaining costs in respect of the disposal of the Pipe Systems and Foodservice 
operations, including probable warranty and indemnity claims, other claims and other costs from third parties in relation 
to divested businesses.   82 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 83
Not es	t o	the	c ompan y	ac c ounts
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS
1. Accounting policies (continued)
Employee share options
The expenses for equity instruments granted are recognised in the financial statements based on their fair value at the 
date of grant. This expense, which is primarily in relation to employee share options and LTIP schemes, is recognised 
over the vesting period of the schemes - the Company has principally adopted the Black Scholes model and a TSR pricing 
model, respectively, for the purposes of computing fair value. The measurement of this expense is only calculated on 
options granted after 7th November 2002.
For LTIP options granted in 2008 and 2007 the performance criteria is now 50% based on a TSR pricing model and 50% 
on EPS growth against RPI. The Sharesave Plan was approved in 2008.
The estimation of share based payment costs requires the selection of an appropriate valuation model, consideration as 
to the inputs necessary for the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately 
vest, inputs for which arise from judgements relating to the probability of meeting non-market performance conditions 
and the continuing participation of employees. Any awards that do not ultimately vest are lapsed. Where employees exit 
the Sharesave Plan this is treated as a cancellation with immediate recognition of any expense for the award not previously 
recognised.
2. Company profit and loss account
AGA Rangemaster Group plc has taken advantage of section 408(4) of the Companies Act 2006 and has not included its 
own profit and loss account in these accounts. The Company’s loss after tax was £7.5m (2008: profit £53.9m). 
The profit and loss account includes £40,500 (2008: £39,000) for audit fees.
3. Dividends and cash return
2009
£m
2008
£m
Nil final dividend paid for the year ended 31st December 2008 (2007: 7.65 pence per share) – 8.7
Nil interim dividend paid (2008: 4.0 pence per share) – 2.8
Nil return of cash (2008: £1.21 per share) – 139.7
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders in the year – 151.2
The directors are not recommending a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31st December 2009 (2008: 
nil). 
There was no actual dividend (ordinary or special) paid or cash returned in the year (2008: 132.65 pence per share).
4. Directors’ compensation
The compensation, share options, Long-T erm Incentive Plans and pensions of the directors are disclosed in the audited 
part of the remuneration committee report on pages 39 to 41 of the Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts.
5. Investments
Cost of 
shares
£m
Provisions
£m
Net book 
value
£m
Interest in subsidiaries
At 1st January 457.2 – 457.2
Additions 16.2 (2.9) 13.3
Dormant companies struck off (2.5) – (2.5)
At 31st December 470.9 (2.9) 468.0
The additions in the year relate to the capitalisation of a £2.8m inter-company loan at AGA Marvel and the setting up of a 
new UK holding company ARG Solutions Limited for £13.4m. Not es	t o	the	c ompan y	ac c ounts
 84 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	c ompan y	ac c ounts
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 85
6. Trade and other debtors
Amounts falling due within one year
2009
£m
2008
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 530.0 581.1
Prepayments and accrued income 0.6 0.5
Other receivables 0.2 1.4
Debtors falling due within one year 530.8 583.0
Deferred tax 0.5 –
Corporation tax recoverable falling due after one year 37.2 43.7
Debtors falling due after one year 37.7 43.7
7. Cash and borrowings 
a) Cash
2009
£m
2008
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 33.8 31.4
Cash 33.8 31.4
The Company’s cash balance of £33.8m includes £22.5m, which is collateralised against a bank guarantee that the 
Company has provided to the AGA Rangemaster Group Pension Scheme.
Included in cash and cash equivalents was cash held for unclaimed dividends of £0.5m (2008: £0.5m). 
b) Financial liabilities – net borrowings
2009
£m
2008
£m
Bank borrowings 1.4 6.1
Amounts falling due within one year 1.4 6.1
Bank borrowings 15.1 26.6
Amounts falling due after one year 15.1 26.6
T otal borrowings 16.5 32.7
Cash and cash equivalents (33.8) (31.4)
T otal net (cash)/borrowings (17.3) 1.3
The Company’s borrowings are primarily loan advances denominated in a number of currencies and interest is based on 
LIBOR or foreign equivalents. The amounts falling due within one year have a maturity of under one month. 
The loans are unsecured. The amounts falling due after one year are due for repayment in 2013.  84 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 85
Not es	t o	the	c ompan y	ac c ounts
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS
8. Creditors
Amounts falling due within one year
2009
£m
2008
£m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 681.8 702.2
Accruals and deferred income 1.2 1.8
Other payables 0.9 0.3
T otal creditors falling due within one year 683.9 704.3
9. Provisions 
Deferred 
tax
£m
Other
£m
T otal
£m
At 1st January 2009 0.6 6.6 7.2
Utilised in year - (0.5) (0.5)
T ransfer to assets 0.5 - 0.5
Credit in the year (1.1) - (1.1)
At 31st December 2009 - 6.1 6.1
The Company’s other provisions relate to the remaining costs in respect of the disposal of Pipe Systems in 2001 and 
Foodservice in 2007, including possible warranty and indemnity claims, other claims and other costs from third parties in 
relation to divested businesses. Although the majority of these provisions may be realised in the next accounting period, 
the exact timing is unclear.
10. Share capital
Authorised and issued share capital
2009 2008
Authorised £m £m £m £m
Ordinary shares of 46
7
⁄8
  
p each 174.4 81.8 174.4 81.8
Allotted, called up and fully paid
At 1st January 69.2 32.5 115.2 32.4
Share consolidation – – (46.1) –
Issued on exercise of share options – – 0.1 0.1
At 31st December 69.2 32.5 69.2 32.5
During the year no ordinary shares were issued in connection with the Company’s share option schemes (2008: 0.1m 
shares for £0.3m consideration). 
On 9th May 2008, shareholders approved a share capital consolidation on the basis of 3 ordinary shares for every 5 existing 
ordinary shares. This provided for all of the authorised ordinary shares of 28
1
⁄8 p each (whether issued or unissued) to be 
consolidated into new ordinary shares of 46
7
⁄8
  
p each, which became effective on 12th May 2008. 
All of the ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting rights and rights to receive ordinary and special dividends. 
There are no restrictions on the rights to transfer shares.
Share based payments 
Options outstanding at 31st December 2009 and share based payments disclosures are shown in notes 22 and 23 of the 
Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts. Not es	t o	the	c ompan y	ac c ounts
 86 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Not es	t o	the	c ompan y	ac c ounts
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 87
11. Reserves
Share
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Profit and 
loss account
£m
T otal 
equity
£m
At 1st January 2009 32.5 29.6 75.0 234.0 371.1
Loss for year – – – (7.5) (7.5)
Share based payments – – – 0.2 0.2
At 31st December 2009 32.5 29.6 75.0 226.7 363.8
The Company’s profit and loss account reserves of £226.7m (2008: £234.0m) include approximately £168.9m (2008: 
£168.7m) which is unavailable for distribution, leaving £57.8m available for distribution.
12. Commitments
The Company had no capital commitments (2008: nil).
13. Contingent liabilities
The Company has no other material contingent liabilities arising in the normal course of business at 31st December 2009 
(2008: nil). The Company has contingent liabilities for certain potential claims from third parties in relation to divested 
businesses. On the basis of information presently available to them, the directors believe that no material claims are likely 
to arise for which provision has not been made in these accounts. The Company has given a number of financial and 
performance guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries, the relevant liabilities are included in the balance sheet.
The Group has arranged £50.0m of bank guarantees, to guarantee obligations of the Company to the AGA Rangemaster 
Group Pension Scheme which may arise in the period up to 2020, of which £22.5m of cash is collateral as disclosed in 
note 7(a).
14. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by FRS 8 not to disclose any transactions or balances with 
entities that are 100% controlled by the AGA Rangemaster Group plc.
The Company was owed an amount by it's indirectly owned 95% subsidiary, Grange SA. The balance at 31st December 
2009 was £1.8m (2008: £5.2m). The maximum balance during the year was £6.3m of this £6.2m was capitalised.
The Company paid £40,000 to Rise Rocks Limited, a company wholly owned by Peter T om, a non-executive director, for 
further details see the remuneration report on page 38.
15. Trading subsidiaries
The Company’s principal trading subsidiaries at 31st December 2009 are listed in note 30 of the Consolidated Annual 
Report and Accounts.   86 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
Stat ement	of	dir ect or s'	r esponsibilities
	 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009	 87
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The following statement, which should be read in 
conjunction with the statement of auditors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 88, is made with a view to distinguishing 
the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the 
auditors in relation to the accounts.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year which comply with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006 and give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the 
financial year and of the profit or loss for that year.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial 
statements on a going-concern basis, the Company has 
used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied 
and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and 
estimates, and that all accounting standards which they 
consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the 
Company maintains accounting records which disclose 
with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the 
Company and which enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006.
The directors are responsible for taking such steps as 
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of 
the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other 
irregularities. Independent	audit or's	r epor t
 88 AGA 	 Rang emast er 	 Group 	 plc 		 Annual 	 Repor t 	 & 	 A c c ounts 	 2009
TO THE MEMBERS OF AGA RANGEMASTER GROUP PLC
We have audited the parent Company financial statements 
of AGA Rangemaster Group plc for the year ended 31st 
December 2009 which comprise Company balance sheet and 
the related notes 1 to 15. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, 
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the Company’s members those matters 
we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do 
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities 
statement set out on page 87, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the parent Company financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the parent Company’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent Company financial statements:
give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s • 
affairs as at 31st December 2009;
have been properly prepared in accordance with United • 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements • 
of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 
2006
In our opinion:
the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be • 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006; and
the information given in the directors’ report for the • 
financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial 
statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you 
if, in our opinion:
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the • 
parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
the parent Company financial statements and the part of • 
the directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified • 
by law are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations • 
we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial 
statements of AGA Rangemaster Group plc for the year ended 
31st December 2009. 
Bruce Morton (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Y oung LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Birmingham
12th March 2010
  A limited edition ‘Emma Bridgewater’ 
3 oven AGA, with Bastide kitchen 
furniture by Grange and tiles from 
the ‘Emma Bridgewater’ collection at 
Fired Earth.
Business performance
& financial review
Introduction
Strategic and operational highlights  1
Chairman’s statement 2
Chief executive’s review 4
Key risks & uncertainties 12
Corporate social responsibility 14
Governance
The board and its advisers 20
Directors’ report 22
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 26
Corporate governance 27
Remuneration report 34
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 42
Consolidated statement of
 comprehensive losses/income 43
Consolidated balance sheet 44
Consolidated cash flow statement 45
Consolidated statement of
 changes in equity 46
Notes to the accounts 48
Independent auditor’s report – Group 79
Five year financial history 80
Parent company accounts 81
Notes to the company accounts 82
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 87
Independent auditor’s report – Company 88
Contents
The AGA Rangemaster Group is a leading international premium consumer brands 
business which manufactures and distributes some of the best known and loved kitchen 
appliances and interior furnishings in the world.
Our brands include:
Known for its longstanding heritage, technical excellence and innovation, the Group 
now operates production facilities in the UK, North America, France, Canada and 
Ireland and has worldwide wholesale and retail distribution.
Introduction
The new AGA Marvel factory became 
operational in March 2009 and has 
already obtained ISO 9001:2008 
and ISO 14001:2004 accreditation the 
quality and environmental standards.
CAMBRIDGE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2009
Juno Drive, Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, CV31 3RG
T el: 01926 455 755   Fax: 01926 455 749
e-mail: info@agarangemaster.com
Website: www.agarangemaster.com
AGA RANGEMASTER GROUP PLC    ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2009
