 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
2
2013 was an important year for DRS, with   
the Group demonstrating tangible progress in   
the execution of its strategy.
A key objective 
for the business is 
the delivery of new 
products, features and 
related professional 
services
“
“
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
At a Glance 3
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our Business 5
Chairman’s Statement 6
Chief Executive’s Statement 8
•	 K ey	P erformance	Indicators	(KPIs)	 13
•	 Principal	Risks	and	 Uncertainties	 16
R eport	 on	 C orporate	R esponsibility	 18
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Directors and Officers 22
Directors’ Report 24
•	 C orporate	 Go v ernance	 Statement	 28
Directors’ Remuneration Report 2013 34
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 52
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members   
of DRS Data and Research Services plc 54
Consolidated Income Statement 58
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 59
C onsolidated	 Statement	 of	 Changes	in	Equity	 60
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 61
Notes to the Financial Statements 63
P ar ent	 C ompan y	 Statement	 of	Financial	P osition	 89
P ar ent	 C ompan y	 Statement	 of	 Changes	in	Equity	 90
P ar ent	 C ompan y	 Statement	 of	 Cash	Flows	 91
Notes	 to	 the	P ar ent	 C ompan y	Financial	 Statements	 93
Directors and Advisers 98 3
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
AT A GLANCE
DRS operates in over 50 countries across three market 
sectors: Education, Elections and Census.
DRS has over 40 years’ experience in delivering data capture projects around the world. Specialising in 
examination and assessment processing and electronic marking, DRS also provides solutions for elections and 
censuses. Its systems are implemented using extensive expertise in document design, printing, award winning 
scanning and image capture technologies, software, logistics, project management, consultancy and training.
As a business we continue to focus on the three market sectors of Education, Elections and Census. We believe they have a 
common and complementary need for solutions which provide for large-scale secure capture and processing of high-stakes 
data, primarily from manually completed, paper-based forms and the output of the results to a fixed schedule. These results 
might be election counts, census results or examination marks.
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
 2013 2012
 £000 £000
Turnover 18,095 20,071
Profit before tax 1,269 1,302
Cash reserves 3,680 3,990
Earnings per share  4.38p  3.50p
Research and Development spend 2,589 1,902
Education revenue 15,450 14,466
Non-Education revenue 2,645 5,605
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
KEY	MARKETS
EDUCATION
Our education business is focused on 
providing awarding and assessment 
bodies, schools, colleges and 
universities in the UK and overseas 
with secure data capture and 
examination processing products  
and specialist services.
ELECTIONS
DRS offers an end-to-end solution 
for electronically counted elections 
worldwide including form design 
and printing, hardware, software, 
project support and training. We cover 
statutory and non-statutory elections 
including national parliamentary 
elections, legislative and local council 
elections as well as employee and 
trade union ballots.
CENSUS
DRS census services provide data 
capture solutions for large-scale 
censuses including paper-based 
national or regional population 
censuses and specialised industrial, 
commercial and agricultural censuses. 
Any census is a complex undertaking 
presenting many challenges,  
especially concerning the collection 
and dissemination of the data. DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
4
STRATEGIC
REPORT In the education market, for over four decades, DRS has 
supported awarding bodies, assessment authorities, 
universities, colleges and schools internationally with its 
secure examination processing data capture and marking 
solutions. In the UK the Company has provided electronic 
marking solutions for high-stakes, high-volume general 
qualifications such as GCSE and GCE ALevel examinations 
since 2002.
The Company provides end-to-end hardware and software 
solutions for the electronic capture and counting of election 
ballots and the electronic capture of census data. It also 
provides a specialised capability for the secure printing of 
examination scripts, election ballots and census forms. 
Since its formation the Company has become a name to 
trust for the delivery of time-critical, large-scale, logistically 
challenging projects, with experience gained through the 
delivery of substantial projects at a national level in the UK, 
Africa, the Middle-East and Asia. 
OUR BUSINESS
DRS is a specialist 
provider of automated  
time-critical data 
capture technology 
solutions to 
governments, 
education authorities 
and commercial 
organisations all over 
the world. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
5
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Principal Activities 
I am pleased to report that in 2013 the Group traded 
br oadl y	in	line	 with	expectations.	 Gr oup	r ev enue	 for	 the	
y ear	 was	£18,095,000	(2012:	£20,071,000)	and	pr ofit	
befor e	 tax	 was	£1,269,000	(2012:	£1,302,000).
Basic earnings per share benefited from a Corporation Tax 
credit of £120,000 and increased for a fifth successive year 
to 4.38p (2012: 3.50p). The Board recommends that the final 
dividend be maintained at 0.4p per share (2012: 0.4p).
Overall performance in our Education market continues 
to be strong. A solid performance in the UK saw UK 
Education revenue increase by 1.37% to £10,570,000 (2012: 
£10,427,000), and international education revenue grew by 
20.8% to £4,880,000 (2012: £4,039,000).
As expected, non-Education revenue decreased to 
£2,645,000 (2012: £5,605,000). This is because the 2012 
revenue included a number of infrequently occurring  
census and elections projects, the largest of which, with 
a revenue of £2,471,000, was for the electronic counting 
of the 2012 London Mayor and Assembly Elections. As 
expected there were fewer high value contracts in 2013. 
The largest non-Education project during the year was 
the census forms printing and data scanning solution for 
Myanmar, approximately 78% of which was delivered in 
2013. Adjusting for the significant 2012 London Mayor 
and Assembly Elections contract, like-for-like total Group 
revenue was up 2.8% on last year.
2013 was an important year for DRS, with the Group 
demonstrating tangible progress in the execution of its 
strategy. A key goal was to establish ourselves in the 
overseas electronic marking market, which was achieved. 
The signing of key partnerships for the distribution of the 
DRS electronic marking software solution (e-Marker®) to the 
Indian and African education markets and the completion 
of several e-Marker® pilot projects in these regions laid 
important foundations for increasing international growth. 
This strategic progress was reflected in the growth we 
saw in our overseas education market revenue for the fifth 
successive year.
In August 2013 a key milestone was achieved for the Group’s 
core UK business when we agreed a two-year extension, to 
September 2016, of the agreement with AQA Education for 
the provision of e-Marker® Examination Services. 
In the non-Education market, we signed a Long Term 
Agreement with the United Nations Population Fund 
(UNFPA) in June 2013 which provides a framework for future 
contracts to be awarded for international census projects. 
We also successfully concluded the first sale under that 
agreement for the provision of forms and a data scanning 
solution for the Myanmar census to be held in 2014. The 
initial deliveries were made in 2013 and we expect to 
complete the contract in 2014.
C orporate	R esponsibility
The Board is focused on the adoption of responsible 
practices across the organisation through a process of 
continual improvement in the use of resources, the  
wellbeing and diversity of our employees, compliance with 
local laws and appropriate international standards and the 
requirements laid out in our Code of Business Ethics. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
6
 STRATEGIC REPORT
Sir David Brown
Chairman Governance
As a publicly listed company, we strive to adopt best 
practice standards for corporate governance. During  
the year the Board has attended to the changing  
regulations for corporate reporting, and this Annual Report 
includes additional disclosures on strategy, in the form of 
a Strategic Report, and remuneration, in the form of an 
extended Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The Board continues to take seriously its responsibility 
for managing risk, so as to ensure that we meet the high 
standards of trust and reliability expected of us when 
handling large volumes of sensitive data for our customers. 
Risk is at the core of our focus as we continue to develop and 
maintain systems to ensure that our people are safe, that 
our assets are safe, that our reputation is protected and that 
we are delivering an impeccable service to our customers   
and partners.
The Group continues to maintain its certification in the key 
areas of Business Continuity (BS 25999-2:2007), Quality 
Management (ISO 9001), Environmental Management (ISO 
14001) and Information Security Management (ISO 27001), 
which the Board regards as important evidence of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s focus on compliance with best 
practice risk management standards.
No changes were made to the Board of Directors in          
2013 and, at the time of writing, none are foreseeable in       
the year ahead.
Outlook
DRS has had a good year, delivering a solid operational 
performance and achieving its cornerstone strategic goals. 
Looking forward, while we continue to see some risk from 
volume reductions in the UK in the medium term as a result of 
the anticipated structural changes to academic qualifications 
in the UK secondary education market, the international 
opportunities over the same period are expected both to 
balance these and to provide opportunities for growth.
The objective of the Group continues to be to maintain its 
position in the UK market and at the same time to seize 
opportunities for geographical diversification in selected 
markets overseas, with a particular focus on those markets 
in which the Group believes that long-term scalable growth 
of its core examination processing solutions, including 
e-Marker®, can realistically be secured.
In March 2014 we were delighted to be able to announce 
that DRS and its joint arrangement partner in IntElect®, 
Electoral Reform Services Limited, have been selected to 
provide electronic counting for the 2016 London Mayor and 
Assembly Elections, as we did in 2012.
DRS expects to continue to deliver other high value 
projects in the Elections and Census space, including further 
opportunities under the UNFPA Long Term Agreement. These 
are by their nature not annually recurring opportunities, 
with each opportunity needing individually to be won in a 
strongly competitive environment. However they tend to be 
of a high value and are integral to the Group’s business focus.
Sir David Brown
Chairman
31 March 2014
7
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
2013 was an important 
year for DRS, with the 
Group delivering a solid 
operational performance 
and tangible progress 
in the execution of its 
strategy.
“
“
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
MARKETS
DRS operates in over 50 countries across three 
market sectors: Education, Elections and Census. 
Our core business is 
delivering time-critical, 
large-scale, logistically 
challenging solutions for 
examination processing, 
elections and population 
censuses. 
We implement complete solutions using our extensive 
expertise in document design, printing, scanning of forms, 
software development, logistics, project management and 
consultancy. 
The unique combination of domain expertise, application 
software, scanner technology and specialised printing and 
scanning services provides clients with robust end-to-end 
solutions for major data capture and processing projects.
                Education
Our education business is focused on providing awarding and 
assessment bodies, schools, colleges and universities in the 
UK and overseas with secure data capture and examination 
processing products and specialist services.
These products and services fall into two main categories:
1. DRS Marking and Examination software and   
 services including:
•	 e-Marker® software and services for on-line electronic 
examination marking;
•	 specialised Multiple Choice Questionnaire (MCQ)   
marking software;
•	 on-site professional services for in-house operations; and
•	 full service bureau operations, providing secure receipt and 
storage of scripts, scanning and imaging of  
completed exam answer booklets and electronic delivery 
of on-line marking.
2. Scanning equipment and forms production including: 
•	 DRS award winning PhotoScribe® PS900 Series imaging 
mark readers: robust, high speed, network-ready form 
scanners able to capture complex data in real time at 
speeds of up to 10,500 forms per hour;
•	 exam entry and registration forms production including 
photo capture;
•	 bespoke examination scripts production including fully 
optimised examiner answer and mark sheets for electronic 
capture; and
•	 MCQ answer forms and exam marking forms production 
and processing.
Steve Gowers 
CEO
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
8
 STRATEGIC REPORT DRS is a long-standing provider of online examination 
marking services in the UK. Awarding bodies and professional 
bodies have been using electronic marking to mark
high-stakes, high-volume, general qualifications such as 
GCSE and GCE ALevel examinations since 2002. AQA 
Education, a leading UK provider of academic qualifications, 
remains the Group’s largest customer overall, amongst a 
wide range of awarding bodies and other examining entities 
in the UK and overseas.
             Elections
DRS offers an end-to-end solution for electronically counted 
elections worldwide including form design and printing, 
hardware, software, project support and training. We cover 
statutory and non-statutory elections including national 
parliamentary elections, legislative and local council 
elections as well as employee and trade union ballots.
DRS Election software, scanning equipment and services 
include the following:
•	 electronic Counting (e-Counting) solutions for statutory 
and non-statutory elections including national elections, 
local and regional council elections and by-elections; 
postal ballot options plus, with partners, internet and 
telephone ballots;
•	 ballot paper design and forms production; and
•	 scanning and data capture of time-critical data using our 
PhotoScribe® technology for ballot scanning as well as 
voter registration projects.
             Census
DRS Census services provide data capture solutions for 
large-scale censuses including paper-based national or 
regional population censuses and specialised industrial, 
commercial and agricultural censuses. Any census is a 
complex undertaking presenting many challenges, especially 
concerning the collection and dissemination of the data.
It is also recognised that every census project is unique and 
that market requirements are constantly changing. DRS has 
therefore developed a flexible, adaptable solution combined 
with proven and innovative data capture methods and 
technology.
DRS is able to provide complete bespoke solutions 
including:
•	 customised software (OMR, ICR, Barcode and Image);
•	 forms design and printing;
•	 DRS PhotoScribe® scanners;
•	 PC/Server hardware;
•	 support services;
•	 consultancy; and
•	 project management.
The services cover all stages from planning through 
to project implementation, document scanning 
of enumeration/census forms using our scanners,                    
data processing and export of the data to the chosen 
analysis package.
STRATEGIC REPORT
9
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The education market 
is a particular focus 
because it offers 
regular and recurring 
business opportunities 
arising from the annual 
cycle of examinations.
“
“ CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL
Education
Our core education business focuses on the delivery 
of solutions for student registration and examination 
processing and the electronic marking of high-stakes,     
high-volume examinations. 
The business strategy is focused on carefully selected 
geographies that the Board feels represent the best 
opportunities for sustainable and recurring growth for the 
DRS’ education products and services, with a particular focus 
on Africa and India, including both secondary and further 
education examination processing. The education market 
is a particular focus because it offers regular and recurring 
business opportunities arising from the annual cycle of 
examinations. Key drivers include the size and growth of the 
student populations in these markets, the investment being 
made in education by governments and individuals and the 
potential benefits that electronic marking offers in terms 
of increased efficiency, data collection and the reduction of 
error, fraud and bias.
In the UK the Education market is mature and the changes 
that are occurring in secondary education qualifications are 
causing a reduction in the number of examinations taken.  
We continue to work with a number of UK awarding bodies 
to develop products and services that provide improvements 
in marking quality and capability.
The main opportunities for growth are to build on our 
existing education business in Africa, where the business has 
a long established presence and to use the knowledge gained 
in this market to develop opportunities in India, which has 
suitable student numbers and a similar education structure 
to the UK. The Board’s view is that these markets offer the 
necessary scale of opportunity, in terms of current numbers 
of students, student volume growth and examination 
volumes to meet growth aspirations. 
Over the years we have built up a deep knowledge of the 
data capture and processing requirements in this area and 
we are able to work with our partners and customers to 
deliver the software and hardware solutions to meet local 
requirements. DRS has built strong relationships with 
international agencies, national governments and public and 
private sector specialist organisations, including national 
and regional awarding, assessment and educational bodies 
across the globe. Our professional services organisation 
is also equipped to deliver best practice techniques and 
methodologies to these organisations to enable them to 
achieve the required results.
Electronic marking is now starting to gain acceptance in 
many regions of the world due to its proven benefits in 
marking quality, security, the removal of bias, improved 
administration and reporting of the marking process and 
better use of markers, both in standardisation and cost-
effectiveness.
It is our intention to offer these services and solutions, 
including the e-Marker® electronic marking solution, either 
directly or in conjunction with carefully selected strategic 
partners in each market. We are currently working with a 
number of partners in Africa and India to further develop 
these services. 
The business model in the UK is direct sales operated by DRS 
staff offering a full bureau service including scanning, and 
the e-Marker® software offered as a service.
In the overseas markets, professional services to support 
the use of e-Marker® may be offered directly or delivered 
through carefully selected service provider partners. In 
either case the preferred revenue model for e-Marker® is a 
recurring model, with a per-transaction (per examination 
script) fee being charged for use of the licence. Other 
software solutions, such as MCQ may be licensed directly to 
clients for an up-front initial licence fee.
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL 
Elections and Census
The Group will continue to pursue large-scale, one-off 
opportunities in the elections and census markets, based 
on dedicated DRS software applications and the Company’s 
PhotoScribe® scanners. The focus is on national population 
censuses, voter registration and ballot counting for large 
statutory and non-statutory elections.
Our customers require a combination of data capture, 
processing and reporting solutions as well as the delivery 
of related services which include operational training, 
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
10
 STRATEGIC REPORT document printing, scanning and data handling. These 
solutions and services in combination result in the provision 
of a full end-to-end service. 
A key driver for the Census market is the practice of holding 
them on a decennial cycle, with the majority of censuses 
being clustered on or around the decade end. Outside of 
those peaks there are fewer projects, primarily in those 
countries which have not held a census for some time or 
decide to carry out an intercensal population survey. 
OBJECTIVES
As a business we continue to focus on the three market 
sectors of Education, Elections and Census that we believe 
have a common and complementary need for solutions 
which provide for large-scale secure capture and processing 
of high-stakes data, primarily from manually completed, 
paper-based forms and the output of the results to a fixed 
schedule. These results might be election counts, census 
results or examination marks.
Two of the markets, Census and Elections, offer 
opportunities that while they are high value are, by their 
nature, non-recurring and tend to be project-based requiring 
specific customisation. By contrast, events in the Education 
market, in particular exam series, are more regular and 
repeatable and offer the opportunity for recurring revenue 
streams. Because of this we have a particular objective to 
derive a greater proportion of revenue from the Education 
market through electronic marking of examinations. 
Education accounts for 85% of turnover and is believed to 
provide the best growth opportunities.
DRS has been investing in new products to support the 
growth of this business, including e-Marker® and MCQ. 
A key objective for the business is the delivery of new 
products, features and related professional services to 
provide a broader range of electronic marking capabilities 
to meet the needs of our UK and International customers. 
The business is investing in research and development with a 
view to launching an enhanced electronic marking platform 
in the coming year that will form the basis of new pilot 
projects in selected locations.
Our products and services may be sold directly or through 
a certified network of strategic partners. Future growth 
opportunities will arise from the development of these 
channels, allowing us to open up new territories.  We have a 
particular focus on identifying and signing up new partners 
to support this expansion.
OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
2013 saw the business continue to deliver on the strategy 
to increase revenue from Education, with an overall growth 
in Education revenues of 6.80% to £15,450,000 (2012: 
£14,466,000). Sustained demand in our core UK Education 
market delivered a small increase in revenue of 1.37% to 
£10,570,000 (2012: £10,427,000).
Initial projects for the delivery of DRS e-Marker® and MCQ 
solutions and related services in India and Africa were 
completed and the Company’s performance in these markets 
continues to develop. During the year this led to an increase 
of 20.82% in international education revenue to £4,880,000 
(2012: £4,039,000).
An expected reduction in non-Education revenue to 
£2,645,000 (2012: £5,605,000), which was as a result of 
fewer large-scale census and elections projects, meant 
that the Group achieved an overall revenue for the year of 
£18,095,000 (2012: £20,071,000) and profit before tax of 
£1,269,000 (2012: £1,302,000), a performance that was 
broadly in line with expectations.
Administrative expenses have increased by more than 
inflation between 2012 and 2013 owing to the appointment 
of key people to strengthen the management team. 
However, overall total costs in the business have reduced by 
0.5% of revenue.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
EDUCATION COMMERCIAL ELECTIONS AND 
CENSUS
TOTAL
£000’s 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
UK	 Sales	 10,570 10,427 39 26 11 2,485 10,620 12,938
International Sales 4,880 4,039 563 300 2,032 2,794 7,475 7,133
Total 15,450 14,466 602 326 2,043 5,279 18,095 20,071
STRATEGIC REPORT
11
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
UK	 SALES
UK overall sales in 2013 were £10,620,000, below 2012 
performance at £12,938,000 as a result of an expected 
decrease in non-Education revenue. This decrease was 
primarily because 2012 included revenue of £2,471,000 
for the electronic counting of the 2012 London Mayor and 
Assembly Elections and there was no similar project in 2013.
However, in August 2013 we were pleased to announce that 
we have agreed a two-year extension (to September 2016) 
of the agreement with AQA Education, a leading UK provider 
of academic qualifications, for the provision of e-Marker® 
examination software and services. We continue to work 
with AQA Education and our other UK clients to support 
the transition in their business which is arising from the 
government’s plans to reform GCSEs and GCE ALevels. These 
reforms will see the removal of modularisation, a move to a 
numerical grading system and the abolition of course work. 
The plans are for selected subjects to be ready for teaching 
in 2015 and the first exams to take place in 2017.
INTERNATIONAL SALES
During 2013 DRS experienced incremental demand from 
several key overseas markets, particularly in Africa. As a 
result international sales increased by 4.79% to £7,475,000 
(2012: £7,133,000). 
The Group made progress in the execution of its strategy to 
expand education products and services into new overseas 
markets, with the signing of strategic partner agreements 
with Globarena and Edutech in India. Globarena is a well 
established organisation providing learning and assessment 
solutions to the Indian education market and Edutech is a 
specialist provider of education solutions and technology to 
India and the Middle-East. 
In the non-Education market, DRS signed a Long Term 
Agreement with the United Nations Population Fund 
(UNFPA) in June 2013. This Agreement provides a framework 
for contracts to be awarded for international census 
projects. Earlier in the year we successfully completed a 
pilot project for a census for Myanmar in south-east Asia 
and following this were pleased to be awarded the contract 
for the provision of the full census solution, including forms, 
technology, training and support. Myanmar has a population 
of approximately 60 million people and is undertaking its 
first census for thirty years. The project requires the design, 
printing and shipping of 16 million specially formulated 
questionnaires, which, after the census in April 2014, will be 
scanned and analysed. Approximately 78% of the contract 
was delivered in 2013.
DIVIDEND POLICY
The Directors propose a final dividend of 0.4p per share 
(2012: 0.4p).
The Board follows a dividend policy which provides a return 
to Shareholders whilst retaining sufficient cash to continue 
to fund the development of the Group’s products. 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Research and development is a fundamental part of DRS’ 
strategy. A structured programme of work to generate new 
products for our education business and the PhotoScribe® 
scanners has resulted in increased investment. Total 
expenditure on all product development during 2013, 
which included e-Marker® amortisation, was £2,589,000 
(2012: £1,902,000). Only costs related to the creation of 
new functionality were capitalised. The remaining costs 
including amortisation and amounting to £1,384,000 
(2012: £1,373,000) have been expensed through the Income 
Statement.
e-Marker®
DRS’ largest development programme continues to be its 
examination marking solution, e-Marker®. The e-Marker® 
roadmap for the current generation of the product saw the 
release of new versions of the software during 2013 which 
added functionality in support of new and existing business. 
Further improvements are planned for 2014 relating to the 
release of a series of components of the next generation of 
the e-Marker® platform which will provide improvements 
over the next few years to customers in the UK and 
internationally. This output is the foundation of continued 
development in DRS’ examination product suite, enhancing 
and ultimately replacing the current e-Marker® product.
PhotoScribe®
In 2012 development work began on the next generation of 
PhotoScribe® scanning machines. In 2013 a new platform 
for a new range of machines was produced that can handle 
larger documents than the current PhotoScribe® PS900 
range. The new machines should deliver faster scanning 
throughput with greater paper handling tolerances and 
produce higher definition images.  A prototype machine is 
being completed, and the intention is to have a new model 
available in the second half of 2015.
LIQUIDITY AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The Group held £3,680,000 in cash at the end of 2013 
(2012: £3,990,000). The £310,000 decline in cash holding 
over 2013 is offset by a £683,000 increase in trade 
receivables as a result of a high-volume of sales during 
December for which 92% of the payments were received 
in January 2014. The Group maintains its cash holding at 
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
12
 STRATEGIC REPORT 25
20
15
10
5
0
2009
14.43
2010
17 .10
2011
15.98
2012
20.07
2013
18. 10
Total Revenue in £ millions
such levels in order to have the funds available to support 
its working capital requirements and to be able to fund 
product development and deliver large election and census 
contracts. 
The Group’s policy continues to be to take a cautious 
approach to Treasury management with a view to minimising 
its exposure to risk. Only short-term investments that do 
not put the capital at risk are considered and the Group’s 
cash holding is split between three banks to minimise 
exposure to potential risk associated with a bank failure. 
The Group’s principal bank through which normal business 
activity is transacted continues to be Barclays Bank plc. DRS 
Data Services Limited has a £250,000 overdraft facility and 
a £180,000 credit line to cover operational performance 
bonds required in the general line of business. In January 
2013 The Group extended its mortgage facility with Barclays 
Bank plc to 2018. The balance on this mortgage at the end of 
2013 was £1,731,000.
In view of these arrangements the Directors believe the 
access to cash resources is adequate to meet the foreseeable 
needs of the business over the next 12 months.
FINANCIAL	RISK	MANA GEMENT
Internal financial controls are based upon a budgetary 
process which begins with the Board agreeing a three year 
strategic plan detailing key corporate objectives. The Board 
is then asked to approve an annual budget that is prepared 
by senior managers working with the Executive Directors 
which is in line with the corporate objectives agreed in 
the three year plan. A comprehensive strategic planning, 
budgeting and forecasting system is in place.  Monthly 
financial information, including trading results and cash flow 
statements, are reported to the Board and management. 
Senior managers’ performance is then monitored against 
the agreed financial targets in management accounts that 
are prepared on a monthly basis. The overall approach is 
supported by detailed internal financial controls operated 
on a day-to-day basis on all aspects of the business. Proper 
accounting records are maintained and the reliability of 
management information, compliance with appropriate 
legislation and regulation and the identification and control 
of business risks are continually assessed.  
The Board considers that there is an effective on-going 
process in place within the Company for identifying, 
understanding, evaluating and managing significant risks 
facing the Group.  The Board meets monthly to review 
performance against budget and forecast and Mark 
Tebbutt, the Finance Director, regularly reviews the Group 
consolidation and analysis of material variances. The Audit 
Committee reviews the application of financial reporting 
standards and any significant accounting judgements made 
by management.  The process remains in place at the date 
of approval of this report.  It manages the risk of failure 
to achieve strategic objectives, and provides reasonable 
(though not absolute) assurances against material 
misstatement or loss.
Furthermore, the Board is satisfied that material action is 
taken promptly to remedy significant weaknesses which may 
be identified.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and 
policies of the Group, and exposures to financial risks are 
given in Note 3.1 to the financial statements.
KEY	PERFORMANCE	INDICA T ORS	(KPIs) 
The Company uses a number of performance indicators 
throughout the business to monitor the Group’s 
performance. The seven KPIs presented below are considered 
to be the main drivers monitoring that performance is in line 
with the Group’s strategy.
1. Total Revenue
Revenue performance tracks the level of activity of the 
business. Monitoring revenue provides a means of measuring 
growth in the business. Elections and census projects tend to 
be large-scale, infrequent and non-recurring and this leads 
to significant fluctuations in the Group’s revenue. The focus 
on examinations and assessment within education provides 
the opportunity to build a stable base of consistent recurring 
revenue. 
In 2013 there was a year-on-year decline of £1,976,000 in 
overall revenue as a consequence of the London Mayor and 
Assembly Elections contributing revenue of £2,471,000 in 
2012. After adjusting for this non-recurring revenue item, 
like-for-like revenue increased in 2013 by 2.8% driven 
primarily by a 20.8% increase in international education 
revenue. A more detailed year on year analysis of revenue is 
provided in Note 4 Segment Information on Page 69.
STRATEGIC REPORT
13
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2. International Education Revenue
Particular focus is given to international education revenue 
which is seen as a principal area for the Group to generate 
sustainable sales growth in Africa and India. 2013 saw 
a 20.8% growth in the Group’s international education 
revenue. At present this growth is primarily being achieved 
in Africa.
3. Research and Development Expenditure   
	 (ex cluding	amortisation)
The Group bases its business approach on delivering a 
high level of technical excellence and by forging long term 
relationships with its customers. Investment in software and 
hardware products to maintain a competitive advantage 
is very important. Research and Development expenditure 
is recorded on a monthly basis to monitor the level of 
expenditure and ensure investment, in comparison to the 
level of recognised revenue, provides a balance between 
spend and profitability.
There are currently two main product development 
activities. Firstly, there is a new version of the e-Marker® 
examination marking product under development and the 
first components of the new product are expected to be 
released in the second half of 2014 which will enable us 
to offer a broader range of examination marking solutions 
to our international customers. Secondly, a new version of 
DRS’ PhotoScribe® scanner is planned for the second half of 
2015. The existing level of investment is planned to continue 
throughout 2014 and 2015.
4. Operating Return on Sales
The operating return on sales is based on profit before 
income tax is adjusted for discontinued operations* 
expressed as a percentage of total revenue. The strategy 
and business model of the Group covers three very different 
market sectors and the solutions delivered into these 
markets often involve an element of tailoring to meet 
customers’ needs. Monitoring the direct cost of project 
delivery and ensuring  adequate controls are in place to 
ensure they are delivered within budgeted project costs is an 
important part of the internal controls within the business. 
The operating return on sales of 7.0% shows an increase of 
0.5% over 2012 which was due to the lower than expected 
level of profitability on the 2012 London Mayor and 
Assembly elections, but is consistent with 2011.
*The (loss)/profit before income tax figures for 2009 and 
2010 were adjusted by £780,000 and £328,000 respectively 
for discontinued operations in respect of the sale of Peladon 
Software Inc in September 2010.
1800
1600
Operating Proﬁt £000
% Operating Return on Sales
1400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0
-200
-400
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
-2
2009
(135)
2010
1653
2011 2012
1302
2013
1269
(0.9)
9.7
6.8
6.5
7.0
Operating Proﬁt Operating Return on Sales %
1090
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
14
6000
5000
4000
3000
2000
1000
0
2009
2443
2010
2570
2011
2778
2012
4039
2013
4880
Total Revenue in £000
3000 24
R&D Cost R&D as a % of Turnover
2500
R&D Expenditure in £000
R&D Expenditure as a % of Total Revenue
2000
1500
1000
500
0
22
20
18
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2009
2182
2010
1868
2011
1286
2012
1738
2013
2484
8.7
8.0
10.9
15. 1
13.7
 STRATEGIC REPORT 5.00
4.00
Earnings per Share Pence
3.00
2.00
1.00
0.00
-1.00
-2.00
-3.00 2009
(2.28)
2010
1.74
2012
3.50
4.38
2013 2011
2.66
STRATEGIC REPORT
15
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
5. Earnings per Share
Earnings per share is a principal measure used by the Board 
to measure the overall profitability of the Group. The Board 
measures earnings per share as part of the performance 
criteria for the Executive Directors’ long-term incentives 
and it provides a standard by which shareholder returns are 
assessed.
The increase in earnings per share over the last three years 
is primarily due to increased investment in the Group’s 
products resulting in increased Research and Development 
tax credits.
6.	 Emplo y ees’	 A v erage	Length	 of	 Service
Retaining staff and ensuring the right mix of skills is 
maintained is particularly important to DRS as the work 
undertaken requires highly trained staff to deliver large 
complex solutions to plan. The purpose of monitoring the 
average length of service of our employees is to check that 
we are retaining the experience required to maintain our 
competitive edge. In 2013 the Group employed an average 
of 255 full time equivalent employees (2012: 249) of which 
186 (2012: 177) were permanent monthly paid and 69 (2012: 
72) were weekly paid temporary workers that cover the 
peaks of operational activity. 
The average length of service calculation is based on the 
permanent monthly workforce.
7 .	 T otal	Ener gy	 C onsumed
The Board is conscious of its social responsibility to use 
energy more efficiently and is continually seeking ways to 
reduce unnecessary consumption. Overall energy usage 
in 2013 decreased by 3.5% compared to 2012. Further 
details on energy usage are provided in the Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Report on page 27.
Years
8
7
6
5
3
4
2
1
0
2009
5.95
2010
5.85
2011
6.25
2012
7.48
2013
7.19
Energy Consumed in (100,000s) units
3
2
1
2
1
0
2009
2.2
2010
1.9
2011
1.55
2012
1.79
2013
1.73 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
16
PRINCIP AL	RISKS	 AND	 UNCER T AINTIES
This section sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, but is not exhaustive. These risks have the potential 
to impact our business, revenue, profits, assets, liquidity or capital resources. The Board has overall responsibility for managing 
risks affecting the Group.  A risk management framework has been developed and adopted across the organisation.  The Board 
regularly reviews either directly, or through the Audit Committee, the effectiveness of our risk management framework and 
internal controls. The risk management framework provides reasonable assurance that significant risks are identified and 
addressed but there may be risks that are unknown or presently judged to not be significant, that later prove to be significant.   
The principal risks currently facing the Group are set out below but are not arranged in order of relative impact or probability.
MARKET
Political and 
geographical 
uncertainties
Changes to national and political policies or 
uncertainties over environmental stability could 
lead to a reduction in the size of the market or 
delays in implementation of solutions
DRS seeks to work closely with its customers to better 
understand their local environment and their changing 
requirements in order to anticipate such changes and adapt 
to the changing environment
RISK IMPACT MITIGATION
MARKET
New products 
meeting market 
requirements
The risk that new products may not meet market 
expectations due to factors such as changing 
product requirements, technology substitution, 
new competitors and regulatory intervention
Adopting a structured, responsive and flexible approach to 
identifying requirements and incorporating technological 
and functional innovation into new versions of the product 
minimises the risk of not meeting requirements
STRATEGIC
Over reliance on  
key	customers
There is a risk that the Group’s business model 
of focussing on large-scale, technically complex 
projects places over-reliance on a small number 
of key customers. This could result in revenue 
and profit volatility
DRS looks to develop a good understanding of its customers’ 
needs and thereby create a long-term working relationship 
that leads to repeat business as well as new business. It is a 
core strategy to focus on the international education market 
to increase geographical diversification in new areas that 
offer sustainable recurring revenue growth
STRATEGIC
C omplexity	
of customer 
environments
The risks associated with providing large-
scale technically complex solutions which 
are automating previously manual processes 
require comprehensive planning and a phased 
delivery to implement effective change, with a 
corresponding delay of revenue generation
The Group’s strategic approach takes into account the need 
to invest heavily into development of its people, products and 
services, placing a high level of importance on ensuring the 
right mix of skills and knowledge is retained in the business 
with a particular focus on opportunities where there is 
detailed knowledge of the customers’ markets as well as the 
prevailing operating conditions  
OPERATIONAL
Data	security
Handling large volumes of sensitive data is a 
fundamental part of the business and there 
is a possibility that this information could 
be accessed by unauthorised people and its 
integrity compromised, resulting in loss of 
revenue and a potential negative impact on 
reputation
The business has engaged in an on-going improvement 
programme to ensure the use of up to date business practice 
and appropriate hardware, infrastructure and software allow 
security measures to be applied, maintained and controlled 
at a suitable level to meet the needs of both customer and 
corporate obligations.  The Company continues to be certified 
to BS ISO/IEC 27001:2005
OPERATIONAL
Infrastructure and 
process resilience
Any substantial business disruption, whatever 
the cause, could significantly impede our 
ability to operate as usual.  This could be as a 
consequence of the lack of availability or denied 
access to premises, equipment or data used in 
our normal operations. Significant outages of 
this nature could result in missed service level 
arrangements, reputational damage and loss of 
revenue and profit 
Certification of compliance to Business Continuity 
Management Standard BS 25999-2:2007 has been in place 
since February 2012. The processes and controls supporting 
business continuity and incident management are tested 
regularly.  The system provides a series of mitigating and 
contingency measures that provide assurance of process and 
data resilience should the unexpected happen. Due diligence 
processes are also in place to ensure similar assurance of our 
key supply chain
OPERATIONAL
Emplo y ee	
recruitment 
and retention of 
appr opriatel y	
skilled staff
The business model requires the design, 
development and implementation of technically 
complex solutions that makes the business very 
dependent on the skill of the workforce.  There is 
a risk that rapid changes to meet market needs 
increase the burden of identifying the right skills 
and retaining these to remain competitive
Recruitment, retention and development of staff is a priority 
for DRS and a high value is placed on training and professional 
development with the aim of providing career advancement 
 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
17
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
EMPLOYEES
We respect and value the individuality and diversity that 
each of our employees brings to the business. We are 
committed to equal opportunities and the development 
of our people to realise their potential, in line with best 
practice and in accordance with our Investors in People (liP) 
accreditation. As at 31 December 2013, 117 of our employees 
out of a total of 204 were male and 87 were female.  Of 
these 32 were senior managers, 22 of whom were male 
and 10 were female. In terms of the Company’s Board of 
Directors there were 6 Directors, 4 male and 2 female.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
This Strategic Report has been prepared solely to provide 
additional information to Shareholders to assess the Group’s 
strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed. 
It should not be relied upon by any other party for any other 
purpose.
Certain forward-looking statements are contained in this 
Report. These statements are made by the Directors in 
good faith based on the information available to them 
up to the time of their preparation of this report and as 
such statements should be treated with caution due to 
the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and 
business risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking 
information.
CURRENT	 TRADING	 AND	 OUTL OOK
In 2013 we made good progress in strategic terms with the 
achievement of a number of milestones against the Group’s 
core strategy. These milestones included a re-focusing of the 
organisation around product and service delivery, the signing 
of new partners in target markets in Africa and India and the 
appointment of a number of key people to strengthen the 
management team.
These steps, together with the delivery of pilot projects in 
significant territories for our examination processing and 
electronic marking solutions, mean that DRS has built a 
foundation to leverage future opportunities. 
In 2013 the business delivered growth in international 
education revenue, which currently accounts for 27% of 
Group revenue. Looking ahead to 2014 we anticipate that, in 
the absence of large-scale Census and Election projects, we 
will focus on the international education market, where we 
expect to continue to make steady progress. The UK market 
in 2014 will be impacted by structural changes to secondary 
education qualifications that have reduced the numbers 
of exams being taken in January and March. Some of this 
volume is expected to move to the summer series. This has 
the consequence of reducing revenue in the first half year 
and increasing revenue in the second half.
In the medium term we shall continue to deliver Census 
and Election projects as they become available including, as 
recently announced, the project to deliver the e-counting 
solution for the 2016 London Mayor and Assembly Elections.
Overall the Education market opportunities remain 
encouraging though we recognise that the business in the 
UK, in the medium term, will be strongly influenced by the 
Government’s structural changes to UK secondary school 
examinations. 
Our Education solutions, including e-Marker®, are expected 
to continue to perform in many of our target markets and 
recent progress demonstrates that the product range has 
good growth prospects both for new business sales and for 
ongoing repeat business.
In the international markets the opportunities are driven 
by the size of the education markets in India and Africa, 
the increasing levels of investment in education and the 
expected growth in student numbers. While challenges arise 
from the relative maturity of the technology infrastructure 
in certain locations, particularly Africa, to support a 
transition from largely manual processes to the higher 
degree of automation that we offer, we are confident DRS 
remains well positioned to grow the business over the 
medium and long term. 
Steve Gowers 
Chief Executive Officer 
31 March 2014 REPORT ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
INTRODUCTION
It is a priority to integrate business values and operations 
at DRS to meet the expectations of our investors and other 
stakeholders in relation to customers, employees, suppliers, 
the environment and the community.
Corporate responsibility at DRS is focused on the following 
areas which are of particular relevance to what we do.  The 
most significant areas continue to be:
•	 relationships with our staff;
•	 relationships with our customers, suppliers and partners; 
•	 relationships with our Shareholders; and
•	 how the Group’s activities impact on society and our 
environment and contribute to our community.
These responsibilities continue to be supported by the 
KPIs referred to on pages 13 to 15 and are considered in 
the management of its risks using a framework which 
deals with the risks and opportunities directly connected 
to delivering the Company strategy and objectives. 
These risk management practices are informed by 
corporate governance principles and ISO 31000:2009, the 
international standard for risk management. The Principal 
Risks and Uncertainties on page 16 and the Corporate 
Governance Statement on page 28 provide further 
information on the Company’s management of risk.
The Company’s policies relating to corporate responsibility 
and the environment are reviewed annually by the Board. 
They are implemented throughout the business with the 
support of the Business Improvement Team and are followed 
by our staff.
Our Business Standards
The Company retains its certification to the following 
standards which contribute significantly to the way in which 
business is conducted with all our suppliers, customers and 
other partners:
•	 ISO 27001:2005 - for the quality of its information 
security management systems upholding the 
confidentiality, integrity and availability of information; 
•	 BS EN ISO 14001:2004 - in respect of its environmental 
management through which policies and objectives have 
been implemented to meet our legal requirements and 
to assess any significant environmental impacts of the 
business; 
•	 BS EN ISO 9001:2008 - for quality management which 
is helping the Company to focus upon meeting our 
customers’ stated requirements; and
•	 BS 25999-2:2007 - Business Continuity Management 
Systems.  A set of business driven processes have been 
developed aimed at proactively improving our resilience to 
any disruption that could affect our ability to achieve our 
key objectives.  
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
18
The Board believes that 
sound management 
of environmental, 
governance and social 
issues has a key part to 
play in the successful 
delivery of the 
Company’s business 
strategy and objectives. 
 STRATEGIC REPORT Human Rights in DRS
Respect for the rights of others guides DRS in much of its 
work in the UK and overseas.
When working with customers, suppliers and partners, the 
importance of complying with applicable laws is emphasised 
in our relationships and is supported by the contractual 
documentation we use.  Workers operating on behalf of 
the Company anywhere in the world must be afforded 
satisfactory labour conditions that meet our requirements of 
cleanliness, safety and services.  Inspections are undertaken 
often by DRS personnel who make themselves available to 
answer workers’ concerns.  All workers are required to be 
aged at least 16 years.
In the UK our staff are supported by policies intended to 
deliver a workplace that promotes dignity and respect.  A 
proactive approach is taken to any circumstance which could 
potentially damage health or a colleague’s ability to carry 
out their role safely.  Examples include a stress management 
policy operating alongside the Employee Assistance 
Programme and the Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy, 
which are strictly enforced.
Customers, Suppliers and Partners
Our working relationships remain a high priority throughout 
DRS. 
Our procurement process guidelines are given to our 
suppliers and any concerns raised are discussed openly with 
the aim of speedy resolution. Written terms and conditions 
of trading are negotiated ahead of work being undertaken 
and payment terms are strictly adhered to.
The Company’s in-house legal and contract management 
teams assist with finalising business terms and help to 
ensure all concerns are dealt with in a timely manner and 
obligations are met by the contracting parties.
In our partner relationships we aim to operate standards to 
safeguard against unfair business practices and to encourage 
our partners to adopt responsible business policies and 
practices.
Business	Ethics	and	 the	Bribery	 Act	2010	 
(The	 A ct)
The Company operates a Code of Business Ethics with all 
its stakeholders and works only with organisations which 
recognise responsibility for upholding this Code. The 
Company’s terms and conditions of trading and relevant 
trading policies are regularly reviewed to emphasise the 
Company’s continuing intolerance to all forms of bribery, 
corruption and facilitation payments.
All employees and contractors who work for the Group 
are required to complete and pass online training and 
assessment in the requirements of the Act and to implement 
anti-corruption measures in their work here and abroad. 
These training modules are reviewed and updated regularly. 
Our employees are also advised of on-going developments 
in the field of corruption control which may have an impact 
on the business.
Our	Emplo y ees
We employed 204 people as at 31 December 2013.  The 
annual resignation rate for the year is estimated to be 15.7% 
which compares with 22.0% in 2012.
The Board is committed to clear and effective 
communication with all DRS colleagues and staff are kept 
informed of the development of the Group’s operations.  
These meetings are held with all staff on a quarterly basis 
and all staff are encouraged to attend and to raise their 
questions and concerns with the CEO and Directors. Senior 
managers also meet monthly with the Company’s Directors.  
News items and various information bulletins are broadcast 
on the Group’s Intranet site.
Employee engagement continues to be a key priority and the 
staff committee meets quarterly to raise and discuss topics 
submitted by employees to their respective representatives.  
The minutes for each meeting are published on the 
Company’s Intranet site.  
Training and development of all new and existing 
employees remains a commitment. The Group ensures that 
the skills and abilities of all staff are developed to meet 
current business objectives and each individual’s personal 
development. Partners are also trained to comply with many 
of the procedures and policies operated by the Group. 
Regular training reviews are undertaken and the 
effectiveness of all training received is evaluated to ensure 
that it has the required impact and meets personal goals as 
agreed between the individual and their manager as well as 
the business’ objectives and cost-effectiveness priorities. 
Staff are encouraged to develop their careers and pay and 
benefits are reviewed annually to retain competitiveness and 
to reward good performance.
Investors in People (IiP) provides a nationally recognised 
standard which sets out a level of good practice for training 
and development of people to achieve business goals. DRS 
has received this accreditation continually since 1999. 
The Board is committed to ensuring that the highest  
possible health and safety and welfare standards are 
delivered consistently throughout the business to its 
employees, its partners and the general public.  The Group 
will take all steps necessary and work within its power to 
meet this responsibility by regularly reviewing, amending 
and improving all relevant policies and procedures, meeting 
its obligations and exceeding best practice standards 
wherever possible.
STRATEGIC REPORT
19
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013 REPORT ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
continued
Staff are introduced to the Group’s Health and Safety at 
Work policy when employment commences and undertake 
regular reminder training, paying particular attention to the 
priority and maintenance of safe plant and equipment and 
the safe handling, transportation and storage of substances 
and equipment.
The Group’s health and safety policies are reviewed by the 
Board annually and the Board regularly receives reports 
regarding health and safety issues that have arisen in the 
year. Attention is given to cause and effect. Follow-up 
actions and progress on all reported issues continues to be 
carefully monitored.
During 2013 there were 15 minor accidents compared with 
17 in 2012. 
The Health and Safety Committee includes representatives 
from throughout the business and has meetings scheduled 
twice a year.  All safety issues relevant to DRS are discussed.  
The minutes of the meetings are made available to all our 
staff via the Company’s Intranet site.
An on-going training programme of fire safety and 
evacuation and first aid is provided.
A Group Personal Pension Plan is open to all employees 
which complies with the contributory requirements of auto-
enrolment introduced under the Pensions Act 2008.
Employees can participate in the Company’s various sports 
and social clubs including golf, badminton, netball and 
music. A golf tournament is held annually and is open to all 
staff. The Company has a netball team, the ‘DRS DRagonS’, 
which competes in a local business league.
En vir onmental	P olicy
The Company strives to improve its environmental 
performance through the implementation of sustainable 
development and the pursuit of appropriate environmental 
activities.
Environmental impact is reviewed regularly in order to:
•	 meet all statutory obligations;
•	 pursue working practices which reduce the business’ 
environmental load; and
•	 recycle waste products and safely dispose of non-
recyclable materials.
We work with environmentally responsible organisations 
that support our approach. Several different waste types 
are recycled including paper reel ends, compactor waste 
polythene, shredded materials and cardboard.  In 2013 we 
recycled 151.3 metric tonnes (179.7: 2012); the decrease 
being due to reduced levels of print production in the 
business. However, the 2012 figure was inflated by inclusion 
of 17 .2 metric tonnes of paper which was written off due to 
damage in transit.
The environmental ‘Green Team’ provides a focus for 
environmental considerations and assists in raising 
environmental awareness in the organisation.
Staff are always encouraged to submit their ideas on how 
consumption of energy and other resources, used by the 
Company, may be reduced. 
The energy awareness initiative first implemented in 2010 
continues to be reviewed. Details on the Group’s Greenhouse 
gas emissions are set out on page 27 of the Directors’ Report. 
For details on energy usage see KPI information on page 15 
in this Report.
At the end of life of products supplied, customers are 
expected to return them to DRS for disposal or recycling 
in accordance with the Waste and Electronic Equipment 
Directive and the Batteries Directive.
DRS also operates in accordance with the requirements 
of the European Directive 2011/65/EU (RoHS Directive) 
ensuring its products comply, where required, with the 
restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances.  
This revised directive includes additional categories of 
Electrical and Electronic Equipment (EEE) and European 
Conformity (CE) marking obligations.
Our Stakeholders
We provide regular communication opportunities to all our 
stakeholders.  Our AGM is held in May each year at which 
all our investors are welcomed.  The Annual Report and 
Accounts, trading updates and items of significant news 
affecting the Company or its trading are disseminated as 
announcements using the regulatory news service and 
are accessible from the Company’s website.  Meetings 
are arranged with investors upon receipt of a request 
and institutional investors are also invited to attend a 
presentation on the annual results.
Our	 C ommunity
During the year the Company contributed £5,000 to a local 
charity, MK Community Chest and donated a further £500 in 
supporting the initiative of employees who raised funds for 
other good causes. 
The Strategic Report as set out on pages 5 - 20 has been 
approved by the Board.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD
Steve Gowers
Chief Executive Officer
31 March 2014
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
20
 STRATEGIC REPORT 21
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
Sir David Brown
Non-Executive Chairman | Chair of Nomination Committee
Sir David Brown was appointed to the Board as a non-Executive Director and Deputy 
Chairman in August 2008 and became Chairman in May 2009.  He was re-elected 
as Chairman of the Board in May 2012. He graduated in electrical engineering in 
1972 and worked for Motorola from 1991 to 2008 first as Director of UK Operations 
and later as Chairman of Motorola Limited. He is currently Chairman of the British 
Standards Institution, a non-Executive Director of Domino Printing Sciences plc and 
TTG Global Group Limited, and Chairman of the Ofcom Spectrum Clearance Finance 
Committee.
Sir David is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, an Honorary Fellow of 
the Institution of Engineering and Technology, an Honorary Fellow of the Chartered 
Quality Institute and a Companion of the Chartered Management Institute. 
He was President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, President of the Chartered 
Quality Institute, President of the Federation of the Electronics Industry and President 
of the Association for Science Education. He was knighted in 2001 for services to 
British industry.
John Linwood
Non-Executive Director  | Chair of Ethics Committee
John Linwood was appointed to the Board as a non-Executive Director in January 2012 
and became Chair of the Ethics Committee in May 2012. 
John has 30 years of technology experience, including 15 years’ delivery of internet-
based services to global audiences and has held senior positions at Microsoft, Yahoo 
and the BBC.
Alison Reed
Non-Executive Director  
Senior Independent Director | Chair of Audit Committee
Alison Reed was appointed to the Board as a non-Executive Director in January 
2011 and as Senior Independent Director on 25 May 2011. Alison worked for Marks 
and Spencer plc for 21 years gaining experience in a broad range of financial and 
commercial roles, ultimately as Chief Financial Officer. Alison then joined Standard 
Life as Chief Financial Officer, where she was responsible for the flotation. She is 
a non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman of British Airways plc and a non-
Executive Director and Audit Committee Chair of Darty plc and Invicta Card Services 
Limited.  She is also a Trustee for Whizz-Kidz.  Alison qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant after graduating from Exeter University. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
22
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Dame Sandra Dawson DBE
Non-Executive Director | Chair of Remuneration Committee
Dame Sandra was appointed to the Board as a non-Executive Director in February 
2012.  She graduated from Keele University and has experience in academia, 
government and financial services. Dame Sandra is KPMG Professor Emeritus of 
Management Studies at Judge Business School, Cambridge, a non-Executive Director 
of Winton Capital Group and the Institute for Government and a member of the UK 
India Round Table. 
Her previous appointments include non-Executive roles at Oxfam, Barclays 
Bank plc, JP Morgan Fleming Claverhouse Investment Trust plc and the Financial 
Services Authority and membership of the Prime Minister’s Council for Science 
and Technology. She was also formerly one of the Deputy Vice Chancellors of the 
University  of Cambridge (2008-2012), Director of Judge Business School (1995-2006) 
and Master of Sidney Sussex College (1999-2009). In 2004 she was made a Dame 
Commander of the British Empire for her contributions to higher education and 
management research, and in 2006 she was inducted into the International  
Women’s Forum (IWF) Hall of Fame.
Mark Tebbutt
FCMA
Finance Director
Mark Tebbutt qualified as a Chartered Management Accountant in 1984.     
Mark gained a broad operational knowledge of financial management with Bass and 
Grand Met before joining Misys as the Financial Director for two of its subsidiaries.  
Thereafter, he held an operational role for six years in Stanley Works and joined DRS 
in 2001 as Head of Finance.  
Mark was appointed Finance Director in March 2002. He is a Fellow of the Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants.
Sall y	Hopwood
Company Secretary
An economics graduate, Sally Hopwood retrained as a solicitor, qualifying in 1990.  
Sally has held various corporate and commercial legal roles, working in both private 
practice and in-house in the banking and retailing sectors.  
She joined DRS in 2005 as Legal and Contracts Manager and was appointed Company 
Secretary in December 2007.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
23
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Steve Gowers
FCCA
Chief Executive Officer
Steve Gowers was appointed Chief Executive Officer in November 2012. His previous 
positions have included Corporate and Business Development Director for Misys plc 
as well as prior roles as Chief Technology Officer and Director of Development at 
Misys and at Oracle Corporation, including a period of time in the USA. 
Steve has also held senior positions in professional services roles. He is a Fellow of 
the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Corporate Governance Statement on page 28 forms 
part of this Directors’ Report and provides information 
concerning the meetings of the Board and its Committees 
which took place in 2013. The Corporate Governance 
Statement is available on the Company’s website at:   
www.drs.co.uk/corporate.
The Appointment of Directors
Subject to the terms of its Articles of Association, the 
Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any person 
who is willing, to act as a Director. The Board may also 
appoint a Director either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to 
the existing Board, which appointment shall continue until 
the next AGM, when it will be subject to re-appointment by 
ordinary resolution of the members. The Articles require a 
minimum of two Directors and there is no maximum number 
that may be appointed to the Board. The Company may, also 
by ordinary resolution, remove a Director before the expiry 
of his or her term of office and may, subject to the Articles, 
appoint another person who is willing to act, as a Director in 
his or her place.
Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the 
Nomination Committee under its terms of reference.
The current members of the Board, together with 
biographical details of each Director appear in pages 22 - 23. 
All of the Directors served on the Board throughout the year. 
At the AGM in 2013, Steve Gowers was first elected and 
Mark Tebbutt was re-elected to the Board.
Under the Articles of Association, each Director is required 
to retire from office at the AGM unless he or she was 
appointed or re-appointed as a Director at either of the last 
two AGMs before that meeting. In accordance with this rule, 
Alison Reed is retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM 
and, being eligible, will offer herself for re-election. Steve 
Gowers will also offer himself for re-election at the AGM, 
having been asked to do so by the Nomination Committee. 
The Board would prefer that the re-election of the Chief 
Executive Officer and the Finance Director took place in 
different years.
Alison Reed: From 1 January 2011 Alison has served the 
Company as a non-Executive Director and in May 2011 
she was appointed the Senior Independent Director and 
the Chair of the Audit Committee. In December 2013 she 
indicated her willingness to continue in these roles and her 
nomination was approved by the Board also in December. 
Her current service agreement will expire on 31 December 
2016. It may be terminated by either party giving not less 
than three months’ written notice to the other or by the 
Company with immediate effect in certain circumstances. 
No compensation is payable on termination of Alison Reed’s 
appointment.  
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
24
The Directors are 
responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and 
Accounts of the Company 
and present this report 
together with the audited 
Group and Company 
financial statements for 
the year-ended    
31 December 2013. 
The registered office of both DRS Data and Research  
Services plc and its subsidiary Company   
DRS Data Services Limited is 1 Danbury Court,   
Linford Wood, Milton Keynes, MK14 6LR.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  25
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Steve Gowers: Steve Gowers was appointed Chief Executive 
Officer on 5 November 2012. His appointment will continue 
unless terminated by himself or the Company on not less 
than six months’ written notice. The Company may require 
some or all of the notice period to be served in absence 
from his place of work. The Company may terminate the 
appointment on immediate notice in certain circumstances. 
He is not entitled to receive a compensation payment on the 
termination of his appointment.
Directors’ Interests
Details of Directors’ service contracts and a statement of the 
interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the 
Ordinary shares of the Company are given in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 34.
No Director had any material interest in any contractual 
agreement subsisting during or at the end of the year which 
is or may be significant to the Group.
Indemnity	Pr o visions
There were no qualifying third party indemnity provisions or 
qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions put in place 
or in force in the financial year for the benefit of Directors 
of the Company or for the benefit of directors of associated 
companies.
Directors’ Responsibilities
The statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in preparing the 
Financial Statements and the Annual Report can be found on 
page 52.
Directors’ Disclosure of Information to the Auditor
The following statement applies to the individuals who 
were Directors of the Company on the date this report was 
approved:
(a)  So far as the Director is aware there is no relevant audit  
 information of which the Company’s auditor is not   
 aware; and
(b) The Director has taken all reasonable steps that he/she  
 ought to have taken to make himself or herself aware   
 of any relevant audit information and to establish that   
 the Company’s auditor is aware of such information.
SHAREHOLDERS
Shareholders with significant direct or indirect holdings   
in the securities of the Company.
At the date of this report the Company’s share register of 
substantial shareholdings showed the following interests 
of 3% or more of the Company’s issued ordinary capital 
excluding Treasury shares:
Rank Shareholder Shares %IC
1 Mr Malcolm Brighton 7,079,697 21.66
2 Discretionary Unit  2,350,000 7.18  
 Fund Managers
3 Mr John Rockcliff 2,155,000 6.59
4 Mr Gary Brighton 2,000,000 6.12
5 Ms Jennifer Brighton 2,000,000 6.12
6 Mr Mark Brighton 2,000,000 6.12
7 Mr Stephen Stewart 1,430,000 4.37
8 Charles Stanley 1,110,222 3.21
9 Criseren Investments 1,010,000 3.09 
 
Structure of Capital   
Disclosur e	and	 T ranspar ency	Rule	7.2
The Company’s share capital is as follows:
Or dinary	shar es	 of	5p	each	at	31	December	2013	and	2012
 Number £000
Authorised 46,000,000 2,300
Allotted, issued, called 34,621,600 1,731
up and fully paid
Further details are provided on the Company’s share capital 
in Note 16.
All shares have equal rights and there are no restrictions on 
the transfer of securities in the Company or on the voting 
rights.
There are no securities that carry special rights with regard 
to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreement that may result 
in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on any voting 
rights.
The Directors were granted specific authority to issue the 
Company’s shares, in certain circumstances at the Annual 
General Meeting in 2013. That authority will expire at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting at which the Directors 
will be seeking a similar authority. Further details are 
provided in the Notice of Meeting which accompanies   
this report.
The Directors will seek a renewal of their authority to issue 
and to allot the Company’s shares, at the Annual General 
Meeting. Further details are set out in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting which accompanies this report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
continued
The Corporate Governance Statement sets out the steps 
taken by individual Directors and by the Board as a whole 
to develop and maintain contact with the Company’s 
Shareholders.
R enewal	 of	 Authority	 to	 Allot
The Directors’ current authority to allot relevant shares 
pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 will 
expire on 13 August 2014 or at the 2014 Annual General 
Meeting, if earlier. Resolution 9 as set out in the Notice of 
the Annual General Meeting will be proposed as an Ordinary 
Resolution to authorise the Directors to allot Ordinary 
shares in the capital of the Company up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £1,089,720. The authority (unless 
previously varied, revoked or renewed) will expire 15 months 
after the date of passing of the resolution or, if earlier, at the 
2015 Annual General Meeting.                           
Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights
The current authority for Directors to allot equity securities 
for cash without first being required to offer such securities 
to existing Shareholders in proportion to their existing 
holdings expires on the 13 August 2014 or at the 2014 
Annual General Meeting, if earlier. Resolution 10 as set out 
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will be proposed as 
a Special Resolution to renew the authority of the Directors 
under Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot 
shares for cash otherwise than on a pre-emptive basis. The 
number of shares which may be allotted will be limited to an 
aggregate nominal value of £86,554 (representing 5% of the 
issued share capital of the Company). The authority (unless 
previously varied, revoked or renewed) will expire 15 months 
after the date of passing of the resolution or, if earlier, at the 
2015 Annual General Meeting.
Although there is no present intention of issuing any 
shares (other than pursuant to the Company’s share option 
schemes), the Directors consider it is desirable to maintain 
the flexibility afforded by these provisions.
Purchase of Own Shares
Currently shareholder approval is needed for the Company 
to purchase its own shares. Resolution 11 as set out in the 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting will propose as a 
Special Resolution to authorise the Company to make 
purchases of its Ordinary shares up to a maximum of 10% 
of the current issued share capital of the Company. The 
authority (unless previously varied, revoked or renewed) will 
expire 15 months after the date of passing of the resolution 
or, if earlier, at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
T r easury	 Shar es
The Company continues to hold 1,930,000 Ordinary shares 
of 5p purchased between 3 June and 15 July 2004 for a 
total consideration of £1,166,000 as Treasury shares. This 
represents 5.57% of the Company’s called up share capital.
KEY	 CONTRA CTUAL	 ARRANGEMENTS
AQA Education
In January 2010 a contract with AQA Education was agreed 
for the provision of e-Marker® services. The document is an 
overarching agreement providing a framework within which 
specified defined service requirements and service levels 
are agreed and delivered for each examination series. Either 
party may terminate the agreement if there is a transfer 
of overall control of the other party. Details of e-Marker® 
development are provided in the Strategic Report. This 
contract was extended to 30th September 2016 by mutual 
agreement of the parties in August 2013. 
Changepond Technologies - Private Limited of Chennai
Changepond Technologies - Private Limited of Chennai, India 
has been retained to provide the Company with a range 
of software development, architecture and consultancy 
services to assist with the imminent development of the 
next generation of e-Marker® software.
Greater London Authority (GLA)
DRS Data Services Limited, operating as IntElect®, its joint 
arrangement with Electoral Reform Services Limited, has 
been retained to provide electronic counting and related 
supplies and services to the GLA in connection with the 
ordinary elections in 2016. In the event of a change of 
control of that company, it is required to give reasonable 
notice to the GLA which retains the right to terminate the 
contract if such a change of control should occur.
There are no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss 
of office or employment that occur because of a takeover bid.
Auditor
The auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP, has indicated its 
willingness to continue in office. Resolution 7 proposing the 
re-appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP is contained in 
the Notice of the Annual General Meeting and will be put to 
the Shareholders at the meeting.
Going Concern
In considering Going Concern, the Directors have reviewed 
the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
26
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  27
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
position and borrowing facilities. The Directors believe that 
the Group forecasts and projections have been prepared on a 
prudent basis and have also considered the impact of a range 
of potential changes to trading performance.  The Directors 
have concluded that the Group should be able to operate 
within its current facilities and comply with its banking 
covenants. This opinion is supported by the section Liquidity 
and Treasury Management within the Strategic Report on 
page 12.
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital 
requirements through a mortgage facility secured against its 
Linford Wood property that is due for renewal on 7 January 
2018 following an extension of this borrowing facility 
obtained on 7 January 2013 (see Note 20 on Borrowings). 
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Company and The Group have adequate resources to 
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future 
and therefore believe it is appropriate to continue to adopt 
the Going Concern basis of accounting in preparing the 
annual financial statements. 
Amount	 of	Inter est	 Capitalised	by 	 the	 Gr oup
No interest was capitalised by the Group in 2013.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ISSUES
Environmental and social issues are reviewed within the 
Report on Corporate Responsibility. This report also sets 
out information on the number of persons employed in the 
business during 2013.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
The Company does not make political donations.  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORT
Or ganisational	Boundary
This report covers the DRS Group comprising DRS Data and 
Research Services plc and its subsidiary company DRS Data 
Services Limited which operates from premises comprising 
eight mixed units in Milton Keynes.  
Period Base Year
The data provided is for the baseline year of 1 January to 31 
December 2013 against which future percentage or indexed 
changes will be reported. We have chosen this year because 
it is the most recent year for which to prepare the data 
for this report.  Should there be any significant changes to 
the business undertaken by the Group then the baseline 
year may be recalculated using a more appropriate metric 
– “significant” being a change in premises or other major 
change in business operations.
Quantification	and	R eporting	Methodology
We have followed the 2013 UK Government Environmental 
Reporting Guidelines. 
The chosen intensity measure is CO
2
e against £ revenue. The 
CO
2
e figures are based upon Scope 1 and Scope 2 activities 
as defined by The Greenhouse Gas Protocol with using the 
UK Government GHG Conversion Factors.  
GHG Emissions from Current Reporting Year: 
Emissions from: 2013
 Tonnes of CO
2
e
Combustion of fuel & operation  34
of facilities 
 
Electricity, heat, steam and  705
cooling purchased for own use
Emissions reported above  0.0408
normalised per £000 revenue
Assurance and Verification
Utility data is provided from visual inspection, supplier 
reports, monthly meter readings and billing information 
received. The utility data is verified by the Business 
Improvement Team. 
DIVIDENDS
The Directors recommend a proposed final dividend of 0.4p 
per share (2012: 0.4p). If approved at the Annual General 
Meeting the proposed dividend will be paid on 30 May 2014 
to those Shareholders on the register at the close of business 
on 25 April 2014. Further details concerning the dividend 
policy can be found in the Chief Executive’s Statement on 
page 12.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The Articles of Association may be amended by special 
resolution of the Shareholders.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 1 Danbury Court, 
Linford Wood, Milton Keynes MK14 6LR on 19 May 2014 
at 3.00pm.  The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and 
explanation of the business to be put to the meeting has 
been sent to Shareholders with this Report. DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the 
Directors’ Report which begins on page 24.  The Business 
Model of the Company is described in the Strategic Report 
which also contains a description of the Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties.  A review of Going Concern has also been 
provided on page 26.
Compliance Statement
The Board is responsible for good governance.  It reviews its 
procedures regularly to ensure high standards of corporate 
governance are maintained. The Company complies with the 
provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code of 
September 2012 (the Code). The Code can be reviewed on 
the website of the Financial Reporting Council at 
www.frc.org.uk.  This statement and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report describes how the Board has applied 
the main principles of good governance as set out in the 
Code during the trading year.
Having reviewed the main principles of the Code, the Board 
is satisfied that throughout the accounting period ended 
31 December 2013, the Company has complied with the 
main principles in so far as they relate to a smaller company 
such as DRS. This statement further explains how the Code 
has been applied by the Company.
DTR 7.2 also requires information relating to the share 
capital of the Company to be disclosed. This information can 
be found in the Directors’ Report on page 25.
Leadership
The Board is led by the Chairman, David Brown. The Board 
is responsible to the Shareholders for the performance and 
long-term success of the Company. It provides effective 
leadership and prudent control of the Group comprising the 
Company and DRS Data Services Limited. 
The Chairman is responsible for leadership and for the 
workings of the Board. He sets the agenda for all Board 
meetings and ensures it operates effectively in all aspects 
of its role. He also oversees the composition of the Board 
and reviews the balance of skills, experience, independence 
and knowledge. David Brown is required to work for the 
Company approximately 24 full days every year and has 
confirmed that throughout the year he met the expectations 
of his role. The Chairman’s current commitments are set out 
in his biography on page 22. During 2013 David Brown also 
served as Chairman of the British Standards Institution, and 
as a non-Executive Director of Domino Printing Sciences plc 
and TTG Global Group Limited. He is also Chairman of the 
Ofcom Spectrum Clearance Finance Committee.
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
28
The Board is responsible 
for good governance.  
It reviews its procedures 
regularly to ensure 
high standards of 
corporate governance 
are maintained.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  29
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
In May 2012 he was appointed Chairman for a second term 
of three years. This appointment will expire in May 2015.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive 
Officer are separated and their responsibilities are clearly 
established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board. 
Steve Gowers, the Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for 
the running of the business and the implementation of the 
Board strategy and policy.
The Board of Directors
At Board meetings, the discussion is open and supported 
by relevant written information. All Directors contribute 
to the debate and no individual or small group of Directors 
dominate the debate.
The Board has specific duties which it does not delegate 
which are set out in the formal schedule of matters reserved 
to the Board. These include:
•	 setting and monitoring strategic objectives and reviewing 
the performance of the Group against those objectives; 
•	 approving the annual budget and business plans; 
•	 responsibility for the Company’s governance and the 
evaluation and management of continuing and emerging 
risks; and
•	 approving the Group’s capital expenditure.
The Board also regularly considers the Group’s financial 
and human resources needs to enable the Group’s strategic 
objectives to be met.
Boar d	 C omposition	and	Div ersity
The majority of the Board’s members are non-Executive 
Directors. 
At 31 December 2013 the Board comprised:
•	 David Brown, non-Executive Chairman
•	 Alison Reed, Senior Independent non-Executive Director
•	 John Linwood, Independent non-Executive Director
•	 Sandra Dawson, Independent non-Executive Director
•	 Steve Gowers, Chief Executive Officer
•	 Mark Tebbutt, Finance Director.
The non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment will be 
available for inspection by Shareholders at the Company’s 
registered office on the day of the AGM.
Board members bring a variety of commercial experience to 
their work with DRS.  The non-Executive Directors challenge 
the Board in its thinking and assist with great effect in the 
development of the Company strategy and the management 
of its risks.  Principal Risks and Uncertainties are reported in 
the Strategic Report on page 16.
Having carefully reviewed the relevant circumstances with 
each non-Executive Director and having considered the 
guidance provided in the Code, the Board is of the view 
that Alison Reed, John Linwood and Sandra Dawson remain 
independent while retaining sufficient knowledge of the 
Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively. 
David Brown was independent when first appointed to the 
Board in 2009.
Alison Reed is appointed the Senior Independent Director 
and, if re-appointed to the Board at the AGM in 2014, will 
continue in this role. She is available for the Shareholders to 
contact with matters of concern and is also the contact for 
whistle-blowing arrangements by which employees may, 
in confidence, raise concerns about possible wrongdoings 
in financial reporting or in other matters. She is also 
responsible for ensuring that arrangements are in place to 
allow proportionate and independent investigation of such 
matters to take place. 
Div ersity
The Board is committed to its established policy of drawing 
on the diversity of talents and skills in the communities 
within which it operates to build and maintain the strong 
teams needed throughout the Group to deliver business 
success.  All appointments are made on merit, taking the 
benefits of diversity fully into account.  It is considered 
inappropriate to set gender targets but gender distribution 
is monitored.  The Board applies the same policy to its own 
composition.  At the end of the year the gender balance of 
the total Group employees was 42% female and the gender 
balance of the Board of Directors was 33% female.  The 
Chief Executive’s Statement provides further detail on the 
diversity of the Group’s employees.
Board Succession and Appointment
The process for Board appointments is led by the 
Nomination Committee and details of the formal 
transparent procedures it undertakes for new Board 
appointments is set out later in this report.  No changes 
to the Board’s composition took place within the year 
under review.
In accordance with article 98 of the Articles of Association 
(retirement by rotation) Alison Reed will be seeking re-
election at the AGM. Steve Gowers has also put himself 
forward for re-election at the AGM.
The biographical details of Alison Reed and Steve Gowers 
can be found on pages 22 - 23. 
After full and careful consideration the Board has 
determined that Alison Reed and Steve Gowers continue to 
display the necessary knowledge, skills, commitment and 
energy and recommends their re-election as Directors of   
the Company. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board Effectiveness and Training 
Together with the Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures 
the Board is kept informed and consulted on all issues that 
are reserved to it.  Directors undertake a thorough induction 
on joining the Company which includes meetings with 
the Company Secretary, the Senior Independent Director, 
the CEO and senior executives. A pack of information is 
also provided by the Company Secretary.  Its purpose is 
to introduce the Directors to the responsibilities of the 
office and the procedures and practices the Company has 
implemented for good governance.
Comprehensive papers are prepared in advance of each 
Board and Committee meeting. These are circulated a week 
prior to the meeting to assist Directors in their knowledge 
of the subject matter to be discussed. Every month the 
Company Secretary reports on recent developments of 
corporate governance matters, best practice and legislative 
and governance changes which may affect the Board’s 
considerations.
Every Director refreshes and updates their individual 
knowledge, skills and expertise.
Non-Executive Directors’ knowledge of the Company’s 
business is enhanced when Board and Committee meetings 
are attended by senior managers working in key areas 
such as business continuity and improvement and product 
strategy.
Board Meetings
Board meetings are scheduled monthly, and the Board will 
meet as regularly as necessary in order to discharge its duties 
effectively. In 2013 twelve Board meetings were held with 
the agenda and supporting papers being circulated one week 
in advance of each meeting. The attendance record of each 
Director is set out on page 32 of this report.
The non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent  
Director met once during the year when the Chairman’s 
performance was reviewed. The Chairman held four 
meetings during the year with the non-Executive Directors 
and without the Executives being present.
Board Committees
The Board has established four Committees; the 
Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Ethics Committees.  
The terms of reference of each Committee are reviewed 
annually by the Board and are available upon request from 
the Company Secretary and from the Group’s website.  
The Committee Chairmen will attend the Annual General 
Meeting and shall respond to Shareholders’ questions on 
their Committee’s activities. The Secretary of the Board 
Committees is the Company Secretary, Sally Hopwood.
Nomination Committee
The process for Board appointments is led by the 
Nomination Committee which meets as required to propose 
to the Board, the appointment of new Executive and non-
Executive Directors.  The Committee is delegated authority 
by the Board to thoroughly review the skills, knowledge and 
experience requirements and the job descriptions for specific 
appointments.  The Committee is chaired by David Brown. 
Throughout 2013, the other members of the Committee 
were John Linwood, Sandra Dawson and Alison Reed.
A rigorous procedure is undertaken when considering new 
Board appointments which are made subject to election by 
the Shareholders. Independent recruitment consultants are 
retained in the search for candidates. Job descriptions are 
prepared by the Committee. Expected time commitments 
are communicated to all candidates and their other 
significant commitments are considered.  Candidates are 
assessed and interviewed and a recommendation is made to 
the Board. The decision to appoint a candidate is made by 
the Board itself. Appointments are made on merit against 
objective criteria with close consideration being given to the 
need for diversity on the Board.
The Nomination Committee met twice in 2013. In February 
2013 it considered the Board’s structure and its succession 
plan. It agreed that the ratio of four non-Executive 
Directors and two Executive Directors continued to meet 
the requirements of the Code and also the Company’s 
requirements. It was also agreed that the CEO Steve Gowers 
would retire from the Board in 2014 and seek re-election at 
the AGM as it preferred the re-election of the CEO and the 
Finance Director not to coincide.
Remuneration Committee
During 2013 the Remuneration Committee was chaired 
by Sandra Dawson.  John Linwood, David Brown and 
Alison Reed also served on the Remuneration Committee 
throughout 2013. Executive Directors and senior managers 
were invited to attend its meetings as required by the 
Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining 
the remuneration of the Chairman and the Executive 
Directors and for recommending and monitoring the level 
and structure of remuneration for senior management. No 
individual is present when his or her remuneration is being 
considered.
It also oversees major changes to employee benefit 
structures implemented within the Group. The Committee 
is responsible for the appointment of the remuneration 
consultants who advise on Remuneration Policy and best 
practice. BDO LLP served as the Company’s remuneration 
consultants throughout the trading year. They have no other 
connections with the Company.
The Committee met eight times in 2013.  The Committee 
agreed the Remuneration Policy and prepared its responses 
to the new remuneration reporting requirements. It has also 
reviewed the salaries of executives and their performance 
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
30
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Continued  31
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
in the Company’s short-term and long-term pay incentive 
schemes. New long-term incentive awards were made to 
two Directors of DRS Data Services Limited.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on page 34 
provides more information on the Remuneration Committee 
and the Company’s Remuneration Policy for Executive and 
non-Executive Directors.
It also reviewed the benefits payable to all employees and 
the terms of the salary exchange scheme.
The Board determines the fees of the non-Executive 
Directors within the limits set out in the Articles of 
Association.
Audit Committee
During 2013 the Audit Committee was chaired by Alison 
Reed. John Linwood, Sandra Dawson and David Brown 
served as members of the Committee throughout the year.   
The Board is satisfied that Alison Reed continues to bring 
recent and relevant financial experience to the Company. 
Alison Reed is a chartered accountant who has served as 
Chief Financial Officer for both Marks and Spencer plc and 
Standard Life plc.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are published 
on the Company’s website and are reviewed annually. The 
record the Committee’s responsibility for financial reporting 
and for overseeing internal and external audits.
The Committee met four times in 2013. It scrutinised the 
half yearly and annual financial statements and focussed 
on the accuracy of the financial reporting, the accounting 
policies that had been adopted and the compliance issues 
which were relevant. Particular areas of note that were 
closely considered with the external auditor were:
•	 revenue recognition;
•	 capitalisation of development expenditure; and
•	 valuation of Linford Wood property. 
Executive Directors, the Quality Manager and the Financial 
Controller attend Audit Committee meetings when invited. 
The Quality Manager advises the Committee regarding 
compliance with the Company’s risk management 
procedures and its certified standards. 
All areas of potential significant risk identified to the 
Committee were reviewed. These included the risks set out 
in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 16.  
Further details of our standards certification can be found in 
the Report on Corporate Responsibility on page 18.
The Committee considered the effectiveness of both 
the internal and the external audit functions. It made 
recommendations to the Board on the external Auditor’s 
remuneration and terms of engagement. 
External audit:  The Committee reviewed and approved 
the Auditor’s Audit Plan.  The key risks identified included 
the capitalisation of software developments costs, revenue 
recognition on significant contracts and management 
override of controls.  These issues were again reviewed with 
the Auditor at the time of consideration of the Financial 
Statements for the year. The Committee meets regularly 
with the Auditor who is invited to the Committee’s 
meetings.  In 2013, the Auditor attended all of those 
meetings.  The effectiveness and independence of the 
Auditor was assessed. 
Auditor effectiveness:  Grant Thornton UK LLP were 
reviewed and found to have the expertise to provide a 
thorough, accurate, robust audit in order to meet all 
regulatory requirements.  
Auditor independence:  The independence of the Auditor 
was reviewed and was found to meet a satisfactory standard 
for the Company in accordance with the Auditing Practice 
Board’s Ethical Standards.  To safeguard independence, the 
Company requires the audit partner and audit manager 
to serve a maximum of five years on the Company’s audit 
account. The current partner has served one year and the 
audit manager has been in place for two years.  
Non-audit services:  Services provided to the Group 
by Grant Thornton UK LLP cover advice on accounting 
standards and issues relating to the preparation of the 
Group’s half year unaudited accounts. Further information 
is provided in Note 5 to the financial statements. The 
Auditor is not consulted on the Company’s tax issues or on 
other matters which could compromise its independence in 
undertaking the audits.
The Committee considered the re-appointment of Grant 
Thornton UK LLP as the Company’s external auditor. Grant 
Thornton UK LLP has acted in this capacity since 1991. Their 
role has been periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee 
and fees have been challenged, although a formal tender 
process has not been carried out since their appointment.
Internal audit:  The Committee looked at the internal audit 
function which is provided by the Business Improvement 
Team who report to the Quality Manager which examines 
the procedures, documentation and processes of each major 
business department.  The Committee reviewed the audit 
timetable and the results of the audits undertaken.  The 
Committee was made aware of all major non-conformities 
and the necessary follow-up actions.  
Ethics Committee
The Ethics Committee was under the chairmanship of 
John Linwood during 2013. Sandra Dawson and Steve 
Gowers are members and David Brown and Alison 
Reed attend the Committee’s meetings when invited. 
The Committee reviews ethical matters of concern to 
the Company and implements the Company’s Code of 
Business Ethics.  It also oversees the implementation of the 
Company’s measures to comply with anti-corruption and 
bribery legislation.  Two meetings of the Ethics Committee 
were held in 2013.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ATTENDANCE AT ALL MEETINGS
The following table details the number of Board and Committee Meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2013 and 
the attendance record of each Director.
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
32
Board and Committee Evaluations
The Board: A formal rigorous annual evaluation of the 
Board and its performance is undertaken. The results of 
the evaluation are considered by the whole Board and 
are reviewed throughout the year to ensure required 
improvements are actioned in a timely manner. For a 
company of the size of DRS it is not considered an effective 
use of resources to externally facilitate this exercise.
The Board’s Committees: A thorough annual evaluation of 
the work and performance of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees is undertaken. Evaluations of the Nomination 
and Ethics Committees are not undertaken.
The Chairman: An annual performance evaluation of the 
Chairman takes place every year under the leadership of the 
Senior Independent Director, Alison Reed, who considers the 
views of all of the Company’s Directors.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board is committed to maintaining an active dialogue 
with Shareholders and works to ensure Shareholders are 
aware of the Company’s objectives. The Group’s website 
provides all our stakeholders and interest groups with 
regulatory news announcements, press releases and 
the Annual Report and Accounts which are available for 
download together with information of a more general 
nature regarding the Group’s business activities. 
The website address is www.drs.co.uk.
The Board is responsible for maintaining dialogue with the 
Shareholders.  On its behalf the Chairman, Chief Executive 
Officer and Finance Director meet regularly with the 
Company’s major Shareholders. Major Shareholders, fund 
managers and analysts are given an opportunity to meet 
with the Chairman or with the Senior Independent Director, 
if they so require.
Additionally, all non-Executive Directors make themselves 
available to meet with major Shareholders to discuss any 
concerns they may have. The Board regularly receives 
independent feedback from analysts and major Shareholders 
through face-to-face contact and analysts’, and brokers’ 
briefings.
All the Directors attend the Annual General Meeting which 
takes place at the Company’s registered office. A separate 
circular has been provided with this Report which contains 
the Notice of Annual General Meeting and details of the 
business to be considered at the meeting.  A copy of the 
Notice is also published on the Company’s website. The 
AGM is used to communicate with private investors and 
institutional Shareholders alike and all are encouraged to 
participate. Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are 
able to meet the Directors informally. Separate resolutions 
are proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper 
consideration and there is a resolution to receive the Annual 
Report and Accounts. Abstentions as well as votes for and 
against every resolution are counted. The Company reports 
on the number of proxy votes and indicates the level of 
proxies lodged on each resolution before it has been dealt 
with by a show of hands. This information is supplied to 
Shareholders attending the AGM and is published on the 
Company’s website following the meeting.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Continued 
 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Ethics
NUMBER OF MEETINGS 12 4 8 2 2
HELD IN 2013
David Brown 12 4 8 2 2
Alison Reed 12 4 7 2 2
Sandra Dawson 12 4 8 2 2
John Linwood 11 4 8 2 2
Steve Gowers 12 4 8 2 2
Mark Tebbutt 12 4 8 2 2 33
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Board has transparent and well documented 
arrangements which apply procedures for prudent internal 
controls for the management of risk and corporate reporting. 
The controls that have been implemented are designed 
to the requirements of the Company’s business model 
and the strategies the Board has approved for delivering 
the business objectives. The Board conducted a review of 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk 
management systems on three occasions in 2013.  Further 
details concerning the business model are set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 10 - 11.
Work has continued with implementing the risk 
management framework including certification under 
BS 25999-2:2007, the Business Continuity Management 
Standard, which was awarded to the Company in   
February 2012.
In designing the improved internal controls system, 
the Directors have considered the principal risks and 
uncertainties further referred to in the report of Principal 
Risks on page 16 which forms part of the Strategic Report, 
and which has been reviewed by the Audit Committee and 
which has also taken into account developments occurring 
since the end of the year.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining 
adequate internal controls over financial reporting, including 
over the Group’s consolidation process.
The main features of the internal control, financial reporting 
system and risk management system are:
•	 a clear management system with defined levels of 
responsibility and delegation of authority;
•	 authorisation limits set at appropriate levels;
•	 a comprehensive forecasting and budgeting system;
•	 monthly financial management reports comparing actual 
results against monthly forecasts;
•	 as part of the risk management framework, the Company 
maintains its risk registers including the strategic risk 
register which is escalated to the Board for review and 
input;
•	 individual tender and project review procedures to support 
the bidding process prior to contract award;
•	 implementation of an anti-fraud policy to provide a 
confidential method of reporting relevant suspected 
activities; and
•	 regular review and reporting of health and safety and 
environmental matters.
The system manages the risk of failure to achieve strategic 
objectives but does not eliminate such risk.  The Directors 
believe it provides reasonable but not absolute assurance of:
•	 no material misstatement or losses;
•	 no unauthorised use of the Company’s assets; and
•	 maintenance of proper accounting records.
Financial Reporting
The Committee scrutinised the half yearly and annual 
financial statements and focussed on the accuracy of the 
financial reporting, the appropriateness of the accounting 
policies, critical accounting estimates and key judgements. 
Particular areas of focus were the accounting treatment 
of the capitalisation of software development costs, stock 
provisioning, dilapidations provisioning, impairment of fixed 
assets and tax.
Financial risk management
Details of the Group’s approach to financial risk 
management are given in the Strategic Report within the 
section Liquidity and Treasury Management and in Note 3 to 
the financial statements on page 68.
Risk of Conflicts
The Directors have been made aware of the statutory duty 
to avoid any situation in which they have or may have a 
possible conflict with the interests of the Company. This 
duty is not infringed in cases where such a conflict situation 
has been authorised in advance by other Board members 
in accordance with the Company’s constitution.  The 
Articles of Association contain appropriate provisions for 
the authorisation of conflict situations. All Directors have 
notified the Board of all situations which may give rise to 
potential conflict with the interests of the Company and 
refresh this information regularly.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
Sall y	Hopwood
Company Secretary     
31 March 2014 REMUNERATION REPORT 2013 
LETTER TO THE SHAREHOLDERS FROM THE 
CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Dear Shareholders
It is with pleasure that as Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee I write to you on behalf of the Board to present 
the Company’s Remuneration Report.
Below I have summarised the work of the Remuneration 
Committee (the Committee) in 2013 with particular   
regard to:
•	 the major decisions on directors’ remuneration which   
have been taken;
•	 the changes to directors’ remuneration that have been 
made by the Company;
•	 the context within which those changes occurred and 
those decisions were taken.
You will find the Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report 
on Remuneration set out on page 36 of this Annual Report. 
We are supportive of the spirit of the drive to improve 
the transparency and clarity in the reporting of directors’ 
remuneration and have prepared our report for 2013 in 
compliance with the new remuneration regulations which 
came into force on 1 October 2013. We have also given close 
consideration to the principles set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code of September 2012 and the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
When undertaking its work the Committee seeks to ensure 
that the Company offers remuneration packages that are 
fair and competitive and are designed to attract, motivate, 
incentivise and retain the high calibre of Executive Directors 
required to lead the Company to achieve its strategic goals. 
The Committee is eager to ensure that the Company’s 
Remuneration Policy and practice reward and encourage 
sustained high levels of individual, team and Company 
performance. 
The major decisions on Executive Directors’ remuneration 
that have been taken:
Salary	R eview
In January 2013 the Committee decided that Mark Tebbutt, 
the Finance Director, would receive a salary increase of 
2.0%. In respect of Steve Gowers, the CEO, who joined the 
Company in November 2012, the Committee agreed that 
consistent with his Service Agreement, his salary would not 
be reviewed until December 2013.
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
34
We are supportive of 
the spirit of the drive to 
improve the transparency 
and clarity in the 
reporting of Directors’ 
remuneration.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  35
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
In January 2014 Steve Gowers and Mark Tebbutt were 
awarded a salary increase of 2.0% compared to an average 
increase of 2.56% for the workforce excluding the Executive 
Directors.
Benefit Review
The Committee reviewed all benefits and agreed on one 
change to the overseas allowance policy. 
This policy provides for a modest payment of £150 to be 
made to all employees when working abroad during a 
weekend or over a bank holiday. The Committee reviewed 
the policy and agreed that in the context of what is normal 
in similar companies, with effect from 1 September 2013, 
the policy would be closed to the Executive Directors of 
the Company and the directors of its subsidiary DRS Data 
Services Limited.
Shar e	Incentiv e	Plan	(SIP)
The Committee reviewed the SIP in February 2013 and 
considered the benefits of the plan against those offered 
by similar companies. The Committee decided to make no 
changes to the SIP.
P ension	-	 The	 Salary	Ex change	 Scheme
This voluntary scheme allows participants to make a 
contribution to their pension scheme directly from gross 
salary. A consequent reduction in gross salary leads to a 
reduction in the National Insurance contribution due from 
the Company in respect of that participant. The scheme was 
reviewed in May 2013 when it was agreed that two salary 
exchange schemes would operate with immediate effect. 
Under scheme 1 (the continuing arrangement), employees 
(other than those set out in scheme 2 below), would be 
entitled to receive into their pension scheme a payment 
from the Company representing 50% of the value of the 
saving in National Insurance received by the Company 
resulting from an employee’s participation in scheme 1. 
Scheme 2 would be introduced and would apply to the 
Company’s Executive Directors. Taking account of the overall 
remuneration package available to Executive Directors it 
was decided that such individuals would not be entitled to 
receive into their pension scheme any payment representing 
a saving of National Insurance received by the Company 
resulting from their participation in scheme 2. 
Annual	Discr etionary	Bonus	Plan
An important aspect of our Remuneration Policy is the 
challenging company and individual performance conditions 
underpinning the annual discretionary bonus plan. Please 
refer to the table of performance conditions on page 37 .
The revenue and profit targets for 2013 were not met. 
Accordingly the Committee decided no bonus payments 
should be awarded to Executive Directors and members of 
the Senior Executive team for the 2013 trading year. 
Long	 T erm	Incentiv e	Plan	(the	2012	Plan)
The 2012 DRS Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by 
Shareholders at the AGM in 2012.
No new awards were made to the Executive Directors 
during 2013. 
A summary of the rules of the 2012 Plan is set out 
on pages 43 - 45.
The following sections of this Remuneration Report 
comprise:
•	 The Company’s detailed Remuneration Policy on pages   
36 - 43; and
•	 The Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out, 
in respect of the Directors, the payments made and 
remuneration commitments entered into in 2013 on   
pages 45 - 51.
At the forthcoming AGM two resolutions will be put to 
Shareholders. An advisory ordinary resolution will seek 
approval for the Annual Report on Remuneration and a 
second, binding ordinary resolution will seek approval for  
the Remuneration Policy which will apply from the 
date of the AGM.
I look forward to meeting our Shareholders at the AGM.
DAME SANDRA DAWSON DBE
Chair of the Remuneration Committee REMUNERATION POLICY
1. INTRODUCTION
This policy has been prepared in compliance with Part 4 of 
Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 
2013.
In accordance with section 226A-D of the Companies Act 
2006 and section 82 of the Enterprise and Regulatory 
Reform Act 2013 (the New Regulations) the Company can 
make a remuneration payment or a payment for loss of 
office to its Directors which is either:
•	 consistent with the most recently approved remuneration 
policy, or
•	 inconsistent with the remuneration policy but approved by 
a shareholders’ ordinary resolution with a memorandum 
setting out the particulars of the proposed payment 
(including the amount and the ways in which it is 
inconsistent with the policy) which shall be made available 
for inspection at least 15 days before, and at the meeting.
The New Regulations came into effect on 1 October 2013. 
At the forthcoming AGM resolutions on the following will be 
proposed to the Company’s Shareholders:
If this Remuneration Policy is approved by the Company’s 
Shareholders at the AGM the Company intends to make all 
future payments to its Directors consistent with this Policy 
for three years from the end of the AGM unless amended 
by the Shareholders at an intervening general meeting. 
Until then the Remuneration Committee (the Committee) 
has determined that the provisions of the last approved 
remuneration policy shall continue to apply. Please refer 
to the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts which sets out 
the wording of the 2013 remuneration policy and which is 
available on the Company’s website at www.drs.co.uk. 
 
The Remuneration Committee’s discretion under 
the 2013 R emuneration	P olicy
The 2012 DRS Long Term Incentive Plan
The 2012 DRS Long Term Incentive Plan (the 2012 Plan) was 
adopted following approval by Shareholders at the AGM in 
May 2012. The 2012 Plan will continue as the Company’s 
only long term incentive plan for the duration of the 
Remuneration Policy.
The Committee has discretion as to the participants invited 
to join the 2012 Plan and the number of shares over which 
an option is granted.  Subject to the rules of the 2012 Plan 
the Committee may also set performance conditions and 
make certain changes to those performance conditions. 
The Annual Discretionary Bonus Plan   
(the Bonus Plan)
The Executive Directors’ annual discretionary bonus plan is 
the Company’s only bonus plan for Executive Directors and 
is designed to incentivise them to meet the current year 
objectives and assist retention.
Participation in the Bonus Plan is at the Committee’s sole 
discretion and is by invitation only. The Committee may 
withdraw any participant without notice and without 
payment of compensation. The Committee will exercise its 
discretion to approve a bonus payment only if the financial 
performance of the Group is adequate and in the opinion 
of the Committee there is sufficient profit to pay a bonus 
and if the participant’s personal performance and conduct 
is considered at least satisfactory and of the standard 
required in the Group. Details of the Bonus Plan performance 
conditions which were applied in 2013 are set out on page 
38 in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Exceptionally, the Committee may also exercise its 
discretion to approve the making of a bonus payment to a 
participant whose contract of employment is under notice of 
termination. 
Pr oposed	payments	 which	may	be	inconsistent	
with	 the	2013	R emuneration	P olicy
During May 2013 to May 2014, during which period the 
2013 Remuneration Policy continues to be the Company’s 
approved Remuneration Policy, the Committee has 
not made and does not intend to make any payments 
which would be inconsistent with the terms of the 2013 
Remuneration Policy.
Matters to be brought to the Shareholders’ 
attention
The New Regulations provide that the following payments 
(if made) would be outside the New Regulations and 
should be brought to the Shareholders’ attention in this 
Remuneration Policy:
•	 Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office 
required to be made subject to an agreement entered into 
before 27 June 2012.
No such commitments have been made.
•	 Commitments made prior to the Policy coming into effect.
No outstanding commitment to make any remuneration 
payment was entered into before the New Regulations 
were introduced on 1 October 2013.
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
36
Subject of Resolution
Approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Approval of this Remuneration Policy 
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  37
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
2. THE COMPANY’S POLICY REGARDING THE   
	 MAKING	 OF	REMUNERA TION	P A YMENTS
Remuneration Policy in the Company is intended;
(i) to offer remuneration packages that are fair   
 and competitive;
(ii) to attract, motivate, incentivise and retain the   
 highly skilled and high calibre Directors required to lead 
 the Company to achieve its strategic goals;
(iii) to implement and maintain an appropriate balance   
 between fixed and performance-related elements;
(iv) to pay a significant proportion of potential   
 total remuneration conditional upon longer-term   
 performance;
(v) without mechanistically tracking benchmarks,  
 to progress towards median base salary payments in 
 comparable companies as strategic goals are delivered;
(vi) to align the interests of Executive Directors with
 Shareholders by delivering long-term value through the
 2012 Plan and the Share Incentive Plan. Please refer to   
 page 42 for further details of the Company’s SIP.
The Committee considers each year whether recovery 
or withholding is appropriate in respect of any incentive 
payment.
3. FUTURE POLICY TABLE
Executive Directors
Salary	and	
Benefits
Objective and  
Link	 to	 the	 Strategy
Operation Maximum  
Potential Value
Performance 
Conditions and 
Assessment
Base salary, taxable 
benefits, pension. 
To attract and retain 
Executive Directors 
with the appropriate 
skills and experience 
to lead the Company 
in achieving its 
strategic goals, by 
offering reasonable 
and competitive 
benefits.
Paid monthly 
throughout the year 
in equal instalments. 
Death in service and 
permanent health 
insurances are paid 
only when the 
terms of payment 
under the applicable 
insurance schemes 
apply.
Determined in 
January each year. 
The Committee 
considers whether 
to increase or retain 
these payments at 
current levels. 
A benchmarking 
exercise is 
undertaken with 
assistance from 
the Committee’s 
remuneration 
advisers, reviewing 
salary and benefits 
against those paid 
in companies of 
a similar size and 
complexity to 
DRS and against 
salary and benefits 
offered to other 
DRS employees. The 
maximum pension 
contribution is 20% 
of base salary.
An annual 
appraisal process 
is undertaken in 
January each year. 
The Executive 
Director’s 
performance during 
the whole of the 
previous year is 
assessed and has a 
direct impact upon 
the Committee’s 
decision whether to 
award an increase. REMUNERATION POLICY
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
38
3. FUTURE POLICY TABLE
Executive Directors - Continued
Discr etionary	
Benefits
Objective and  
Link	 to	 Strategy
Operation Maximum  
Potential Value
Performance 
Conditions and 
Assessment
Annual discretionary 
bonus plan 
(the Bonus Plan).
To reward Executive 
Directors for the 
achievement of 
the Company’s 
profitable growth.
The Bonus Plan  
starts on 1 January 
and ends on  
31 December each 
year. Performance 
is measured by the 
achievement of 
targets preset by the 
Committee. 
Any bonus earned 
is paid through the 
Company’s normal 
payroll system. 
Target profit and 
bonus before tax 
must be achieved 
before any bonus is 
payable.
Up to 75% of base 
salary.
80% of the 
maximum 
bonus is linked 
to the financial 
performance of 
the business based 
on the annual 
budget figure. 20% 
of the maximum 
bonus is linked to 
the achievement 
of the Executive 
Director’s personal 
performance 
objectives. 
Both performance 
conditions are 
approved in advance 
by the Committee.
2012 DRS Long Term 
Incentive Plan  
(the 2012 Plan).
To encourage the 
Executive Directors 
to focus on the long-
term performance 
of the Company and 
to link their rewards 
to shareholder return 
providing a common 
interest with 
Shareholders.
EMI qualifying 
options can only 
be granted under 
the 2012 Plan if the 
conditions of the  
EMI regime and 
Schedule 5 ITEPA 
2003 are met.
Options are granted 
at nil cost and are 
subject to the 2012 
Plan rules.
100% of base salary. Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) relative 
to the FTSE Fledgling 
Index, over a 3 year 
period commencing 
1 January 2012, 25% 
vesting at median, 
100% at upper 
quartile subject to 
underlying growth 
in earnings per 
share (EPS). TSR was 
chosen as a way of 
linking Directors’ 
reward to returns to 
Shareholders. 
External factors 
can impact on TSR 
so an underlying 
financial measure of 
growth in earnings 
per share was also 
implemented.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  39
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Chairman 
Objective and  
Link	 to	 Strategy
Operation Maximum  
Potential Value
Performance 
Conditions and 
Assessment
Fees To attract a 
Chairman with 
the requisite skills 
and experience to 
perform the role.
Fees are set at 
the level paid for 
comparable roles 
at Premium Main 
Market companies 
of a similar size and 
complexity to DRS. 
The Chairman’s 
fees are determined 
by the Committee 
which decided that 
the fees would not 
be increased in 2013.
Fee levels are set 
by reference to 
the median of this 
peer group and are 
reviewed annually.
In the course of 
considering any 
increases the 
Committee will take 
into consideration 
increases within the 
external peer group, 
increases provided to 
DRS employees and 
inflation.
N/A
Objective and  
Link	 to	 Strategy
Operation Maximum  
Potential Value
Performance 
Conditions and 
Assessment
Fees To attract non-
Executive Directors 
with the requisite 
skills and experience 
to perform the role.
Fees are set at 
the level paid for 
comparable roles 
at Premium Main 
Market companies 
of a similar size and 
complexity to DRS. 
The non-Executive 
Directors’ fees are 
determined by the 
full Board which 
decided that the 
fees would not be 
increased in 2013.
Fee levels are set 
by reference to 
the median of this 
peer group and are 
reviewed annually. 
In the course of 
considering any 
increases The 
Board will take 
into consideration 
increases within the 
external peer group, 
increases provided to 
DRS employees and 
inflation.
N/A
Non-Executive Directors  ILLUSTRATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
40
1. Minimum Receivable
If an annual bonus payment is not awarded the Executive Directors will receive 100% of their remuneration under this Policy 
in the form of salary, beneﬁts and pension payments as shown in column 1. 
2. LTIP Awards  
Awards were made to the Executive Directors under the 2012 DRS Long Term Incentive Plan in September and November 2012 
and the performance period runs from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. A payment in the ﬁrst year of the Remuneration 
Policy would only be possible if vesting were accelerated in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
Salary Beneﬁts Pension Annual Bonus LTIP
Finance Director - Mark Tebbutt
£300,000
£250,000
£200,000
£150,000
£100,000
£50,000
£0
100%
0%
0%
78%
22%
0%
63%
37%
0%
£116,005
£12,133
£23,201
£116,005
£12,133
£23,201
£43,502
£87,004
£116,005
£12,133
£23,201
£151,339 £194,841 £238,343
Minimum In line with
expectations
Maximum
receivable
£400,000
£215,377 £278,490 £341,602
£350,000
£300,000
£250,000
£200,000
£150,000
£100,000
£50,000
£0
CEO - Steve Gowers
100%
0%
0%
77%
23%
0%
63%
37%
0%
£33,660
£63,113
£126,225
£168,300
£13,417
£33,660
Minimum In line with
expectations
Maximum
receivable
£168,300
£13,417
£168,300
£13,417
£33,660
REMUNERATION POLICY
continued
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  41
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Chairman and non-Executive Directors’ Fees
Fees are set by reference to a median level for comparable 
roles following close consideration of benchmarking 
research reviewed on an annual basis. It is expected that the 
Chairman will work approximately 24 full days annually for 
the Company and that non-Executive Directors will work 
approximately 15 full days annually for the Company. In 
the event that the Chairman or a non-Executive Director is 
requested in exceptional circumstances to undertake work 
on behalf of the Company which is outside the normal 
scope of their role of Chairman or non-Executive Director 
an additional payment may be made. Expenses which are 
incurred solely on the Company’s business are reimbursed 
when properly documented. Fees are reviewed annually; 
increases are not automatic, only where reasonable and 
supported by the Company’s performance. The Committee 
expects the flexibility set out above shall continue with 
respect to the payments made to the Company’s Chairman 
and non-Executive Directors for the lifetime of the 
Remuneration Policy.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - COMPONENTS OF THE 
REMUNERA TION	P A CKA GE
Set out below is the Company’s policy and current practice 
regarding each component of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration package. In each case, the Committee 
will retain future flexibility and discretion to deliver the 
Company’s policy regarding the making of remuneration 
payments and in order to meet the Committee’s 
remuneration philosophy. The Committee’s philosophy can 
be found in the Chairman’s annual statement on page 34. 
We have set out the Company’s policy regarding the making 
of remuneration payments on page 37 of this Report.
i.	 Base	Pay
 Base Pay is set at a conservative level and, without
 mechanistically tracking benchmarks, progresses
 towards the median base salary payment in
 comparative companies as strategic objectives are met.
 Pay is reviewed once in every calendar year when the
 Committee has discretion to increase base salary or
 retain it at the existing level. The Company has
 discretion to deduct from base pay any pay in lieu of
 notice or other termination payment, any overpayment
 of salary, expenses, debts, loans or other sum required
 or permitted by the Employment Rights Act 1996 (as
 amended from time to time) or by other applicable
 legislation.
ii. Car Benefit
a) It is current practice to provide a car allowance of  
 up to £12,000 per annum paid to the Executive Director
 in 12 monthly instalments subject to the relevant lawful
 deductions.
b) The Committee may amend the car benefit in
 accordance with common practice of similar companies.
 The Company also has discretion to review the fixed
 pence per mile allowance for business use applied to the
 use of an Executive Director’s vehicle.
 
iii.	 Health	Benefits	-	 Sick	Pay
a) It is current practice that in any one calendar year an
 Executive Director’s sick pay entitlement less Statutory
 Sick Pay where applicable, is that number of weeks
 which is four per cent of the number of weeks for which
 he or she has been employed by the Company from the
 date of joining less the number of weeks of sick pay
 already taken, up to a maximum of 13 weeks.
b) Any further payment not set out in (iii)(a) above is
 subject to Board approval.
iv. Health Benefits - Death in Service
a) It is current practice to provide that the death in service
 benefit equals four times annual salary (subject to the
 terms of the insurance policy provider from time to
 time).
b) The Company may negotiate alternative cover with a
 suitable provider retaining substantially the same
 benefit to the Executive Director while ensuring cost-
 effectiveness for the Company.
v. Health Benefits – Permanent Health Insurance
a) The Executive Directors have the benefit of a permanent
 health insurance policy, in the event an Executive
 Director is incapacitated by sickness or accident.
b) The policy is subject to the terms of the insurance
 policy provider from time to time. The Company may
 negotiate alternative cover with a suitable provider
 retaining substantially the same benefit to the Executive
 Director while ensuring cost-effectiveness for the
 Company.
vi. Health Benefits – Private Medical Insurance
a) Private medical insurance is offered, in which the
 Executive Director may choose to participate. Cover
 is made available to the Executive Director and his or
 her dependent family. 
b) The policy is subject to the terms of the insurance policy
 provider from time to time. The Company may negotiate
 an alternative policy with a suitable provider retaining
 substantially the same benefit to the Director while
 ensuring cost-effectiveness for the Company.
4. THE COMPANY’S POLICY REGARDING EACH OF THE COMPONENTS OF THE REMUNERATION   
	 P A CKA GES	 WHICH	 THE	 COMP ANY	 WILL	MAKE	 TO	EA CH	 OF	ITS	DIRECT ORS REMUNERATION POLICY
continued
vii. Pension
a) It is current practice to offer a contribution of 20%
 of base salary towards the Executive Director’s personal
 pension scheme operating as part of the Company’s
 Group Personal Pension Scheme. Currently there is
 no requirement for the Executive Director to make any
 contribution but he or she may do so.
b) An Executive Director may join the pension scheme
 after three months’ continuous service. The Committee
 may alter this requirement. A salary exchange scheme
 is available allowing an Executive Director to make
 contributions to his or her pension from gross salary.
viii. Short Term Incentive - Annual Bonus
a) Currently the Executive Director may, at the discretion
 of the Board, as recommended by the Committee, be
 eligible to receive an annual bonus of up to 75% of base
 pay (subject to income tax and other statutory
 deductions) which is subject both to the Company’s
 performance and the achievement of personal
 objectives as determined by the Remuneration
 Committee in advance. 
b) The Committee’s discretion is exercised both as to
 payment and amount. Further details are set out on
 page 36 of this report.
ix .	 Shar e	Incentiv e	Plan	(SIP)
a) The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in an
 HMRC approved SIP on the same terms as other  
 employees.
 At the Committee’s discretion, the Director must be
 employed for a period of time before being entitled to
 participate in the SIP which is currently set at nine
 months but may be altered by the Committee. 
b) The Committee would not seek to withdraw the SIP,
 introduce any alternative share incentive scheme
 designed to align the Directors’ interests with those
 of the Company’s Shareholders or alter the terms of the
 SIP except to bring it in line with legislative
 requirements, without first seeking the approval of the
 Company’s Shareholders.
x .	 Long	 T erm	Incentiv e	Plan	(the	2012	Plan)
The Company’s policy is to grant options under the 2012 
Plan at nil cost. The Committee will consider making annual 
awards of options for all executives when the grants made in 
2012 vest or expire and will consider the exercise cost, if any, 
attaching to any such grants. 
a) An Executive Director is invited to participate in the
 2012 Plan and if accepted will be granted an option over
 a number of the Company’s Ordinary shares.
b) The Committee’s discretion as currently exercised has
 been set out on page 36 of this report.
A summary of the 2012 Plan can be found on page 43
of this report. 
Other Remuneration Policies in DRS
The	 C ompan y ’ s	P olicy	 on	R ecruitment	P ayments
a) The recruitment package is designed to be fair and
 competitive with an appropriate balance between
 fixed and performance related elements and is designed
 to attract, motivate, incentivise and retain high calibre
 executives.
b) The Committee regularly reviews the salary and benefits
 offered on recruitment to ensure they are reasonable
 with regard to (i) equitable provisions with other DRS
 workers, (ii) the wider financial/economic climate, and   
 (iii) comparisons with directors undertaking similar jobs  
 in similar companies.
c) Payments made to an Executive Director upon joining
 the Company, e.g. by way of a one-off bonus payment
 or share award, may be made on a case-by-case basis.
 Such payment or award may be subject to performance
 conditions.
d) Any previous outstanding share awards may be
 compensated at fair value, using a recognised valuation
 methodology by an independent third party. The fair
 value may be awarded as a combination of cash
 and shares. Any new award may be granted subject to
 performance conditions no less onerous than applied to
 the forfeited awards. The terms of any such
 compensation will be determined by the Committee on
 a case-by-case basis taking into account all relevant
 factors.
e) A relocation package may be paid on a case-by-
 case basis.
The	 C ompan y ’ s	P olicy	 on	Notice	P eriods
a) On the termination of employment it is the Company’s
 policy to give to an Executive Director six months’
 written notice and to require the Executive Director to
 provide the Company with the same notice.
 Alternatively the Company may choose to make
 payment of base salary in lieu of such notice or an
 unexpired portion thereof.
b) The Company may terminate the employment
 of an Executive Director by giving six months’ notice
 (not necessarily in writing) if the individual has been
 incapacitated by reasons of ill health, accident or
 otherwise from performing his/her duties for a total of
 180 days or more in the preceding 12 month period. 
c) At any time during the notice period, the Company may
 require the Executive Director to take a period of
 absence (known as Garden Leave) of up to six
 months during which all duties of the Executive
 Directors’ employment (whether express or implied)
 including duties of fidelity and good faith shall continue
 except as expressly varied in the Executive Directors’
 service contract.
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
42
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  43
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The	 C ompan y ’ s	P olicy	 on	 T ermination	P ayments
a) Payments will be made to the departing Executive
 Director in order to settle outstanding contractual
 notice and/or holiday entitlement.
b) All payments are made subject to income and other
 statutory taxation which the Company as an employer
 is required to deduct.
c) No tax obligations of a Director will be met by the
 Company.
d) Compensation for loss of office is paid in full and final
 settlement of claims the Executive Director has asserted
 against the Company in writing through independent
 legal advisers and when this course of action is
 recommended by the Company’s own duly appointed
 external legal advisers.
e) An Executive Director who leaves the business due to
 ill health or upon retirement will be entitled to receive a
 pro-rata payment under the Annual Discretionary 
 Bonus Plan based on their service during the relevant
 year. Otherwise there is no automatic entitlement to a
 bonus during the year in which an Executive Director
 leaves office.
P olicy	 on	Equitable	Pr o visions	 with		 	
other DRS Workers
When considering the fairness of the remuneration package 
for Executive Directors it is the Committee’s policy to review 
the pay and conditions of employment elsewhere in the 
Group. In 2014 the Committee decided to award salary 
increases of 2.0% to the Executive Directors compared to 
an average increase of 2.56% to the workforce excluding 
Executive Directors.
The Company did not consult with the Company’s 
employees when preparing this report.
P olicy	 on	 C onsideration	 of	 the	 Wider	Financial/
Economic Climate
When considering the fairness of remuneration packages 
for Executive Directors, it is the Committee’s policy to 
consider the financial and economic climate then prevailing 
by reference to current information sourced from its 
remuneration advisers .
P olicy	 on	Benchmarking	 Against	 Similar	
Companies
The Company’s executive remuneration packages are 
compared with those of a peer group of similar companies in 
the FTSE Fledgling Index as benchmarked by the Company’s 
remuneration advisers from time to time. 
P olicy	 on	 C onsultation	 with	Major	 Shar eholders	
on Remuneration Issues
The Company operates an Investor Relations Policy. It 
complies with Section E (Relations with Shareholders) of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. Additionally the Chair 
of the Committee is authorised by the Board to arrange to 
meet with Shareholders regarding remuneration matters. 
The Chair meets Shareholders at the AGM and from time to 
time will offer additional meetings to major Shareholders. 
Any views expressed by Shareholders at these meetings are 
reported to the Committee and taken into consideration 
when setting levels of remuneration.
Please refer to the Chair of the Committee’s annual 
statement for details of the work undertaken by the 
Committee in 2013 and 2014.
SUMMARY OF THE RULES OF THE 2012 PLAN
1. Introduction
The 2012 Plan enables selected employees of the Company 
and its subsidiaries to be granted share options (Options) 
over Ordinary shares (Shares) in the capital of the Company. 
Options granted under the 2012 Plan are not transferable. 
Only the person to whom the Option is granted (participant) 
or his or her personal representatives may acquire Shares 
pursuant to Options. Benefits under the 2012 Plan are not 
pensionable benefits. 
2. Administration
The Committee is responsible for the operation and 
administration of the 2012 Plan.
3.	 Eligibility
A participant must be an employee or an Executive Director 
of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (the Group).
The Committee can exercise its discretion in selecting the 
executives and employees to whom Options are to be 
granted under the 2012 Plan. 
4. Grant of Options
Options may only be granted in the period of 42 days 
beginning with the dealing day following the announcement 
of the Company’s results for any period, or, subject to the 
Model Code and other relevant restrictions on dealings 
in Shares, on any other day on which the Committee 
determines that exceptional circumstances exist. No 
payment will be made for the grant of an Option. No 
Options will be granted after the tenth anniversary of the 
date of adoption of the 2012 Plan. The plan was adopted on 
15 May 2012.  REMUNERATION POLICY
continued
5. Form of Options
Options granted under the 2012 Plan may be granted either 
with an exercise price equal to the market value at the 
date of grant, or with a nil (or nominal) exercise price. The 
Options may be options to subscribe for new Shares, options 
to purchase existing Shares from an employees’ trust or 
options to be satisfied by the transfer of Treasury shares.
It was the Committee’s intention that the initial Options 
would be granted with a nil exercise price. The view of the 
Committee was that this is common practice for listed 
companies on the basis that it creates a more effective 
incentive and reduces the dilution of existing Shareholders. 
To date all Options that have been granted under the 2012 
Plan have been granted with a nil exercise price.
For as long as the Company satisfies the qualifying 
conditions under the Enterprise Management Incentive 
regime, Options shall be granted under, and comply with 
the HMRC rules set out in Schedule 5 to the Income Tax 
(Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003. This confers tax benefits 
on Options up to a certain threshold. In the event that this 
threshold is exceeded or the Company ceases to satisfy the 
qualifying conditions, unapproved Options may instead be 
granted under the 2012 Plan.
6.	 Siz e	 of	 Option	 Grants/Plan	Limits
The size of Option grants are determined by the Committee 
in line with its Remuneration Policy as disclosed in the 
Annual Report and approved by Shareholders. When the 
2012 Plan was introduced it was the intention that the initial 
Options would be up to one times salary and those that have 
been granted since have been subject to this limit.
In any ten year period there is a limit of five (5) per cent of 
the issued share capital of the Company from time to time, 
on the number of new Shares which are issued or may be 
issued in connection with Options. A limit of ten (10) per 
cent applies to the aggregate of the Options under the 2012 
Plan and similar rights under any other employees’ share 
scheme of the Company. Shares transferred out of Treasury 
or to the trustee of an employees’ trust count towards 
these limits on the issue of new Shares. No account will 
be taken of Shares which an employees’ trust purchases at 
market value.
7. Vesting of Options
Except as referred to below, and subject to achieving the 
performance targets, Options will normally vest so that 
the participant may acquire the Shares subject to Options 
(unencumbered by any restrictions) three years after an 
Option is granted. On exercise, the Company must deliver 
or procure that there is delivered the relevant number of 
Shares.
If a participant dies or leaves employment within the Group 
during the period prior to vesting by reason of ill-health, 
disability, redundancy, retirement, the participant’s employer 
being sold outside the Group, or other circumstances at 
the discretion of the Committee, the participant (or his/
her personal representatives, as the case may be), may, 
depending on the extent to which the performance target 
has been met, exercise his/her Options within a period of 40 
days after the cessation of employment, after which it shall 
lapse. This period shall be 12 months in the case of death.
If a participant ceases to be employed for any other 
reason than those referred to above, his/her Option will 
normally lapse. On a change of control of the Company 
or a resolution for its voluntary winding up, performance 
periods will immediately cease. Subject to the Committee’s 
determination of the Company’s performance at that time, 
Options may vest, normally in proportion to the amount of 
the performance period that had elapsed before the  
change of control or the passing of the resolution, as the 
case may be. On a demerger or a takeover of the Company 
(except for an internal reorganisation) the Committee may 
determine that a proportion of the Options may vest or  
vary the terms of the Options and/or the performance 
targets. Where Options vest, this will be on the same basis  
as a change of control.
8. Performance Targets
Options shall be subject in each case to the achievement of 
performance targets. Performance targets will be measured 
over a fixed period of three financial years, beginning with 
the financial year in which the Options are granted, and 
are determined by the Committee from time to time. To 
the extent that the performance targets are not met, the 
Options shall lapse, without opportunity for re-testing. 
The Committee may change the performance targets for 
existing Options from time to time if events happen that 
make it fair and reasonable to do so, but not so as to make 
the performance targets, in the opinion of the Committee, 
materially easier or more difficult to satisfy than they were 
when the Options were first granted. Before offering the 
2012 Plan in future years the Committee will review the 
continuing appropriateness of these performance targets.
9. Rights Attaching to Shares
Shares issued in connection with the exercise of Options 
will rank equally with all other Shares then in issue (save 
as regards any rights attaching to Shares by reference to a 
record date prior to the allotment and issue of such Shares). 
Application will be made for admission to the Official List of 
new Shares issued and for permission to trade those Shares.
10. Variation of Share Capital
If there is any alteration of the issued share capital of the 
Company, the number of Shares subject to an Option will be 
subject to adjustments. The Committee may adjust Options 
in such manner as it determines to be appropriate. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
44
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  45
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
11. Alteration of the 2012 Plan
No alteration or addition to the advantage of participants may be made by the Directors to the provisions of the plan relating 
to eligibility, limitations on the number of Shares in respect of which Options may be granted, or the basis of determining 
a participant’s entitlement to acquire Shares and the adjustment to such rights in the event of a variation of share capital 
without the prior approval of Shareholders in general meeting. There is an exception for minor amendments to benefit the 
administration of the 2012 Plan or to take account of any changes in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax or 
regulatory treatment for participants, the Company or any associated company. 
The above is a summary of the principal terms and does not form part of the rules of the 2012 Plan.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
The figures included in the Executive Directors’ Single Figure Table below have been audited.
2013 Executive Directors’ Single Total Figure Table 
∞ Base Salary. The Executive Directors may choose to participate in the salary exchange scheme. This voluntary scheme allows the Executive 
Directors to make a contribution to their personal pension schemes directly from gross salary. Steve Gowers participated in the salary 
exchange scheme from April 2013. In 2013 Steve Gowers’ contribution amounted to £5,000. Mark Tebbutt participated in the salary exchange 
scheme throughout 2013 and 2012. In 2013 he contributed £24,000 and in 2012 he contributed £17,000. These contributions under the 
salary exchange scheme are included in column A above. The Executive Directors are not entitled to receive into their pension any payment 
representing a saving of National Insurance received by the Company resulting from their participation in the salary exchange scheme.
+ Taxable Benefits. These benefits comprise a car allowance and private healthcare. 
* Long Term Incentives. In accordance with the rules of the 2012 DRS Long Term Incentive Plan no awards were due to vest in 2013.
× Pensions. In accordance with its current practice the Company contributes 20% of base salary towards the Executive Directors’ personal 
pension schemes operating as part of the Company’s Group Personal Pension Scheme. These contributions are shown in column E above. 
Column E does not include the voluntary contributions made by the Executive Directors to their pensions under the salary exchange scheme.
Share Incentive Plan. Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the SIP, which is an HMRC approved Plan, on the same basis as all 
other employees and in any other share plan which is operated in the future and is open to all employees. Throughout 2013 and 2012 Mark 
Tebbutt chose to participate in the SIP and contributed £125.00 every month towards the purchase of partnership shares through the SIP. No 
matching shares were awarded to Mark Tebbutt under the rules of the SIP during 2012 or 2013. Mark Tebbutt’s share interests in the Company 
are further explained in the Statement of Director’s Shareholding and Share Interests later in this report. 
Both Executive Directors listed above have confirmed that no other items in the nature of remuneration have been received other than those 
already stated in the Single Total Figure Table above.
The Committee considered whether a recovery or withholding would be appropriate in respect of any incentive payment and agreed that no 
recovery or withholding was to be made in the reported year.
Steve Gowers  165 13 - - 33 211
2013
Steve Gowers  26 2 5 - 6 39
2012
Mark Tebbutt  114 12 - - 23 149 
2013
Mark Tebbutt  111 12 20 - 22 165
2012
Director’s 
Name
A. 
Base 
Salary	∞
£000
B.
Taxable 
Benefits +
£000
C. 
Short-term 
Incentives
£000
D. 
Long-term 
Incentives *
£000
E. 
Pensions x
£000
Total
£000 REMUNERATION POLICY
continued
Non-Executive Directors’ Single Total Figure Table 2012 and 2013 
The figures included in the non-Executive Directors’ Single Total Figure Table below have been audited.
All non-Executive Directors listed above have confirmed that no other items in the nature of remuneration have been received 
other than those already stated in the Single Total Figure Table above. 
During the reported year none of the non-Executive Directors received any short-term incentive, long-term incentive, pension 
payment or any share or other benefit from a share incentive plan.
P ayments	 to	P ast	Dir ectors	(not	 for	loss	 of	 office)	
The figure included in the payments to past Directors’ table below has been audited.
There were no payments made during the reported year to past Executive Directors for loss of office. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
46
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
David Brown  60 - 60 60 - 60
Alison Reed 35 - 35 35 - 35
Sandra Dawson 26 - 26 30 - 30
John Linwood 28 - 28 30 - 30
Director’s 
Name
2012 
Fee
£000
2012 
Taxable 
Benefits
£000
2012
Total
£000
2013
Fee
£000
2013
Taxable
Benefits
£000
2013
Total
£000
Name of 
former Director
Date Departed 
Business
P ayment
Made
Explanation of
P ayments
 Tony Lee 26 October  £19,046 Payment under the 2012 25 April 2013
  2012  annual discretionary bonus
    plan. Made consistent with 
    the final agreement reached 
    with Tony Lee to terminate his 
    employment and his holding 
    of offices within the Group.
  
Date
P ayment
Made 47
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statement of Directors’ Shareholding and Share Interests 
The information included in the Directors’ Shareholding and Share Interests table below has been audited.
The Articles of Association of the Company do not contain any obligation on Directors to hold shares in the Company.
The Committee has not set a target on any Director in respect of share ownership.
Partnership and Dividend Shares are those acquired under the Company’s HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan.
Directors’ Interests in Share Schemes
The information included in the Directors’ interests in share schemes below, has been audited.
* The exercise price of the options is zero.
No scheme interests were awarded during the year.
Executive 
Directors
Shares Held on 
1	 January	2013
Partnership
Shares Acquired
in 2013
Dividend
Shares Acquired
in 2013
Steve Gowers  - - - - -
Mark Tebbut 546,121 7,095 1,265 - 554,481
Non-Executive 
Directors     
John Linwood - - - 4,937 4,937
Other Shares 
Acquired During 
the Year
Shares Held
on 31 December 
2013
Director Total Number 
of Share Options 
(at	1	 January	and	
31 December 
2013)*
Name of the 
Scheme under 
which the 
Option was 
Granted
Were 
Performance 
Measures 
Applicable 
(Y/N)
Share Options 
Vested not 
Exercised
Share Options 
Vested and 
Exercised
Steve Gowers 916,666 2012 DRS  Y - -
   Long Term 
   Incentive Plan
Mark Tebbutt 120,000 2012 DRS  Y - -
   Long Term      
   Incentive Plan REMUNERATION POLICY
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
48
DRS Data and Research Services plc and FTSE Fledgling - total return on investment from 31 December  
2008	 to	31 	December	2013	shown	as	 dail y	shar e	price	index
The index chosen for comparison is the FTSE Fledgling Index. The Company is a constituent of the FTSE Fledgling Index.  
The graph shown above indicates the Company performed worse than the chosen market index over the five years to 
December 2013. The Board believes this is due to the following reasons:
•	 Peladon Software Inc. was purchased by the Company in January 2006 in order to acquire the Doc XP® document  
management products and to obtain a channel to distribute those products in North America. The potential of these 
opportunities could not be realised due to a decline in relevant trading markets which began in the United States in 
2007. The downturn in revenue from the Peladon Software Inc. subsidiary became serious in 2008 and 2009. During this 
time the final dividend was suspended thus reducing the total return on investment. Final dividends were reinstated in 
2011 after the sale of Peladon Software Inc. in September 2010.
•	 Uncertainty in the UK Education sector, as a result of the anticipated structural changes to UK secondary education 
qualifications, limits domestic growth opportunities for the Group. Recent progress in international target markets 
demonstrates the potential for growth overseas but until this market is more fully established it is our view that the 
historic uncertainties are being reflected in the share price.
•	 DRS is a specialist provider of real-time data capture technology in three markets, Education, Elections and Census. By 
their nature Elections and Census projects tend to be large-scale, infrequent and non-recurring and this has reduced 
forward visibility in these areas. The business recognises that its focus on examination and assessment products and 
services represents an opportunity to build consistent recurring revenue going forward because of the regular and 
repeatable cycle of examination marking. 
350
400
300
250
200
150
100
50
Index Share Price
Dec 2008
Dec 2009
Dec 2010
Dec 2011
Dec 2012
Dec 2013
DRS Share Price Index FTSE FLEDGLING X INV TRST
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Director
Steve Gowers 
2012 to 2013
DRS employees 
as a whole 
(excluding 
Executive 
Directors)   
2012 to 2013
Salary
%
change
-
2.56
Explanation
Steve Gowers joined 
the Company on 5 
November 2012.  
The Committee 
agreed no change to 
his salary in 2013.
Taking account 
of the conditions 
prevailing in the 
wider financial and 
economic climate 
it was considered 
appropriate to 
implement an 
increase in the 
salaries of employees 
of up to 3.0%.
Benefits
% 
change
1.22
8.95
49
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
P ayment	 for	P erformance	 T able
The information included in the Payment for Performance Table below has been audited.
*Tony Lee left the business on 26 October 2012.  
**Steve Gowers joined the business on 5 November 2012.  He received a prorated bonus for 2012. 
Long term incentive vesting: In accordance with the rules of the 2012 Plan, no awards were due to vest in 2012 or 2013.  The value creation 
plan operated from 2009. A single set of awards was made under the value creation plan in 2009. Performance in respect of those awards was 
tested in 2012 and it was found that the performance targets had not been met so no awards vested.
CEO Percentage Change in Remuneration Table
2013 Steve Gowers 211 - -
2012** Steve Gowers 39 19 -
2012* Tony Lee 182 15 -
2011 Tony Lee 158 8 -
2010 Tony Lee 224 72 -
2009 Tony Lee 134 - -
Year CEO CEO single figure of
total remuneration
£000
Annual	 discr etionary	
bonus	pay	 out	against	
maximum	 opportunity	%
Long term incentive 
vesting rates against 
maximum	 opportunity	%
Explanation
Steve Gowers 
joined Company on 
5 November 2012. 
The Committee 
agreed no change 
to his benefits in 
2013. The benefit 
change shown is 
due to the change 
in annual premium 
of private medical 
insurance.
Benefits have 
been fixed over 
the period. The 
benefit change is 
due to a change in 
the profile of the 
workforce.
Short Term
Incentives 
% change
(100.0)
(100.0)
Explanation 
In respect of 2012 
Steve Gowers 
received a bonus 
payment comprising 
(18.3%) of salary. 
In respect of 2013 
Steve Gowers 
received no bonus 
payment.
In respect of 2012 
DRS employees 
received an average 
bonus payment of 
3.54%. In respect 
of 2013 DRS 
employees received 
no bonus payment. R elativ e	Importance	 of	 Spend	 on	P ay,	R eflecting	R eturns	 to	 Stak eholders
* An increase in the level of qualifying development expenditure in respect of research and development tax credits produced an overall tax 
credit in the 2013 income statement.  
REMUNERATION POLICY
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
50
Profit distributed by way       
of dividend 111 0.6 127 0.7
Overall spending on pay 
including Directors 8,669 43.2 9,292 51.4
Corporation tax paid/(credit)       
for year* 191 1.0 (120) (0.7)
Profit retained by the Group 1,191 5.9 1,262 7.0
2012 
Actual £000
Percentage of 
revenue %
2013
£000
Percentage of 
revenue %
HOW THE COMPANY INTENDS TO IMPLEMENT 
THE APPROVED REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE 
CURRENT FINANCIAL YEAR 
Shareholders’ approval of this Remuneration Policy will be 
sought at the AGM on 19 May 2014.
The Remuneration Policy is summarised as follows:
Base	salary ,	 taxable	benefits,	pension
•	 These features will be considered for review by the 
Committee once during the current financial year.
Annual	 discr etionary	bonus	plan
•	 All payments will depend upon the Company achieving 
performance targets pre-set by the Committee;
•	 Thereafter, 80% of maximum payment will be dependent 
on the financial performance of the Company and 20% on 
the performance of the Executive Directors against their 
personal performance objectives;
•	 A maximum opportunity of 75% of basic salary will be 
applied and will be payable in cash.
Long term incentive plan
•	 The Total Shareholder Return (TSR) is measured relative to 
that of the FTSE Fledgling Index over a three year period 
commencing in the year of grant of an Option, with  
25% vesting at median, 100% at upper quartile and is  
also subject to underlying growth in earnings per share 
(EPS); and
•	 A maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary will be 
applied in determining the number of shares over which 
options may be granted.
The Remuneration Policy is intended to provide for 
remuneration of Executive Directors to progress towards 
median base salary payments as the Company’s strategic 
goals are delivered while maintaining an appropriate 
balance between fixed and performance-related elements. 
Short term benefits are achievable through the annual 
discretionary bonus plan only if the necessary corporate and 
personal performance is delivered. The Executive Directors’ 
personal performance objectives are regarded as containing 
commercially sensitive information and so have not been 
disclosed. The 2014 Annual Report will contain information 
regarding the Executive Directors’ achievements against 
those objectives.
C onsideration	by	 the	Dir ectors	 of	matters	r elating	
to Directors’ remuneration
During the reported year remuneration issues were 
considered by the Remuneration Committee. The key areas 
of its activity were:
•	 Setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the 
Company Secretary and Senior Managers;
•	 Reviewing and determining the Company’s pension policy;
•	 Setting targets for incentive payments;
•	 Reviewing the scope and terms of the employment 
contracts of senior managers;
•	 Reviewing and determining the scope of the Company’s 
SIP.
The Committee is also responsible for determining the 
Chairman’s fee.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  51
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The following non-Executive Directors served on the 
Remuneration Committee throughout 2013:
•	 Dame Sandra Dawson (Chair);
•	 Sir David Brown;
•	 Alison Reed; 
•	 John Linwood.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the remuneration 
advice it receives is both objective and independent.   
It regularly reviews the appointment and performance of 
its advisers who are not retained to advise on any other 
aspect of the Company’s business.
Advice from within the Company on remuneration issues 
was obtained from the Finance Director, the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Company Secretary.
The Chief Executive Officer, Steve Gowers, and the 
Finance Director, Mark Tebbutt attended Remuneration 
Committee meetings except when their own remuneration 
was under discussion. For the whole of the reported year, 
the Committee retained the services of BDO LLP as its 
independent Remuneration Adviser. BDO LLP was the firm 
selected from a competitive tender process conducted in 
December 2012 in which three firms were considered. 
BDO LLP was chosen for its pragmatic and strategic 
approach to supporting the Remuneration Committee on 
a full range of employment reward issues.  During 2013 
the total fee paid on remuneration matters amounted to 
£20,969 (+VAT).
Statement of Voting at General Meeting in 2013
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
DAME SANDRA DAWSON
Chairman of Remuneration Committee
31 March 2014
To approve the  
Directors’ 
Remuneration 
Report for the 
year ended 
31 December 2012
Text of Resolution Votes for % for Votes against % against Total 
votes
cast
Votes
withheld 
 1,405,777 99.31 7,700 0.54 1,418,477 5,000 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
52
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic 
Report, the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the 
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have to prepare the financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Under company 
law the Directors must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs and profit or loss of the Company 
and Group for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements the Directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•	 make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and
•	 state whether applicable IFRSs have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
and the Remuneration report comply with the Companies 
Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that: 
•	 in so far as each of the Directors is aware there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditor is unaware; and
•	 the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have 
taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
auditor is aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for preparing this Annual 
Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
They are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
To the best of our knowledge:
•	 the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance 
with the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a 
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
•	 this Annual Report and the Financial Statements taken as 
a whole are fair, balanced and understandable; and
•	 the narrative sections of this Annual Report are consistent 
with the Financial Statements and accurately reflect the 
Company’s performance.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
S J Gowers A M Tebbutt
Chief Executive Officer Finance Director
31 March 2014 31 March 2014 
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
53
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
54
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF    
DRS DATA AND RESEARCH SERVICES PLC
We have audited the financial statements of DRS Data 
& Research Services plc for the year ended 31 December 
2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, 
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, 
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Parent Company 
Statement of Financial Position, the Parent Company 
Statement of Changes in Equity, the Parent Company 
Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes. The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union and, as regards the parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, 
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility 
to anyone other than the company and the company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 52, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements 
is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Auditor	commentary
An overview of the scope of our audit
The group financial statements are a consolidation of 
the Company, DRS Data & Research Services plc and its 
subsidiary undertaking, DRS Data Services Limited. Our audit 
approach included a full audit of the consolidated and parent 
company financial statements and the financial information 
of the subsidiary undertaking. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
55
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
We undertook an interim visit of the group in November 
2013 to evaluate controls over key financial systems 
identified as being identified as part of our risk assessment, 
reviewed the accounts production process, and addressed 
critical accounting matters. After the year end, we undertook 
substantive testing on significant transactions, balances and 
disclosures, the extent of which was based on various factors 
such as our overall assessment of the control environment, 
the effectiveness of controls over individual systems and the 
management of specific risks.
Our application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and 
performing our audit, in evaluating the effect of any 
identified misstatements and in forming our opinion. For the 
purpose of determining whether the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement we define materiality 
as the magnitude of a misstatement or an omission from 
the financial statements or related disclosures that would 
make it probable that the judgement of a reasonable person 
relying on the information would have been changed or 
influenced by the misstatement or omission. For the group 
audit, we established materiality for the consolidated 
financial statements as a whole to be £90,000, which 
is 0.5% of revenue a metric against which the financial 
performance of the Group is measured both internally and 
externally. For the financial information of the subsidiary 
undertaking, we set our materiality based on a proportion 
of group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the 
business.
We determined the threshold at which we communicate 
misstatements to the Audit Committee to be £1,800. 
In addition we communicate misstatements below that 
threshold, that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative 
grounds.
Our assessment of risk
Without modifying our opinion, we highlight the following 
matters that are, in our judgement, likely to be most 
important to users’ understanding of our audit. Our audit 
procedures relating to these matters were designed in the 
context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements 
as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual 
transactions, account balances or disclosures.
Revenue recognition
The revenue from the group’s contracts undertaken in DRS 
Data Services Limited represents 100% of the group’s total 
revenue. The measurement of revenue to be recognised 
in the financial statements in accordance with IAS 18 
‘Revenue’, including the determination of the appropriate 
timing of recognition, is impacted by the terms and 
conditions of each contract and can be highly judgemental. 
We therefore identified revenue recognition relating 
to contracts as a significant risk requiring special audit 
consideration.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, an 
evaluation of the methodology by which management 
determine when the performance conditions are satisfied 
for the respective elements of each contract. We assessed 
whether the methodology applied by management 
was consistent with the requirements of IAS 18 and our 
expectations based on similar contract activity in this sector. 
We performed an analysis, on a sample basis, of  individual 
contracts to review the terms and conditions, including the 
nature of the contract, the combination of deliverables, 
contract revenue, contract costs, attributable profits and 
work-in-progress. We also evaluated and tested controls 
over invoicing and payment to assess the timing and 
recoverability of revenue recognised.
The group’s accounting policy for revenue recognition is 
included in Note 2.3.
Capitalisation of development expenditure
As disclosed in Note 12 of the financial statements, 
the group has capitalised £1,205,000 of development 
expenditure as intangible assets in accordance with 
IAS38 ‘Intangible assets’. The process to measure the 
amount of development costs that can be recognised as 
intangible assets in the financial statements, including the 
determination of the appropriate timing of recognition, 
involves significant management judgement. We therefore 
identified the capitalisation of development costs as 
intangible assets as a significant risk requiring special audit 
consideration.
Our work included, but was not restricted to, understanding 
and testing the controls management put in place over its 
process of identifying costs that meet capitalisation criteria, 
including an understanding of management’s assessment of 
how the development costs will generate future economic 
benefits. We examined and assessed the appropriateness of 
the capitalisation of a sample of development costs during 
the period in line with the requirements of IAS 38 and the 
group’s accounting policy. We discussed the forecasts with 
management, challenging management’s key assumptions 
underlying the forecasts and taking into consideration 
management’s historical success at forecasting.
The group’s accounting policies on intangible assets are 
included in Note 2.10.
Valuation of Linford Wood property
As disclosed in Note 11 of the financial statements, a 
valuation of the Linford Wood property was undertaken in 
November 2012 which is lower than the carrying value of 
£2,446,000 included in Property, plant and equipment. In 
accordance with IAS36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, management 
is required to carry out an annual impairment review. The 
process for measuring and recognising an impairment is 
complex and highly judgemental. We therefore identified the 
valuation of the Linford Wood property to be a risk requiring 
special audit consideration. DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
56
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, an 
evaluation of the methodology and assumptions used 
by management to determine whether the property is 
impaired. In particular, we discussed and challenged the 
underlying assumptions used in the impairment review with 
management and agreed key assumptions to supporting 
documentation or market data. In addition, we carried 
out sensitivity analysis to determine the sensitivity of the 
underlying assumptions to change and the impact this may 
have on the financial statements.
The group’s accounting policy for impairment is set out in 
Note 2.20.
Management override of financial control
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), for all our audits we are required 
to consider the risk of management override of financial 
controls. Due to the unpredictable nature of this risk we are 
required to assess it as a significant risk requiring special 
audit consideration.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, specific 
procedures relating to this risk as required by ISA 240 
‘The auditor’s responsibilities relating to fraud in an audit 
of financial statements’. This included tests of journal 
entries, the evaluation of judgements and assumptions 
in management’s estimates and tests of significant 
transactions outside the normal course of business.
In particular, our assessment of the overall control 
environment of the group, including interviews with senior 
management and a review of ‘whistle-blowing’ procedures, 
and our work on impairments and provisions addressed key 
aspects of ISA 240.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as 
at 31 December 2013 and of the group’s profit for the year 
then ended;
•	 the consolidated financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union;
•	 the parent company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union and as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
OTHER REPORTING RESPONSIBILITIES
Opinion	 on	 other	matters	pr escribed	by	 the	
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the information given in the Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO 
REPORT BY EXCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
following:
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is:
•	 materially inconsistent with the information in the 
audited financial statements; or
•	 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or
•	 is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement 
that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the annual report appropriately 
discloses those matters that were communicated to the 
audit committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to 
r eport	 to	 you 	if, 	in	 our	 opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the parent company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law are not made; or 
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF    
DRS DATA AND RESEARCH SERVICES PLC
continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
57
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review:
•	 the directors’ statement, set out on page 26, in relation to 
Going Concern; and
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating 
to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our 
review.
John	 C orbishley	
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
Central Milton Keynes
31 March 2014 DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
58
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
  Total  Total
  2013 2012
 Notes £000  £000
  
Revenue 5 18,095 20,071
Cost of sales  (11,286) (13,280)
Gross profit  6,809 6,791
  
Other operating income 7 25 49
Selling and marketing costs  (1,155) (1,313)
Administrative expenses  (4,327) (4,080)
Finance costs  9 (83) (145)
Profit before income tax  1,269 1,302
  
Tax credit/(charge) 10 120 (191)
Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent  1,389 1,111
  
EARNINGS PER SHARE  
Basic earnings per share 23 4.38p 3.50p
  
Diluted earnings per share 23 4.30p 3.49p
  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
  
    
  Total  Total
  2013 2012
  £000  £000
  
Profit for the period  1,389 1,111
Other comprehensive income  - -
Total comprehensive profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent 1,389 1,111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
59
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
  31 December  31 December
  2013 2012
 Notes £000  £000
  
ASSETS   
Non-current assets   
Property, plant and equipment 11 2,908 3,055
Intangible assets 12 1,794 746
Deferred income tax assets 18 110 153
  4,812 3,954
Current assets   
Inventories 13 974 1,440
Trade and other receivables 14 4,056 3,039
Current tax assets  264 -
Cash and cash equivalents 15 3,680 3,990
  8,974 8,469
Total assets  13,786 12,423
EQUITY   
Capital	and	r eserv es	attributable	 to	 the	 C ompan y ’ s	equity	holders   
Share capital 16 1,731 1,731
Share premium account 17 5,377 5,377
Capital redemption reserve 17 115 115
Treasury shares 16 (1,166) (1,166)
Own shares reserve 17 (306) (306)
Retained earnings  2,996 1,723
T otal	equity  8,747 7,474
LIABILITIES   
Non-current liabilities   
Borrowings 20 1,505 1,630
Deferred income tax liabilities 18 222 136
Long-term provisions 21 89 60
  1,816 1,826
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables 19 3,223 3,024
Current income tax liabilities  - 99
  3,223 3,123
Total liabilities  5,039 4,949
T otal	equity	and	liabilities  13,786 12,423
The financial statements were approved by The Board of Directors on 31 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
S J Gowers  A M Tebbutt
Chief Executive Officer  Finance Director
DRS Data and Research Services plc
Registered Company Number: 0959401 DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
60
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
  Share Capital    
	 Shar e	 pr emium	 r edemption	 T r easury	 Own	shar es	 R etained	
 capital account reserve shares reserve earnings  Total
 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000 
      
At 1 January 2012 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (313) 730 6,474
Divided paid to Shareholders - - - - - (111) (111)
Own shares vesting - - - - 7 (7) -
Transactions with owners - - - - 7 (118) (111)
       
Profit for the period - - - - - 1,111 1,111
Other comprehensive income  - - - - - - -
Total comprehensive income  
for the period - - - - - 1,111 1,111
At 31 December 2012 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 1,723 7,474
  Share Capital    
	 Shar e	 pr emium	 r edemption	 T r easury	 Own	shar es	 R etained	
 capital account reserve shares reserve earnings  Total
 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000 
    
  At 1 January 2013 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 1,723 7,474
       
  Dividend paid to Shareholders - - - - - (127) (127)
  Employee share-based  
  compensation - - - - - 11 11
  Transactions with owners - - - - - (116) (116)
       
  Profit for the period - - - - - 1,389 1,389
  Other comprehensive income  - - - - - - -
  Total comprehensive income  
  for the period - - - - - 1,389 1,389
  At 31 December 2013 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 2,996 8,747 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
61
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
  Total  Total
  2013 2012
 Notes £000  £000
Cash flow from operating activities   
Profit after taxation  1,389 1,111
Adjustments for:   
Tax (credit)/charge  (120) 191
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  326 369
Amortisation of intangible assets  235 267
IFRS 2 charge in respect of LTIP shares  11 -
Loss/(profit) on sale of property, plant & equipment and intangibles  7 (21)
Exchange (gains)/losses recognised in the Income Statement  (7) 60
Investment income  (14) (19)
Interest expense  81 80
Decrease in inventories  466 1,080
Increase in trade and other receivables  (1,017) (728)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables   199 (1,601)
Increase in long-term provisions  29 60
Cash generated from operations  1,585 849
Interest paid  (81) (80)
Income tax paid   (114) (278)
Net cash used in operating activities  (195) (358)
Cash flows from investing activities   
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (PPE)  (180) (250)
Proceeds from sale of PPE  21 21
Purchase of intangible assets  (1,310) (805)
Interest received  14 19
Net cash used in investing activities  (1,455) (1,015)
Cash flows from financing activities   
Dividends paid to Shareholders  (127) (111)
Repayment of loan  (125) (226)
Net cash used in financing activities  (252) (337)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (317) (861)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  3,990 4,911
Exchange increase/(decrease) on cash  7 (60)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 25 3,680 3,990 NOTES TO THE 
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
62 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
63
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
1 GENERAL INFORMATION
1.1 Nature of Operations
The Company is a public limited company with a premium 
listing on the London Stock Exchange incorporated and 
domiciled in England. The address of its registered office is 1 
Danbury Court, Linford Wood, Milton Keynes, MK14 6LR.
1.2 Accounting Convention
The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Standar ds	and	interpr etations	not	 yet	effectiv e
New standards and interpretations currently in issue but 
not effective for accounting periods commencing on 
1	 January	2013 are:
•	 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (effective 1 January 2015);
•	 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements (effective 
1 January 2013);
•	 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements (effective 1 January 2013);
•	 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (effective 
1 January 2013);
•	 IAS 27 (Revised), Separate Financial Statements (effective 
1 January 2013);
•	 IAS 28 (Revised), Investments in Associates and Joint 
Ventures (effective 1 January 2013);
•	 offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities - 
Amendments to IAS 32 (effective 1 January 2014);
•	 Transition Guidance - Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and 
IFRS 12 (effective 1 January 2013);
•	 Investment Entities - Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and 
IAS 27 (effective 1 January 2014);
•	 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets 
(Amendments to IAS 36) (effective 1 January 2014).
The Standards and Interpretations are not expected to have 
any significant impact on the Group’s financial statements in 
their periods of initial application. 
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT   
 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.1 Basis of Preparation
These financial statements are for the year ended 
31 December 2013 and are presented in Pounds Sterling 
rounded to the nearest thousand. They are prepared 
on a going concern basis. In considering going concern, 
the Directors have reviewed the Group’s future cash 
requirements and earnings projections. The Directors 
believe these forecasts have been prepared on a prudent 
basis and have also considered the impact of a range of 
potential changes to trading performance. The Directors 
have concluded that the Group should be able to operate 
within its current facilities and comply with its banking 
covenants for the foreseeable future and therefore believe 
it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements of the 
Group on a going concern basis. This is supported by the 
Group’s liquidity position at the year-end.
The principal accounting policies of the Group are set out 
below and have been consistently applied to all years 
presented in these financial statements. 
The principal accounting policies have remained unchanged 
from the previous year.
It should be noted that accounting estimates and 
assumptions are used in preparation of the financial 
statements. Although these estimates are based on 
management’s best knowledge of current events and 
actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those 
estimates.
In preparing these accounts:
(a)  the following areas were considered to involve 
significant judgement:
•	 when sales of services are recognised in the accounting 
period in which the work on the services is performed 
and the obligations have been satisfied in accordance 
with the customers’ agreed requirements. DRS provides 
tailored solutions involving a range of the Group’s 
products and services relating to scanning machines, 
software, printed forms and professional services. 
Each sales contract is different and it is necessary to 
consider the nature of the contract with the end user, 
the combination of deliverables and how transfer of 
responsibility of supply is deemed to take place. The 
judgement is when performance conditions are satisfied 
for the respective elements of the solution to become 
recognised revenue;
•	 value of intangibles being covered by the future 
potential income that is expected to be derived from 
their use relating to internally generated software and 
Research and Development costs. The judgement is 
whether incremental revenue and margin justifies the 
capitalisation. See Note 12;
•	 carrying value of work in progress assumes that work 
will be completed in accordance with contractual 
expectations. The judgement is whether this is the case.
(b)  the following areas were considered to involve 
significant estimates:
•	 inventory provisions reflect future sales estimates over 
the useful life of the product. See Note 13;
•	 leasehold dilapidations provision reflects an estimate of 
the cost of end of lease repairs accruing over the life of 
the leases. See Note 21; 
•	 deferred tax relating to unrelieved tax losses reflects an 
estimate of the R&D tax credits realisable. See Note 18.  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
64
2.2  Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the 
financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary 
made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved 
where the Company has the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities.
The 2013 consolidated financial statements incorporate the 
financial statements of the Company, and its fully owned 
subsidiary, DRS Data Services Limited (together referred to 
as the ‘Group’). DRS Data and Research Services plc is the 
holding company and ultimate controlling entity.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values 
at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the consideration 
transferred over the fair values of the identifiable net assets 
acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost 
of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net 
assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to 
profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial 
statements of the subsidiary to bring the accounting policies 
used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses 
are eliminated on consolidation.
2.3 Revenue Recognition
Revenue is the fair value of consideration receivable by the 
Group for goods supplied and services provided net of VAT 
and trade discounts.
The Group often enters into sales transactions involving 
a range of the Group’s products and services relating 
to scanning machines, software, printed forms and 
professional services. The Group provides tailored solutions 
to meet specific customer requirements. It is necessary 
to consider the nature of the contract with the end user, 
the combination of deliverables and how transfer of 
responsibility of supply is deemed to take place. Each 
element of supply follows the revenue recognition criteria 
set out below for each separately identifiable component of 
the sales transaction.
Sales of goods are recognised when the Group has delivered 
products to the customer and it is probable that economic 
benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the 
Group.
Sales of services are recognised in the accounting period 
in which the work on the services is performed and the 
obligations have been satisfied in accordance with the 
customers’ agreed requirements. 
Large print contracts are recognised on a stage of 
completion basis.
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the 
period of the lease. 
In the case of long-term service contracts, revenue is 
recognised on a time apportionment basis in accordance 
with the contract, and all costs are released to the Income 
Statement based on percentage of completion. The 
calculated profit on a contract is recognised in proportion to 
the recognised revenue.
Deferred income arises in two circumstances:
•	 where stage payments are provided to fund the cash 
flow impact of the work in progress and are not made in 
accordance with the delivery schedule resulting in timing 
differences; and
•	 up-front payments on service contracts.
2.4 Operating Leases
(a) The Group is the Lessee
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. 
Payments made under operating leases are charged to profit 
or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
(b) The Group is the Lessor
Scanning equipment leased to third parties under operating 
leases is included in property, plant and equipment in the 
balance sheet. It is depreciated over its expected useful life. 
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the 
lease term.
2.5 Dividends
Under IFRS’s proposed dividends do not meet the definition 
of a liability until such time as they have been approved by 
Shareholders at the AGM. Therefore, the Group does not 
recognise a liability in any period for dividends that have 
been proposed but will not be approved until after the 
balance sheet date.
2.6 Segment Reporting
Segmental information is provided for each operating 
segment whose results are regularly reviewed by the 
Chief Executive Officer to make decisions concerning the 
assessment of performance or allocation of resources and 
where there is discrete financial information available.
2.7 Joint Arrangements
Joint arrangements, whereby a company within the Group 
engages in joint activities that do not create an entity 
or joint control, are accounted for by recognising assets, 
liabilities, revenues and expenses according to the entity’s 
shares in the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of 
the joint operation as determined and specified in the 
contractual arrangement. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
65
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
2.8	 F or eign	 Curr ency	 T ranslation
The consolidated financial statements are presented in 
Pounds Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into Pounds 
Sterling, using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates 
of the transactions (spot exchange rate). Foreign exchange 
gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the re-measurement of monetary 
items at year-end exchange rates are recognised in profit   
or loss.
2.9	 Pr operty ,	Plant	and	Equipment
Land and buildings relate to the Group’s head office at 
Linford Wood, Milton Keynes. All property, plant and 
equipment is shown at cost less depreciation, except for land 
which is shown at cost. Cost includes expenditure that is 
directly attributable to the acquisition of the item.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to allocate 
the cost of each asset less its estimated residual value over 
its estimated useful life, as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Computer equipment 3 years
Fixtures and fittings 3 - 5 years
Plant and machinery 3 - 10 years
Rental machines 3 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
Items of property, plant and equipment are subject to review 
for impairment where indications of impairment exist. Any 
impairment is charged to the Income Statement as it arises. 
2. 10 Intangible Assets
(a) Computer Software
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the 
basis of the costs incurred to acquire and to bring into use 
the specific software. These costs are amortised over three 
years, being the estimated useful life of the software.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software 
programs are recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Costs that are directly associated with the production 
of identifiable and unique software products controlled 
by the Group, and that will probably generate economic 
benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as 
intangible assets. 
Computer software that has been capitalised is amortised 
on a straight-line basis over 3 years from the date it is put to 
operational use. 
(b) Research and Development
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as 
incurred. Costs incurred on development projects (relating 
to the design and testing of new or improved products) are 
recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that the 
project will be a success, considering its commercial and 
technological feasibility, and costs can be measured reliably. 
Development costs that have been capitalised are amortised 
from the commencement of their use on a straight-line basis 
over the period of their expected benefit, not exceeding   
five years. 
2. 11 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out method. 
The cost of finished goods and work-in-progress comprises 
raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and, where 
appropriate, a proportion of attributable production 
overheads. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price 
in the ordinary course of business reduced by the costs to 
complete and applicable selling expenses.
2. 12 Trade and Other Receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at 
fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost. A 
provision for impairment of trade receivables is established 
when there is objective evidence that the Group will not 
be able to collect all amounts due according to the original 
terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present value of estimated future cash flows. Movements in 
the provision are recognised in profit or loss.
2. 13 Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits 
held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid 
investments that are readily convertible to known amounts 
of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value. 
2. 14 Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, 
it is probable that the Group will be required to settle 
that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made to the 
amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of 
the consideration required to settle the present obligation 
at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and 
uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision 
is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the 
present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value 
of those cash flows. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
66
2. 15	 Shar e	 Capital	and	Equity
Share capital comprises Ordinary shares with a nominal 
value of 5p each.
Where the Company purchases Treasury shares or where 
shares are held in a restricted share scheme trust, the 
consideration paid, including any directly attributable 
incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from 
equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders 
until the shares are cancelled, re-issued or disposed of. 
Where such shares are subsequently sold or re-issued any 
consideration received, net of any directly attributable 
incremental transaction costs and the related income tax 
effects is included in equity attributable to the Company’s 
equity holders.
2. 16 Accounting for Income Taxes
The tax expense recognised in profit or loss comprises the 
sum of deferred tax and current tax not recognised in other 
comprehensive income or equity. 
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the 
year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the 
Income Statement because it excludes items of income or 
expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it 
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 
The Group’s and subsidiaries’ liability for current tax is 
calculated by using tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 
on differences between the carrying amount of assets and 
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and 
is accounted for using the liability method. Deferred tax 
is not provided on the initial recognition of goodwill, nor 
on the initial recognition of an asset or liability unless the 
related transaction is a business combination or affects tax 
or accounting profit. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised 
for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets 
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available against which deductible temporary 
differences can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at 
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it 
is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be 
available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the 
liability is settled. Changes in deferred tax assets or 
liabilities are recognised as a component of tax income or 
expense in profit or loss, except where they relate to items 
that are recognised in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity, in which case the related deferred tax is 
also recognised in other comprehensive income or equity, 
respectively.
R&D tax credit claims are recognised following formal 
confirmation of acceptance by HMRC or where previous 
precedence is established.
2. 17	 Emplo y ee	Benefits
(a) Pension Obligations
The Parent Company operates defined contribution pension 
schemes in which employees of the UK based subsidiaries 
may participate. The Group has no legal or constructive 
obligations to pay further contributions after payment of 
the fixed contribution. The contributions to the pension 
schemes are charged to profit or loss as they accrue, thereby 
matching the cost of the Group’s pension obligations to the 
period of employment to which they relate.
(b) Bonus Plans and Profit Sharing
The Group recognises a liability and expense for bonuses and 
profit sharing. Managers may be entitled to a bonus based 
on a formula that takes into consideration revenue, EPS, 
residual income in relation to the employee’s responsibilities 
and an assessment of the individual’s performance which 
includes non-financial criteria. Employees who do not 
participate in the bonus scheme are entitled to participate 
in a profit sharing scheme based on the profitability of the 
subsidiary. The cost of providing these schemes is accrued 
against profits in the period in which the bonus is earned.
(c) Share-based Employee Remuneration
All share-based payment arrangements granted after 7 
November 2002 and not vested by 1 January 2005 are 
recognised in the financial statements. The Group operates 
equity-settled share-based remuneration plans for 
remuneration of certain of its employees.
All employee services received in exchange for the grant of 
any share-based remuneration are measured at their fair 
values. These are indirectly determined by reference to the 
fair value of the share options or shares awarded. Their value 
is appraised at the grant date and excludes the impact of any 
non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability 
and sales growth targets).
All share-based remuneration is ultimately recognised as 
an expense in the Income Statement with a corresponding 
credit to Shareholders’ funds. If vesting periods or other 
vesting conditions apply, the expense is allocated over the 
vesting period, based on the best available estimate of 
the number of share options or shares expected to vest. 
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions 
about the number of options that are expected to become 
exercisable. Estimates are subsequently revised if there is 
any indication that the number of share options expected to 
vest differs from previous estimates.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
67
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Upon exercise of share options fulfilled by the issue of 
new shares, the proceeds received, net of any directly 
attributable transaction costs up to the nominal value of the 
shares issued are allocated to share capital with any excess 
being recorded as share premium. Options or share grants 
fulfilled from shares held by employee share trusts are 
credited to the own share reserve.
2. 18 Financial Assets
Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes 
a party to the contractual provisions of the financial 
instruments and are initially measured at fair value adjusted 
by transactions cost, except for those carried at fair value 
through profit and loss which are measured initially at 
fair value.
For the purpose of subsequent measurement, financial 
assets other than those designated and effective as hedging 
instruments are classified into the following categories upon 
initial recognition:
•	 Loans and Receivables;
•	 Financial assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 
(FVTPL);
•	 Held-To-Maturity (HTM) investments;
•	 Available For Sale (AFS) financial assets.
All financial assets except for those at FVTPL are subject 
to review for impairment at least at each reporting date 
to identify whether there is any objective evidence that a 
financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. 
All income and expenses relating to financial assets are 
recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual 
rights to the cash flows from the financial assets expire, 
or when the financial assets and all substantial risks and 
rewards are transferred. 
The Group’s financial assets fall within the loans and 
receivables category. Loans and receivables are non-
derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable 
payments that are not quoted in an active market. After 
initial recognition, these are measured at amortised cost 
using the effective interest method, less provision for 
impairment. Discounting is omitted where the effect of 
discounting is immaterial. The Group’s cash and cash 
equivalents, trade and most other receivables fall into this 
category of financial instrument.
Individually significant receivables are considered for 
impairment when they are past due or when other objective 
evidence is received that a specific counterparty will default.
2. 19	 Financial	liabilities	and	equity
Financial liabilities include borrowings and trade and other 
payables.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified 
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that 
evidences a residual interest in the assets of the entity after 
deducting all of its financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities are obligations to pay cash or other 
financial assets and are recognised when the Group becomes 
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. All 
financial liabilities are recorded initially at fair value, net of 
direct issue costs.
A financial liability is derecognised only when the obligation 
is extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged or 
cancelled or expires.
Where the contractual terms of share capital do not have 
any terms meeting the definition of a financial liability 
then this is classed as an equity instrument. Dividends and 
distributions relating to equity instruments are debited 
direct to equity.
2.20 Impairment Testing of Intangible Assets and 
Pr operty ,	Plant	and	Equipment
For impairment assessment purposes, assets are grouped 
at the lowest levels for which there are largely independent 
cash inflows (cash-generating units). As a result, some 
assets are tested individually for impairment and some are 
tested at cash-generating unit level. Individual assets or 
cash-generating units are tested for impairment whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s carrying amount 
exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair 
value less costs of disposal and value-in-use. To determine 
the value-in-use, management estimates expected future 
cash flows from each cash-generating unit and determines a 
suitable interest rate in order to calculate the present value 
of those cash flows. The data used for impairment testing 
procedures are directly linked to the Group’s latest approved 
budget, adjusted as necessary to exclude the effects of 
future reorganisations and asset enhancements. Discount 
factors are determined individually for each cash-generating 
unit and reflect management’s assessment of respective risk 
profiles, such as market and asset-specific risks factors.
Impairment losses for cash-generating units are charged pro 
rata to the assets in the cash-generating unit. All assets are 
subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment 
loss previously recognised may no longer exist. An 
impairment loss is reversed if the asset’s or cash-generating 
unit’s recoverable amount exceeds its carrying amount. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
68
3	 FINANCIAL	RISK	MANA GEMENT
3.1 Financial Risk Factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. 
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of 
these risks and they are summarised below.
(a) Market Risk
(i) Currency Risk
The Group operates internationally and is subject to foreign 
exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, 
primarily with respect to the US Dollar and the Euro. 
The Group does not hedge any transactions, and foreign 
exchange differences on retranslation of foreign assets and 
liabilities are recognised in profit or loss.
Wherever possible the Group looks to negotiate its sales 
contracts in Sterling. Sometimes DRS Data Services Limited 
is required to accept payment in either US Dollars or Euros. 
During 2013 the Group converted holdings of US Dollar 
and Euro currencies in excess of £150,000 into Sterling to 
minimise the Group’s currency exposure.
(ii) Interest Rate Risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of 
Shareholders’ funds and bank loans. The Group reviews its 
exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its mortgage on a 
regular basis. During 2012 and 2013 The Board decided not 
to purchase any form of interest rate cap to limit the impact 
of potential increases in interest payable as the cost of 
mitigation was perceived to be greater than the risk. 
An increase or decrease of 1% in the rate of interest charged 
on the mortgage will increase or decrease, respectively, the 
amount of annualised interest payable by £17,000. On the 
Group’s year-end cash holding, a 1% increase in interest 
rates would increase interest receivable by £35,000.
(iii) Investment Risk
The Board considers security of the principal investment to 
be a greater priority than the rate of return on investment as 
interest rates are so low compared to the general economic 
uncertainty of the financial sector. With this in mind, three 
banks are used to deposit the Group’s cash holding, thereby 
spreading the risk of loss as a consequence of a bank failure. 
Further details are provided in the Strategic Report on pages 
12 - 13.
(b) Credit Risk
The Group has a small number of customers that account 
for a significant proportion of the revenue. Close working 
relationships with these customers established over a long-
term manage the risk exposure. Where appropriate, sales to 
overseas customers are usually underwritten using letters 
of credit unless the customer makes a significant up-front 
payment. A summary of all customers with indebtedness 
greater than £100,000 is prepared on a monthly basis for the 
Directors and senior managers to review.
(c) Liquidity Risk
The Group takes a prudent approach to managing liquidity 
risk to ensure sufficient cash is available to meet foreseeable 
needs and to safely finance the successful completion of 
large-scale contracts, thereby minimising liquidity risk 
issues.
All £3,223,000 (2012: £3,123,000) of the current liabilities 
are payable within one year. 
For non-current liabilities, the balance outstanding at 
31 December 2012 on the mortgage was £1,855,000. In 
January 2013 the Group’s mortgage facility was extended 
and increased to £1,900,000 and £1,731,000 is the balance 
outstanding at 31 December 2013. The rate of interest is 
4.0% over the base rate. Repayment of the principal shall be 
in 19 instalments of £56,400 payable quarterly commencing 
31 March 2013, followed by a final bullet payment of 
£828,400 on 7 January 2018. Interest payments are made 
quarterly in arrears. 
3.2 Capital Management
The Group’s capital management objectives are:
•	 to ensure the Group’s ability to continue as a Going 
Concern; and
•	 to maintain adequate liquidity to finance working capital 
requirements.
The Group retains a high level of cash and cash equivalents 
(See Note 2.13) to be able to have sufficient funds to finance 
the working capital requirements of large contracts. The 
dividend policy provides a return to Shareholders whilst 
retaining sufficient cash to continue to fund working 
capital and the development of the Group’s products. The 
Group takes a cautious approach to investing this capital to 
minimise the Group’s exposure to capital loss. The policy is 
consistent with the approach of previous years and explains 
the relatively large value of cash and cash equivalents held 
at the year-end (see Note 15). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
69
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Capital for the reporting period under review is summarised as follows:
 31 December  31 December
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
  Total equity 8,747 7,474
  Cash and cash equivalents 3,680 3,990
  Capital 12,427 11,464
  Total equity 8,747 7,474
  Borrowings 1,505 1,630
  Overall financing 10,252 9,104
  Capital to overall financing ratio 1.21 1.26
4 SEGMENT INFORMATION
The principal activities of the Group continue to be the provision of data capture services, the manufacture, sale and support of 
optical and image scanning equipment, design and printing of documentation used for data capture, and associated software 
and bureau services. Approximately half of the Group’s revenue relates to products and services and the other half relates to 
providing tailored data capture solutions. The companies in the Group are organised functionally, with each function of the 
business specialising in its own area of expertise. Project managers look to the functional areas to provide the appropriate 
tailored mix of products and services to fulfil each specific contract. In turn the functional areas are supported by indirect cost 
centre departments such as Research and Development and Information Systems.
Management consider that there is only one operating segment, as this is the lowest level at which discrete financial 
information is available and is reflected by a single set of management accounts that are used throughout the Group. However, 
it reviews revenue according to various segments and the revenue split is disclosed on page 70.
The delivery of market focused solutions results in a ‘many-to-many’ relationship between department costs and revenue 
streams. The individual standard costs of each type of supply are carefully controlled, but due to the effect sales mix has on 
recovery rates, reporting the relative profitability of the revenue streams would not be consistent with management processes 
within the Company.  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
70
The	r ev enue	anal ysis	generated	 fr om	external	customers	 for	 the	 y ear	ended	31 	December	2013	is	as	 follows:
  Education revenue Non-education revenue
  Examination &   Elections & 
  Assessment Other Commercial Census  Total
  £000  £000 £000 £000 £000
Region     
UK 10,057 513 39 11 10,620
Africa 4,709 25 494 135 5,363
Rest of world 128 18 69 1,897 2,112
Total 14,894 556 602 2,043 18,095
   Revenue arising from specific products and related services thereon:  
   e-Marker® 9,713    
   e-Counting    94 
All of the Group’s revenue from continuing operations of £18,095,000 was generated from UK operations.
DRS’ largest customer generated revenue of £8,669,000 in 2013 (2012: £8,444,000) and is shown under UK examinations and 
assessment. DRS’ second largest customer generated revenue of £2,365,000 in 2013 (2012: £1,794,000) and is shown under 
Africa examinations and assessment. There are no other customers that account for more than 10% of external revenue.
The	r ev enue	anal ysis	generated	 fr om	external	customers	 for	 the	 y ear	ended	31 	December	2012	is	as	 follows:
  Education revenue Non-education revenue
  Examination &   Elections & 
  Assessment Other Commercial Census  Total
  £000  £000 £000 £000 £000
  Region     
  UK  9,780 647 26 2,485 12,938
  Africa 3,951 28 5 2,147 6,131
  Rest of world 28 32 295 647 1,002
  Total 13,759 707 326 5,279 20,071
  Revenue arising from specific products and related services thereon:  
  e-Marker® 9,113    
  e-Counting 3,075 
The contract to count the 2012 London Mayor and Assembly elections electronically was won by IntElect®, a joint 
arrangement between DRS and ERS (Electoral Reform Services Limited), resulting in the Group recognising revenue of 
£2,471,000 in the year within the UK census and elections segment.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
71
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
5 REVENUE AND PROFIT BEFORE TAX
The significant categories of revenue recognised during the period are:
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
  
  Sale of goods  6,509 7,028
  Rendering of services 11,434 12,583
  Operating lease income (Note 6) 152 460
 18,095 20,071
Pr ofit	 on	 or dinary	activities	befor e	 taxation	is	stated	after:
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
  
  Auditor’s remuneration:  
     Audit services 6 6
    Other services 39 39
  Depreciation 326 369
  Amortisation  235 267
  Hire of plant and machinery  63 23
  R&D expense 2,484 1,738
  Share-based payment charge 11 -
Auditor’s remuneration relating to other services comprises:
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
     Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 25 29
  Advice on IFRS 8 4
  Interim review 6 6
 39 39
6 OPERATING LEASE INCOME
Operating lease income relates to the leasing of CD230 and CD360 scanners into UK schools. All of the machines are on a 
standard agreement which can be terminated on its anniversary date by the customer provided they give three months’ notice 
prior to the anniversary date of their intention to terminate the contract. Total future minimum lease payments receivable at 
31 December 2013 amounted to £8,000 (2012: £12,000), all of which is recoverable within one year. Of this amount, £1,000 is 
invoiced and included in the trade receivables balance as at 31 December 2013. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
72
7 OTHER OPERATING INCOME
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
     Interest income  
   - bank interest 14 19
   - Peladon deferred consideration 2 25
  Profit on foreign exchange (realised and unrealised) 9 5
 25 49
The profit on foreign exchange gains relates to exchange rate differences on US Dollar and Euro transactions and the 
restatement of monetary assets at the year-end. 
The Peladon deferred consideration arises from the sale of Peladon Software Inc. to The Software Construction Company Inc., 
Texas during September 2010. The initial consideration was $1 followed by additional consideration to DRS over the course of 
the five year period following completion, based on the future gross revenues of Peladon Software Inc. and its subsidiaries that 
are generated by the sales of licences for all DocXP™ software. The percentage of such gross revenues that the Group will be 
entitled to ranges from 5% to 10% in each of the five years following completion. Such additional consideration is capped at a 
maximum amount of US $500,000.
Management’s best estimate of deferred consideration under the earn-out agreement for the remaining two years of the 
arrangement is £10,000 (2012: £27,000). 
8 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE
Staff	costs	 during	 the	 y ear	 wer e:
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
     Wages and salaries 7,717 7,313
  Social security costs 885 790
  Share options granted to Directors and employees 11 -
  Pension costs – defined contribution plans 679 566
 9,292 8,669
The	av erage	number	 of	 full	 time	equivalents	 of	 the	 Gr oup	 during	 the	 y ear	 was:
 2013 2012
      Print and bureau services 116 115
  Hardware and software services     89 78
  Sales and marketing 16 20
  Administration 34 36
 255 249 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
73
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Remuneration in respect of Directors was as follows:
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
     Emoluments 513 618
  Pension contributions to money purchase pension schemes 56 53
 569 671
  Key management remuneration:
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
     Short-term employee benefits 513 618
  Post-employment benefits 56 53
  Share-based payments 11 -
 580 671
All of the main Board Directors are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group. Further details on Directors’ 
remuneration and share options are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
9 FINANCE COSTS
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
  
  Interest expense:  
  - bank borrowings (81) (80)
  - loss on foreign exchange (realised and unrealised) (2) (65)
 (83) (145)
The loss on foreign exchange relates to exchange rate differences on US Dollar and Euro transactions and the restatement of 
monetary assets at the year-end. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
74
10 INCOME TAX EXPENSE
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
  
  Current tax – domestic - 196
  Foreign taxation 20 -
  Adjustment in respect of previous period (269) -
  Total current tax (249) 196
  Deferred tax current year (Note 18) 55 (5)
  Deferred tax prior year (Note 18) 74 -
 (120) 191
Domestic income tax is calculated at 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year. 
Additional development expenditure was identified in the current year as qualifying expenditure for Research and 
Development tax credits that reduced previous periods’ tax charge by £269k. Details of this expenditure is provided within the 
section on Research and Development in the Strategic Report. 
The	char ge	 for	 the	 y ear	can	be	r econciled	 to	 the	pr ofit	per	 the	Income	 Statement	as	 follows:
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
      
 Profit before tax 1,269 1,302
  Tax at domestic income tax rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) 295 319
  Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 8 18
  Income not taxable for tax purposes - (8)
  Additional deduction for R&D expenditure (476) (138)
  Chargeable gains 1 7
  Foreign tax credits 20 -
  Effect of marginal rate - (8)
  Effect of change in tax rates 17 1
  Deferred tax not recognised 211 -
  Adjustment in respect of previous periods (196) -
  Tax expense (120) 191 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
75
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
  Freehold
   land & Computer  Fixtures Plant &  Rental Motor
	 T otal	 	buildings	 equipment	 	&	 fittings	 machinery	 	machines	 v ehicles
 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000
  At	1	 January	2012	 	 	 	 		 	
  Cost  11,235 2,900 2,158 2,546  3,024 601 6
  Accumulated depreciation (8,061) (320) (1,919) (2,343) (2,872) (601) (6)
  Net book amount 3,174 2,580 239 203 152 - -
		For	 the	 y ear	ended 
  31 December 2012       
  Opening net amount  
  at 1 January 2012 3,174 2,580 239 203 152 - -
  Additions 250 - 52 78 120 - -
  Depreciation charge (369) (67) (119) (87) (96) - -
  Closing net book amount  
  at 31 December 2012 3,055 2,513 172 194 176 - -
  At 31 December 2012       
  Cost  11,386 2,900 2,192 2,558 3,144 586 6
  Accumulated depreciation (8,331) (387) (2,020) (2,364) (2,968) (586) (6)
  Net book amount 3,055 2,513 172 194 176 - -
		For	 the	 y ear	ended 
  31 December 2013       
  Opening net amount  
  at 1 January 2013 3,055 2,513 172 194 176 - -
  Additions 180 - 59 21 100 - -
  Disposals (1) - - (1) - - -
  Depreciation charge (326) (67) (117) (66) (76) - -
  Closing net book amount  
  at 31 December 2013 2,908 2,446 114 148 200 - -
  At 31 December 2013       
  Cost  10,237 2,900 1,185 2,473 3,226 447 6
  Accumulated depreciation (7,329) (454) (1,071) (2,325) (3,026) (447) (6)
  Net book amount 2,908 2,446 114 148 200 - -
During November 2012, in accordance with extending the mortgage on the Linford Wood property, Barclays Bank plc 
conducted a commercial valuation of the property based on tenanted occupancy which calculated the current market value 
at £1,600,000. The decline in the commercial valuation reflects the general fall in the value of commercial property within the 
locality and does not alter its condition or expected useful life. The acquisition of the Linford Wood property was justified on the savings gained against the rental cost of leasing. The use and 
justification remain the same. However, to reflect the decline in residual value of the property a decision was taken to increase 
the depreciation charge by £27,000 per annum from 1 January 2012 to more accurately reflect the use of this asset over its 
remaining expected life.
An impairment review was undertaken in January 2014 to consider whether the property is impaired in accordance with IAS36. 
This review did not result in an impairment of the property.
Bank borrowings at 31 December 2013 are secured on the Linford Wood land and buildings to the value of £1,731,000 (2012: 
£1,855,000). See Note 20.
The fall in year-on-year cost of assets is the result of disposals made during the year with nil net book value.
12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
      Computer             Development
 Total software expenditure
 £000 £000 £000
		 At	1	 January	2012   
  Cost  4,401 990 3,411
  Accumulated amortisation  (4,193) (946) (3,247)
  Net book amount 208 44 164
  For	 the	 y ear	ended	31 	December	2012  
  Opening net amount at 1 January 2012 208 44 164
  Additions 805 321 484
  Amortisation charge  (267) (103) (164)
  Closing net book amount at 31 December 2012 746 262 484
    
  At 31 December 2012   
  Cost  5,206 1,311 3,895
  Accumulated amortisation and impairment (4,460) (1,049) (3,411)
  Net book amount 746 262 484
		For	 the	 y ear	ended	31 	December	2013  
  Opening net amount at 1 January 2013 746 262 484
  Additions 1,310 105 1,205
  Disposals  (27) (27) -
  Amortisation charge  (235) (130) (105)
  Closing net book amount at 31 December 2013 1,794 210 1,584
  At 31 December 2013   
  Cost  6,481 1,381 5,100
  Accumulated amortisation and impairment (4,687) (1,171) (3,516)
  Net book amount 1,794 210 1,584
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
77
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Computer software relates to the third party software licences purchased by the Group to be used in the normal course of its 
business and is amortised over three years from the time of purchase. A check is carried out at the end of each year to ensure 
that all the software is still in use within the business.
The capitalised development expenditure covers the cost of developing the first release of a completely new version of 
e-Marker® software which is due to be available in the second half of 2014 plus additional new features which enhance the 
original core e-Marker® software used to mark examination scripts electronically within the education marketplace. This 
expenditure is amortised over its expected useful life from the month in which it becomes available for operational use. The 
software is used in an operational environment and its functional performance is continually monitored to ensure there is no 
impairment.
The assets making up the closing net book value will be amortised as follows:
  Computer Development
 Total software expenditure
 £000 £000 £000
  
  Future amortisation of assets by year   
  2014 508 132 376
  2015 541 58 483
  2016 503 20 483
  2017 242 - 242
  Net book amount at 31 December 2013 1,794 210 1,584
All intangible amortisation is charged to cost of sales within the Income Statement.
13 INVENTORIES
 31 December 31 December
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
     Raw materials 564 617
  Work in progress 17 51
  Finished goods 393 772
 974 1,440
  31 December Movement 31 December Movement 31 December
		 2013	 during	 y ear	 2012	 during	 y ear	 2011
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
  Inventory  
  provision     
  PhotoScribe® 
  PS900 Series  
  scanners 694 35 659 624 35
  IntelliReg®  - (22) 22 (154) 176
  Other scanners 98 (35) 133 (27) 160
  Print 11 (3) 14 (2) 16
  Total  803 (25) 828 441 387   31 December Movement 31 December Movement 31 December
		 2013	 during	 y ear	 2012	 during	 y ear	 2011
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
  Related  
  carrying value      
  PhotoScribe® 
  PS900 scanners 780  1,160  2,204
  Other scanners 12  107  118
  Manufacturing  
  inventory 792  1,267  2,322
  Print inventory 182  173  198
  Total 974  1,440  2,520
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to £2,311,000 (2012: £2,909,000).
14 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
 31 December  31 December
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
  
  Loans and receivables  
  - Trade receivables  3,111 2,407
  - Less provision for impairment of receivables (22) (1)
  - Trade receivables – net 3,089 2,406
   Amounts recoverable on contracts  285 144
  Prepayments and accrued income 682 489
 4,056 3,039
There is no material difference between the fair value and the carrying value of these assets.
The maximum credit risk exposure at the balance sheet date equates to the fair value of trade receivables. Further details of 
how the Group manages credit risk is set out in Note 3.1.
Standard payment terms on credit sales are 30 days net. 
The	 trade	r eceivables	ageing	anal ysis	is	as	 follows:
       
 Total trade  0 – 30 31 – 60 61 – 90 91 – 120 120+
	 r eceivables	 Curr ent	 days	 days	 days	 days		 days
 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000
 
  31 December 2013 3,089 2,782 30 251 2 - 24
  31 December 2012 2,406 1,733 157 249 24 - 243
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
78 The Group recognised an increase in its impairment of its trade receivables during the year of £21,000 (2012: decrease 
£19,000). The trade receivables provision movement is included in ‘administrative expenses’ in the Income Statement and a 
breakdown is as follows:
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
  
  Opening amount at 1 January  1 20
  Increase/(decrease) in provision to Income Statement 21 (19)
  Closing amount at 31 December  22 1
15 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 31 December  31 December
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
     
  Cash at bank and in hand 124 73
  Short-term bank deposits 3,556 3,917
 3,680 3,990
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits was 0.21% (2012: 0.48%). These deposits have an average maturity of 
two days (2012: three days).
The Group’s approach to managing liquidity and currency risks is set out in Note 3.1.
The tables below show the extent to which the Group has monetary assets in currencies other than Sterling.
  
 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
  2013  2013 2012  2012
  US Dollars  Euro US Dollars  Euro
  £000 £000 £000 £000
     
 Sterling equivalent 87 27 13 38
16 SHARE CAPITAL
		 Number	 of	shar es		 Or dinary	shar es	 T r easury	shar es	 T otal
  At 1 January 2012 34,621,600 34,621,600 (1,930,000) 32,691,600
  Balance at 31 December 2012 34,621,600 34,621,600 (1,930,000) 32,691,600
  Balance at 31 December 2013 34,621,600 34,621,600 (1,930,000) 32,691,600
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
79
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013  Or dinary	shar es	 of	5p	each
 at 31 December 2013 and 2012
 Number £000
  
  Authorised 46,000,000 2,300
  Allotted, issued, called up and fully paid 34,621,600 1,731
The Company acquired 1,930,000 of its own shares through purchase between 3 June and 15 July 2004. The price of these 
shares ranged between 59p and 60p. The total amount paid to acquire these shares, net of income tax, was £1,166,000 and has 
been deducted from Shareholders’ equity. The shares are held as Treasury shares. The Company has the right to re-issue these 
shares at a later date. All issued shares are fully paid.
17 OTHER RESERVES
		 Number	 of	shar es		 Or dinary	shar es	 T r easury	shar es	 T otal
  
  As at 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012 5,377 115 (306) 5,186
  Own shares vesting - - - -
  Balance at 31 December 2013 5,377 115 (306) 5,186
The Own Share Reserve represents the cost of shares purchased under the Restricted Share Scheme, less those unconditionally 
vested in employees. At 31 December 2013, 960,529 (2012: 960,529) shares with a market value of £237,731 (2012: £172,895) 
were held. Of these 40,000 (2012: 40,000) had been conditionally gifted to employees. The Scheme authorises the Trustees to 
purchase up to 5% of the issued share capital, funded by loans from the Company. Shares so acquired are conditionally gifted 
to employees and used to fulfil performance related options to Directors and senior managers at the discretion of the Board.
18 DEFERRED INCOME TAX
 
 31 December  31 December
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
  
  Analysis for financial reporting purposes  
  Deferred tax liabilities 222 136
  Deferred tax assets (110) (153)
 112 (17)
At the balance sheet date, legislation had been substantively enacted which reduced the main corporation tax rate from 23% 
to 20%. This reduction has been reflected in the calculation of the Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
81
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The	mo v ement	in	 the	 y ear	in	 the	 Gr oup’ s	net	 deferr ed	 tax	position	 was	as	 follows:
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
       
  At 1 January (17) (12)
  Charge/(credit) to income for the current year 55 (5)
  Charge to income for the prior year 74 -
  At 31 December 112 (17)
The	 following	are	 the	major	 deferr ed	 tax	liabilities	and	assets	r ecognised	by	 the	 C ompan y	and	 the	mo v ements	 ther eon	
during the period:
 R&D tax credits Capital Allowances
 £000  £000
   
  At 1 January 2013 - (17)
  Charge to income for the year (110) 239
  At 31 December 2013 (110) 222
A deferred tax asset in respect of unrelieved tax losses has not been recognised due to the uncertainty of the Group generating 
sufficient profit against which these losses can be utilised, as the Group projects similar high levels of development expenditure 
over the next three years. The amount unprovided at 31 December 2013 is £211,000, using the rate of corporation tax 
applicable for future years (20%).
19 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
 31 December  31 December
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
    
  Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost  
  - Trade payables 904 728
  Deferred income 958 512
  Social security and other taxes 223 210
  Accrued expenses 912 1,348
 2,997 2,798
  Borrowings (see Note 20) 226 226
 3,223 3,024
Trade payables are contractually due within 30 days and are financial liabilities at amortised cost. 
  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
82
20 BORROWINGS
 31 December  31 December
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
  
  Non-current  
  Bank borrowings – secured loan 1,505 1,630
  Total non-current borrowings 1,505 1,630
In January 2013 the mortgage facility was extended to 7 January 2018 and increased to £1,900,000 from the balance 
outstanding at 31 December 2013 of £1,731,000 (2012: £1,855,000). The facility from Barclays Bank plc is secured by a fixed 
charge against the freehold land and buildings to 7 January 2018. The interest rate on the five year extension is 4.0% over 
base rate. Repayment of the principal shall be in 19 instalments of £56,400 payable quarterly commencing 31 March 2013, 
followed by a final bullet payment of £828,400 on 7 January 2018. The extension included a reallocation of the mortgage to 
the subsidiary Company, DRS Data Services Limited, as tenant of the property.
The overdraft facility for DRS Data Services Limited is £250,000. It remains secured against inventory and debtors. Interest is 
charged at a variable rate of 5.0% over base rate. The facility is not currently in use.
21 PROVISIONS
 31 December  31 December
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
  
  Leasehold dilapidations provision  
  Current - -
  Non-current 89 60
 89 60
The provision is based on previous negotiations to terminate these lease arrangements and reflects the Group’s liability for 
dilapidation charges payable on the expiry of all five property leases relating to the seven business units occupied by operations 
in Milton Keynes. All five leases expire on 30 November 2015. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
83
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
22 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Categories of financial assets and liabilities
The	carrying	amounts	pr esented	in	 the	statement	 of	 financial	position	r elating	 to	 the	 following	categories	 of	assets	and	
liabilities are:
   31 December  31 December 
   2013 2012
  Notes £000  £000
  Financial assets   
  Loans and other receivables   
  - Trade and other receivables 14 4,056 3,039
  - Cash and cash equivalents 15 3,680 3,990
  7,736 7,029
  Financial liabilities   
  Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:   
  Non-current borrowings 20 (1,505) (1,630)
  Current   
  - Trade and other payables  (1,815) (2,076)
  - Repayment of secured loan 20 (226) (226)
  (2,041) (2,302)
Fair value of the Financial Instruments equates to their carrying value.  Diluted earnings per share        
       2013 2012
       £000 £000
  Earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders being profit for the period   1,389 1,111
      Number Number
  Weighted average number of shares     31,731,071 31,722,802
  Basic
  Dilutive effective of:
  Options under the Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme    40,000 40,000
  Options under LTIP option scheme      544,550 79,735
  Diluted      32,315,621 31,841,817
  Diluted profit per Ordinary share      4.30p 3.49p
     
Basic earnings per share          
       2013 2012
       £000 £000
  Earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders being profit for the period   1,389 1,111
      Number Number
  Weighted average number of shares     31,731,071 31,722,802
  Basic profit per Ordinary share      4.38p 3.50p
     
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
84
23 EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to Ordinary shareholders divided by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. Shares held in Restricted Share Scheme (see Note 17) are treated 
as cancelled for the purposes of this calculation.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the basic earnings per share, adjusted to allow for the issue of shares 
and the post-tax effect of dividends and/or interest, on the assumed conversion of all dilutive options and other dilutive 
potential Ordinary shares.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
85
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
24 DIVIDENDS PER SHARE
Amounts	r ecognised	as	 distributions	 to	equity	holders	in	 this	period:
 2013 2012
 £000  £000
  
  Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 0.4p per share 127 -
  Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 0.35p per share - 111
The proposed final dividend 0.4p per share was approved by the Board on 31 March 2014. The dividend is subject to approval by 
the Shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and the expected cost of £127,000 has not been included in the liability 
as at 31 December 2013. If approved, it will be paid on 30 May 2014 to Shareholders on the register at close of business on 25 
April 2014.
25 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 	 1	 January	 Cash		 31	December
  2013 flow 2013
  £000  £000  £000
  Cash at bank and in hand 73 51 124
  Term deposits 3,917 (361) 3,556
 3,990 (310) 3,680
26 COMMITMENTS
Operating lease commitments
The	 C ompan y	has	 the	 following	 futur e	minimum	lease	commitments:
 Lease of land & buildings Other leases
  
  31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
  2013  2012 2013 2012
  £000 £000 £000 £000
      
  Within one year 192 192 76 82
  Within two to five years 176 369 148 222
  368 561 224 304
The Group holds five property leases relating to seven business units occupied by operations in Milton Keynes. All five leases 
expire on 30 November 2015. Rent is payable quarterly in advance.
The classification of other leases relates to company vehicles that are held under three or four year contracts, plus the 
company telephones, three photocopiers and a franking machine which are held under five year contracts. The Company 
vehicle leases have an up-front payment of three months in advance followed by a monthly payment, the telephone contract 
payments are monthly in advance and the office equipment leases are payable quarterly in advance. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
86
27 PENSION COMMITMENTS
During 2012 and 2013 the Group operated various separate defined contribution schemes for the benefit of employees and 
Executive Directors. In all cases the assets of the schemes are administered by trustees in funds independent of the Group. 
Pension contributions are shown in Note 8.
28 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Details of options granted:
   Original 
   number    
   of shares Vesting  Exercise Method of
Date	 of	 Grant	 	 T ype	 granted	 period	 T erm	 price	 settlement
  Year-end 31 December 2004       
  7 April 2004 RSS* Employees 170,000 3 years 10 years Nil Equity
  Year-end 31 December 2012       
  24 September 2012 LTIP Directors  470,000 3 years 10 years Nil Equity 
  and employees 
  16 November 2012 LTIP Directors 916,666 3 years 10 years Nil Equity
  Year-end 31 December 2013       
  18 November 2013 LTIP Directors 66,000 3 years 10 years Nil Equity
*1996 DRS Restricted Share Scheme 
Movements in the year:
Year-end 31 December 2012
	 1	 January	2012	 	 	 31	December	2012
    
 Outstanding  Exercisable     Outstanding  Exercisable
Date of Grant options options Granted Lapsed Exercised options options 
  Year-end 31 December 2004       
  7 April 2004 - 40,000 - - - - 40,000
  Year-end 31 December 2012       
  24 September 2012 - - 470,000 - - 470,000 -
  16 November 2012 - - 916,666 - - 916,666 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
87
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Movements in the year:
Year-end 31 December 2013
	 1	 January	2013	 	 	 31	December	2013
    
 Outstanding  Exercisable     Outstanding  Exercisable
  Date of Grant options options Granted Lapsed Exercised options options 
  Year-end 31 December 2004       
  7 April 2004 - 40,000 - - - - 40,000
  Year-end 31 December 2012       
  24 September 2012 470,000 - - 100,000 - 370,000 -
  16 November 2012 916,666 - - - - 916,666 -
  Year-end 31 December 2013       
  18 November 2013 - - 66,000 - - 66,000 -
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the exercisable options is 671 days.
Calculation of the fair value:
  Share     Risk-free Fair
 Valuation price Exercise Expected Expected Expected interest value
Options	 model	 at	grant	 price	 v olatility	 life	 dividends	 rate	 of	1	unit	
       
  Year-end 31 December 2004        
  7 April 2004 Binomial 60.5p 0p 45.13% 3 years 3.67% 4.92% 56.76p
  Year-end 31 December 2012        
  24 September 2012 Monte Carlo 17.25p 0p 30.00% 3 years 2.50% 0.315% 9.40p
  16 November 2012 Monte Carlo 18.00p 0p 30.00% 3 years 2.50% 0.283% 9.80p
  Year-end 31 December 2013        
  18 November 2013 Monte Carlo 23.25p 0p 30.00% 3 years 2.00% 0.7031% 12.48p
Performance Criteria
EMI share options granted to employees in 2004 are subject to the employees remaining in the employment of the Group over 
a three year vesting period, after which time the options are exercisable.
Under the Rules of the 2012 LTIP, the number of awards that can be exercised and will convert into nil-cost options at the end 
of the three year performance, which runs from 1 January of the year in which they are granted, is dependent on the following 
two performance conditions:
1.  A comparison of the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) over a three year period commencing on the first day of 
the financial year in which the date of grant falls against a comparator group of companies, comprising the constituents of 
the FTSE Fledgling Index; and
2.  The average growth of the Company’s basic earnings per share in the three year period following grant compared to the 
earnings per share in the year prior to the date of grant (i.e. the year ended 31 December 2011 for the options granted in 
2012 and 31 December 2012 for the options granted in 2013). DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
88
The number of vesting nil-cost options in the 2012 LTIP will be calculated for all participants by reference to the value created 
for Shareholders over the performance period. 
The value created for Shareholders will be based on the increase in the Net Return Index (which reflects movements in share 
price plus dividends reinvested on a net basis (without any associated tax credit) in shares on the ex-dividend date) for a 
company over the performance period and will be calculated based on the value created during the period between the three 
months ending on the last day of the performance period and the three months ending on the date of grant of an option. 
Further details of the units granted are provided in the section on Directors’ Share Options in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report.
Valuation Methodologies
In order to calculate fair values of the options the Company has taken into account those factors knowledgeable, willing 
market participants would consider in valuing the options.
The fair values of the EMI options to employees with no additional market conditions were estimated using a Binomial option 
pricing model. 
The awards granted under the 2012 LTIP, where the potential number of nil-cost options vesting will be dependent upon the 
absolute return to Shareholders over the performance period was calculated using a Monte Carlo Simulation model. The total 
fair value of all units granted to participants in the LTIP was £132,850. 
Volatility Assumptions
Annualised expected volatility of all the options and units granted under the LTIP were determined by calculating the average 
of standard deviations of daily continuously compounded returns of the share price for the Company and the constituents of 
the comparator group calculated over three years back from the date of grant of each instrument.
The dividend yield used in the Monte Carlo model is based on an average yield over the Company’s last five financial years.
Options Outstanding
The weighted average exercise price of the options outstanding at 31 December 2013 was 11.17p (2012: 10.98p). 
29 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
29. 1	 Inter -compan y	 T ransactions
Balances and transactions between the Company, DRS Data and Research Services plc, and its subsidiary, DRS Data Services 
Limited, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Transactions 
between the Company and its subsidiary are disclosed in Note 41.
29.2 Transactions with Joint Arrangements
Electoral Reform Services Limited (ERS) works with DRS Data Services Limited in a joint arrangement as IntElect® to deliver 
the 2012 London Mayor and Assembly elections making ERS a related party. No amounts were outstanding between the two 
parties either at 31 December 2013 or at 31 December 2012. Further details about IntElect® are included in Note 4.
29.3	 T ransactions	 with	Key	Management	P ersonnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out in Note 8. 
The Group paid a dividend of 0.4p per share on 24 May 2013, of which £2,160 was paid to A M Tebbutt who is a Director of  
the Company.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
89
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The financial statements were approved by The Board of Directors on 31 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
S J Gowers  A M Tebbutt
Chief Executive Officer  Finance Director
DRS Data and Research Services plc | Registered Company Number: 0959401
 31 December  31 December
  2013 2012
 Notes £000  £000
  Assets
  Non-current assets   
  Property, plant and equipment 32 2,472 2,547
  Investment in subsidiaries 33 3,814 3,814
  6,286 6,361
  Current assets
  Trade and other receivables 34 102 108
  Cash and cash equivalents 35 3,289 3,516
  3,391 3,624
  Total assets  9,677 9,985
		Equity
		 Capital	and	r eserv es	attributable	 to	 the	 C ompan y ’ s	equity	holders   
  Share capital 36 1731 1731
  Share premium account 37 5,377 5,377
  Capital redemption reserve 37 115 115
  Treasury shares 37 (1,166) (1,166)
  Own shares reserve 37 (306) (306)
  Retained earnings  2,080 1,070
		 T otal	Equity  7,831 6,821
  Liabilities
  Non-current liabilities   
  Deferred income tax liabilities 38 112 136
  112 136
  Current liabilities   
  Trade and other payables 39 1,734 2,972
  Current income tax liabilities  - 56
  1,734 3,028
  Total liabilities  1,846 3,164
		 T otal	equity	and	liabilities  9,677 9,985    Share  Capital  Own   
	 Shar e	 pr emium	 r edemption	 T r easury	 shar es	 R etained	
 capital account reserve shares reserve  earnings Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
  At 1 January 2012 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (313) 340 6,084
  Dividends  - - - - - (111) (111)
  Own share vesting - - - - 7 (7) -
  Transactions with owners - - - - 7 (118) (111)
  Profit for the period - - - - - 148 148
  Dividend received from subsidiary - - - - - 700 700
  Total comprehensive income for  - - - - - 848 848
  the period 
  At 31 December 2012 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 1,070 6,821
  At 1 January 2013 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 1,070 6,821
  Dividends  - - - - - (127) (127)
  Employee share-based  - - - - - 11 11 
  compensation 
  Transactions with owners - - - - - (116) (116)
  Profit for the period - - - - - 226 226
  Dividend received from subsidiary - - - - - 900 900
  Total comprehensive income for  - - - - - 1,126 1,126 
  the period
  At 31 December 2013 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 2,080 7,831
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
90
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY   2013 2012
 Notes £000  £000
  Cash flows from operating activities
  Profit for the period  1,126 848
  Adjustments for: 
     Income tax        (80) 38
     Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  32 75 72
     Exchange loss/(gain) on cash holdings   3 (5)
     Interest income   (14) (19)
     Interest expense  3 81
     Decrease / (increase) in trade and other receivables  6 (30)
     Increase / (decrease) in trade and other payables   628 798
     Decrease in short-term borrowings  32 (1,855) -
     Decrease in long-term borrowings   - (1,630)
  Cash (used in) / generated from operations  (108) 153
  Interest paid  (3) (81)
  Income tax paid  - (57)
  Net cash used in operating activities  (3) (138) 
  Cash flows from investing activities       
  Purchases of property, plant and equipment  - (36)
  Interest received  14 19
  Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities  14 (17)
  Cash flows from financing activities     
  Dividends paid to Shareholders  (127) (111)
  Repayment of loan  - (226)
  Net cash used in financing activities  (127) (337)
		Net	 decr ease	in	cash	and	cash	equivalents	 	 (22 4)	 (339)
  Exchange (decrease)/increase on cash  (3) 6
  Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  3,516 3,849
  Cash and cash equivalents at end of period  3,289 3,516
85
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
91
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
92
PARENT
COMPANY
NOTES NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
93
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
PARENT COMPANY NOTES
30 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
These financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company 
are the same as the Group’s accounting policies; see Note 2 
for details, subject to the following additions:
30. 1 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost less 
accumulated impairment.
30.2	 FINANCIAL	RISK	F A CT ORS
The Company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial 
risks.  The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing 
each of these risks and they are summarised below:
a) Market Risk
i) Currency Risk
The Company manages the cash requirements for 
subsidiaries that operate internationally and are subject 
to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency 
exposures, primarily with respect to the US Dollar and the 
Euro.  The Company does not hedge any transactions, and 
foreign exchange differences on re-translation of foreign 
assets and liabilities are recognised in the Income Statement.
Wherever possible the Company looks to transact its affairs 
in Sterling. 
ii) Interest Rate Risk
The Company finances its operations through a mixture 
of Shareholders’ funds and bank loans. At the year-end 
the Company does not hold any bank loans and is not 
considered to have any interest rate risk. 
iii) Investment Risk
The Board considers security of the principal investment to 
be a greater priority than the rate of return on investment as 
interest rates are so low compared to the general economic 
uncertainty of the financial sector. With this in mind, three 
banks are used to deposit the Company’s cash holding, 
thereby spreading the risk of loss as a consequence of a   
 bank failure.
b) Credit Risk
The Company does not have any trade receivables and 
therefore has minimum credit risk.  
c) Liquidity Risk
The Company takes a prudent approach to managing 
liquidity risk to ensure sufficient cash is available to meet 
foreseeable needs and to finance safely the successful 
completion of large-scale contracts within the Group, 
thereby minimising liquidity risk issues. 
30.3 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT 
DRS Data and Research Services plc manages all share-based 
arrangements for the Group. The basis of calculation for the 
cost of these share-based payments is set out in Note 28. 
Participants of the share-based payment arrangements are 
the holding Company Executive Directors, the Company 
Secretary and the subsidiary Company, DRS Data Services 
Limited, Executive Directors. The calculated cost is then 
charged out as a service to the relevant subsidiary.
30.4 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
It is the policy of the Group that subsidiary companies are 
expected to pass up distributable retained earnings to the 
holding Company, DRS Data and Research Services plc as 
dividends as soon as practical. 
31 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
DRS Data and Research Services plc has not presented its 
own Income Statement and related notes as permitted 
by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The increase 
in reserves for the year was £1,126,000 (2012: £848,000) 
which included £900,000 of dividend (2012: £700,000). 
The trading profit for the financial year in the Financial 
Statements of the Parent Company is £226,000 (2012: 
£148,000).
The costs of Directors’ remuneration and share payments 
are borne by DRS Data Services Limited. The details to which 
are disclosed in Note 8. 32  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Bank borrowings held by DRS Data Services Limited are secured on the Linford Wood land and buildings for the value of 
£1,731,000 (2012: £1,855,000). See Note 20.
33 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
At	31	December	2013	 the	principal	subsidiary	undertaking	 of	 the	 C ompan y	 was	as	 follows:
The net book amount of the investment in DRS Data Services Limited at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012   
is £3,814,000.
  Freehold
  land & Fixtures
 Total buildings & fittings
 £000 £000 £000
  At	1	 January	2012
  Cost  3,132 2,900 232
  Accumulated depreciation (549) (320) (229)
  Net book amount 2,583 2,580 3
		For	 the	 y ear	ended	31 	December	2012
  Opening net amount at 1 January 2012 2,583 2,580 3
  Additions 36 - 36
  Depreciation charge (72) (67) (5)
  Closing net book amount at 31 December 2012 2,547 2,513 34
  At 31 December 2012
  Cost  3,168 2,900 268
  Accumulated depreciation (621) (387) (234)
  Net book amount 2,547 2,513 34
  For	 the	 y ear	ended	31 	December	2013
  Opening net amount at 1 January 2013 2,547 2,513 34
  Depreciation charge (75) (67) (8)
  Closing net book amount at 31 December 2013 2,472 2,446 26
  At 31 December 2013
  Cost  3,168 2,900 268
  Accumulated depreciation (696) (454) (242)
  Net book amount 2,472 2,446 26
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
94
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  C ountry	 of	 	 	 	 	 		
  incorporation  
Name	 of	 C ompan y	 	 and	 operation	 Shar eholding	 Main	activity
  DRS Data Services Limited  UK 100% Provision of data capture   
    services, manufacture  
    and sale of optical and 
    image scanning equipment 34  TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
There is no material difference between the fair value and carrying value of these assets.
There are no trade receivables.
35 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
The Company’s approach to managing liquidity and currency risks is in accordance with the Group’s, details of which are set 
out in Note 3.1.
The table below shows the extent to which the Company has monetary assets in currencies other than Sterling.
36 SHARE CAPITAL
See Note 16 for details of the share capital of the Company.
37 OTHER RESERVES
See Note 17 for details of the other reserves of the Company.
          
 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 
  2013 2013 2012 2012
  US Dollars Euro  US Dollars Euro
   £000 £000 £000 £000
  Sterling equivalent  1 - 1 -
  
  31 December 31 December 
  2013 2012
  £000 £000
  Current loans and receivables
  Prepayments and accrued income  102 108
  102 108
PARENT COMPANY NOTES
95
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
  31 December 31 December 
  2013 2012
  £000 £000
  Cash at bank and in hand  3,289 3,516 DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
96
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for	 the	 y ear	ended	31	December	2013
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
38 DEFERRED INCOME TAX
The	mo v ement	in	 the	 y ear	in	 the	 C ompan y ’ s	net	 deferr ed	 tax	position	 was	as	 follows:
The	 following	are	 the	major	 deferr ed	 tax	liabilities	and	assets	r ecognised	by	 the	 C ompan y	and	 the	mo v ements	 ther eon	
during the period:
39 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
The mortgage was extended in January 2013 and reallocated to the subsidiary company, DRS Data Services Limited. At the end 
of the year the Company had no borrowings.
  31 December 31 December 
  2013 2012
  £000 £000
   Analysis for financial reporting purposes  
  Deferred tax liabilities  112 136
  112 136
          
     Accelerated tax  Revaluation 
	 	 	 	 	 depr eciation		 of	pr operty	 T otal
      £000 £000 £000
   At 1 January 2013     124 12 136
  Charge to income for the year     (22) (2) (24)
  At 31 December 2013     102 10 112
  
  31 December 31 December 
  2013 2012
  £000 £000
  At 1 January  136 154
  Charge to income for the year  (24) (18)
  At 31 December  112 136
  31 December 31 December 
  2013 2012
  £000 £000
  Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost  
  Amounts owed to Group undertakings  1,621 1,006
  Accrued expenses  113 111
  1,734 1,117
  Borrowings  - 1,855
  1,734 2,972 40 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Categories of financial assets and liabilities.
The	carrying	amounts	pr esented	in	 the	statement	 of	 financial	position	r elating	 to	 the	 following	categories	 of	assets	and	
liabilities are:
Fair value of the Financial Instruments equates to their carrying value.
41 INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS
DRS Data and Research Services plc provided £705,000 (2012: £760,000) of services to its subsidiaries during 2013. It did not 
make any purchases from them.
The Company has provided cross Company guarantees for the borrowing facilities of its subsidiary DRS Data Services Limited. 
          
       31 December  31 December
       2013 2012
      Note £000 £000
  Financial assets 
  Loans and other receivables  
  - Trade and other receivables     34 102 108
  - Cash and cash equivalents     35 3,289 3,516
      3,391 3,624
  Financial liabilities 
  Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
  Current  
  - Trade and other payables     39 (1,734) (1,117)
  - Borrowings      - (1,855)
      (1,734) (2,972)
PARENT COMPANY NOTES
97
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
   DRS Data
   Services Limited
   £000
  At 31 December 2012  
  Amounts owed to subsidiary   (1,006)
  At 31 December 2013  
  Amounts owed to subsidiary   (1,621) DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
98
DIRECTORS Sir David Brown, Chairman *
   Alison Reed *#
   John Linwood *
   Dame Sandra Dawson*
   Steve Gowers 
   Mark Tebbutt
    
   * Non-Executive Director
   #Senior Independent Director
COMPANY SECRETARY Sally Hopwood
REGISTERED OFFICE 1 Danbury Court
   Linford Wood
   Milton Keynes
   Buckinghamshire
   MK14 6LR
ST OCKBR OKERS Arden Partners plc
   125 Old Broad Street
   London
   EC2N 1AR
AUDITOR Grant	 Thornton	 UK	LLP
   Registered Auditors and Chartered Accountants
   Grant Thornton House
   202 Silbury Boulevard
   Central Milton Keynes
   Buckinghamshire
   MK9 1LW
PRINCIP AL	BANKERS Bar clays	Bank	plc
   Barclays Corporate
   Ashton House
   497 Silbury Boulevard
   Milton Keynes
   MK9 2LD
REGISTRARS Equiniti Ltd
   Aspect House
   Spencer Road
   Lancing
   West Sussex
   BN99 6DA DRS Data and Research Services plc
1 Danbury Court
Linford Wood
Milton Keynes
Buckinghamshire 
MK14 6LR
United Kingdom
Telephone:  +44 (0)1908 666088    
Fax:  +44 (0)1908 607668   
Email:  enquiries@drs.co.uk
    
www.drs.co.uk
