 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2
As a business we continue to focus on solutions 
that provide for large-scale, secure capture and 
processing of high-stakes data.
A key objective 
for the business is 
the delivery of new 
products, features and 
related professional 
services
“
“
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
At a Glance 3
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our Business Model 5
Chairman’s Statement 6
Chief Executive’s Statement 8
• Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 14
• Principal Risks and Uncertainties 16
Report on Corporate Responsibility 18
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board of Directors 22
Directors’ Report 24
• Corporate Governance Statement 28
Directors’ Remuneration Report 2014 34
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 50
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members   
of DRS Data and Research Services plc 52
Consolidated Income Statement 56
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 57
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 58
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 59
Notes to the Financial Statements 60
Parent Company Statement of Financial Position 90
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 91
Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows 92
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 93
Directors and Advisers 99 3
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
AT A GLANCE
DRS is a specialist provider of automated data capture 
technology and solutions in the UK and overseas to 
three market sectors: Education, Elections and Census.
DRS specialises in providing sophisticated scanning and software data capture technologies, and solutions for 
education, elections and censuses all over the world. Our many years of experience in the field of data capture 
and our unique combination of skills enables us to deliver complete solutions designed to meet market and 
customer demands. 
As a business we continue to focus on solutions that provide for large-scale secure capture and processing of high-stakes data, 
primarily from manually completed, paper-based forms and the output of the results to a fixed schedule. These results might 
be election counts, census results or examination marks. Two of the markets, Census and Elections, offer opportunities that, 
while they are high value are, by their nature, non-recurring and tend to be project based requiring specific customisation. 
By contrast, events in the Education market such as examinations are regular and repeatable and offer the opportunity for 
recurring revenue streams. We have a particular objective to maintain a stable UK revenue stream and increase revenue from 
the international education market. 
 2014 2013
 £000 £000
Turnover 13,684 18,095
(Loss)/profit before tax (1,951) 1,269
Cash reserves 3,612 3,680
Earnings per share  4.90p 4.38p 
Research and Development spend 2,966 2,484
Education revenue 13,027 15,450
Non-Education revenue 657 2,645
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
KEY MARKETS
EDUCATION
For over four decades DRS has 
supported awarding bodies, assessment 
authorities, schools, colleges and 
universities in the UK and in selected 
overseas markets, providing secure data 
capture and examination processing 
products and specialist services.
ELECTIONS
DRS provides an end-to-end solution 
for electronically counted elections 
including form design and printing, 
hardware, software, project support and 
training. We cover statutory and non-
statutory elections including national 
parliamentary elections, legislative 
and local council elections as well as 
employee and trade union ballots.
CENSUS
DRS Census services provide data 
capture solutions for large-scale 
censuses including paper-based national 
or regional population censuses and 
specialised industrial, commercial and 
agricultural censuses. Any census is a 
complex undertaking presenting many 
challenges, especially concerning the 
collection and dissemination of the data.
FINANCIAL SUMMARY DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
4
STRATEGIC
REPORT In the education market, for over four decades, DRS has 
supported awarding bodies, assessment authorities, 
universities, colleges and schools internationally with its 
secure examination processing data capture and marking 
solutions. In the UK the Company has provided electronic 
marking solutions for high-stakes, high-volume general 
qualifications such as GCSE and GCE A-level examinations 
since 2002. 
The Company provides end-to-end hardware and software 
solutions for the electronic capture and counting of election 
ballots and the electronic capture of census data. It also 
provides a specialised capability for the secure printing of 
examination scripts, election ballots and census forms. 
Since its formation the Company has become a name to 
trust for the delivery of time-critical, large-scale, logistically 
challenging projects, with experience gained through the 
delivery of substantial projects at a national level in the UK, 
Africa, the Middle-East and Asia. 
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
DRS is a specialist 
provider of automated 
time-critical data capture 
technology solutions 
to governments, 
education authorities 
and commercial 
organisations. 
5
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
 STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Principal Activities 
The Group had a difficult 2014, resulting in a significant 
downturn in revenue and profit. Group revenue for the 
year was £13,684,000 (2013: £18,095,000) and there was 
a £1,951,000 loss before tax after providing for £813,000 
(2013: £nil) of impairment charges on the Linford Wood 
property compared to a profit before tax of £1,269,000 
in 2013.
The basic loss per share was 4.90p (2013: basic earnings 
per share 4.38p). Cash holdings at the end of 2014 were 
£3,612,000 (2013: £3,680,000). The Board recommends 
that no final dividend be paid (2013: 0.4p per share).
The Group suffered three substantial setbacks. The 
structural changes to academic qualifications in the UK 
secondary education market caused a decline in demand 
for examination marking services; sales were lower in 
the overseas education markets for the Group’s more 
established products and services, in particular scanners and 
printing; and the Group did not have any new large-scale 
census or election projects in the year. 
As a result, UK education revenue decreased by 6.6% 
to £9,872,000 (2013: £10,570,000) and international 
education revenue decreased by 35.3% to £3,155,000 (2013: 
£4,880,000). Overall education revenue reduced by 15.7% 
to £13,027,000 (2013: £15,450,000).
The absence of new large-scale census and election projects 
in the year resulted in a decrease in non-Education revenue 
to £657,000 (2013: £2,645,000).
The reduced profitability resulting from the downturn in the 
Group’s general level of business activity has necessitated 
an impairment of the value of business assets carried on the 
balance sheet, in accordance with International Accounting 
Standards. This has resulted in the value of the Linford Wood 
property, the Group’s head office location, being reduced 
to its most recent commercial valuation of £1,600,000, 
being a reduction of £813,000 which is recognised as a 
non-cash impairment charge to the Income Statement. This 
adjustment was made in June 2014 and was reflected in the 
half year results.
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
6
 STRATEGIC REPORT
Sir David Brown
Chairman The Board
No changes were made to the Board of Directors in 2014 but 
two are foreseeable in 2015. I will be retiring from the Board 
when my present term expires, at the conclusion of the 2015 
AGM, having by then served for nearly seven years including 
six years as Chairman. The process to select my successor is 
under way. After completing his full term as a non-Executive 
Director, John Linwood will be retiring at the conclusion of 
the 2015 AGM and the Board thanks him for his service.
Outlook
The Board intends to continue to pursue a strategy of 
progressively strengthening and exploiting its software-based 
services business model so as to maintain its position in the 
UK market and seizing opportunities for diversification in 
selected education markets overseas, with a particular focus 
on core examination processing solutions.
In line with this strategic focus, in March 2015 we were 
pleased to announce a new three year contract with one of 
our principal customers in the UK, AQA Education, which 
extends our relationship to 23 March 2018.
Following the downturn in 2014 the Group implemented 
appropriate cost saving measures to better align operating 
costs with the reduced level of revenue. These measures 
are expected to stabilise the business and underpin a better 
performance in 2015.
Sir David Brown
Chairman
7 April 2015
7
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
MARKETS
DRS is a specialist provider of automated data 
capture technology and solutions in the UK and 
overseas to three main market sectors: Education, 
and non-Education consisting mainly of Elections 
and Census. 
The Group’s core business is the delivery of time-critical, 
large-scale, logistically challenging solutions for examination 
processing, elections and population censuses. We implement 
complete solutions using our extensive expertise in document 
design, printing, forms scanning, software development, 
logistics, project management and consultancy. 
The combination of software products, professional 
services, scanner technology and specialised printing of 
forms, provides clients with robust end-to-end solutions 
for major data capture and processing projects. 
The provision of services, scanning technology and printed 
forms provides the common link between the three 
distinct market sectors in which the Group operates. 
Specialised software has been created for each market 
sector which is combined with the above elements to 
produce the large-scale solutions which the Group sells.
 Education
For over four decades DRS has supported awarding bodies, 
assessment authorities, schools, colleges and universities 
in the UK and in selected overseas markets, providing 
secure data capture and examination processing products 
and specialist services.
DRS is the provider of the longest established online 
examination marking service in the UK. Awarding bodies and 
professional bodies have been using electronic marking to 
mark high-stakes, high-volume general qualifications such 
as GCSE and GCE A-level examinations since 2002. AQA 
Education, a leading UK provider of academic qualifications, 
remains the Group’s largest customer overall, among a range 
of awarding bodies and other examining entities in the UK 
and overseas.
The products and services provided by the Group 
include:
•  Software: DRS marking and examination software 
including e-Marker® software for online electronic 
examination marking and Multiple Choice 
Questionnaire (MCQ) marking software;
•  Services: full service bureau operations in the UK, 
providing secure receipt and storage of scripts, 
scanning and imaging of completed exam answer 
booklets and electronic delivery of online marking, 
as well as on-site professional services for client’s in-
house operations or to support partners delivering such 
services overseas;
•  Scanning equipment : DRS PhotoScribe® PS900 series 
scanners: robust, high speed, network-ready form 
scanners able to capture complex data in real-time; and
•  Printed forms: production of bespoke examination 
scripts including fully optimised examiner answer and 
mark sheets for electronic capture, exam entry and 
registration forms incorporating photo capture and 
MCQ answer forms and exam marking forms.
Steve Gowers 
CEO
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
8
 STRATEGIC REPORT  Elections
DRS provides an end-to-end solution for electronically 
counted elections including ballot design and printing, 
hardware, software, project support and training. We cover 
statutory and non-statutory elections including national 
parliamentary elections, legislative and local council elections 
as well as employee and trade union ballots.
We have developed knowledge and expertise through the delivery 
of national and local elections in a number of markets including 
Europe, Africa and the Middle-East. In 2012 DRS, working in 
conjunction with ERS (Electoral Reform Services Limited) under 
the name IntElect®, provided the technology and expertise for the 
electronic counting of ballots in London for the Mayor of London 
and London Assembly elections, the third time since 2000 that 
the Group has delivered this election. Taking place every four 
years, this is one of the most complex elections in the UK, with  
5.8 million voters and three ballot papers per voter. In 2014 
we were pleased to announce that IntElect® was awarded the 
contract to deliver the forthcoming election in 2016.
DRS Election software, scanning equipment and services 
include the following:
•  Softwar e: electronic counting (e-Counting) solutions for 
statutory and non-statutory elections including national 
elections, local and regional council elections and by-elections;
•  Services: provision of professional and technical services 
and project management for complex election projects;
•  Scanning equipment: DRS PhotoScribe® PS900 series 
scanners for ballot scanning and for voter registration; and
•  Printed forms: ballot paper design and forms production. 
 Census
DRS Census services provide data capture solutions for 
large-scale censuses including paper-based national or 
regional population censuses and specialised industrial, 
commercial and agricultural censuses. Any census is 
a complex undertaking presenting many challenges, 
especially concerning the collection and dissemination of 
the data.
The Group has delivered national population censuses 
around the world, with several in Africa including Nigeria, 
Ethiopia, Malawi, Sudan, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Tanzania. 
In 2013 we signed a long-term agreement with the United 
Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) which provides a 
framework for census contracts in the future. The first sale 
under that agreement was a contract for the provision of a 
solution for the Myanmar census, which DRS successfully 
completed during 2014. 
We recognise that every census project is different and 
that market requirements are constantly changing. DRS 
has therefore developed a flexible, adaptable solution 
combined with proven and innovative data capture 
methods and technology. The Group is able to provide 
complete bespoke solutions, including:
•  Software: customised census software to handle 
Optical Mark Recognition (OMR), Intelligent Character 
Recognition (ICR), barcode and image; 
•  Services: provision of professional and technical services 
and project management to cover all stages of a project 
from planning through to project implementation, 
document scanning of enumeration/census forms 
using DRS PhotoScribe® PS900 series scanners, data 
STRATEGIC REPORT
9
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL
The Group’s core business is the delivery of time-critical, 
large-scale, logistically challenging solutions for examination 
processing, elections and population censuses in the UK and 
overseas. Such solutions depend, in different combinations on 
the Group’s expertise in document design, printing, scanning of 
forms, software development, logistics, project management 
and consultancy. The software element has, over time, become 
increasingly important such that the Group’s core strategy is to 
develop its software-based services business. The Group’s product 
development programmes reflect that strategy and currently the 
Group is directing its principal software development effort into 
products for its education solutions and is continuing to invest in 
the competitiveness of its scanners.
Education
Our core education business focuses on the delivery of solutions 
for student registration and examination processing and the 
electronic marking of high-stakes, high-volume examinations.
The business strategy is focussed on carefully selected 
geographies that the Group feels represent the best opportunities 
for growth for DRS’ education products and services, with a 
particular focus on Africa and India, including both secondary and 
higher education examination processing. 
The education market is a particular focus because it offers 
regular and repeatable business opportunities arising from the 
annual cycle of examinations. The Group’s view is that these 
markets offer the necessary scale of opportunity, in terms of 
numbers of students, student volume growth and examination 
volumes to meet DRS’ growth aspirations. Africa in particular 
is a market in which the business has built strong relationships 
over many years with both public and private sector specialist 
organisations, including national and regional awarding, 
assessment and educational bodies and government institutions.
Key drivers include the size and growth of the student populations 
in these markets, the investment being made in education 
by governments and individuals and the potential benefits 
that electronic marking offers as a replacement for what are 
predominantly manual processes in the majority of overseas 
markets. These benefits include enhancements to the data 
collection process by reducing transportation of answer booklets, 
improvements in marking quality and better use of markers 
through targeted allocation and re-allocation of scripts and real-
time monitoring of marking, the removal of bias and improved 
administration and reporting of the marking process.
The e-Marker® solution provides awarding bodies with the 
functionality for Item Level Marking, allowing a script to 
be split into individual questions which may be marked by 
different examiners. Such a solution offers the potential for 
improvements in efficiency and accuracy in marking and 
the reduction of the influence of a single examiner over a 
whole script.
It is our intention to offer these services and solutions, 
including the e-Marker® electronic marking solution, either 
directly or in conjunction with carefully selected strategic 
partners in each of our markets. 
The business model in the UK is based on direct sales and 
the delivery model is to offer a full bureau service, including 
script handling, scanning and image preparation for electronic 
marking and the delivery of online marking services to 
exam markers through the e-Marker® software as a service, 
supported by DRS staff. 
In the overseas markets the services which support the use 
of e-Marker® may be offered directly or delivered through 
selected service provider partners to provide script handling, 
scanning and electronic marking services. We are currently 
working with a number of partners in Africa and India to 
develop these services and future growth opportunities 
will arise from the development of these channels, both to 
grow volume with existing customers and to open up new 
opportunities when applicable.
The licence model that DRS uses for e-Marker® is to charge a 
recurring fee, with a per-transaction (per-examination script) 
charge applied for the use of the licence. Other DRS solutions, 
such as MCQ may be licenced to clients for an up-front initial 
licence fee. 
Elections and Census
In addition to the recurring opportunities offered by the 
education market, the Group is also continuing to pursue 
large-scale, one-off opportunities in the elections and census 
markets, based on DRS software applications and the Group’s 
PhotoScribe® scanners. The focus is on national population 
censuses in selected markets, voter registration and ballot 
counting for large statutory and non-statutory elections.
Our customers require a combination of data capture, 
processing and reporting solutions as well as the delivery of 
related services which include technology infrastructure design, 
operational training, document printing, scanning and data 
handling. These solutions and services in combination result in 
the provision of a full end-to-end service.
A key factor in the Census market is that it is subject to a 
decennial cycle, with the majority of censuses being clustered 
on or around the decade end. Outside of those peaks there 
are markedly fewer projects, limited to those countries which 
have not held a census for some time or decide to carry out 
an intercensal population survey. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
10
 STRATEGIC REPORT
processing and export of the data to a chosen analysis 
package for complex census projects;
•  Scanning equipment: DRS PhotoScribe® PS900 series 
scanners; and
•  Printed forms: enumeration/census forms design and 
printing.  OBJECTIVES
As a business we continue to focus on solutions that provide 
for large-scale, secure capture and processing of high-stakes 
data, primarily from manually completed, paper-based 
forms and the output of the results to a fixed timetable. 
These results might be election counts, census results or 
examination marks. Elections and Census, offer opportunities 
that, while they are high value are, by their nature, non-
recurring and tend to be project based requiring specific 
customisation. By contrast, events in the Education market 
such as examinations are regular and repeatable and offer 
the opportunity for recurring revenue streams. Because of 
this we have a particular objective to increase revenue from 
the education market. 
A key objective for the business continues to be the delivery 
of new products and related professional services and the 
Group is continuing to invest in Research and Development 
(R&D) in line with its multi-year development and 
implementation programme for the release and roll-out of 
the new e-Marker® platform with a focus on new business 
and, over the long-term, the transition of existing clients 
from the legacy product to the new platform. 
In the census and elections markets the primary objective is 
to continue to successfully meet all the milestones for the 
multi-year project with the Greater London Authority (GLA) 
for the delivery of the 2016 Mayor of London and London 
Assembly elections.
As a result of the current market conditions, in the short-
term a particular focus will be on actions to increase 
resilience in the business through appropriate cost saving 
measures and robust cash management.
OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
The Group had a difficult year in 2014, achieving overall 
revenue for the year of £13,684,000 (2013: £18,095,000) 
and a loss before tax prior to the exceptional item, as 
disclosed in Note 10, of £1,138,000 (2013: profit before tax 
£1,269,000). 
2014 saw a reduction in Education revenue overall of 15.7% to 
£13,027 ,000 (2013: £15,450,000). The structural changes to 
academic qualifications in the UK secondary education market 
caused a decline in demand for examination marking services, 
which resulted in a reduction in UK Education revenue of 6.6% 
to £9,872,000 (2013: £10,570,000). Challenging economic 
conditions in the overseas market for the Group’s traditional 
scanner and print sales, in particular in Africa, resulted in a 
lack of MCQ opportunities and reduced scanner sales. The 
weaker performance in these markets resulted in a reduction 
in International Education revenue to £3,155,000 (2013: 
£4,880,000).
In the Group’s non-Education markets, while an overall 
reduction in revenue was anticipated, the Group had identified 
a prospective international census project that was expected 
to complete during the year. Such projects are usually large-
scale opportunities generating up to £1,000,000 or more 
in revenue. However during the year the prospective client 
decided to undertake their count manually. In the absence 
of any other large-scale projects, this resulted in reduced 
census and election revenue for the year of £585,000 (2013: 
£2,043,000).
UK SALES
UK sales overall in 2014 were £9,892,000, a reduction of 
6.9% (2013: £10,620,000) as a result of the above-mentioned 
market conditions.
We continue to work with AQA and our other UK clients to 
support the transition in their business which is arising from 
the government’s plans to reform GCSEs and A-levels. These 
reforms will see the removal of modularisation, a move to a 
numerical grading system and the abolition of course work. 
The plans are for selected subjects to be ready for teaching in 
2015 and the first exams to take place in 2016 and 2017 .
In the UK, electronic marking has been widely adopted for 
general qualifications, with around two thirds of all scripts 
being marked on-screen. In conjunction with the current 
examination reforms, there are industry wide initiatives by 
the awarding bodies to increase the proportion of scripts 
marked electronically. During 2014 DRS provided electronic 
marking services for the majority of AQA’s GCSEs and A-level 
scripts, for which DRS was paid a fee covering the service 
bureau operations for the scanning and imaging of scripts 
and for the delivery of DRS’ online marking solution. The 
remaining volume, which was deemed to be unsuitable for 
Item Level Marking, has historically been marked manually 
and the results stored in e-Marker®, for which a reduced fee 
is charged.
STRATEGIC REPORT
11
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
EDUCATION COMMERCIAL ELECTIONS AND 
CENSUS
TOTAL
£000’s 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
UK Sales 9,872 10,570 19 39 1 11 9,892 10,620
International Sales 3,155 4,880 53 563 584 2,032 3,792 7,475
Total 13,027 15,450 72 602 585 2,043 13,684 18,095 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
On 24 March 2015, we were pleased to announce a new 
agreement with AQA Education, a leading UK provider of 
academic qualifications, for the provision of e-Marker® 
examination software and services. DRS recognises that in 
providing these services we compete with other suppliers 
and that AQA has introduced a multi-supplier model which 
will enable them to reduce manual marking and increase the 
percentage of scripts they mark electronically, while at the 
same time mitigating supplier risk. Over the three year term 
of the new agreement DRS will remain the primary provider 
delivering the majority of the electronic marking volume 
to AQA, with the principal focus continuing to be on the 
provision of Item Level Marking services. 
INTERNATIONAL SALES
As expected, during 2014 DRS saw lower demand from 
overseas markets and as a result of a combination of the 
absence of any large-scale elections and census projects 
and weak demand for traditional scanner and print business, 
particularly in Africa, international sales overall were 
significantly reduced in comparison with prior years, with 
revenue of £3,792,000 (2013: £7 ,475,000). 
DIVIDEND POLICY
The Board follows a dividend policy which provides a return 
to Shareholders whilst retaining sufficient cash to continue to 
fund the development of the Group’s products. 
As a consequence of trading conditions in 2014, the Directors 
do not propose the payment of a final dividend (2013: 0.4p).
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Research and development continues to be a fundamental 
part of DRS’ strategy. A structured programme of work to 
generate new products for our education business and the 
PhotoScribe® scanners has resulted in a significant level of 
expenditure in 2014. A breakdown of the investment over 
2013 and 2014 is set out in the tables below:
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
12
 STRATEGIC REPORT
2014
Income 
Statement 
Expense
£000
Balance Sheet 
Expenditure
Capitalised
£000
Customer 
Projects 
in Progress
£000
Total 
£000
Software Research and Development 1,192 981 - 2,173
Hardware Research and Development 491 - 302* 793
Total cash spend 1,683 981 302* 2,966
Amortisation 135 - - 135
Total Research and Development cost 
(including amortisation)
1,818 981 302* 3,101
2013
Income 
Statement 
Expense
£000
Balance Sheet 
Expenditure
Capitalised
£000
Customer 
Projects 
in Progress
£000
Total 
£000
Software Research and Development 731 1,182 - 1,913
Hardware Research and Development 548 23 - 571
Total cash spend 1,279 1,205 - 2,484
Amortisation 105 - - 105
Total Research and Development cost 
(including amortisation)
1,384 1,205 - 2,589
* This amount is included within Trade and other receivables. e-Marker®
DRS’ largest development programme continues to 
be investment in its examination marking software 
solution, e-Marker®. 2014 saw the completion of the first 
components of the new e-Marker® platform, despite delays 
in development, which will provide improvements and 
new capabilities, including whole script marking, that will 
provide benefits to customers in the UK and internationally 
over the next few years. This is the foundation of a 
continuing development programme for DRS’ examination 
product suite, with the goal of enhancing and ultimately 
superseding the current e-Marker® product.
In 2015 further functional enhancements to the new 
e-Marker® platform will be developed based on the 
new platform.
PhotoScribe®
During 2014 development work continued on the next 
generation of PhotoScribe® scanning machines, a new 
platform for a range of machines that can handle larger 
documents than the current PS900 range. The new model, 
the PS1000, should demonstrate faster scanning throughput 
with greater paper handling tolerances and produce higher 
definition images. 
The new PhotoScribe® PS1000 scanner will go through 
a series of prototype and pre-production stages during 
the course of 2015 prior to commencing the initial 
manufacturing build stage, which will continue into 2016.
LIQUIDITY AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The Group held £3,612,000 in cash at the end of 2014 (2013: 
£3,680,000). A high-volume of sales during December 2013 
resulted in a year-end trade and other receivables balance 
of £4,056,000. Trade and other receivables have been 
reduced during 2014 to £1,452,000 and the cash inflow 
has offset the cash outflow resulting from the trading loss 
and the investment in developing new products. The Group 
continues to maintain its cash holding at such levels in order 
to have the funds available to support its working capital 
requirements and to be able to fund product development 
and deliver large election and census contracts. 
The Group’s policy continues to be to take a cautious 
approach to Treasury Management with a view to minimising 
its exposure to risk. Only short-term investments that do 
not put the capital at risk are considered and the Group’s 
cash holding is split between three banks to minimise 
exposure to potential risk associated with a bank failure. 
The Group’s principal bank through which normal business 
activity is transacted continues to be Barclays Bank plc. DRS 
Data Services Limited has a £250,000 overdraft facility and 
a £180,000 credit line to cover operational performance 
bonds required in the general line of business. In January 
2013 the Group extended its mortgage facility with Barclays 
Bank plc to 2018. The balance on this mortgage at the end of 
2014 was £1,506,000 (2013: £1,731,000).
In view of these arrangements the Directors believe the 
access to cash resources is adequate to meet liabilities as 
they fall due over the next 12 months.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Internal financial controls are based upon a budgetary 
process which begins with the Board agreeing a three year 
strategic plan detailing corporate objectives. The Board is 
then asked to approve an annual budget that is prepared 
by senior managers working with the Executive Directors 
which is in line with the corporate objectives agreed in 
the three year plan. A comprehensive strategic planning, 
budgeting and forecasting system is in place. Monthly 
financial information, including trading results and cash flow 
statements, are reported to the Board and management. 
Senior managers’ performance is then monitored against the 
agreed financial performance targets on a monthly basis. The 
overall approach is supported by detailed internal financial 
controls operated on a day-to-day basis on all aspects of 
the business. Proper accounting records are maintained and 
the reliability of management information, compliance with 
appropriate legislation and regulation and the identification 
and control of business risks are continually assessed. 
The Board considers that there is an effective ongoing 
process in place within the Company for identifying, 
understanding, evaluating and managing significant risks 
facing the Group. The Board meets monthly to review 
performance against budget and forecast and Mark Tebbutt, 
the Finance Director, regularly reviews the consolidation 
and analysis of material variances. The Audit Committee 
reviews the application of International Financial Reporting 
Standards and any significant accounting judgements made 
by management. The process remains in place at the date 
of approval of this report. It manages the risk of failure 
to achieve strategic objectives, and provides reasonable 
(though not absolute) assurances against material 
misstatement or loss.
Furthermore, the Board is satisfied that appropriate action is 
taken promptly to remedy significant weaknesses which may 
be identified.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and 
policies of the Group, and exposures to financial risks are 
given in Note 4.1 to the financial statements.
STRATEGIC REPORT
13
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs) 
The Company uses a number of performance indicators 
throughout the business to monitor the Group’s performance. 
The seven KPIs presented below are considered to be the main 
measures which monitor that performance is in line with the 
Group’s strategy covering 2010 to 2014.
1. Total Revenue
Revenue performance tracks the level of activity of the business. 
Monitoring revenue provides a means of measuring growth in 
the business. Elections and census projects tend to be large-
scale, infrequent and non-recurring and this leads to significant 
fluctuations in the Group’s revenue. The focus on examinations 
and assessment within education provides the opportunity to 
build a stable base of consistent recurring revenue. 
In 2014 there was a year-on-year decline of 24.4% in total 
revenue. UK revenue declined by 6.9% and international 
revenue declined by 49.3%. Changes to academic 
qualifications in the UK secondary education market caused 
a decline in examination marking services resulting in a fall in 
UK revenue. International markets proved more challenging 
with DRS experiencing reduced activity in all its international 
markets demonstrated by the absence of a census contract, 
MCQ contract and reduced levels of legacy scanner and print 
business. A more detailed year-on-year analysis of revenue is 
provided in Note 5 Segmental Information.
2. International Education Revenue
International education revenue is seen as a principal 
area for the Group to generate sustainable sales growth. 
DRS experienced challenging trading conditions in all its 
international markets and the 35.3% decline in international 
education revenue was unexpected. An MCQ deal to match 
the Southern Nations MCQ deal in 2013 was not found and 
there was a £1,000,000 reduction in legacy scanner and 
print business.
3. Research and Development expenditure  
(cash expenditure excluding amortisation)
The Group bases its business approach on delivering a 
high level of technical excellence and by forging long-term 
relationships with its customers. Investment in software and 
hardware products to maintain a competitive advantage is very 
important. Research and Development expenditure is recorded 
on a monthly basis to monitor the level of expenditure and 
ensure investment in comparison to the level of recognised 
revenue provides a balance between spend and profitability.
There are currently two main ongoing product development 
activities. Firstly, there is a new version of the e-Marker® 
examination marking product under development and the 
first components of this new product are expected to be 
released in summer 2015. This will enable DRS to offer a 
broader range of examination marking solutions. Secondly, 
a new version of DRS’ PhotoScribe® scanner is planned for 
the second half of 2015. The existing level of investment is 
planned to continue throughout 2015.
4. Operating Return on Sales
The operating return on sales is based on loss/profit before 
income tax adjusted for discontinued operations* and 
exceptional items° expressed as a percentage of total revenue. 
The strategy and business model of the Group covers three 
very different market sectors and the solutions delivered 
into these markets often involve an element of tailoring to 
meet customers’ needs. Monitoring the direct cost of project 
delivery and ensuring adequate controls are in place to 
ensure they are delivered within budgeted project costs is an 
important part of the internal controls within the business. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
14
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
2014
3,155
Total Revenue in £000
2010
2,570
2011
2,778
2012
4,039
2013
4,880
3,500
3,000
R&D Cost R&D as a % of Turnover
2,500
R&D Expenditure in £000
R&D Expenditure as a % of Total Revenue
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
25
20
15
10
0
2,966
2010
1,868
2011
1,286
2012
1,738
2013 2014
2,484
8.7
8.0
10.9
13.7
21.7
 STRATEGIC REPORT
25
20
15
10
5
0
2014
13.68
Total Revenue in £ millions
2010
17 .10
2011
15.98
2012
20.07
2013
18.10 The percentage operating loss on sales for 2014 was 8.32% as 
a consequence of the 24.4% fall in total revenue. Cost savings 
have been implemented across the business to reduce the 
cost base in line with the lower revenue expectation, but the 
initial cost associated with reducing the number of employees 
to produce ongoing operational savings has had a limited 
impact on 2014.
*  The profit before income tax figures for 2010 is adjusted by £328,000 
for discontinued operations in respect of the sale of Peladon Software 
Inc in September 2010.
°  The loss before income tax figure for 2014 is adjusted by £813,000 
relating to the impairment charge against the carrying value of the 
Linford Wood property.
5. Earnings per Share
Earnings per share is a principal measure used by the Board 
to measure the overall profitability of the Group. The Board 
measures earnings per share as part of the performance criteria 
for the Executive Directors’ long-term incentives and it provides 
a standard by which Shareholder returns are assessed.
There are two main reasons for the 9.28 pence fall in earnings 
per share from 2013 to 2014. The principal reason is due to the 
24.4% decline in revenue year-on-year. A further 2.56 pence 
fall in earnings per share is a consequence of the impairment 
of the Linford Wood property. The 2014 loss per share before 
impairment is 2.34 pence.
6. Employees’ Average Length of Service
Retaining staff and ensuring the right mix of skills is 
maintained is particularly important to DRS as the work 
undertaken requires highly trained staff to deliver large 
complex solutions to plan. The purpose of monitoring the 
average length of service of our employees is to check that 
we are retaining the experience required to maintain our 
competitive edge. The average length of service calculation is 
based on the permanent monthly workforce.
In 2014 the Group employed an average of 238 full time 
equivalent employees (2013: 255) of which 185 (2013: 186) 
were permanent monthly paid and 53 (2013: 69) were weekly 
paid temporary workers that cover the peaks of operational 
activity. 
The number of permanent monthly paid full time equivalent 
employees peaked in May 2014 at 203. Subsequent cost 
saving measures led to some roles being made redundant 
and a freeze in recruitment during the second half of the 
year resulted in the monthly full time equivalent employees 
decreasing to 161 in December 2014.
7 . Total Energy Consumed
Energy companies often initially estimate usage and then 
charge for actual usage retrospectively. The 2014 usage is the 
latest usage estimate and last year’s 2013 estimated use of 
1.73 GWh has been restated at 1.81 GWh actual usage. 
The Board is conscious of its social responsibility to use 
energy more efficiently and is continually seeking ways to 
reduce unnecessary consumption. Overall energy usage in 
2014 decreased by 17% compared to 2013. Whereas energy 
saving initiatives continue to be implemented, such as energy 
efficient lighting, the main users of energy within the business 
are the print presses. A 51% fall in the level of print activity 
accounts for the majority of the energy saving. Further 
details on energy usage are provided in the Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Report on page 27 .
6.00
4.00
Earnings per Share (EPS) Pence
2.00
-4.00
-6.00
-2.00
0
2010
1.74
2012
3.50
4.38
2013
(4.90)
2014 2011
2.66
2,000
1,600
Operating Proﬁt (£000)
 Operating Return on Sales %
1,200
800
400
0
-400
-800
-1,200
-1,600
10
8
6
4
2
-2
-4
-6
-10
-8
0
2010 2011
1,653
2012 2013 2014
1,269
9.67
6.82
6.49
7.01
(1,138)
(8.32)
Operating Proﬁt Operating Return on Sales %
1,090
1,303
STRATEGIC REPORT
15
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Years
9
7
8
6
4
5
2
3
1
0
2014
8.11
2010
5.85
2011
6.25
2012
7.48
2013
7.19
Energy Consumed 
in GWh units
2.0
1.8
1.6
1.2
1.4
1.0
2014
1.50
2010
1.90
2011
1.55
2012
1.79
2013
1.81 RISK IMPACT MITIGATION
MARKET
Political and 
geographical 
uncertainties
Changes to national and political policies or uncertainties 
over environmental stability could lead to sudden changes 
in the size of the market or delays in implementation 
of solutions.
In light of the market setbacks in 2014, DRS seeks to work even more closely 
with its customers and regulatory authorities to which they are accountable 
to understand the environments in which they operate and the changes they 
encounter in order for DRS to anticipate the impact on the business.  
PRODUCT
Products meet market 
requirements
There is a risk that the Group fails to develop its products on 
a timely basis to meet customer and market expectation, for 
reasons such as poor market understanding, poor programme 
management or loss of key individuals. In respect of software, 
this could materially impact the objective of rolling out the 
new examination marking software. In respect of hardware, 
this could result in the new PhotoScribe® scanner not being 
available to meet product launch deadlines. Both these would 
adversely affect revenue and for software, the balance sheet 
value of intangible assets.
The approach to product development is to prepare details of the functional 
requirements of the product being developed prior to preparing an analysis 
of the work for the current release which is broken down into milestones 
that are measurable and costed. These details are reviewed by the DRS 
Data Services Limited executive directors monthly as part of their regular 
management reporting process.  In respect of software products, the 
business looks to undertake pilots with prospective customers to evaluate 
its performance. The Group Board regularly challenges the executive on the 
delivery status of the critical product development projects.
STRATEGIC
Over reliance on 
key customers
There is a risk that the Group’s business model of focussing 
on large-scale, technically complex projects places over-
reliance on a small number of key customers tying up the 
Group’s working capital. This could result in revenue and 
profit volatility.
DRS looks to develop a good understanding of its customers’ needs and 
thereby create a long-term working relationship that leads to repeat 
business as well as new business. An evaluation of the resource requirements 
is undertaken at the start and end of each supply to identify savings 
and efficient use of working capital. It is a core strategy to focus on the 
international education market to increase geographical diversification in 
new areas that offer sustainable recurring revenue growth.
STRATEGIC
Effect of complexity 
of customer 
environments on 
working capital and 
other resources
The risks associated with providing large-scale technically 
complex solutions which are automating previously manual 
processes require comprehensive planning and a phased 
delivery to implement effective change, putting abnormal 
demands on the Group’s working capital requirements and 
a corresponding delay of revenue generation. For example, 
the Group is a party to a significant contract to provide 
the technology and expertise for the electronic counting 
of ballots in London for the Mayor of London and London 
Assembly elections in 2016.
The Group’s strategic approach takes into account the need to plan ahead to 
ensure capacity and access to adequate finance and resources are available 
along with investing in the development of its people, products and services. 
This places a high level of importance on ensuring the right mix of skills and 
knowledge is retained in the business. In respect of significant contracts, the 
Group recognises the need to identify and work with specific third-parties 
that provide expertise and complementary skills to enable delivery of the 
contractual requirements.
STRATEGIC
Appropriate resource 
and resilience to meet 
market and customer 
requirements
DRS may not have sufficient resources and resilience to 
be able to realign the business to keep up with changing 
market and customer requirements, or to respond to 
the failure to deliver a major software or hardware 
development project.
DRS has adjusted its cost base and organisational structure in line with the 
current outlook. Product development is focussed on delivering customer 
requirements and where possible product is piloted with customers to obtain 
user perspective. DRS continues to focus on key opportunities that will 
enable it to achieve its strategic objectives. 
OPERATIONAL
Data security
Handling large volumes of sensitive data is a fundamental 
part of the business and there is a possibility that this 
information could be accessed by unauthorised people and 
its integrity compromised, resulting in loss of revenue and a 
potential negative impact on reputation.
The business has engaged in an ongoing improvement programme to 
ensure the use of up-to-date business practice and appropriate hardware, 
infrastructure and software allow security measures to be applied, 
maintained and controlled at a suitable level to meet the needs of both 
customer and corporate obligations. The Company continues to be certified 
to BS ISO/IEC 27001:2005 and is required to realign to 27001:2013 in 
June 2015.
OPERATIONAL
Infrastructure and 
process resilience
Any substantial business disruption, whatever the cause, 
could significantly impede our ability to operate as usual. This 
could be as a consequence of the lack of availability or denied 
access to premises, equipment or data used in our normal 
operations. Significant outages of this nature could result in 
missed service level arrangements, reputational damage and 
loss of revenue and profit.
Certification of compliance to Business Continuity Management has 
been in place since February 2012 (Standard ISO 22301:2012). The recent 
changes to the Standards the Company adheres to requires ongoing review 
of the processes and controls supporting business continuity and incident 
management. The system provides a series of mitigating and contingency 
measures that provide assurance of process and data resilience should the 
unexpected happen. Due diligence processes are also in place to ensure 
similar assurance of our key supply chain.
OPERATIONAL
Employee recruitment 
and retention of 
appropriately skilled 
staff
The business model requires the design, development and 
implementation of technically complex solutions that makes 
the business very dependent on the skill of a number of key 
personnel.
Recruitment, retention and development of key staff is a priority for DRS 
and a high value is placed on identifying and supporting key personnel 
throughout the business whilst the necessary skills are developed to meet 
future requirements in order to reduce reliance on a number of key personnel. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
16
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
17
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
This section sets out the principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group, but is not exhaustive. These risks have the 
potential to impact our business, revenue, profits, assets, 
liquidity or capital resources.
The Board has overall responsibility for managing risks 
affecting the Group. A risk management framework has 
been developed and adopted across the organisation. The 
Board regularly reviews either directly, or through the Audit 
Committee, the effectiveness of our risk management 
framework and internal controls. The risk management 
framework provides reasonable assurance that significant 
risks are identified and addressed but there may be risks that 
are unknown or presently judged to not be significant, that 
later prove to be significant.
The principal risks currently facing the Group are set out 
on page 16, but are not arranged in order of relative impact 
or probability.
EMPLOYEES
We respect and value the individuality and diversity that 
each of our employees brings to the business. We are 
committed to equal opportunities and the development of 
our people to realise their potential, in line with best practice 
and in accordance with our Investors In People accreditation. 
As at 31 December 2014 100 of our employees out of a total 
of 168 were male and 68 were female. Of these 18 were 
senior managers, 13 of whom were male and 5 were female. 
In terms of the Company’s Board of Directors there were 
6 Directors, 4 male and 2 female.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
This Strategic Report has been prepared solely to provide 
additional information to Shareholders to assess the Group’s 
strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed. 
It should not be relied upon by any other party for any 
other purpose.
Certain forward looking statements are contained in this 
report. These statements are made by the Directors in good 
faith based on the information available to them up to the 
time of their preparation of this report and such statements 
should be treated with caution due to the inherent 
uncertainties, including both economic and business risk 
factors, underlying any such forward looking information.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
To address the downturn in revenue in 2014, we have taken 
action to reduce the operational costs of the business in line 
with the current revenue expectation.  
There are two major projects to be delivered in 2015 
which are both very important to the future success of 
the business. These are meeting the milestones of the 
Greater London Authority (GLA) for the delivery of the 2016 
Mayor of London and London Assembly elections, a key 
requirement of which is the completion of development 
of the new PhotoScribe® PS1000 scanners for a user 
acceptance test in Q4 2015 and the delivery of a pilot 
project for the new e-Marker® platform planned for the 
second half of 2015, to obtain external user assessment of 
the product.
We believe that the successful delivery of these goals 
will provide a firm foundation for delivery of the Group’s 
Strategy.    
Steve Gowers 
Chief Executive Officer 
7 April 2015 REPORT ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
INTRODUCTION
The Board believes that sound management of environmental, 
governance and social issues has a key part to play in the 
successful delivery of the Company’s business strategy and 
objectives. It is a priority to integrate business values and 
operations at DRS to meet the expectations of our investors 
and other stakeholders in relation to customers, employees, 
suppliers, the environment and the community.
Corporate responsibility at DRS is focussed on the following 
areas which are of particular relevance to what we do. The most 
significant areas continue to be:
• relationships with our staff;
• relationships with our customers, suppliers and partners; 
• relationships with our Shareholders; and
•  how the Group’s activities impact on society and our 
environment and contribute to our community.
These responsibilities continue to be supported by the KPIs 
referred to on pages 14 - 15 and are considered in the management 
of its risks using a framework which deals with the risks and 
opportunities directly connected to delivering the Company 
strategy and objectives. These risk management practices are 
informed by corporate governance principles and ISO 31000 2009, 
the international standard for risk management. The Principal 
Risks and Uncertainties on page 16 and the Corporate Governance 
Statement on page 28 provide further information on the 
Company’s management of risk.
The Company’s policies relating to corporate responsibility 
and the environment are reviewed annually by the Board. They 
are implemented throughout the business and are followed by 
our staff.
Our Business Standards
The Company retains its certification to the following standards 
which contribute to the way in which business is conducted with 
all our suppliers, customers and other partners:
•  ISO 27001:2005 - for the quality of its information security 
management systems upholding the confidentiality, integrity 
and availability of information; 
•  BS EN ISO 14001:2004 - in respect of its environmental 
management through which policies and objectives have been 
implemented to meet our legal requirements and to assess any 
significant environmental impacts of the business; 
•  BS EN ISO 9001:2008 - for quality management which is 
helping the Company to focus upon meeting our customers’ 
stated requirements; 
•  BS ISO 22301:2012 – Business Continuity Management System. 
The Group successfully transitioned from BS 25999-2:2007 
to the replacement, internationalised version of the standard 
during May 2014. The business driven processes that this 
system provides, continue to be proactively improved to ensure 
increased resilience to any disruption that could affect our 
ability to achieve our key objectives. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
18
 STRATEGIC REPORT Human Rights in DRS
Respect for the rights of others guides DRS in much of its 
work in the UK and overseas.
When working with customers, suppliers and partners, the 
importance of complying with applicable laws is emphasised 
in our relationships and is supported by the contractual 
documentation we use. Workers operating on behalf of 
the Company anywhere in the world must be afforded 
satisfactory labour conditions that meet our requirements 
of cleanliness, safety and services. Inspections are often 
undertaken by DRS personnel who make themselves available 
to answer workers’ concerns. All workers are required to be 
aged at least 16 years.
In the UK our staff are supported by policies intended to 
deliver a workplace that promotes dignity and respect. A 
proactive approach is taken to any circumstance which could 
potentially damage health or a colleague’s ability to carry 
out their role safely. Examples include a stress management 
policy operating alongside the Employee Assistance 
Programme and the Anti-Harassment and Bullying Policy, 
which is strictly enforced.
Customers, Suppliers and Partners
Our working relationships remain a high priority throughout 
DRS.
Our procurement process guidelines are given to our suppliers 
and any concerns raised are discussed openly with the aim of 
speedy resolution. Written terms and conditions of trading 
are negotiated ahead of work being undertaken and payment 
terms are strictly adhered to.
The Company’s in-house legal and contract management 
teams assist with finalising business terms and help to ensure 
all concerns are dealt with in a timely manner and obligations 
are met by the contracting parties.
In our partner relationships we aim to operate standards 
to safeguard against unfair business practices and to 
encourage our partners to adopt responsible business policies 
and practices.
Business Ethics and the Bribery Act 2010  
(The Act)
The Company operates a Code of Business Ethics with all 
its stakeholders and works only with organisations which 
recognise responsibility for upholding this Code. The 
Company’s terms and conditions of trading and relevant 
trading policies are regularly reviewed to emphasise the 
Company’s continuing intolerance to all forms of bribery, 
corruption and facilitation payments.
All employees and contractors who work for the Group 
are subject to the terms of the Group’s Anti-Bribery Policy 
and are required to complete and pass online training and 
assessment in the requirements of the Act and to implement 
anti-corruption measures in their work here and abroad. 
These training modules are reviewed and updated annually. 
Our employees are also advised of ongoing developments in 
the field of corruption control which may have an impact on 
the business.
Our Employees
We employed 168 people on the payroll as at 31 December 
2014 compared with 204 in 2013. The annual employee 
turnover rate for the year is estimated to be 31.69%, 
including roles which were made redundant during the year 
which compares with 15.7% in 2013.
The Board is committed to clear and effective communication 
with all DRS colleagues and staff are kept informed of the 
development of the Group’s operations. Meetings are held on 
a quarterly basis and all staff are encouraged to attend and 
raise questions and concerns with the CEO and Directors. 
Senior managers also meet quarterly with the Company’s 
Directors. News items and various information bulletins are 
published throughout the year on the Group’s intranet site.
Employee engagement continues to be a key priority and a 
staff committee meets quarterly to raise and discuss topics 
submitted by employees to their respective representatives. 
The minutes for each meeting are published on the 
Company’s intranet site. 
Training and development of all new and existing employees 
remains a commitment. The Group ensures that the skills and 
abilities of all staff are developed to meet current business 
objectives and each individual’s personal development. 
Partners are also trained to comply with many of the 
procedures and policies operated by the Group. 
Regular training reviews are undertaken and the effectiveness 
of all training received is evaluated to ensure that it is 
appropriate and meets the professional and personal goals 
agreed between the individual and their manager as well as 
the business’ objectives and cost-effectiveness priorities. 
Staff are encouraged to develop their careers and pay and 
benefits are reviewed annually to retain competitiveness and 
to reward good performance.
A Group Personal Pension Plan is open to all employees 
which complies with the contributory requirements of auto-
enrolment introduced under the Pensions Act 2008.
Investors in People (IiP) provides a nationally recognised 
standard which sets out a level of good practice for training 
and development of people to achieve business goals. DRS 
has received this accreditation continually since 1999. 
The Board is committed to ensuring that the highest possible 
health and safety and welfare standards are delivered 
consistently throughout the business to its employees, its 
STRATEGIC REPORT
19
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 REPORT ON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
continued
partners and the general public. The Group will take all 
steps necessary and work within its power to meet this 
responsibility by regularly reviewing, amending and improving 
all relevant policies and procedures, meeting its obligations 
and exceeding best practice standards wherever possible.
Staff are introduced to the Group’s Health and Safety at 
Work policy when employment commences and undertake 
refresher training when appropriate, paying particular 
attention to the priority and maintenance of safe plant and 
equipment and the safe handling, transportation and storage 
of substances and equipment.
The Group’s health and safety policies are reviewed by the 
Board annually and the Board regularly receives reports 
regarding health and safety issues that have arisen in the 
year. Attention is given to cause and effect. Follow-up 
actions and progress on all reported issues continues to be 
carefully monitored.
During 2014 there was 1 reportable and 12 minor accidents 
compared with 15 minor accidents in 2013. 
The Health and Safety Committee includes representatives 
from throughout the business and has meetings scheduled 
twice a year. All safety issues relevant to DRS are discussed. 
The minutes of the meetings are made available to all staff 
via the Company’s intranet site.
An ongoing training programme of fire safety and evacuation 
and first aid is provided.
Employees can participate in the Group’s various sports 
and social clubs including golf, badminton and netball. A 
golf tournament is held annually and is open to all staff. 
The Group has a netball team, the ‘DRS DRagonS’, which 
competes in a local business league.
Environmental Policy
The Company strives to improve its environmental 
performance through the implementation of sustainable 
development and the pursuit of appropriate environmental 
activities.
Environmental impact is reviewed regularly in order to:
• meet all statutory obligations;
•  pursue working practices which reduce the business’ 
environmental load; and
•  recycle waste products and safely dispose of non-
recyclable materials.
We work with environmentally responsible organisations 
that support our approach. Several different waste types 
are recycled including paper reel ends, compactor waste 
polythene, shredded materials and cardboard. In 2014 we 
recycled 111.0 metric tonnes (151.3: 2013); the decrease 
being due to reduced levels of print production in the 
business. The environmental ‘Green Team’ provides a focus 
for environmental considerations and assists in raising 
environmental awareness in the organisation.
Staff are encouraged to submit their ideas on how 
consumption of energy and other resources used by the 
Company may be reduced. 
The energy awareness initiative first implemented in 2010 
continues to be reviewed. Details on the Group’s Greenhouse 
Gas emissions are set out on page 27 of the Directors’ Report. 
For details on energy usage see KPI information on page 15 in 
this report.
At the end of life of products supplied, customers are 
expected to return them to DRS for disposal or recycling 
in accordance with the Waste and Electronic Equipment 
Directive and the Batteries Directive.
DRS also operates in accordance with the requirements of 
the European Directive 2011/65/EU (RoHS Directive) ensuring 
its products comply, where required, with the restrictions 
on the use of certain hazardous substances. This revised 
directive includes additional categories of Electrical and 
Electronic Equipment (EEE) and European Conformity (CE) 
marking obligations.
Our Stakeholders
We provide regular communication opportunities to all our 
stakeholders. Our AGM is held in May each year at which 
all our investors are welcomed. The Annual Report and 
Accounts, trading updates and items of significant news 
affecting the Company or its trading are disseminated as 
announcements using the regulatory news service and 
are accessible from the Company’s website. Meetings 
are arranged with investors upon receipt of a request 
and institutional investors are also invited to attend a 
presentation on the annual results.
Our Community
The Group is committed to supporting and sponsoring 
employees who wish to undertake charitable or community 
related activities. During the year the Company supported the 
initiative of an employee who raised funds for Aspire, a national 
charity which supports people with spinal cord injuries.
The Strategic Report as set out on pages 5 - 20 has been 
approved by the Board.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD
Steve Gowers
Chief Executive Officer
7 April 2015
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
20
 STRATEGIC REPORT 21
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Sir David Brown
Non-Executive Chairman | Chair of Nomination Committee
Sir David Brown was appointed to the Board as a non-Executive Director and Deputy 
Chairman in August 2008 and became Chairman in May 2009. He was re-elected 
as Chairman of the Board in May 2012. He graduated in electrical engineering in 
1972 and worked for Motorola from 1991 to 2008 first as Director of UK Operations 
and later as Chairman of Motorola Limited. He is currently Chairman of the British 
Standards Institution, a non-Executive Director of Domino Printing Sciences plc and 
TTG Global Group Limited. Sir David is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, 
an Honorary Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology, an Honorary 
Fellow of the Chartered Quality Institute and a Companion of the Chartered 
Management Institute. He was President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, 
President of the Chartered Quality Institute, President of the Federation of the 
Electronics Industry and President of the Association for Science Education. He was 
knighted in 2001 for services to British industry.
John Linwood
Non-Executive Director | Chair of Ethics Committee
John Linwood was appointed to the Board as a non-Executive Director in January 2012 
and became Chair of the Ethics Committee in May 2012. John is Chief Technology 
Officer of Wood MacKenzie. He has 30 years of technology experience, including 15 
years’ delivery of internet-based services to global audiences and has held senior 
positions at Microsoft, Yahoo and the BBC.
Alison Reed
Non-Executive Director 
Senior Independent Director | Chair of Audit Committee
Alison Reed was appointed to the Board as a non-Executive Director in January 
2011 and as Senior Independent Director on 25 May 2011. Alison worked for Marks 
and Spencer plc for 21 years gaining experience in a broad range of financial and 
commercial roles, ultimately as Chief Financial Officer. Alison then joined Standard 
Life as Chief Financial Officer, where she was responsible for the flotation. She is 
a non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman of British Airways plc and a non-
Executive Director and Audit Committee Chair of Darty plc and Newday Ltd. She 
is also a Trustee for Whizz-Kidz. Alison qualified as a Chartered Accountant after 
graduating from Exeter University. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
22
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Dame Sandra Dawson DBE
Non-Executive Director | Chair of Remuneration Committee
Dame Sandra was appointed to the Board as a non-Executive Director in February 2012. 
She graduated from Keele University and has experience in academia, government 
and financial services. Dame Sandra is KPMG Professor Emeritus of Management 
Studies at Judge Business School, Cambridge, a non-Executive Director of TSB Banking 
Group plc, Winton Capital Group, the Institute for Government, The SSRC (USA), The 
American University of Sharjah and a member of the UK India Round Table. Her previous 
appointments include non-Executive roles at Oxfam, Barclays Bank plc, JP Morgan 
Fleming Claverhouse Investment Trust plc and the Financial Services Authority and 
membership of the Prime Minister’s Council for Science and Technology. She was also 
formerly one of the Deputy Vice Chancellors of the University of Cambridge (2008-
2012), Director of Judge Business School (1995-2006) and Master of Sidney Sussex 
College (1999-2009). In 2004 she was made a Dame Commander of the British Empire 
for her contributions to higher education and management research, and in 2006 she 
was inducted into the International Women’s Forum (IWF) Hall of Fame.
Mark Tebbutt
FCMA
Finance Director
Mark Tebbutt qualified as a Chartered Management Accountant in 1984. Mark gained 
a broad operational knowledge of financial management with Bass and Grand Met 
before joining Misys as the Financial Director for two of its subsidiaries. Thereafter, 
he held an operational role for six years in Stanley Works and joined DRS in 2001 as 
Head of Finance. Mark was appointed Finance Director in March 2002. He is a Fellow 
of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
23
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Steve Gowers
FCCA
Chief Executive Officer
Steve Gowers was appointed Chief Executive Officer in November 2012. His previous 
positions have included Corporate and Business Development Director for Misys plc as 
well as roles as Chief Technology Officer and Director of Development at Misys and at 
Oracle Corporation, including a period of time in the USA. Steve has also held senior 
positions in professional services roles. He is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered 
Certified Accountants. DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and Accounts of the Company and present this 
report together with the audited Group and Company 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The registered office of both DRS Data and Research 
Services plc and its subsidiary company DRS Data Services 
Limited is 1 Danbury Court, Linford Wood, Milton Keynes, 
Buckinghamshire, MK14 6LR.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Corporate Governance Statement on page 28 forms 
part of this Directors’ Report and provides information 
concerning the meetings of the Board and its Committees 
which took place in 2014. The Corporate Governance 
Statement is available on the Company’s website at:  
www.drs.co.uk/corporate.
The Appointment of Directors
Subject to the terms of its Articles of Association, the 
Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any 
person who is willing to act as a Director. The Board may 
also appoint a Director either to fill a vacancy or as an 
addition to the existing Board, which appointment shall 
continue until the next AGM when it will be subject to re-
appointment by ordinary resolution of the members. The 
Articles require a minimum of two Directors and there is 
no maximum number that may be appointed to the Board. 
The Company may, also by ordinary resolution, remove 
a Director before the expiry of his/her term of office and 
may, subject to the Articles, appoint another person who is 
willing to act, as a Director in his/her place.
Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the 
Nomination Committee under its terms of reference.
The current members of the Board, together with biographical 
details of each Director appear on pages 22 - 23. All of the 
Directors served on the Board throughout the year. At the 
AGM in 2014, Alison Reed and Steve Gowers were re-elected 
to the Board. 
Sir David Brown will retire from the Board at the end of 
the 2015 AGM when he will have completed his second 
term. A recruitment process to identify his successor has 
commenced. John Linwood will retire from the Board at the 
end of the 2015 AGM having completed his full term as a 
non-Executive Director.
Under the Articles of Association, each Director is required 
to retire from office at the AGM unless he/she was 
appointed or re-appointed as a Director at either of the 
last two AGMs before that meeting. In accordance with 
this rule, Sandra Dawson is retiring by rotation at the 
forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer herself for 
re-election.
Dame Sandra Dawson: Sandra was appointed to the Board 
as a non-Executive Director with effect from 1 February 
2012 and Chairs the Remuneration Committee. In 
November 2014 she indicated her willingness to continue 
these roles for a second term of three years and her 
nomination was approved by the Board. Her current letter 
of engagement will expire on 31 January 2018 and may be 
terminated by either party giving not less than one month’s 
notice to the other or by the Company with immediate 
effect in certain circumstances. No compensation is 
payable on termination of Sandra Dawson’s appointment. 
The Board confirms that Sandra continues to make 
an effective and valuable contribution to the Board 
demonstrating commitment to the role and unanimously 
supports her re-election.
Directors’ Interests
Details of Directors’ service contracts and a statement of the 
interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the 
Ordinary shares of the Company are given in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 34.
No Director had any material interest in any contractual 
agreement subsisting during or at the end of the year which 
is or may be significant to the Group.
Indemnity Provisions
There were no qualifying third party indemnity provisions 
or qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions put 
in place or in force in the financial year for the benefit of 
Directors of the Company or for the benefit of Directors of 
associated companies.
Directors’ Responsibilities
The statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in preparing the 
Financial Statements and the Annual Report can be found on 
page 50.
Directors’ Disclosure of Information to the 
Auditor
The following statement applies to the individuals who 
were Directors of the Company on the date this report 
was approved:
(a)   so far as the Directors are aware there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditor is not 
aware; and
(b)  the Directors have taken all reasonable steps that he/
she ought to have taken as Directors to make himself 
or herself aware of any relevant audit information and 
to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of 
such information.
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
24
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  25
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
SHAREHOLDERS
Shareholders with significant direct or indirect holdings in 
the securities of the Company.
At the date of this report the Company’s share register of 
substantial shareholdings showed the following interests 
of 3% or more of the Company’s issued ordinary capital 
excluding Treasury shares:
Rank Shareholder Shares % IC
1 Mr Malcolm Brighton 7,079,697 21.66
2 Discretionary Unit  2,350,000 7 . 19  
 Fund Managers
3 Mr J S Rockliff 2,155,000 6.59
4 Mr Gary Brighton 2,000,000 6. 12
5 Ms Jennifer A Brighton 2,000,000 6. 12
6 Mr Mark Brighton 2,000,000 6.12
7 Charles Stanley 1,226,622 3.75
8 CriSeren Investments 1,010,000 3.09
Relationship Agreement
The Company is required to comply with the Listing Rules 
introduced last year relating to controlling Shareholders. For 
the purposes of the Listing Rules Malcolm Brighton, Gary 
Brighton, Mark Brighton and Jennifer Brighton (the Family) 
are deemed to be a controlling Shareholder of the Company 
as a result of the Family exercising or controlling more than 
30% of the voting rights of the Company. Under the terms of 
a Relationship Agreement with the Family it has been agreed 
that the Company will at all times be capable of carrying 
on its business independently and that all transactions and 
arrangements between the Company and the Family will 
be conducted at arm’s length and on normal commercial 
terms. The Company has complied with the terms of the 
Relationship Agreement and, so far as the Company is aware, 
the Family and the Family’s associates have also complied 
with the terms of the Relationship Agreement.
Structure of Capital   
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7 .2
The Company’s share capital is as follows:
Ordinary shares of 5p each at 31 December 2014 and 2013
 Number £000
Allotted, issued, called up  
and fully paid 34,621,600 1,731
Further details are provided on the Company’s share capital 
in Note 18.
All shares have equal rights and there are no restrictions on the 
transfer of securities in the Company or on the voting rights.
There are no securities that carry special rights with regard 
to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreement that may result 
in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on any voting rights.
The Directors were granted specific authority to issue the 
Company’s shares in certain circumstances, at the Annual 
General Meeting in 2014. That authority will expire at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting at which the Directors 
will be seeking a similar authority. Further details are provided 
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies 
this report.
The Directors will seek a renewal of their authority to issue 
and to allot the Company’s shares, at the Annual General 
Meeting. Further details are set out in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting which accompanies this report.
The Corporate Governance Statement sets out the steps taken 
by individual Directors and by the Board as a whole to develop 
and maintain contact with the Company’s Shareholders.
Renewal of Authority to Allot
The Directors’ current authority to allot relevant shares 
pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 will 
expire on 19 August 2015 or at the 2015 Annual General 
Meeting, if earlier. Resolution 6 as set out in the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting will be proposed as an Ordinary 
Resolution to authorise the Directors to allot Ordinary shares 
in the capital of the Company up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £1,089,720. The authority (unless previously varied, 
revoked or renewed) will expire 15 months after the date 
of passing of the resolution or, if earlier, at the 2016 Annual 
General Meeting.         
Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights
The current authority for Directors to allot equity securities 
for cash without first being required to offer such securities to 
existing Shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings 
expires on the 19 August 2015 or at the 2015 Annual General 
Meeting, if earlier. Resolution 7 as set out in the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting will be proposed as a Special Resolution to 
renew the authority of the Directors under Section 570 of the 
Companies Act 2006 to allot shares for cash otherwise than on a 
pre-emptive basis. The number of shares which may be allotted 
will be limited to an aggregate nominal value of £86,554 
(representing 5% of the issued share capital of the Company). 
The authority (unless previously varied, revoked or renewed) will 
expire 15 months after the date of passing of the resolution or, if 
earlier, at the 2016 Annual General Meeting. DIRECTORS’ REPORT
continued
Although there is no present intention of issuing any shares 
(other than pursuant to the Company’s share option schemes), 
the Directors consider it is desirable to maintain the flexibility 
afforded by these provisions.
Purchase of Own Shares
Currently Shareholder approval is needed for the Company to 
purchase its own shares. Resolution 8 as set out in the Notice of 
Annual General Meeting will propose as a Special Resolution to 
authorise the Company to make purchases of its Ordinary shares 
up to a maximum of 10% of the current issued share capital of 
the Company. The authority (unless previously varied, revoked or 
renewed) will expire 15 months after the date of passing of the 
resolution or, if earlier, at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Treasury Shares
The Company continues to hold 1,930,000 Ordinary shares 
of 5p purchased between 3 June and 15 July 2004 for a total 
consideration of £1, 166,000 as Treasury shares. This represents 
5.57% of the Company’s issued share capital.
KEY CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS
AQA Education
In March 2015 a three year contract with AQA Education was 
agreed for the provision of e-Marker® services. The document 
is an overarching agreement providing a framework within 
which specified defined service requirements and service levels 
are agreed and delivered for each examination series. AQA 
may terminate the agreement if there is a transfer of overall 
control of DRS Data Services Limited or if DRS Data Services 
Limited no longer has exclusive ownership of the e-Marker® 
software. Details of e-Marker® development are provided in the 
Strategic Report.
Changepond Technologies - Private Limited of Chennai
Changepond Technologies – Private Limited of Chennai, India 
has been retained to provide the Company with a range of 
software development, architecture and consultancy services to 
assist with the imminent development of the next generation of 
e-Marker® software.
Greater London Authority (GLA)
DRS Data Services Limited, operating as IntElect® its joint 
operation with Electoral Reform Services Limited, has been 
retained to provide electronic counting and related supplies and 
services to the GLA in connection with the ordinary elections in 
2016. In the event of a change of control of that company, it is 
required to give reasonable notice to the GLA which retains the 
right to terminate the contract if such a change of control should 
occur.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors 
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment that occur because of a takeover bid.
Auditor
The auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP, has indicated its 
willingness to continue in office. Resolution 4 proposing 
the re-appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP is contained 
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and will be put to 
the Shareholders at the meeting.
Going Concern
In considering Going Concern, the Directors have reviewed 
the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities. The Group meets its day-
to-day working capital and other funding requirements 
through a combination of long-term funding and short-
term cash holdings. 
In 2014 the Directors implemented cost saving measures 
to reduce the Group’s cost base in line with the reduction 
in revenue. A detailed analysis of resource and cash flow 
requirements relating to the Group’s main contractual 
commitments for 2015 and 2016 was undertaken. This 
cost restructuring was presented to Barclays Bank resulting 
in the mortgage covenants being renegotiated to support 
the three year financial plan. The mortgage arrangement 
remains unchanged other than the covenants (see Note 20 
on Borrowings).
The Directors believe that the Group forecasts and 
projections have been prepared on a prudent basis and 
have also considered the impact of a range of potential 
changes to trading performance. The Directors have 
concluded that the Group should be able to operate within 
its current facilities and comply with its banking covenants. 
This opinion is supported by the section Liquidity and 
Treasury Management within the Strategic Report on 
page 13.
A financial plan has been prepared incorporating realistic 
assumptions taking into account the reduced operational 
capacity of the business. Based upon this financial plan, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future and, 
accordingly, the Directors believe it is appropriate to 
continue to adopt the Going Concern basis of accounting 
in preparing the annual financial statements. 
Amount of Interest Capitalised by the Group
No interest was capitalised by the Group in 2014.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ISSUES
Environmental and social issues are reviewed within the 
Report on Corporate Responsibility. This report also sets 
out information on the number of persons employed in the 
business during 2014.
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
26
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  POLITICAL DONATIONS
The Company does not make political donations. 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORT
Organisational Boundary
This report covers the DRS Group comprising DRS Data and 
Research Services plc and its subsidiary company DRS Data 
Services Limited which operate from premises comprising nine 
mixed units in Milton Keynes. This number has increased by one 
since the last report. 
Period Base Year and Base Year + 1
The date provided is for the baseline year of 1 January to 
31 December 2013 and subsequent operating year 1 January 
to 31 December 2014. The baseline is considered to remain 
appropriate. Should there be any significant changes to the 
business undertaken by the Group then the baseline may be 
recalculated using a more appropriate metric – “significant” 
being a change in premises or other major change in 
business operations.
Quantification and Reporting Methodology
We continue to follow the UK Government Environmental 
Reporting Guidelines.
The chosen intensity measure is CO
2
e against £ revenue. The 
CO
2
e figures are based upon Scope 1 and Scope 2 activities 
as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol using the UK 
Government GHG Conversion Factors.
GHG Emissions from Current Reporting Year: 
Emissions from: 2014 2013
 Tonnes  Tonnes 
 of CO
2
e of CO
2
e
Combustion of fuel and operation 20 34
of facilities 
 
Electricity, heat, steam and 673 705
cooling purchased for own use
Emissions reported above 0.0506 0.0408
normalised per £000 revenue
Variation between Current Reporting Year and 
Base Year
Although the emissions have decreased by 6% overall 
despite the addition of an extra operating unit, the emissions 
reported normalised per £000 revenue have increased by 
24% due to the reported fall in revenue during 2014.
Assurance and Verification
Utility data is provided from visual inspection, supplier 
reports, monthly meter readings and billing information 
received. The utility data is verified by the Finance Team.
DIVIDENDS
The Directors do not recommend a dividend for 2014 (2013: 
0.4p). Further details concerning the dividend policy can be 
found in the Strategic Report on page 12.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The Articles of Association may be amended by special 
resolution of the Shareholders.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Please refer to page 12 of the Strategic Report where 
the Company’s activities in respect of Research and 
Development have been disclosed.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
Please refer to the Strategic Report set out on pages 5 - 20 
where the Future Developments have been disclosed.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND EMPLOYMENT 
OF DISABLED PERSONS
Employment policies are designed to provide equal 
opportunity irrespective of age, gender, sexual orientation, 
disability, religion, race or marital status. Full consideration is 
given to applications for employment by and the continuing 
employment, training and career development of disabled 
people. 
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 1 Danbury Court, 
Linford Wood, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, MK14 6LR 
on 18 May 2015 at 3.00pm. The Notice of Annual General 
Meeting and explanation of the business to be put to the 
meeting has been sent to Shareholders with this Report.
27
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE ST A TEMENT
This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the 
Directors’ Report which begins on page 24. The Business Model 
of the Company is described in the Strategic Report which also 
contains a description of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties. A 
review of Going Concern has also been provided on page 26.
Compliance Statement
The Board is responsible for good governance. It reviews its 
procedures regularly to ensure high standards of corporate 
governance are maintained. The Company complies with 
the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 
published in September 2012 (the Code) which is applicable to 
the accounting period ending 31 December 2014. The Board 
has noted that the provisions of the revised Code published 
in September 2014 will apply to the 2015 financial year. The 
Code can be reviewed on the website of the Financial Reporting 
Council at www.frc.org.uk. This statement and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report describes how the Board has applied the 
main principles of good governance as set out in the Code during 
the financial year.
Having reviewed the main principles of the Code, the Board 
is satisfied that throughout the accounting period ended 
31 December 2014, the Company has complied with the main 
principles. This statement further explains how the Code has 
been applied by the Company.
DTR 7 .2 also requires information relating to the share capital of 
the Company to be disclosed. This information can be found in 
the Directors’ Report on page 25.
Leadership
The Board is led by the Chairman, Sir David Brown. The Board is 
responsible to the Shareholders for the performance and long-
term success of the Company. It provides effective leadership 
and prudent control of the Group comprising the Company and 
DRS Data Services Limited. 
The Chairman is responsible for leadership and for the workings 
of the Board. He sets the agenda for all Board meetings and 
ensures it operates effectively in all aspects of its role. He also 
oversees the composition of the Board and reviews the balance 
of skills, experience, independence and knowledge. David 
Brown is required to work for the Company approximately 
24 full days every year and has confirmed that throughout 
the year he met the expectations of his role. The Chairman’s 
current commitments are set out in his biography on page 22. 
During the year he was also Chairman of the Ofcom Spectrum 
Clearance Finance Committee until July 2014 when the 
Committee was disbanded having completed its purpose.
In May 2012 he was appointed Chairman for a second term of 
three years. This appointment will expire at the end of the 2015 
Annual General Meeting when he will retire from the Board, 
having completed his second term. 
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are 
separate and their responsibilities are clearly established, set out 
in writing and agreed by the Board. 
Steve Gowers, the Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for 
the running of the business and the implementation of Board 
strategy and policy.
The Board of Directors
At Board meetings, the discussion is open and supported by 
relevant written information. All Directors contribute to the 
debate and no individual or small group of Directors dominate 
the debate.
The Board has specific duties which it does not delegate. These 
are set out in the formal schedule of matters reserved to the 
Board. These include:
•  setting and monitoring strategic objectives and reviewing the 
performance of the Group against those objectives; 
•  approving the annual budget and business plans;
•  responsibility for the Company’s governance and the 
evaluation and management of continuing and emerging 
risks; and
• approving the Group’s capital expenditure.
The Board also regularly considers the Group’s financial 
and human resources needs to enable the Group’s strategic 
objectives to be met.
Board Composition and Diversity
The majority of the Board’s members are non-Executive 
Directors. 
At 31 December 2014 the Board comprised:
• David Brown, non-Executive Chairman
• Alison Reed, Senior Independent non-Executive Director
• John Linwood, Independent non-Executive Director
• Sandra Dawson, Independent non-Executive Director
• Steve Gowers, Chief Executive Officer
• Mark Tebbutt, Finance Director
The non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment will be 
available for inspection by Shareholders at the Company’s 
registered office on the day of the AGM.
Board members bring a variety of commercial experience to 
their work with DRS. The non-Executive Directors challenge 
the Board in its thinking and assist with great effect in the 
development of the Company strategy and the management 
of its risks. Principal Risks and Uncertainties are reported in the 
Strategic Report on page 16.
Having carefully reviewed the relevant circumstances with each 
non-Executive Director and having considered the guidance 
provided in the Code, the Board is of the view that Alison Reed, 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
28
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  29
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
John Linwood and Sandra Dawson remain independent while 
retaining sufficient knowledge of the Company to discharge 
their responsibilities effectively. David Brown was independent 
when first appointed to the Board in 2008.
Alison Reed is the Senior Independent non-Executive Director 
and is available for Shareholders to contact with matters of 
concern. She is the contact for whistleblowing arrangements 
by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about 
possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or in other matters. 
She is also responsible for ensuring that arrangements are in 
place to allow proportionate and independent investigation of 
such matters to take place.
Diversity
The Board is committed to its established policy of drawing 
on the diversity of talents and skills in the communities within 
which it operates to build and maintain the strong teams 
needed throughout the Group to deliver business success. All 
appointments are made on merit, taking the benefits of diversity 
fully into account. It is considered inappropriate to set gender 
targets but gender distribution is monitored. The Board applies 
the same policy to its own composition. At the end of the year 
the gender balance of total Group employees was 40% female 
and the gender balance of the Board of Directors was 33% 
female. The Chief Executive’s Statement provides further detail 
on the diversity of the Group’s employees.
Board Succession and Appointment
The process for Board appointments is led by the Nomination 
Committee and details of the formal transparent procedures it 
undertakes for new Board appointments are set out later in this 
report. No changes to the Board’s composition took place within 
the year under review.
In accordance with article 98 of the Articles of Association 
(retirement by rotation) Sandra Dawson will be seeking re-
election at the AGM.
The biographical details of Sandra Dawson can be found on 
page 23. 
After full and careful consideration the Board has determined 
that Sandra Dawson continues to display the necessary 
knowledge, skills, commitment and energy and recommends 
her re-election as a Director of the Company. 
Board Effectiveness and Training 
Together with the Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures 
the Board is kept informed and consulted on all issues that 
are reserved to it. Directors undertake a thorough induction 
on joining the Company which includes meetings with the 
Company Secretary, the Senior Independent Director, the CEO 
and senior executives. A pack of information is also provided by 
the Company Secretary. Its purpose is to introduce the Directors 
to the responsibilities of the office and the procedures and 
practices the Company has implemented for good governance.
Comprehensive papers are prepared in advance of each Board 
and Committee meeting. These are circulated a week prior to 
the meeting to assist Directors in their knowledge of the subject 
matter to be discussed. Every month the Company Secretary 
reports on recent developments of corporate governance 
matters, best practice and legislative and governance changes 
which may affect the Board’s considerations. Directors may 
also obtain further information from any manager or employee 
of the Company and there is a process to obtain independent 
advice from external advisers, consultants or any such further 
professional individual or entity at the Company’s expense. 
The Company maintains appropriate liability insurance for the 
benefit of its Directors.
Every Director refreshes and updates their individual knowledge, 
skills and expertise by receiving relevant and appropriate 
information.
Non-Executive Directors’ knowledge of the Company’s business 
is enhanced when Board and Committee meetings are attended 
by senior managers working in key areas such as business 
continuity and improvement and product strategy.
Board Meetings
Board meetings are scheduled monthly, and the Board will 
meet as regularly as necessary in order to discharge its duties 
effectively. In 2014 twelve board meetings were held with the 
agenda and supporting papers being circulated one week in 
advance of each meeting. There were, in addition, four meetings 
convened and held as conference calls. The attendance record of 
each Director is set out on page 32 of this report. 
The non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent 
Director met once during the year to review the Chairman’s 
performance. The Chairman held meetings during the year with 
the non-Executive Directors and without the Executives being 
present.
Board Committees
The Board has established four Committees; the Nomination, 
Remuneration, Audit and Ethics Committees. The terms of 
reference of each Committee are reviewed annually by the 
Board and are available upon request from the Company 
Secretary and from the Group’s website. The Committee 
Chairmen will attend the Annual General Meeting and shall 
respond to Shareholders’ questions on their Committee’s 
activities. The Secretary of the Board Committees is the 
Company Secretary.
Nomination Committee
The process for Board appointments is led by the Nomination 
Committee which meets as required to propose to the 
Board, the appointment of new Executive and non-Executive 
Directors. The Committee is delegated authority by the Board 
to thoroughly review the skills, knowledge and experience 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE requirements and the job descriptions for specific appointments. 
The Committee is chaired by David Brown. Throughout 2014, 
the other members of the Committee were John Linwood, 
Sandra Dawson, Alison Reed and Steve Gowers.
A rigorous procedure is undertaken when considering new 
Board appointments which are made subject to election by 
Shareholders. Independent recruitment consultants are used in 
the search for candidates. Job descriptions are prepared by the 
Committee. Expected time commitments are communicated 
to all candidates and their other significant commitments are 
considered. Candidates are assessed and interviewed and a 
recommendation is made to the Board. The decision to appoint 
a candidate is made by the Board itself. Appointments are made 
on merit against objective criteria, with close consideration 
being given to the need for diversity on the Board.
The Nomination Committee met three times in 2014. The 
attendance record of each Committee member is set out 
on page 32 of this Report. In February 2014 it considered 
the Board’s structure and its succession plan. It agreed that 
the ratio of four non-Executive Directors and two Executive 
Directors continued to meet the requirements of the Code 
and also the Company’s requirements in 2014. During the year 
the Committee also agreed to nominate Sandra Dawson’s 
re-appointment as a non-Executive Director. 
Following the end of the year, the Committee commenced a 
recruitment process to identify a successor to the Chairman to 
ensure a smooth transition from David Brown. 
Remuneration Committee
During 2014 the Remuneration Committee was chaired by 
Sandra Dawson. John Linwood, David Brown and Alison Reed 
also served on the Remuneration Committee throughout 2014. 
Executive Directors and senior managers were invited to attend 
its meetings as required by the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining 
the remuneration of the Chairman and the Executive Directors 
and for recommending and monitoring the level and structure of 
remuneration for senior management. No individual is present 
when his or her remuneration is being considered.
It also oversees major changes to employee benefit structures 
implemented within the Group. The Committee is responsible 
for the appointment of the remuneration consultants who 
advise it in the Remuneration Policy and best practice. BDO LLP 
served as the Company’s remuneration consultants throughout 
the trading year. They have no other connections with the 
Company.
The Committee met seven times in 2014. The attendance 
record of each Committee member is set out on page 32 of this 
Report. The Committee submitted the Remuneration Policy 
and received approval from Shareholders at the 2014 AGM. 
The Committee has confirmed that it remains appropriate 
and, hence, will not be seeking further Shareholder approval to 
amend the Policy at this year’s AGM. It has also reviewed the 
salaries and benefits of executives and their performance in the 
Company’s short-term and long-term pay incentive schemes. 
No new long-term incentive awards were granted in 2014.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on page 34 provides 
more information on the Remuneration Committee and 
the Company’s Remuneration Policy for Executive and non-
Executive Directors.
It also reviewed the benefits payable to all employees and the 
terms of the salary exchange scheme.
The Board determines the fees of the non-Executive Directors 
within the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
Audit Committee
During 2014 the Audit Committee was chaired by Alison Reed. 
John Linwood, Sandra Dawson and David Brown served as 
members of the Committee throughout the year. The Board 
is satisfied that Alison Reed continues to bring recent and 
relevant financial experience to the Company. Alison Reed is a 
chartered accountant who has served as Chief Financial Officer 
for both Marks and Spencer plc and Standard Life plc. The diverse 
backgrounds of the Committee members and their combined 
skills and experience enable them to fulfil the Committee’s 
remit, as set out in the terms of reference. The terms of reference 
of the Audit Committee are published on the Company’s website 
and are reviewed annually.
The Committee met four times in 2014. The attendance 
record of each Committee member is set out on page 32 of 
this Report. The Committee has an annual work plan which 
includes standing items together with specific matters requiring 
the Committee’s attention. During the year the Committee 
reviewed the half yearly and annual financial statements and 
trading update statements and focussed on the accuracy of 
the financial reporting, the appropriateness of the Group’s 
accounting policies, relevant compliance issues and critical 
accounting estimates and areas of judgement.
The Executive Directors, the Company Secretary, the Quality 
Manager and the Financial Controller attend Audit Committee 
meetings as invited. The Partner and Audit Senior Manager from 
the external auditor were invited to and attended each meeting. 
The external auditors are not present when their performance 
and/or remuneration is discussed. 
The main areas of judgement that have been considered by the 
Committee, in relation to the financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2014, and that were closely considered with 
the external auditor were:
Revenue recognition
The Group enters into contracts where multiple products and 
services, such as scanning machines, software, printed forms 
and professional services are provided. The recognition of 
revenue in accordance with IAS 18 is impacted by the terms and 
conditions of each contract and can be highly judgemental. The 
Committee reviewed information provided by Management 
setting out when revenue is recognised, received and reviewed 
the accounting policy and considered the treatment of work 
in progress at the year-end and the half year by enquiry of 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
30
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Continued  31
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
management to ensure revenue is being recognised in line with 
the requirements of the accounting standard. The Committee 
in particular reviewed Management’s treatment of the GLA 
contract and are satisfied it is appropriate.
Capitalisation of development expenditure
The Committee received and reviewed detailed reports 
from management outlining the management process and 
methodology for capitalising development costs relating to the 
development of the new e-Marker® platform. The Committee 
reviewed the capital expenditure policy and assessed the 
nature of the expenditure to ensure that the requirements of 
IAS38 in respect of capitalisation have been applied correctly. 
The Committee discussed and challenged management’s 
forecast of revenues and margins expected to be derived 
from this development expenditure, including the delivery of 
a successful pilot in 2015 and also the discount rate applied. 
The Committee reviewed the product development plan with 
reference to product release dates. The Committee agreed with 
management’s assessment that the requirements of IAS have 
been applied correctly.
Going Concern
The Committee considered management’s forecasts of 
Group cash flows and net debt as well as the financing 
facilities available to the Group. In particular, the Committee 
discussed with management the project plan for the new 
PhotoScribe® scanners required for the GLA contract and 
the investment associated with the development of the new 
e-Marker® platform. Following this review and a discussion 
of the sensitivities of the critical milestone deliverables, the 
Committee confirmed that it continues to be appropriate to 
follow the Going Concern basis of accounting in the financial 
statements.
Valuation of Linford Wood Property
The Committee considered the commercial valuation of the 
property provided by Berry’s, an independent valuer; reviewed the 
return on business asset calculations provided by management 
through enquiry of management and review of the underlying 
assumptions and reviewed management’s proposal to impair the 
property, ensuring it is in accordance with IAS 36. The Committee 
was satisfied with the treatment of the impairment.
The Committee considered the effectiveness of both the external 
and the internal audit functions. It made recommendations to 
the Board on the external Auditor’s remuneration and terms 
of engagement. 
External audit: The Committee reviewed and approved 
the Auditor’s Audit Plan. The key risks identified included 
the capitalisation of software developments costs, revenue 
recognition on significant contracts, Going Concern, the valuation 
of the Linford Wood property, and management override of 
controls. These issues were again reviewed with the Auditor at the 
time of consideration of the Financial Statements for the year.  
Auditor effectiveness: Grant Thornton UK LLP were reviewed 
and found to have the expertise to provide a thorough, accurate, 
robust audit in order to meet all regulatory requirements. 
Auditor independence: The independence of the Auditor 
was reviewed and was found to meet a satisfactory standard 
for the Company in accordance with the Auditing Practice 
Board’s Ethical Standards. To safeguard independence, the 
Company requires the audit partner and audit manager to 
serve a maximum of five years on the Company’s audit account. 
The current partner has served two years and the audit senior 
manager has been in place for three years. 
Non-audit services: Services provided to the Group by Grant 
Thornton UK LLP cover advice on accounting standards and 
issues relating to the preparation of the Group’s half year 
unaudited accounts. Further information is provided in Note 6 
to the financial statements. The Auditor is not consulted on the 
Group’s tax issues or on other matters which could compromise 
its independence in undertaking the audits.
The Committee considered the re-appointment of Grant 
Thornton UK LLP as the Company’s external auditor. Grant 
Thornton UK LLP has acted in this capacity since 1991. Their role 
has been periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee and fees 
have been challenged, although a formal tender process has not 
been carried out since their appointment. The Committee has 
taken note of the recently published requirement for FTSE 350 
companies to tender their statutory audit engagement at least 
every ten years and, whilst this is not applicable to the Group, it 
will form part of the Committee’s consideration when addressing 
the re-appointment of auditor in future years.
Internal audit: During the year, the Committee considered the 
internal audit function which was led by the Business Improvement 
Manager and which examined the procedures, documentation 
and processes of each major business department. The Committee 
reviewed the audit timetable and the results of the audits 
undertaken. The Committee was made aware of all major non-
conformities and the necessary follow-up actions. 
Risk Management: DRS’ risk management processes, which 
have been in place throughout the period under review, identify 
and monitor the risks facing the Group. The risks are reported 
to the Board and the Audit Committee and risks which are 
considered material are regularly reviewed by the Board. These 
included the risks set out in Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
on page 16. Further details of our standards certification can 
be found in the Report on Corporate Responsibility on page 18. 
During the year, the Quality Manager advised the Committee 
regarding compliance with the Company’s risk management 
procedures and its certified standards. 
Whistleblowing: We consider any whistleblowing reports 
regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing 
matters.
Governance: Our performance is reviewed annually by inviting 
members, key executives and the external auditors to complete 
questionnaires. The results show the Committee continues to 
work effectively.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Ethics Committee
The Ethics Committee was under the chairmanship of John Linwood during 2014. Sandra Dawson and Steve Gowers are members 
and David Brown and Alison Reed attend the Committee’s meetings when invited. In 2014 the Committee reviewed ethical matters 
of concern to the Company and the Company’s Code of Business Ethics. It also addressed the implementation of the Company’s 
measures to comply with anti-corruption and bribery legislation. Two meetings of the Ethics Committee were held in 2014. The 
attendance record of each Committee member is set out below.
A TTENDANCE A T ALL MEETINGS
The following table details the number of Board and Committee Meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2014 and the 
attendance record of each Director and Committee member.
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
32
Board and Committee Evaluations
The Board: A formal rigorous annual evaluation of the Board and 
its performance is undertaken. The results of the evaluation are 
considered by the whole Board and are reviewed throughout the 
year to ensure required improvements are actioned in a timely 
manner. For a company of the size of DRS it is not considered an 
effective use of resources to externally facilitate this exercise.
The Board’ s Committees: A thorough annual evaluation of 
the work and performance of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees is undertaken. Evaluations of the Nomination and 
Ethics Committees are not undertaken.
The Chairman: An annual performance evaluation of the 
Chairman takes place in every year under the leadership of the 
Senior Independent Director, Alison Reed, who considers the 
views of all of the Company’ s Directors.
Relations with Shareholders
The Board is committed to maintaining an active dialogue with 
Shareholders and works to ensure Shareholders are aware of 
the Company’ s objectives. The Group’ s website provides all 
our stakeholders and interest groups with regulatory news 
announcements, press releases and the Annual Report and 
Accounts which are available for download together with 
information of a more general nature regarding the Group’s 
business activities. 
The website address is www.drs.co.uk.
The Board is responsible for maintaining dialogue with 
Shareholders. On its behalf, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer 
and Finance Director meet regularly with the Company’s major 
Shareholders. Major Shareholders, fund managers and analysts 
are given an opportunity to meet with the Chairman or with the 
Senior Independent Director, if they so require.
Additionally, all non-Executive Directors make themselves 
available to meet with major Shareholders to discuss any 
concerns they may have. The Board regularly receives 
independent feedback from analysts and major Shareholders 
through face-to-face contact and analyst’s and brokers’ briefings.
All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting which takes 
place at the Company’s registered office. A separate circular 
has been provided with this Report which contains the Notice 
of Annual General Meeting and details of the business to be 
considered at the meeting. A copy of the Notice is also published 
on the Company’s website. The AGM is used to communicate 
with private investors and institutional Shareholders alike and 
all are encouraged to participate. Shareholders are invited to ask 
questions and are able to meet the Directors informally. Separate 
resolutions are proposed on each issue so that they can be given 
proper consideration and there is a resolution to receive the 
Annual Report and Accounts. Abstentions as well as votes for and 
against every resolution are counted. The Company reports on the 
number of proxy votes and indicates the level of proxies lodged on 
each resolution before it has been dealt with by a show of hands. 
This information is supplied to Shareholders attending the AGM 
and is published on the Company’ s website following the meeting.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Continued 
 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Ethics
NUMBER OF MEETINGS 16 4 7 3 2
HELD IN 2014
David Brown 16 4 7 3 -
Alison Reed 16 4 7 3 -
Sandra Dawson 16 4 7 3 2
John Linwood 14 3 6 3 2
Steve Gowers 16 - - 3 2
Mark Tebbutt 16 - - - - 33
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Internal Control and Risk Management
The Board has transparent and well documented arrangements 
which apply procedures for prudent internal controls for the 
management of risk and corporate reporting. The controls that 
have been implemented are designed for the requirements of 
the Company’s business model and the strategies the Board has 
approved for delivering the business objectives. The Board, by 
presentation of a formal report from the Business Improvement 
Manager to the Audit Committee, conducted a review of the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk management 
systems on four occasions in 2014. Further details concerning the 
business model are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 10 - 11.
The Group successfully achieved transition from BS 25999-2:2007 
to BS ISO 22301:2012 for Business Continuity in May 2014. The 
Group also continues to maintain its certification in the other 
key areas of Quality Management (ISO 9001), Environmental 
Management (ISO 14001) and Information Security Management 
(ISO 27001). The Board continues to regard these certifications as 
important evidence of the effectiveness of the Group’ s focus on 
compliance with best practice risk management standards.
In designing the improved internal controls system, the Directors 
have considered the principal risks and uncertainties further 
referred to in the report of Principal Risks on page 16, which forms 
part of the Strategic Report, which has been reviewed by the Audit 
Committee and which has also taken into account developments 
occurring since the end of the year.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining 
adequate internal controls over financial reporting, including over 
the Group’s consolidation process.
The main features of the internal control, financial reporting system 
and risk management system are:
•   a clear management system with defined levels of responsibility 
and delegation of authority;
• authorisation limits set at appropriate levels;
• a comprehensive forecasting and budgeting system;
•  monthly financial management reports comparing actual results 
against monthly forecasts;
•  as part of the risk management framework, the Company 
maintains its risk registers including the strategic risk register 
which is escalated to the Board for review and input;
•  individual tender and project review procedures to support the 
bidding process prior to contract award;
•  implementation of an anti-fraud policy to provide a confidential 
method of reporting relevant suspected activities; and
•  regular review and reporting of health and safety and 
environmental matters.
The system manages the risk of failure to achieve strategic 
objectives but does not eliminate such risk. The Directors believe 
it provides reasonable but not absolute assurance of:
• no material misstatement or losses;
• no unauthorised use of the Company’s assets; and
• the maintenance of proper accounting records.
Financial Reporting
The Audit Committee scrutinised the half yearly and annual 
financial statements and focussed on the accuracy of the financial 
reporting, the appropriateness of the accounting policies, critical 
accounting estimates and key judgements. Particular areas of 
focus were revenue recognition, the accounting treatment of the 
capitalisation of software development costs, Going Concern, and 
the impairment of the Linford Wood property.
Financial Risk Management
Details of the Group’ s approach to financial risk management 
are given in the Strategic Report within the section Liquidity and 
Capital Management and in Note 4 to the financial statements 
on pages 67 - 68.
Risk of Conflicts
The Directors have been made aware of the statutory duty to 
avoid any situation in which they have or may have a possible 
conflict with the interests of the Company. This duty is not 
infringed in cases where such a conflict situation has been 
authorised in advance by other Board members in accordance 
with the Company’ s constitution. The Articles of Association 
contain appropriate provisions for the authorisation of conflict 
situations. All Directors have notified the Board of all situations 
which may give rise to potential conflict with the interests of the 
Company and refresh this information regularly.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
Richard Cole
Company Secretary 
7 April 2015 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 2014 
LETTER TO THE SHAREHOLDERS FROM THE 
CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Dear Shareholders
I write as Chair of the Remuneration Committee on behalf 
of the Board to present the Company’s Remuneration 
Report.
Below I have summarised the work of the Remuneration 
Committee (the Committee) in 2014 with particular 
regard to:
•  the major decisions on Directors’ remuneration which 
have been taken;
•  the changes to Directors’ remuneration that have been 
made by the Company; and
•  the context within which those changes occurred and 
those decisions were taken.
This report follows the structure we put in place last 
year after the implementation of the new regulations 
governing Directors’ remuneration. You will find the 
Remuneration Policy starting on page 36 of this Annual 
Report. The policy supports the Company’s strategy and 
was approved in a binding vote at the Annual General 
Meeting on 19 May 2014. It came into effect immediately 
following that meeting and has been approved for a 
period of three years. Should the Company become 
aware of any market, regulatory or other change which 
suggests the policy should be updated within that 
period, the Company would seek appropriate approval 
from Shareholders to make the necessary revisions to 
the policy. 
You will find the Annual Report on Remuneration starting on 
page 44. This shows how the policy has been applied in the 
2014 financial year. This part of the Report will be subject 
to the approval of the Shareholders at the 2015 Annual 
General Meeting.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
When undertaking its work the Committee seeks to ensure 
that the Company offers remuneration packages that are 
fair and competitive and are designed to attract, motivate, 
incentivise and retain the high calibre of Executive Directors 
required to lead the Company to achieve its strategic goals. 
The Committee is eager to ensure that the Company’s 
Remuneration Policy and practice reward and encourage 
sustained high levels of individual, team and Company 
performance. 
2014 has been a challenging year during which the long-
term success of the Company has been the main focus of the 
Executive Directors. All elements of their remuneration have 
been reviewed by the Committee and a number of changes 
have been made consistent with the Remuneration Policy 
and the goal to achieve long-term success.
The major decisions on Executive Directors’ remuneration 
that have been taken are set out below.
Salary Review
In January 2015 there were no salary increases awarded 
to Executive Directors which was consistent with there 
not being an annual pay increase for any member of 
the workforce.
In January 2014 Steve Gowers and Mark Tebbutt were 
awarded a salary increase of 2.0% compared to an average 
increase of 2.56% for the workforce excluding the Executive 
Directors.
Benefit Review
A review of the benefit packages of all staff and Directors 
was undertaken in Q4 2014 and was implemented with 
effect from 1 January 2015 which has resulted in the 
following changes to the Executive Directors’ benefits:
•  a reduction to 10%, from 20%, in the employer’s 
contribution to each Director’s personal pension 
arrangements;
•  a reduction in life assurance cover from four times to three 
times basic salary; and
•  amendment of the terms of the permanent health 
insurance scheme to provide cover at a reduced premium 
to the Company.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
The Committee reviewed the SIP in February 2014 and 
considered the benefits of the plan against those offered 
by similar companies. The plan was altered in order to 
increase the participants’ maximum contribution from 
£1,500 to £1,800 per annum with effect from 6 April 2014.
Pension - The Salary Exchange Scheme
The Salary Exchange Scheme, which was explained in 
detail in the 2013 Annual report, continued to operate 
and enable participants to make a contribution to their 
pension scheme directly from gross salary. 
Annual Discretionary Bonus Plan
An important aspect of our Remuneration Policy is 
the challenging company and individual performance 
conditions underpinning the annual discretionary 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
34
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  35
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
bonus plan. In February the terms of the 2014 Annual 
Discretionary Bonus Plan were reviewed and targets set. 
The revenue and profit targets for 2014 were not met. 
Accordingly the Committee decided no bonus payments 
should be awarded to Executive Directors and members 
of the Senior Executive team for the 2014 trading year. 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2012 Plan)
The 2012 DRS Long-Term Incentive Plan was approved by 
Shareholders at the AGM in 2012.
No new awards were made to the Executive Directors 
during 2014 and existing awards have lapsed. A summary 
of the rules of the 2012 Plan is set out on pages 42 - 44 
for information. 
The following sections of this Remuneration Report 
comprise:
•  the Company’s Remuneration Policy on pages 36 - 44 
for information; and
•  the Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out, 
in respect of the Directors, the payments made and 
remuneration commitments entered into in 2014 on 
pages 44 - 49. 
At the forthcoming AGM an advisory ordinary resolution 
will be put to Shareholders seeking approval for the 
Annual Report on Remuneration. As set out above the 
Company’s implementation of Remuneration Policy 
remains consistent with the authority from Shareholders 
in a binding vote at the 2014 AGM and, hence, no further 
binding resolution will be put to Shareholders at the 
2015 AGM. 
I look forward to meeting our Shareholders at the AGM.
DAME SANDRA DAWSON DBE
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
7 April 2015 DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2014 
1. INTRODUCTION
The Remuneration Policy, which is set out below for information, was approved by the Company’s Shareholders at the 2014 
AGM. It is currently intended that all payments made and benefits provided to Directors shall be within its scope.
2. THE COMPANY’S POLICY REGARDING THE  MAKING OF REMUNERATION PAYMENTS
The Remuneration policy approved by Shareholders at the 
2014 AGM is intended;
(i) to offer remuneration packages that are fair   
 and competitive;
(ii)  to attract, motivate, incentivise and retain the highly 
skilled and high calibre Directors required to lead the 
Company to achieve its strategic goals;
(iii) to implement and maintain an appropriate balance   
 between fixed and performance-related elements;
(iv)  to pay a significant proportion of potential total 
remuneration conditional upon longer-term performance;
(v)  without mechanistically tracking benchmarks, to progress 
towards median base salary payments in comparable 
companies as strategic goals are delivered; and
(vi)  to align the interests of Executive Directors with 
Shareholders by delivering long-term value through the 
2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Share Incentive 
Plan. Please refer to page 41 for further details of the 
Company’s Share Incentive Plan (SIP).
The Committee considers each year whether recovery 
or withholding is appropriate in respect of any incentive 
payment.
DRS Data and Research Services plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2014
36
3. REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE
Executive Directors
Executive Directors 
-  Salary and  
Benefits
Objective and  
Link to the Strategy
Operation Maximum  
Potential Value
Performance 
Conditions and 
Assessment
Base salary, taxable 
benefits, pension. 
To attract and retain 
Executive Directors 
with the appropriate 
skills and experience 
to lead the Company 
in achieving its 
strategic goals, by 
offering reasonable 
and competitive 
benefits.
Paid monthly 
throughout the year 
in equal instalments. 
Death in service and 
permanent health 
insurances are paid 
only when the 
terms of payment 
under the applicable 
insurances schemes 
apply.
Determined in 
January each year. 
The Committee 
considers whether 
to increase or retain 
these payments 
at current levels. 
A benchmarking 
exercise is 
undertaken with 
assistance from 
the Committee’s 
remuneration 
advisers, reviewing 
salary and benefits 
against those paid 
in companies of 
a similar size and 
complexity to 
DRS and against 
salary and benefits 
offered to other 
DRS employees. The 
maximum pension 
contribution is 20% 
of base salary.
An annual 
appraisal process 
is undertaken in 
January each year. 
The Executive 
Director’s 
performance during 
the whole of the 
previous year is 
assessed and has a 
direct impact upon 
the Committee’s 
decision whether to 
award an increase.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  37
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
3. REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE
Executive Directors - Continued
Executive Directors 
-  Discretionary 
Benefits
Objective and  
Link to Strategy
Operation Maximum  
Potential Value
Performance 
Conditions and 
Assessment
Annual Discretionary 
Bonus Plan 
(the Bonus Plan).
To reward Executive 
Directors for the 
achievement of the 
Company’s profitable 
growth.
The Bonus Plan 
starts on 1 January 
and ends on 
31 December each 
year. Performance 
is measured by the 
achievement of 
targets preset by 
the Committee. 
Any bonus earned 
is paid through the 
Company’s normal 
payroll system. 
Target profit and 
bonus before tax 
must be achieved 
before any bonus is 
payable.
Up to 75% of base 
salary.
80% of the 
maximum 
bonus is linked 
to the financial 
performance of 
the business based 
on the annual 
budget figure. 20% 
of the maximum 
bonus is linked to 
the achievement 
of the Executive 
Directors’ personal 
performance 
objectives. Both 
performance 
conditions are 
approved in advance 
by the Committee.
2012 DRS Long-Term 
Incentive Plan  
(the 2012 Plan).
To encourage the 
Executive Directors 
to focus on the long-
term performance of 
the Company and to 
link their rewards to 
Shareholder return 
providing a common 
interest with 
Shareholders.
EMI qualifying 
Options can only 
be granted under 
the 2012 Plan if the 
conditions of the  
EMI regime and 
Schedule 5 ITEPA 
2003 are met.
Options are granted 
at nil-cost and are 
subject to the 2012 
Plan rules.
100% of base salary. Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) relative 
to the FTSE Fledgling 
Index, over a 3 year 
period with 25% 
vesting at median, 
100% at upper 
quartile subject to 
underlying growth 
in earnings per 
share (EPS). TSR was 
chosen as a way of 
linking Directors’ 
reward to returns 
to Shareholders. 
External factors 
can impact on TSR 
so an underlying 
financial measure of 
growth in earnings 
per share was also 
implemented. DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2014 
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
38
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Chairman 
Objective and  
Link to Strategy
Operation Maximum  
Potential Value
Performance 
Conditions and 
Assessment
Fees To attract a 
Chairman with 
the requisite skills 
and experience to 
perform the role.
Fees are set at 
the level paid for 
comparable roles 
at Premium Main 
Market companies 
of a similar size and 
complexity to DRS. 
The Chairman’s 
fees are determined 
by the Committee 
which decided that 
the fees would not 
be increased in 2014.
Fee levels are set 
by reference to 
the median of this 
peer group and are 
reviewed annually.
In the course of 
considering any 
increases the 
Committee will take 
into consideration 
increases within the 
external peer group, 
increases provided to 
DRS employees and 
inflation.
N/A
Objective and  
Link to Strategy
Operation Maximum  
Potential Value
Performance 
Conditions and 
Assessment
Fees To attract non-
Executive Directors 
with the requisite 
skills and experience 
to perform the role.
Fees are set at 
the level paid for 
comparable roles 
at Premium Main 
Market companies 
of a similar size and 
complexity to DRS. 
The non-Executive 
Directors’ fees are 
determined by the 
full Board which 
decided that the 
fees would not be 
increased in 2014.
Fee levels are set 
by reference to 
the median of this 
peer group and are 
reviewed annually. 
In the course of 
considering any 
increases the 
Board will take 
into consideration 
increases within the 
external peer group, 
increases provided to 
DRS employees and 
inflation.
N/A
Non-Executive Directors  39
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ILLUSTRATION OF THE APPLICATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2014
1. Minimum Receivable
If an annual bonus payment is not awarded the Executive Directors will receive 100% of their remuneration under this Policy 
in the form of salary, beneﬁts and pension payments as shown in column 1. 
2. LTIP Awards  
Awards were made to the Executive Directors under the 2012 DRS Long Term Incentive Plan in September and November 2012 
and the performance period runs from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. A payment in the ﬁrst year of the Remuneration 
Policy would only be possible if vesting were accelerated in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
Salary Beneﬁts Pension Annual Bonus LTIP
Finance Director - Mark Tebbutt
£300,000
£250,000
£200,000
£150,000
£100,000
£50,000
£0
100%
0%
0%
78%
22%
0%
63%
37%
0%
£116,005
£12,133
£23,201
£116,005
£12,133
£23,201
£43,502
£87,004
£116,005
£12,133
£23,201
£151,339 £194,841 £238,343
Minimum In line with
expectations
Maximum
receivable
£400,000
£215,377 £278,490 £341,602
£350,000
£300,000
£250,000
£200,000
£150,000
£100,000
£50,000
£0
CEO Steve Gowers
100%
0%
0%
77%
23%
0%
63%
37%
0%
£33,660
£63,113
£126,225
£168,300
£13,417
£33,660
Minimum In line with
expectations
Maximum
receivable
£168,300
£13,417
£168,300
£13,417
£33,660
1.  Minimum R eceivable
  If an annual bonus payment is not awarded the Executive Directors will receive 100% of their remuneration under this 
Policy in the form of salary, benefits and pension payments as shown in column 1.
2.  LTIP Awards
  Awards were made to the Executive Directors under the 2012 DRS Long-Term Incentive Plan in September and November 
2012 and the performance period runs from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. A payment in the first year of the 
Remuneration Policy would only be possible if vesting were accelerated in accordance with the rules of the Plan. 
3.  The table above was produced last year for the first year application of the policy approved in 2014. Accordingly, certain 
information in the above table is now of historical interest only, including the LTIP awards, which have now lapsed. DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
40
Chairman and non-Executive Directors’ Fees
Fees are set by reference to a median level for comparable 
roles following close consideration of benchmarking research 
reviewed on an annual basis. It is expected that the Chairman 
will work approximately 24 full days annually for the Company 
and that non-Executive Directors will work approximately 15 full 
days annually for the Company. In the event that the Chairman 
or a non-Executive Director is requested in exceptional 
circumstances to undertake work on behalf of the Company 
which is outside the normal scope of their role of Chairman or 
non-Executive Director an additional payment may be made. 
Expenses which are incurred solely on the Company’s business 
are reimbursed when properly documented. Fees are reviewed 
annually; increases are not automatic, only where reasonable 
and supported by the Company’s performance. The Committee 
expects the flexibility set out above shall continue with respect 
to the payments made to the Company’s Chairman and non-
Executive Directors for the lifetime of the Remuneration Policy.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - COMPONENTS OF THE 
REMUNERATION PACKAGE
Set out below is the Company’s policy and current practice 
regarding each component of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration package. In each case, the Committee will 
retain future flexibility and discretion to deliver the Company’s 
policy regarding the making of remuneration payments and 
in order to meet the Committee’s remuneration philosophy. 
The Committee’s philosophy can be found in the Chairman’s 
annual statement on page 34. We have set out the Company’s 
policy regarding the making of remuneration payments on 
page 36 of this Report.
i. Base Pay
  Base Pay is set at a conservative level and, without 
mechanistically tracking benchmarks, progresses 
towards the median base salary payment in comparative 
companies as strategic objectives are met. Pay is 
reviewed once in every calendar year when the 
Committee has discretion to increase base salary or 
retain it at the existing level. The Company has discretion 
to deduct from base pay any pay in lieu of notice or 
other termination payment, any overpayment of salary, 
expenses, debts, loans or other sum required or permitted 
by the Employment Rights Act 1996 (as amended from 
time to time) or by other applicable legislation.
ii. Car Benefit
a)  It is current practice to provide a car allowance 
of up to £12,000 per annum paid to the Executive 
Director in 12 monthly instalments subject to relevant 
lawful deductions.
b)  The Committee may amend the car benefit in 
accordance with common practice of similar 
companies. The Company also has discretion to review 
the fixed pence per mile allowance for business use 
applied to the use of an Executive Director’s vehicle.
iii. Health Benefits - Sick Pay
a)  It is current practice that in any one calendar year an 
Executive Director’s sick pay entitlement less Statutory 
Sick Pay where applicable, is that number of weeks 
which is four per cent of the number of weeks for which 
he or she has been employed by the Company from 
the date of joining less the number of weeks of sick pay 
already taken, up to a maximum of 13 weeks.
b)  Any further payment not set out in (iii)(a) above is 
subject to Board approval.
iv. Health Benefits - Death in Service
a)  When the policy was adopted, it was the Company’s 
practice to provide that the death in service benefit 
equals four times annual salary (subject to the terms of 
the insurance policy provider from time to time). This 
has now been reduced to three times salary.
b)  The Company may negotiate alternative cover with 
a suitable provider retaining substantially the same 
benefit to the Executive Director while ensuring cost-
effectiveness for the Company.
v.  Health Benefits – Permanent Health 
Insurance
a)  The Executive Directors have the benefit of a 
permanent health insurance policy, in the event an 
Executive Director is incapacitated by sickness or 
accident.
b)  The policy is subject to the terms of the insurance 
policy provider from time to time. The Company may 
negotiate alternative cover with a suitable provider 
retaining substantially the same benefit to the 
Executive Director while ensuring cost-effectiveness for 
the Company.
vi. Health Benefits – Private Medical Insurance
a)  Private medical insurance is offered, in which the 
Executive Director may choose to participate. Cover is 
made available to the Executive Director and his or her 
dependent family. 
b)  The policy is subject to the terms of the insurance 
policy provider from time to time. The Company may 
negotiate an alternative policy with a suitable provider 
retaining substantially the same benefit to the Director 
while ensuring cost-effectiveness for the Company.
4. THE COMPANY’S POLICY REGARDING EACH OF THE COMPONENTS OF THE REMUNERATION   
 PACKAGES WHICH THE COMPANY WILL MAKE TO EACH OF ITS DIRECTORS
DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2014 
continued
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  41
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
vii. Pension
a)  When the policy was adopted, it was the Company’s 
practice to offer a contribution of 20% of base salary 
towards the Executive Director’s personal pension 
scheme operating as part of the Company’s Group 
Personal Pension Scheme. Currently there is no 
requirement for the Executive Director to make any 
contribution but he or she may do so. With effect from 
1 January 2015, the Company’s contribution was reduced 
to 10%.
b)  An Executive Director may join the pension scheme 
after three months’ continuous service. The Committee 
may alter this requirement. A salary exchange scheme 
is available allowing an Executive Director to make 
contributions to his or her pension from gross salary.
viii. Short-Term Incentive - Annual Bonus
a)  Currently the Executive Director may, at the discretion 
of the Board, as recommended by the Committee, be 
eligible to receive an annual bonus of up to 75% of 
base pay (subject to income tax and other statutory 
deductions) which is subject both to the Company’s 
performance and the achievement of personal 
objectives as determined by the Remuneration 
Committee in advance. 
b)  The Committee’s discretion is exercised both as to 
payment and amount. 
ix. Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
a)  The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in an 
HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan on the same terms 
as other employees.
  At the Committee’s discretion, the Director must be 
employed for a period of time before being entitled 
to participate in the SIP which is currently set at nine 
months but may be altered by the Committee. 
b)  The Committee would not seek to withdraw the SIP, 
introduce any alternative share incentive scheme 
designed to align the Director’s interests with those 
of the Company’s Shareholders or alter the terms 
of the SIP except to bring it in line with legislative 
requirements, without first seeking the approval of the 
Company’s Shareholders.
x. Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2012 Plan)
(a)  The Company’s policy is to grant options under the 2012 
Plan at nil-cost. The Committee will consider making 
annual awards of options for all executives when the 
grants made in 2012 vest or expire and will consider the 
exercise cost, if any, attaching to any such grants. 
(b)  An Executive Director is invited to participate in the 
2012 Plan and if accepted will be granted an option over 
a number of the Company’s Ordinary shares.
A summary of the 2012 Plan can be found on page 42 of this 
report.
Other Remuneration Policies in DRS
The Company’s Policy on Recruitment Payments
a)  The recruitment package is designed to be fair and 
competitive with an appropriate balance between fixed 
and performance-related elements and is designed to 
attract, motivate, incentivise and retain high calibre 
executives.
b)   The Committee regularly reviews the salary and benefits 
offered on recruitment to ensure they are reasonable 
with regard to (i) equitable provisions with other DRS 
workers, (ii) the wider financial/economic climate, and 
(iii) comparisons with Directors undertaking similar jobs 
in similar companies.
c)  Payments made to an Executive Director upon joining 
the Company, e.g. by way of a one-off bonus payment 
or share award, may be made on a case-by-case basis. 
Such payment or award may be subject to performance 
conditions.
d)  Any previous outstanding share awards may be 
compensated at fair value, using a recognised valuation 
methodology by an independent third party. The 
fair value may be awarded as a combination of cash 
and shares. Any new award may be granted subject 
to performance conditions no less onerous than 
applied to the forfeited awards. The terms of any such 
compensation will be determined by the Committee 
on a case-by-case basis taking into account all relevant 
factors.
e)  A relocation package may be paid on a case-by-case 
basis.
The Company’s Policy on Notice Periods
a)  On the termination of employment it is the Company’s 
policy to give to an Executive Director six months’ 
written notice and to require the Executive Director 
to provide the Company with the same notice. 
Alternatively the Company may choose to make 
payment of base salary in lieu of such notice or an 
unexpired portion thereof.
b)  The Company may terminate the employment of 
an Executive Director by giving six months’ notice 
(not necessarily in writing) if the individual has been 
incapacitated by reasons of ill health, accident or 
otherwise from performing his/her duties for a total of 
180 days or more in the preceding 12 month period. 
c)  At any time during the notice period, the Company may 
require the Executive Director to take a period of absence 
(known as Garden Leave) of up to six months during 
which all duties of the Executive Director’s employment 
(whether express or implied) including duties of fidelity 
and good faith shall continue except as expressly varied in 
the Executive Director’s service contract. DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2014 
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
42
The Company’s Policy on Termination Payments
a)  Payments will be made to the departing Executive 
Director in order to settle outstanding contractual 
notice and/or holiday entitlement.
b)  All payments are made subject to income and other 
statutory taxation which the Company as an employer 
is required to deduct.
c)  No tax obligations of a Director will be met by the 
Company.
d)  Compensation for loss of office is paid in full and final 
settlement of claims the Executive Director has asserted 
against the Company in writing through independent 
legal advisers and when this course of action is 
recommended by the Company’s own duly appointed 
external legal advisers.
e)  An Executive Director who leaves the business due to 
ill health or upon retirement will be entitled to receive 
a pro-rata payment under the Annual Discretionary 
Bonus Plan based on their service during the relevant 
year. Otherwise there is no automatic entitlement to 
a bonus during the year in which an Executive Director 
leaves office.
Policy on Equitable Provisions with other DRS 
Workers
When considering the fairness of the remuneration package 
for Executive Directors it is the Committee’s policy to review 
the pay and conditions of employment elsewhere in the 
Group. 
The Company did not consult with the Company’s 
employees when preparing this report.
Policy on Consideration of the Wider Financial/
Economic Climate
When considering the fairness of remuneration packages 
for Executive Directors it is the Committee’s policy to 
consider the financial and economic climate then prevailing 
by reference to current information sourced from its 
remuneration advisers and other sources of generally 
accessible market data.
Policy on Benchmarking Against Similar Companies
The Company’s executive remuneration packages are 
compared with those of a peer group of similar companies in 
the FTSE Fledgling Index as benchmarked by the Company’s 
remuneration advisers from time to time. 
Policy on Consultation with Major Shareholders 
on Remuneration Issues
The Company operates an Investor Relations Policy. It 
complies with Section E (Relations with Shareholders) of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. Additionally the Chair 
of the Committee is authorised by the Board to arrange to 
meet with Shareholders regarding remuneration matters. 
The Chair meets Shareholders at the AGM and from time to 
time will offer additional meetings to major Shareholders. 
Any views expressed by Shareholders at these meetings are 
reported to the Committee and taken into consideration 
when setting levels of remuneration.
Please refer to the Chair of the Committee’s annual 
statement for details of the work undertaken by the 
Committee in 2014 and 2015.
SUMMARY OF THE RULES OF THE DRS LONG-
TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 2012 (THE 2012 PLAN)
1. Introduction
The 2012 Plan enables selected employees of the Company 
and its subsidiaries to be granted share options (Options) 
over Ordinary shares (Shares) in the capital of the Company. 
Options granted under the 2012 Plan are not transferable. 
Only the person to whom the Option is granted (participant) 
or his or her personal representatives may acquire Shares 
pursuant to Options. Benefits under the 2012 Plan are not 
pensionable benefits. 
2. Administration
The Committee is responsible for the operation and 
administration of the 2012 Plan.
3. Eligibility
A participant must be an employee or an Executive Director 
of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (the Group). 
The Committee can exercise its discretion in selecting the 
executives and employees to whom Options are to be 
granted under the 2012 Plan. 
4. Grant of Options
Options may only be granted in the period of 42 days 
beginning with the dealing day following the announcement 
of the Company’s results for any period, or, subject to the 
Model Code and other relevant restrictions on dealings 
in Shares, on any other day on which the Committee 
determines that exceptional circumstances exist. No 
payment will be made for the grant of an Option. No 
Options will be granted after the tenth anniversary of the 
date of adoption of the 2012 Plan. The plan was adopted on 
15 May 2012. 
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  43
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
5. Form of Options
Options granted under the 2012 Plan may be granted either 
with an exercise price equal to the market value at the 
date of grant, or with a nil (or nominal) exercise price. The 
Options may be options to subscribe for new Shares, options 
to purchase existing Shares from an employees’ trust or 
options to be satisfied by the transfer of Treasury shares.
It was the Committee’s intention that the initial Options 
would be granted with a nil exercise price. The view of the 
Committee was that this is common practice for listed 
companies on the basis that it creates a more effective 
incentive and reduces the dilution of existing Shareholders. 
To date all Options that have been granted under the 2012 
Plan have been granted with a nil exercise price.
For as long as the Company satisfies the qualifying 
conditions under the Enterprise Management Incentive 
regime, Options shall be granted under, and comply with 
the HMRC rules set out in Schedule 5 to the Income Tax 
(Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003. This confers tax benefits 
on Options up to a certain threshold. In the event that this 
threshold is exceeded or the Company ceases to satisfy the 
qualifying conditions, unapproved Options may instead be 
granted under the 2012 Plan.
6. Size of Option Grants/Plan Limits
The size of any Option grants are determined by the 
Committee in line with its remuneration policy as disclosed 
in the Annual Report and approved by Shareholders. When 
the 2012 Plan was introduced it was the intention that the 
initial Options would be up to one times salary and those 
that have been granted since have been subject to this limit.
In any ten year period there is a limit of five (5) per cent of 
the issued share capital of the Company from time to time, 
on the number of new Shares which are issued or may be 
issued in connection with Options. A limit of ten (10) per 
cent applies to the aggregate of the Options under the 2012 
Plan and similar rights under any other employees’ share 
scheme of the Company. Shares transferred out of Treasury 
or to the trustee of an employees’ trust count towards 
these limits on the issue of new Shares. No account will 
be taken of Shares which an employees’ trust purchases at 
market value.
7 . Vesting of Options
Except as referred to below, and subject to achieving the 
performance targets, Options will normally vest so that 
the participant may acquire the Shares subject to Options 
(unencumbered by any restrictions) three years after an 
Option is granted. On exercise, the Company must deliver 
or procure that there is delivered the relevant number 
of Shares.
If a participant dies or leaves employment within the Group 
during the period prior to vesting by reason of ill-health, 
disability, redundancy, retirement, the participant’s employer 
being sold outside the Group, or other circumstances at 
the discretion of the Committee, the participant (or his/
her personal representatives, as the case may be), may, 
depending on the extent to which the performance target 
has been met, exercise his/her Options within a period of 40 
days after the cessation of employment, after which it shall 
lapse. This period shall be 12 months in the case of death.
If a participant ceases to be employed for any other reason 
than those referred to, his/her Option will normally lapse. 
On a change of control of the Company or a resolution for its 
voluntary winding up, performance periods will immediately 
cease. Subject to the Committee’s determination of the 
Company’s performance at that time, Options may vest, 
normally in proportion to the amount of the performance 
period that had elapsed before the change of control or 
the passing of the resolution, as the case may be. On a 
demerger or a takeover of the Company (except for an 
internal reorganisation) the Committee may determine that 
a proportion of the Options may vest or vary the terms of 
the Options and/or the performance targets. Where Options 
vest, this will be on the same basis as a change of control.
8. Performance Targets
Options shall be subject in each case to the achievement of 
performance targets. Performance targets will be measured 
over a fixed period of three financial years, beginning with 
the financial year in which the Options are granted, and 
are determined by the Committee from time to time. To 
the extent that the performance targets are not met, the 
Options shall lapse, without opportunity for retesting. 
The Committee may change the performance targets for 
existing Options from time to time if events happen that 
make it fair and reasonable to do so, but not so as to make 
the performance targets, in the opinion of the Committee, 
materially easier or more difficult to satisfy than they were 
when the Options were first granted. Before offering the 
2012 Plan in future years the Committee will review the 
continuing appropriateness of these performance targets.
9. Rights Attaching to Shares
Shares issued in connection with the exercise of Options 
will rank equally with all other Shares then in issue (save 
as regards any rights attaching to Shares by reference to a 
record date prior to the allotment and issue of such Shares). 
Application will be made for admission to the Official List of 
new Shares issued and for permission to trade those Shares.
10. Variation of Share Capital
If there is any alteration of the issued share capital of the 
Company, the number of Shares subject to an Option will be 
subject to adjustments. The Committee may adjust Options 
in such manner as it determines to be appropriate.  DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2014 
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
44
11. Alteration of the 2012 Plan
No alteration or addition to the advantage of participants may be made by the Directors to the provisions of the plan relating 
to eligibility, limitations on the number of Shares in respect of which Options may be granted, or the basis of determining 
a participant’s entitlement to acquire Shares and the adjustment to such rights in the event of a variation of share capital 
without the prior approval of Shareholders in general meeting. There is an exception for minor amendments to benefit the 
administration of the 2012 Plan or to take account of any changes in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax or 
regulatory treatment for participants, the Company or any associated company.
The above is a summary of the principal terms and does not form part of the rules of the 2012 Plan.
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
The figures included in the Executive Directors’ Single Figure Table below have been audited.
2014 Executive Directors’ Single Total Figure Table 
∞
  Base Salary . The Executive Directors may choose to participate in the salary exchange scheme. This voluntary scheme allows the Executive Directors 
to make a contribution to their personal pension schemes directly from gross salary. Steve Gowers participated in the salary exchange scheme from 
April 2013 and throughout 2014. In 2014 Steve Gowers’ contribution amounted to £6,126 (2013: £5,000). Mark Tebbutt participated in the salary 
exchange scheme throughout 2014 and 2013. In 2014 he contributed £17,500 and in 2013 he contributed £24,000. These contributions under 
the salary exchange scheme are included in column A above. The Executive Directors are not entitled to receive into their pension any payment 
representing a saving of National Insurance received by the Company resulting from their participation in the salary exchange scheme.
+
  T axable Benefits. These benefits comprise a car allowance and private healthcare. 
*  Long-Term Incentives. Awards made under the terms of the 2012 DRS Long-Term Incentive Plan were due to vest as a result of the achievement of 
performance measures relating to the year ended 31 December 2014. The performance targets were not met and no awards vested during the year or 
will vest in 2015 as a result of the Company’s performance in 2014.
×
  P ensions. In accordance with its current practice the Company contributed, in 2014, 20% of base salary towards the Executive Directors’ personal 
pension schemes operating as part of the Company’s Group Personal Pension Scheme. These contributions are shown in column E above. Column 
E does not include the voluntary contributions made by the Executive Directors to their pensions under the salary exchange scheme. As disclosed 
in the letter to Shareholders from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee on pages 34 - 35, the Company will contribute 10% of base salary 
towards the Executive Directors’ personal pension schemes with effect from 1 January 2015.
Share Incentive Plan. Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Share Incentive Plan (SIP), which qualifies for tax relief under Schedule 2 of 
the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, on the same basis as all other employees and in any other share plan which is operated in the future 
and is open to all employees. Throughout 2014 and 2013 Mark Tebbutt chose to participate in the Share Incentive Plan (SIP) and contributed £125 
every month towards the purchase of partnership shares through the SIP. No matching shares were awarded to Mark Tebbutt under the rules of the 
SIP during 2014 or 2013. Mark Tebbutt’s share interests in the Company are further explained in the Statement of Directors’ Shareholding and Share 
Interests later in this report. 
Both Executive Directors listed above have confirmed that no other items in the nature of remuneration have been received other than those already 
stated in the Single Total Figure Table above.
The Committee considered whether a recovery or withholding would be appropriate in respect of any incentive payment and agreed that no recovery 
or withholding was to be made in the reported year.
Steve Gowers  168 13 - - 34 215
2014
Steve Gowers  165 13 - - 33 211
2013
Mark Tebbutt  116 12 - - 23 151 
2014
Mark Tebbutt  114 12 - - 23 149
2013
Director’s 
Name
A. 
Base 
Salary 
∞
£000
B.
Taxable 
Benefits 
+
£000
C. 
Short-term 
Incentives
£000
D. 
Long-term 
Incentives *
£000
E. 
Pensions 
x
£000
Total
£000 45
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Non-Executive Directors’ Single Total Figure Table 2013 and 2014 
The figures included in the non-Executive Directors’ Single Total Figure Table below have been audited.
* The taxable benefits shown relate to reimbursement of travel costs which are deemed to be taxable under section 338 of the Income Tax (Earnings 
and Pensions) Act 2003.
All non-Executive Directors listed above have confirmed that no other items in the nature of remuneration have been received 
other than those already stated in the Single Total Figure Table above. 
During the reported year none of the non-Executive Directors received any short-term incentive, long-term incentive, pension 
payment or any share or other benefit from a Share Incentive Plan.
There were no payments made during the reported year to past Directors for loss of office.
Statement of Directors’ Shareholding and Share Interests 
The information included in the Directors’ Shareholding and Share Interests table below has been audited.
The Articles of Association of the Company do not contain any obligation on Directors to hold shares in the Company.
The Committee has not set a target on any Director in respect of share ownership.
Partnership and Dividend Shares are those acquired under the Company’s SIP. The only change to a Director’s share interest 
from 31 December 2014 to the date of this report is in respect of Mark Tebbutt who at the date of this report held 566,358 
shares.
David Brown  60 2 62 60 2 62
Alison Reed 35 - 35 35 - 35
Sandra Dawson 30 1 31 30 - 30
John Linwood 30 - 30 30 - 30
Director’s 
Name
2013 
Fee
£000
2013 
Taxable 
Benefits*
£000
2013
Total
£000
2014
Fee
£000
2014
Taxable
Benefits*
£000
2014
Total
£000
Executive 
Directors
Shares Held on 
1 January 2014
Partnership
Shares Acquired
in 2014
Dividend
Shares Acquired
in 2014
Steve Gowers  - - - - -
Mark Tebbut 554,481 7 ,726 1,541 - 563,748
Non-Executive 
Directors     
John Linwood 4,937 - - - 4,937
Other Shares 
Acquired During 
the Year
Shares Held
on 31 December 
2014 Director Total 
Number 
of Share 
Options at 
1 January 
2014*
Name 
of the 
Scheme 
under 
which the 
Option was 
Granted
Were Per-
formance 
Measures 
Applicable 
(Y/N)
Share 
Options 
Vested 
Not 
Exercised
Share 
Options 
Vested 
and 
Exercised
Share 
Options 
Lapsed
Total 
Number  
of Share  
Options at  
31 December 
2014*
Total
Number
of Share 
Options
at
1 January
2015
Steve 
Gowers
916,666 2012 DRS 
Long-Term 
Incentive 
Plan
Y - - 916,666 916,666 0
Mark 
Tebbutt
120,000 2012 DRS 
Long-Term 
Incentive 
Plan
Y - - 120,000 120,000 0
DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2014 
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
46
Directors’ Interests in Share Schemes
The information included in the Directors’ interests in share schemes below has been audited.
*  The exercise price of the options is zero. The performance criteria for the awards above were not met. Hence, the awards have lapsed. There were no 
awards granted during the year.
DRS Data and Research Services plc and FTSE Fledgling Index - total return on investment from 
31 December 2008 to 31 December 2014 shown as daily share price index
The index chosen for comparison is the FTSE Fledgling Index. The Company is a constituent of the FTSE Fledgling Index. 
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Index Share Price
Dec 2009
Dec 2008
Dec 2010
Dec 2011
Dec 2012
Dec 2013
Dec 2014
DRS Data & Research Services PLC  Share Price Index FTSE FLEDGLING X INV TRST
0 
50 
100 
150 
200 
250 
300 
350 
400 
450 
500  47
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Payment for Performance Table
The information included in the Payment for Performance Table below has been audited.
* Tony Lee left the business on 26 October 2012. 
** Steve Gowers joined the business on 5 November 2012. He received a prorated bonus for 2012. 
Long-term incentive vesting: In accordance with the rules of the 2012 Plan, no awards were due to vest in 2012 or 2013. 
Performance for the awards granted in 2012 has been tested and the targets found not to have been met. Hence they have 
lapsed in accordance with the rules of the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The value creation plan operated from 2009. A single 
set of awards was made under the value creation plan in 2009. Performance in respect of those awards was tested in 2012 and 
it was found that the performance targets had not been met so no awards vested.
CEO Percentage Change in Remuneration Table
2014 Steve Gowers 215 - -
2013 Steve Gowers 211 - -
2012** Steve Gowers 39 19 -
2012* Tony Lee 182 15 -
2011 Tony Lee 158 8 -
2010 Tony Lee 224 72 -
2009 Tony Lee 134 - -
Year CEO CEO single figure of
total remuneration
£000
Annual Discretionary 
Bonus pay out against 
maximum opportunity %
Long-term incentive 
vesting rates against 
maximum opportunity %
Director Salary % 
change
Explanation Benefits % 
change
Explanation Short-
term 
incentives 
% change
Explanation 
Steve Gowers 
2013 to 2014
2.0 The Committee 
agreed a 2% increase 
in Steve Gowers’ basic 
salary with effect 
from 1 January 2014.
1.86 The Committee 
agreed no change to 
his benefits in 2014. 
The benefit change 
shown is due to the 
change in annual 
premium of private 
medical insurance.
0.0 In respect of 2013 
Steve Gowers 
received no bonus 
payment. In respect 
of 2014 Steve 
Gowers received no 
bonus payment.
DRS 
employees 
as a whole 
(excluding 
Executive 
Directors)  
2013 to 2014
 2.56 Taking account of the 
conditions prevailing 
in the wider financial 
and economic climate 
it was considered 
appropriate to 
implement an 
increase in the salaries 
of employees.
(2.45) Benefits have 
been fixed over 
the period. The 
benefit change is 
due to a change in 
the profile of the 
workforce.
0.0 In respect of 2013 
DRS employees 
received no bonus 
payment. In respect 
of 2014 DRS 
employees received 
no bonus payment. DIRECTOR’S REMUNERATION REPORT 2014 
continued
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
48
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay, Reflecting Returns to Stakeholders
*  An increase in the level of qualifying development expenditure in respect of research and development tax credits produced an overall tax 
credit in the 2013 income statement.
†
 Relates to 2013 final dividend paid May 2014.
Profit distributed by  
way of dividend  127
†
 0.9 127 0.7
Overall spending on pay  
including Directors 9,436 (Note 9) 69.0 9,292 51.4
Corporation tax credit for year* (395) (2.9) (120) (0.7)
(Loss)/profit retained by  
the Group (1,704) (12.5) 1,262 7 .0
2014 
Actual
£000
Percentage of 
revenue %
2013
£000
Percentage of 
revenue %
HOW THE COMPANY INTENDS TO IMPLEMENT 
THE APPROVED REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE 
CURRENT FINANCIAL YEAR 
The Company intends to implement the policy as follows 
in 2015:
Base Salary, Taxable Benefits, Pension
•  These features will be considered for review by the 
Committee once during the current financial year. 
Details of a review resulting in changes to Executive 
Directors’ benefits are set out on page 34 in the Letter 
to Shareholders from the Chair of the Committee.
Annual Discretionary Bonus Plan
•  All payments will depend upon the Company achieving 
performance targets pre-set by the Committee.
•  Thereafter, 80% of maximum payment will be dependent 
on the financial performance of the Company and 20% on 
the performance of the Executive Directors against their 
personal performance objectives.
•  A maximum opportunity of 75% of basic salary will be 
applied and will be payable in cash.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
•  It is the Company’s intention to give careful consideration to 
the grant of awards under the Long- Term Incentive Plan in 
the current financial year and for vesting of these awards to 
be subject to appropriate performance conditions, but which 
shall not be, in the Committee’s opinion, any less challenging 
than conditions used for previous grants of awards.
•  A maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary will 
be applied in determining the number of shares over 
which options may be granted.
The Remuneration Policy is intended to provide for 
remuneration of Executive Directors to progress towards 
median base salary payments as the Company’s strategic 
goals are delivered while maintaining an appropriate 
balance between fixed and performance-related elements. 
Short-term benefits are achievable through the Annual 
Discretionary Bonus Plan only if the necessary corporate 
and personal performance is delivered. The Executive 
Directors’ personal performance objectives are regarded as 
containing commercially sensitive information and so have 
not been disclosed.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating 
to Directors’ Remuneration
During the reported year remuneration issues were 
considered by the Remuneration Committee. The key areas 
of its activity were:
•  setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, 
the Company Secretary and senior managers;
•  reviewing and determining the Company’s pension 
policy;
• setting targets for incentive payments;
•  reviewing the scope and terms of the employment 
contracts of senior managers; and
•  reviewing and determining the scope of the Company’s 
share incentive plan. 49
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Committee is also responsible for determining the 
Chairman’s fee.
The following non-Executive Directors served on 
the Remuneration Committee throughout 2014:
• Dame Sandra Dawson (Chair);
• Sir David Brown;
• Alison Reed; and
• John Linwood.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the remuneration 
advice it receives is both objective and independent. It 
regularly reviews the appointment and performance of 
its advisers who are not retained to advise on any other 
aspect of the Company’s business.
Advice from within the Company on remuneration 
issues was obtained from the Finance Director, the Chief 
Executive Officer and the Company Secretary.
The Chief Executive Officer, Steve Gowers, the Finance 
Director, Mark Tebbutt and the Head of HR, Suzanne 
Matheson were invited to attend some parts of Committee 
meetings. No one is present when their own remuneration 
was under discussion. For the whole of the reported year, 
the Committee retained the services of BDO LLP as its 
independent Remuneration Adviser. BDO LLP was the firm 
selected from a competitive tender process conducted in 
December 2012 in which three firms were considered. BDO 
LLP was chosen for its objective, pragmatic and strategic 
approach to supporting the Committee on a full range of 
employment reward issues. During 2014 the total fee paid 
to BDO LLP on remuneration matters amounted to £14,000 
(+VAT).
Statement of Voting at the Annual General Meeting in 2014
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
DAME SANDRA DAWSON
Chairman of Remuneration Committee
7 April 2015
Text of 
Resolution 
Votes  
for
%  
for
Votes  
against
%  
against
Total  
votes cast
Votes
withheld 
To approve 
the Directors’ 
Remuneration 
Report for the 
year ended 
31 December 
2013
5,693,632 99.82 10,200 0.18 5,703,832 5,000
To approve 
the Directors’ 
Remuneration 
Policy
5,690,632 99.78 12,700 0.22 5,703,332 5,500 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
50
 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic 
Report, the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and 
the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have to prepare the financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Under company 
law the Directors must not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs and profit or loss of the Company 
and Group for that period. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
•  select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
•  make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; 
•  state whether applicable IFRSs have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
•  prepare the financial statements on a Going Concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
and the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies 
Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors confirm that: 
•  in so far as each Director is aware there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
•  the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to 
have taken as Directors in order to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditor is aware of that information. 
The Directors are responsible for preparing this Annual 
Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the 
Directors consider the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary for 
Shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
To the best of our knowledge:
•  the Group Financial Statements, prepared in 
accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole; and
•  this Annual Report, including the Strategic Report and 
the Financial Statements includes a fair view of the 
development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the prinicipal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
S J Gowers A M Tebbutt
Chief Executive Officer Finance Director
7 April 2015 7 April 2015  FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
51
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
52
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF    
DRS DATA AND RESEARCH SERVICES PLC
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of 
the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Group’s loss 
for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union;
• the Parent Company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union and as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
DRS Data and Research Services plc’s financial 
statements comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash 
Flows, the Parent Company Statement of Financial 
Position, the Parent Company Statement of Changes in 
Equity, the Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows and 
the related Notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union.
Our assessment of risk
In arriving at our opinions set out in this report, we 
highlight the following risks that are, in our judgement, 
likely to be most important to users’ understanding of 
our audit.
Revenue recognition
The risk: The revenue from the Group’s contracts 
undertaken in DRS Data Services Limited represents 
100% of the Group’s total revenue. The measurement 
of revenue to be recognised in the financial statements 
in accordance with International Accounting Standard 
(IAS) 18 ‘Revenue’, including the determination of the 
appropriate timing of recognition, is impacted by the 
terms and conditions of each contract and can be highly 
judgemental. We therefore identified revenue recognition 
relating to contracts as a significant risk requiring special 
audit consideration.
Our response: Our audit work included, but was not 
restricted to, an evaluation of the methodology by 
which management determine when the performance 
conditions are satisfied for the respective elements 
of each contract. This included obtaining a sample of 
contracts and discussing the performance conditions 
with management and how they assessed that the 
conditions had been achieved. We assessed whether the 
methodology applied by management was consistent 
with the requirements of IAS 18. We performed an 
analysis, on a sample basis, of individual contracts to 
review the terms and conditions, including the nature of 
the contract, the combination of deliverables, contract 
revenue, contract costs, attributable profits and work-
in-progress. We also evaluated and tested controls 
over invoicing and payment to assess the timing and 
recoverability of revenue recognised.
The Group’s accounting policy for revenue recognition is 
included in Note 2.3. The Audit Committee also identified 
revenue recognition as an area of note. The action that 
the Audit Committee took in relation to this area is set 
out on pages 30 - 31. 
Capitalisation of development expenditure
The risk: As disclosed in Note 14 of the financial 
statements, the Group has capitalised £981,000 
of development expenditure as intangible assets in 
accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible assets’. The process 
to measure the amount of development costs that 
can be recognised as intangible assets in the financial 
statements, including the determination of whether the 
incremental revenues and margin derived from its future 
use will be sufficient to justify the capitalisation of the 
costs, involves significant management judgement. We 
therefore identified the capitalisation of development 
costs as intangible assets as a significant risk requiring 
special audit consideration.
Our response: Our work included, but was not restricted 
to, understanding and testing the controls management 
put in place over its process of identifying costs that 
meet capitalisation criteria, including an understanding 
of management’s assessment of how the development 
costs will generate future economic benefits. We 
examined and assessed the appropriateness of the 
capitalisation of a sample of development costs during 
the period in line with the requirements of IAS 38 and 
the Group’s accounting policy. We discussed the forecast  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
53
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
incremental revenues and margins to be derived from 
the assets with management, challenging management’s 
key assumptions underlying the forecasts and taking 
into consideration management’s historical success 
at forecasting.
The Group’s accounting policies on intangible assets 
are included in Note 2.11. The Audit Committee also 
identified development expenditure as an area of note. 
The action that the Audit Committee took in relation to 
this area is set out on page 31.
Going concern
The risk: Although the Group is forecasting profitability 
in future years and the contract with a major client has 
been extended until 2018, the loss in the current year 
and the delay in product development indicate that there 
could be a risk that the Group does not remain a going 
concern. We therefore identified going concern as a 
significant risk requiring special audit consideration.
Our response: Our audit work included, but was not 
restricted to, reviewing cash flow forecasts prepared 
by management for the period to 30 April 2016 and 
performing sensitivity analysis on the underlying 
assumptions. In addition, we assessed additional areas 
such as the Group’s cash position, development activities, 
debt facilities, forecast covenant compliance and 
contract pipeline.
The Group’s accounting policies on going concern is 
included in Note 2.1. The Audit Committee also identified 
development expenditure as an area of note. The action 
the Audit Committee took in relation to this area is 
set out on page 31. The Directors’ assessment of going 
concern is included on page 26.
Valuation of Linford Wood property
The risk: In August 2014, a valuation of the Linford 
Wood property was undertaken which was lower than 
the carrying value included in property, plant and 
equipment. In accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of 
Assets’, management is therefore required to carry out 
an annual impairment review. The process for measuring 
and recognising an impairment is complex and highly 
judgemental. We therefore identified the valuation of 
the Linford Wood property to be a risk requiring special 
audit consideration.
Our response: Our audit work included, but was not 
restricted to, an evaluation of the methodology and 
assumptions used by management to determine that 
the property required an impairment of £813,000. In 
particular, we discussed and challenged the underlying 
assumptions used in the property valuation and the 
impairment review with management and agreed key 
assumptions such as the discount rate to supporting 
documentation or publicly available market data. In 
addition, we carried out sensitivity analysis to determine 
the sensitivity of the underlying assumptions to change 
and the impact this may have on the financial statements.
The Group’s accounting policy for impairment is set 
out in Note 2.21. The Audit Committee also identified 
the valuation of the Linford Wood property as an area 
of focus. The action that the Audit Committee took in 
relation to this area is set out on page 31.
Our application of materiality and an overview 
of the scope of our audit
Materiality
Materiality is defined as the magnitude of misstatement 
in the financial statements that makes it probable that 
the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable 
person would be changed or influenced. We determined 
materiality for the audit of the Group financial statements 
as a whole to be £68,000, which is 0.5% of total revenues. 
This benchmark is considered the most appropriate 
because this is the metric against which the financial 
performance of the Group is measured both internally 
and externally. We use a different level of materiality, 
performance materiality, to drive the extent of our testing 
and this was set lower than financial statement materiality 
for the audit of the Group financial statements. We 
also determine a lower level of specific materiality for 
certain areas such as Directors’ remuneration and related 
party transactions.
We determined the threshold at which we will 
communicate misstatements to the Audit Committee 
to be £3,400. In addition we will communicate 
misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, 
warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Overview of the scope of our audit
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK 
and Ireland). Our responsibilities under those standards 
are further described in the ‘Responsibilities for the 
financial statements and the audit’ section of our report. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with those Ethical Standards. DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
54
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 
the Company, DRS Data and Research Services plc and its 
subsidiary undertaking, DRS Data Services Limited. Our 
audit approach included a full audit of the consolidated 
and Parent Company financial statements and the 
financial information of the subsidiary undertaking.
We undertook an interim visit in November 2014 to 
evaluate controls over key financial systems identified 
as part of our risk assessment, reviewed the accounts 
production process and addressed critical accounting 
matters. After the year-end, we undertook substantive 
testing on significant transactions, balances and 
disclosures, the extent of which was based on various 
factors such as our overall assessment of the control 
environment, the effectiveness of controls over individual 
systems and the management of specific risks.
OTHER REPORTING REQUIRED BY 
REGULATIONS
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified
In our opinion:
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006; and
• the information given in the Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements. 
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO 
REPORT BY EXCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
following:
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion, information in the 
annual report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the 
audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if:
• we have identified any inconsistencies between our 
knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors’ 
Statement that they consider the annual report is fair, 
balanced and understandable; or
• the annual report does not appropriately disclose 
those matters that were communicated to the Audit 
Committee which we consider should have been 
disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
are not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review:
• the Directors’ Statement, set out on page 26, in relation 
to going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement 
relating to the Company’s compliance with the ten 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code  
specified for our review.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
What an audit of financial statements involves:
A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting 
Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
What the Directors are responsible for:
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 50, the Directors 
are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view.
What we are responsible for:
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on 
the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF    
DRS DATA AND RESEARCH SERVICES PLC
continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
55
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Who we are reporting to:
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, 
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company 
and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
John Corbishley 
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
Central Milton Keynes
7 April 2015 DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
56
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the years ended 31 December
  Total  Total
  2014 2013
 Notes £000  £000
  
  Revenue 6 13,684 18,095
  Cost of sales  (9,810) (11,286)
  Gross profit  3,874 6,809
    
  Other operating income 8 13 25
  Selling and marketing costs  (1,097) (1,155)
  Administrative expenses  (3,847) (4,327)
  Exceptional item – impairment of property 10 (813) -
  Finance costs  11 (81) (83)
  (Loss)/profit before income tax  (1,951) 1,269
    
  Tax credit 12 395 120
  (Loss)/profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent  (1,556) 1,389
    
  EARNINGS PER SHARE  
  Basic earnings per share 25 (4.90p) 4.38p
    
  Diluted earnings per share 25 (4.90p) 4.30p
  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
  
    
  Total  Total
  2014 2013
  £000  £000
  
  (Loss)/profit for the period  (1,556) 1,389
  Other comprehensive income  - -
  Total comprehensive (loss)/profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent (1,556) 1,389 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
57
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
  31 December  31 December
  2014 2013
 Notes £000  £000
  
  ASSETS   
  Non-current assets   
  Property, plant and equipment 13 2,152 2,908
  Intangible assets 14 2,423 1,794
  Deferred income tax assets 21 - 110
    4,575 4,812
  Current assets   
  Inventories 15 629 974
  Trade and other receivables 16 1,452 4,056
  Current tax assets 12 522 264
  Cash and cash equivalents 17 3,612 3,680
    6,215 8,974
  Total assets  10,790 13,786
  EQUITY   
  Capital and reserves attributable to the Company’s equity holders   
  Share capital 18 1,731 1,731
  Share premium account 19 5,377 5,377
  Capital redemption reserve 19 115 115
  Treasury shares 18 (1,166) (1,166)
  Own shares reserve 19 (298) (306)
  Retained earnings  1,292 2,996
  Total equity  7,051 8,747
  LIABILITIES   
  Non-current liabilities   
  Borrowings 20 1,280 1,505
  Deferred income tax liabilities 21 409 222
  Provisions 22 104 89
    1,793 1,816
  Current liabilities   
  Borrowings 20 226 226
  Trade and other payables 23 1,720 2,997
    1,946 3,223
  Total liabilities  3,739 5,039
  Total equity and liabilities  10,790 13,786
  The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 April 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
S J Gowers  A M Tebbutt
Chief Executive Officer  Finance Director
DRS Data and Research Services plc
Registered Company Number: 0959401 DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
58
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
  Share Capital    
 Share premium redemption Treasury Own shares Retained 
 capital account reserve shares reserve earnings  Total
 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000 
      
  At 1 January 2013 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 1,723 7,474
  Dividend paid to Shareholders - - - - - (127) (127)
  Employee share-based   
  compensation - - - - - 11 11
  Transactions with owners - - - - - (116) (116) 
      
  Profit for the period - - - - - 1,389 1,389
  Other comprehensive income  - - - - - - -
  Total comprehensive income  
  for the period - - - - - 1,389 1,389
  At 31 December 2013 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 2,996 8,747
  Share Capital    
 Share premium redemption Treasury Own shares Retained 
 capital account reserve shares reserve earnings  Total
 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000 
    
  At 1 January 2014 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 2,996 8,747
       
  Dividend paid to Shareholders - - - - - (127) (127)
  Employee share-based  
  compensation - - - - - (13) (13)
  Own shares vesting - - - - 8 (8) -
  Transactions with owners - - - - 8 (148) (140)
       
  Loss for the period - - - - - (1,556) (1,556)
  Other comprehensive income  - - - - - - -
  Total comprehensive income  
  for the period - - - - - (1,556) (1,556)
  At 31 December 2014 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (298) 1,292 7,051 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
59
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the years ended 31 December
  Total  Total
  2014 2013
 Notes £000  £000
  Cash flow from operating activities   
  (Loss)/profit after taxation  (1,556) 1,389
      Adjustments for:   
      Tax credit  (395) (120)
      Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  315 326
      Impairment of property, plant and equipment  813 -
      Amortisation of intangible assets  268 235
      IFRS 2 (credit)/charge in respect of LTIP shares  (13) 11
      Loss on sale of property, plant & equipment and intangibles  25 7
      Exchange losses/(gains) recognised in the Income Statement  3 (7)
      Operating  income  (13) (14)
      Interest expense  72 81
      Decrease in inventories  345 466
      Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables  2,604 (1,017)
      (Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables   (1,277) 199
      Increase in long-term provisions  15 29
  Cash generated from operations  1,206 1,585
  Interest paid  (72) (81)
  Income tax refunded/(paid)  434 (114)
  Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities   362 (195)
  Cash flows from investing activities   
  Purchase of property, plant and equipment (PPE)  (372) (180)
  Proceeds from sale of PPE  66 21
  Payment for intangible assets  (987) (1,310)
  Interest received  13 14
  Net cash used in investing activities  (1,280) (1,455)
  Cash flows from financing activities   
  Dividends paid to Shareholders  (127) (127)
  Repayment of loan  (226) (125)
  Net cash used in financing activities  (353) (252)
  Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (65) (317)
  Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  3,680 3,990
  Exchange (decrease)/increase on cash  (3) 7
  Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 27 3,612 3,680 DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
60
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
1 GENERAL INFORMATION
1. 1 Nature of Operations
The Company is a public limited company with a premium 
listing on the London Stock Exchange incorporated 
and domiciled in England. The address of its registered 
office is 1 Danbury Court, Linford Wood, Milton Keynes, 
Buckinghamshire, MK14 6LR.
1.2 Accounting Convention
The financial statements of the Group have been prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
1.3 New and revised standards that are 
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2014
In the current year the Group has applied a number of 
new and revised standards which are effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Information 
on the standards relevant to the Group’s financial 
statements is presented below.
Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-
Financial Assets (Amendments to IAS 36)
These amendments clarify that an entity is required to 
disclose the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash 
generating unit) whenever an impairment loss has been 
recognised or reversed in the period.
The amendments have been applied retrospectively in 
accordance with the transitional provisions.
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ 
(IFRS 10)
IFRS 10 supersedes IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate 
Financial Statements’ (IAS 27) and SIC 12 ‘Consolidation 
– Special Purpose Entities’. IFRS 10 revises the definition 
of control and provides extensive new guidance on its 
application. These new requirements have the potential 
to affect which of the Group’s investees are considered 
to be subsidiaries and therefore to change the scope 
of consolidation. The requirements on consolidation 
procedures, accounting for changes in non-controlling 
interests and accounting for loss of control of a subsidiary 
are unchanged.
Management has reviewed its control assessments in 
accordance with IFRS 10 and has concluded that there is 
no effect on the classification (as subsidiaries or otherwise) 
of any of the Group’s investees held during the period or 
comparative periods covered by these financial statements.
IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ (IFRS 11)
IFRS 11 supersedes IAS 31 ‘Interests in Joint Ventures’ (IAS 
31) and SIC 13 ‘Jointly Controlled Entities – Non-Monetary 
– Contributions by Venturers’. IFRS 11 revises the categories 
of joint arrangement, and the criteria for classification into 
the categories, with the objective of more closely aligning 
the accounting with the investor’s rights and obligations 
relating to the arrangement. In addition, IAS 31’s option 
of using proportionate consolidation for arrangements 
classified as jointly controlled entities under that standard 
has been eliminated. IFRS 11 now requires the use of the 
equity method for arrangements classified as joint ventures 
(as for investments in associates).
The Group’s only joint arrangement within the scope of 
IFRS 11 is its work with Electoral Reform Services Limited 
(ERS) as IntElect®, which was accounted for using the 
proportionate consolidation method under IAS 31.
Management has reviewed the classification of IntElect® 
in accordance with IFRS 11 and has concluded that it is 
a joint operation. IFRS 11 requires the Group to account 
for its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses 
in accordance with the IFRSs applicable to the particular 
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
The application of IFRS 11 did not have a material impact 
on the statements of financial position, the statement of 
comprehensive income, the statement of cash flows or 
on the earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 
2014.
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’ 
(IFRS 12)
IFRS 12 integrates and makes consistent the disclosure 
requirements for various types of investments, including 
unconsolidated structured entities. It introduces new 
disclosure requirements about the risks to which an entity 
is exposed from its involvement with structured entities. 
Note 2.8 illustrates the application of IFRS 12 in the 
current year.
1.4 Standards and interpretations  
not yet effective
New standards and interpretations currently in issue but 
not effective, based on EU mandatory effective dates, for 
accounting periods commencing on 1 January 2014 and 
considered relevant to the Group’s financial statements 
are:
•  IFRS 9 Financial Instruments  
(IASB effective date 1 January 2018)
•  IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers  
(IASB effective date 1 January 2017)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
61
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
•  Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of 
Interests in Joint Operations  
(IASB effective date 1 January 2016)
•  Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and 
Amortisation – Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38  
(IASB effective date 1 January 2016)
•  Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle  
(EU mandatory effective date 1 February 2015)
•  Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle  
(EU mandatory effective date 1 January 2015)
•  Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle  
(IASB effective date 1 January 2016)
IFRS 9 introduces extensive changes to IAS 39’s guidance 
on the classification and measurement of financial assets 
and introduces a new ‘expected credit loss’ model for the 
impairment of financial assets. IFRS also provides new 
guidance on the application of hedge accounting. The 
Group’s management have yet to assess the impact of 
IFRS 9 on the consolidated financial statements. The new 
standard is required to be applied for annual reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. 
IFRS 15 presents new requirements for the recognition of 
revenue, replacing IAS 18 ‘Revenue’, IAS 11 ‘Construction 
Contracts’, and several revenue-related interpretations. 
The new standard establishes a control-based revenue 
recognition model and provides additional guidance in 
many areas not covered in detail under existing IFRSs, 
including how to account for arrangements with multiple 
performance obligations, variable pricing, customer 
refund rights, supplier repurchase options and other 
common complexities. IFRS is effective for reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. The Group’s 
management have not yet assessed the impact of IFRS 15 
on these consolidated financial statements. 
The remaining new standards, interpretations and 
amendments are not expected to have a significant impact 
on the Group’s financial statements. 
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT  
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2. 1 Basis of Preparation
These financial statements are for the year ended 
31 December 2014 and are presented in Pounds Sterling 
rounded to the nearest thousand. They are prepared on 
a Going Concern basis. In considering Going Concern, 
the Directors have reviewed the Group’s future cash 
requirements and earnings projections for a period 
of 12 months from the anticipated signing date. The 
Directors believe these forecasts have been prepared 
on a prudent basis and have also considered the impact 
of a range of potential changes to trading performance. 
The Directors have concluded that the Group should be 
able to operate within its current facilities and comply 
with its banking covenants for the foreseeable future 
and therefore believe it is appropriate to prepare the 
financial statements of the Group on a Going Concern 
basis. This is supported by the Group’s liquidity position 
at the year-end.
The principal accounting policies of the Group are set out 
below and have been consistently applied to all years 
presented in these financial statements. 
The principal accounting policies have remained unchanged 
from the previous year.
2.2  Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the 
financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary 
made up to 31 December each year. The parent controls 
a subsidiary if it is exposed, or has rights, to variable 
returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and 
has the ability to affect those returns through its power 
over the subsidiary. All entities within the Group have a 
reporting date of 31 December. 
The 2014 consolidated financial statements incorporate 
the financial statements of the Company, and its 
subsidiary, DRS Data Services Limited (together referred 
to as the ‘Group’). DRS Data and Research Services plc is 
the holding company and ultimate controlling entity.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair 
values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the 
consideration transferred over the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. 
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the 
fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. 
discount on acquisition) is credited to profit and loss in 
the period of acquisition.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial 
statements of the subsidiary to bring the accounting 
policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All transactions and balances between Group companies 
are eliminated on consolidation including unrealised 
gains and losses on transactions between Group 
companies. Where unrealised losses on intra-group asset 
sales are reversed on consolidation, the underlying asset 
is also tested for impairment from a Group perspective. 
Amounts reported in the financial statements of 
subsidiaries have been adjusted where necessary to 
ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted 
by the Group.  DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
62
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
2.3 Revenue Recognition
Revenue is the fair value of consideration received or receivable by 
the Group for goods supplied and services provided net of VA T and 
trade discounts.
The Group often enters into sales transactions involving a range of 
the Group’s products and services relating to software products, 
professional services, scanning machines and printed forms. The 
Group provides tailored solutions to meet specific customer 
requirements. It is necessary to consider the nature of the 
contract with the end user, the combination of deliverables and 
how transfer of responsibility of supply is deemed to take place. 
Each element of supply follows the revenue recognition criteria 
set out below for each separately identifiable component of the 
sales transaction.
For election contracts in which DRS is a principal contractor, 
revenue is recognised when the election has been successfully 
completed. 
For examination marking contracts, where DRS is undertaking 
part of the marking process, revenue is normally recognised 
when the marks of the examination series have been agreed with 
the Awarding Body. However for large contracts (such as AQA), 
delivery of the series is split into two parts. One element relates to 
providing and maintaining the marking environment and support 
services for which a fixed monthly sum is recognised. The second 
element relates to the actual marking activity which is based 
on a price per script determined by the volume of examinations 
processed and is recognised when the marks of the examination 
series have been agreed with the Awarding Body.
Examination marking software is supplied to customers and a 
license fee is charged retrospectively for use based on the number 
of examination scripts marked using the software product, often 
supplied in conjunction with the sale of services as explained in 
the paragraph on examination marking contracts above. The 
license fee for Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ) software is a 
fixed fee which is charged up-front for use of the software and 
recognised in the Income Statement when the customer confirms 
acceptance of the software.
For census contracts, DRS usually provides the data capture 
solution to the in-country census authority who are responsible for 
conducting the actual census. DRS normally agrees to a number 
of specific deliverables relating to discrete delivery times and 
locations in respect of the products and services outlined below. 
The revenue of these discrete items is recognised when the goods 
and services have been delivered and accepted by the end user.
The consideration is allocated to each component according to its 
fair value, the amount for which each component could be sold 
separately.
Specialist software products have been created for each market 
sector. For elections there is e-Counting, for education there is 
e-Marker® and Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ) and census has 
its own customised software. Software for elections and census 
is charged as a single charge based on the size and complexity of 
the count. 
Sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in 
which the work on the services is performed and the obligations 
have been satisfied in accordance with the customers’ agreed 
requirements. 
Sales of scanning machines and associated equipment are 
recognised when the products have been delivered to the 
customer and it is probable that economic benefits associated 
with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Large print contracts are recognised on a stage of completion 
basis. Print revenue is recognised in accordance with hours and 
costs incurred on the contract as a proportion to the total time 
and cost estimated for the contract. 
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the 
period of the lease. 
In the case of long-term maintenance service contracts, revenue 
is recognised on a time apportionment basis in accordance with 
the contract, and all costs are released to the Income Statement 
based on percentage of completion. Revenue is recognised on 
a straight-line time apportionment basis over the length of 
the underlying contract. The calculated profit on a contract is 
Name of subsidiary Country of 
incorporation and 
principal place of 
business
Principal activity Proportion of interest held by the Group
31 December 2014 31 December 2013
DRS Data Services 
Limited
UK Specialist provider 
of automated data 
capture technology 
and solutions in the  
UK and overseas
100% 100%
Seckloe 279 Limited UK None - Dormant 100% 100%
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Composition of the Group  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
recognised in proportion to the recognised revenue.
Deferred income arises in two circumstances:
•  where stage payments are provided to fund the cash flow 
impact of the work in progress and are not made in accordance 
with the delivery schedule resulting in timing differences; and
• up-front payments on service contracts.
2.4 Exceptional Items
Exceptional items are non-recurring material items which are 
outside the normal scope of the Group’ s ordinary activities. 
Such items are separately disclosed by virtue of their nature or 
incidence to enable a full understanding of the Group’ s financial 
performance. Details of these items are provided in the relevant 
notes. 
2.5 Operating Leases
(a) The Group is the Lessee
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. Payments 
made under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a 
straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
(b) The Group is the Lessor
Scanning equipment leased to third parties under operating leases 
is included in property, plant and equipment in the balance sheet. 
It is depreciated over its expected useful life. Rental income is 
recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
2.6 Dividends
Under IFRSs proposed dividends do not meet the definition 
of a liability until such time as they have been approved by 
Shareholders at the AGM. Therefore, the Group does not recognise 
a liability in any period for dividends that have been proposed but 
will not be approved until after the balance sheet date.
2.7 Segment Reporting
Segmental information is provided for each operating segment 
whose results are regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive 
Officer to make decisions concerning the assessment of 
performance or allocation of resources and where there is discrete 
financial information available.
2.8 Joint Arrangements
Where a Group company enters into a contractual agreement 
to share control of an arrangement, under which each party has 
rights to assets and obligations for liabilities relating to the joint 
arrangement, it is treated as a joint operation. Such arrangements 
are accounted for by recognising the company’s share of assets, 
liabilities, revenues and expenses according to that company’s 
share under the contractual arrangement.
The Group’s only joint arrangement is DRS Data Services Limited’s 
work with Electoral Reform Services Limited (ERS) as IntElect® 
to deliver the 2016 London Mayor and Assembly elections. Its 
principal place of business is in the UK. DRS Data Services Limited 
is entitled to a share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses 
in accordance with which of the two entities has agreed to supply 
the various deliverables of the contract. The agreement itemises 
revenue across the deliverables and it is this basis which is used 
to apportion revenue and each company will be responsible for 
the related costs of delivery against their specific responsibilities. 
No revenue or expenses have been recognised in the current or 
preceding year.
2.9 Foreign Currency T ranslation
Functional and presentational currency
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling 
which is also the Group’s functional currency.
Transactions and services
Foreign currency transactions and balances are translated into 
Pounds Sterling, using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates 
of the transactions (spot exchange rate). Foreign exchange gains 
and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions 
and from the re-measurement of monetary items at year-end 
exchange rates are recognised in profit or loss within Finance 
Income and Finance Costs.
2. 10 Property, Plant and Equipment
Land and buildings relate to the Group’s head office at Linford 
Wood, Milton Keynes. All property, plant and equipment is shown 
at cost less depreciation, except for land which is shown at cost. 
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the item.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to allocate 
the cost of each asset less its estimated residual value over its 
estimated useful life, as follows:
Freehold buildings 25 years
Computer equipment 3 years
Fixtures and fittings 3 - 5 years
Plant and machinery 3 - 10 years
Rental machines 3 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
Items of property, plant and equipment are subject to review 
for impairment where indications of impairment exist. Any 
impairment is charged to the Income Statement as it arises. 
2. 11 Intangible Assets
(a) Computer Software
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the 
basis of the costs incurred to acquire and to bring into use the 
specific software. These costs are amortised over three years, 
being the estimated useful life of the software.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs 
are recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs that are directly 
63
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
64
associated with the production of identifiable and unique 
software products controlled by the Group, and that will 
probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond 
one year, are recognised as intangible assets. 
Computer software that has been capitalised is amortised on 
a straight-line basis over three years from the date it is put to 
operational use. 
(b) Research and Development
Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Costs incurred on development projects (relating to the design 
and testing of new or improved products) are recognised as 
intangible assets when it is probable that the project will be a 
success, considering its commercial and technological feasibility, 
costs can be measured reliably and the Group has the resources 
available to complete the development. Development costs that 
have been capitalised are amortised from the commencement 
of their use on a straight-line basis over the period of their 
expected benefit, not exceeding five years. 
2.12 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out method. 
The cost of finished goods and work-in-progress comprises 
raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and, where 
appropriate, a proportion of attributable production overheads. 
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business reduced by the costs to complete and 
applicable selling expenses.
2. 13 Trade and Other Receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value 
and subsequently carried at amortised cost. A provision for 
impairment of trade receivables is established when there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all 
amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
The amount of the provision is the difference between the 
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated 
future cash flows. Movements in the provision are recognised in 
profit or loss.
2. 14 Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at 
call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments 
that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and 
which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
2.15 Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is 
probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation 
and a reliable estimate can be made to the amount of the 
obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of 
the consideration required to settle the present obligation 
at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and 
uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is 
measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present 
obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash 
flows.
2. 16 Share Capital and Equity
Share capital comprises Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 
5p each.
Where the Company purchases Treasury shares or where shares 
are held in a restricted share scheme trust, the consideration 
paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs 
(net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to 
the Company’s equity holders until the shares are cancelled, 
re-issued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently 
sold or re-issued any consideration received, net of any directly 
attributable incremental transaction costs and the related 
income tax effects is included in equity attributable to the 
Company’s equity holders.
2. 17 Accounting for Income T axes
The tax expense recognised in profit or loss comprises the 
sum of deferred tax and current tax not recognised in other 
comprehensive income or equity. 
The tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable 
profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income 
Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that 
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s and 
subsidiaries’ liability for current tax is calculated by using tax 
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases 
used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for 
using the liability method. Deferred tax is not provided on the 
initial recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of 
an asset or liability unless the related transaction is a business 
combination or affects tax or accounting profit. Deferred tax 
liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences 
and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is 
probable that taxable profits will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow 
all or part of the assets to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability 
is settled. Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
65
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
recognised as a component of tax income or expense in profit 
or loss, except where they relate to items that are recognised 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which 
case the related deferred tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or equity, respectively.
R&D tax credit claims are recognised following formal 
confirmation of acceptance by HMRC or where previous 
precedence is established and are reflected in the tax credit line 
of the Income Statement.
2. 18 Employee Benefits
(a) Pension Obligations
The Parent Company operates defined contribution pension 
schemes in which employees of the UK based subsidiaries 
may participate. The Group has no legal or constructive 
obligations to pay further contributions after payment of the 
fixed contribution. The contributions to the pension schemes 
are charged to profit or loss as they accrue, thereby matching 
the cost of the Group’s pension obligations to the period of 
employment to which they relate.
(b) Bonus Plans and Profit Sharing
The Group recognises a liability and expense for bonuses and 
profit sharing. Managers may be entitled to a bonus based on 
a formula that takes into consideration revenue, EPS, residual 
income in relation to the employee’s responsibilities and an 
assessment of the individual’s performance which includes non-
financial criteria. Employees who do not participate in the bonus 
scheme are entitled to participate in a profit sharing scheme 
based on the profitability of the subsidiary. The cost of providing 
these schemes is accrued against profits in the period in which 
the bonus is earned.
(c) Share-based Employee Remuneration
All share-based payment arrangements granted after 
7 November 2002 and not vested by 1 January 2005 are 
recognised in the financial statements. The Group operates 
equity-settled share-based remuneration plans for remuneration 
of certain of its employees.
All employee services received in exchange for the grant of any 
share-based remuneration are measured at their fair values. 
These are indirectly determined by reference to the fair value 
of the share options or shares awarded. Their value is appraised 
at the grant date and excludes the impact of any non-market 
vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales 
growth targets).
All share-based remuneration is ultimately recognised as an 
expense in the Income Statement with a corresponding credit 
to Shareholders’ funds. If vesting periods or other vesting 
conditions apply, the expense is allocated over the vesting 
period, based on the best available estimate of the number of 
share options or shares expected to vest. Non-market vesting 
conditions are included in assumptions about the number of 
options that are expected to become exercisable. Estimates are 
subsequently revised if there is any indication that the number of 
share options expected to vest differs from previous estimates. 
Upon exercise of share options fulfilled by the issue of new 
shares, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable 
transaction costs up to the nominal value of the shares issued 
are allocated to share capital with any excess being recorded 
as share premium. Options or share grants fulfilled from 
shares held by employee share trusts are credited to the own 
share reserve.
2. 19 Financial Assets
Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes a 
party to the contractual provisions of the financial instruments 
and are initially measured at fair value adjusted by transactions 
cost, except for those carried at fair value through profit and 
loss (FVTPL) which are measured initially at fair value with 
transaction costs expensed in the Income Statement. The fair 
values of financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss 
are determined by reference to active market transactions or 
using a valuation technique where no active market exists.
For the purpose of subsequent measurement, financial 
assets other than those designated and effective as hedging 
instruments are classified into the following categories upon 
initial recognition:
 L oans and R ec eivables
All financial assets except for those at FVTPL are subject to 
review for impairment at least at each reporting date to identify 
whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or 
a group of financial assets is impaired. All income and expenses 
relating to financial assets are recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights 
to the cash flows from the financial assets expire, or when 
the financial assets and all substantial risks and rewards 
are transferred. 
The Group’s financial assets fall within the loans and receivables 
category. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial 
assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market. After initial recognition, these are measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. Discounting is omitted where the 
effect of discounting is immaterial. The Group’s cash and cash 
equivalents, trade and most other receivables fall into this 
category of financial instrument.
Individually significant receivables are considered for impairment 
when they are past due or when other objective evidence is 
received that a specific counterparty will default.
2.20 Financial Liabilities and Equity
Financial liabilities include borrowings and trade and 
other payables.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
66
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences 
a residual interest in the assets of the entity after deducting all of 
its financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities are obligations to pay cash or other financial 
assets and are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the 
contractual provisions of the instrument. All financial liabilities 
are recorded initially at fair value, net of direct issue costs.
A financial liability is derecognised only when the obligation 
is extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged or 
cancelled or expires.
Where the contractual terms of share capital do not have any 
terms meeting the definition of a financial liability then this is 
classed as an equity instrument. Dividends and distributions 
relating to equity instruments are debited direct to equity.
2.21 Impairment T esting of Intangible Assets  
and Property, Plant and Equipment
For impairment assessment purposes, assets are grouped at 
the lowest levels for which there are largely independent cash 
inflows (cash-generating units). As a result, some assets are 
tested individually for impairment and some are tested at 
cash-generating unit level. Individual assets or cash-generating 
units are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be 
recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the 
asset’s or cash-generating unit’s carrying amount exceeds its 
recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs 
of disposal and value-in-use. To determine the value-in-use, 
management estimates expected future cash flows from each 
cash-generating unit and determines a suitable interest rate in 
order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. The 
data used for impairment testing procedures are directly linked 
to the Group’s latest approved budget, adjusted as necessary 
to exclude the effects of future reorganisations and asset 
enhancements. Discount factors are determined individually for 
each cash-generating unit and reflect management’s assessment 
of respective risk profiles, such as market and asset-specific risks 
factors.
Impairment losses for cash-generating units are charged pro 
rata to the assets in the cash-generating unit. All assets are 
subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss 
previously recognised may no longer exist. An impairment loss 
is reversed if the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s recoverable 
amount exceeds its carrying amount.
3 Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources 
of Estimation Uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are 
described in Note 2, the Directors of the Company considered 
judgements and estimates impacting the carrying value of assets 
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates are based on management’s best knowledge 
of current events and actions. Actual results may differ from 
those estimates.
3. 1 Critical judgments that the Directors have made
Research and development expenditure
Note 14 includes capitalised development expenditure of 
£2,340,000 which relates to the cost of developing the first 
release of a new version of e-Marker® which is now due for 
release in Summer 2015. The business aims to have a live pilot 
running with an existing customer in the second half of 2015 
which will test the effectiveness of the software platform built to 
date and where improvements may need to be made ready for 
commercialisation. 
The project is running behind the original schedule. The 
judgement is that these capitalised costs are recoverable by 
reference to future cash flows. Detailed sensitivity analysis in 
respect of the incremental revenues which can be achieved 
from the software has been carried out recognising the delays in 
delivering the software and the changes to the education sector 
over the last 12 months, which the Directors have used to assess 
the carrying value of this asset. 
Revenue recognition
 Determining when to recognise revenues from services requires 
an understanding of both the nature and timing of the services 
provided and the customers’ pattern of consumption of those 
services, based on historical experience and knowledge of the 
market.  Recognition of services revenue requires significant 
judgement in determining actual work performed. On contracts 
which incorporate multiple products and services such as 
scanning machines, software, printed forms and professional 
services it is necessary to consider the nature of the contract with 
the end user, the combination of deliverables and how transfer of 
responsibility of supply is deemed to take place. The judgement 
is when performance conditions are satisfied for the respective 
elements of the solution to become recognised as revenue. 
Deferred tax
The extent to which deferred tax assets can be recognised is 
based on an assessment of the profitability that future taxable 
income will be available against which the deductible temporary 
differences and tax loss carry-forwards can be utilised. 
Tax credits
Research and development tax credits are included within the 
tax charge/credit in the Income Statement. The judgement is 
whether to treat this credit as a reduction in corporation tax 
or as other income if it is considered to be a source of funding. 
Management do not consider the research and development 
tax credits to be a source of funding and have therefore made a 
judgement to include this within the tax charge/credit within the 
Income Statement.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
67
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
3.2 Areas considered to involve significant estimates
Inventory provisions
Inventory provisions reflect future sales over the useful life of 
the product. In the case of the high value PhotoScribe® scanning 
machines it is necessary to estimate the expected useful life of 
the product and to estimate the volume of expected machine 
sales over the remaining useful life.   Where there are insufficient 
machines held in stock to meet expected demand, machines are 
released from the inventory provision based on this estimate. The 
carrying value of the total inventory provision at the year-end is 
£993,000 (2013: £803,000). See Note 15.
Dilapidations provision
There are six property leases relating to eight business units 
occupied by operations. All the leases require the tenant to 
address the cost of leasehold dilapidations at the end of the lease. 
In order to apportion the dilapidation cost over the life of the 
lease, a provision is created to reflect an estimate of the projected 
dilapidation cost accruing over the life of the leases. At the year-
end £104,000 (2013: £89,000) is provided. See Note 22.
Useful economic lives of depreciable assets 
Management reviews its estimate of the useful economic lives at 
each reporting date, based on the expected utility of the assets. 
Uncertainties in these estimates relate to the conditions of the 
property assets and technological obsolescence that may change 
the utility of certain software and IT equipment. See Notes 13 and 
14. 
Carrying value of the Linford Wood property
The carrying value of the Linford Wood property is based on fair 
value less costs to sell. As a result of this the Group recognised 
an impairment loss on the property of £813,000. Details of 
the estimates used are in Note 10.  The carrying value as at 
31 December 2014 was £1,576,000 (2013: £2,446,000). See 
Note 13.
4 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
4. 1 Financial Risk Factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The 
Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks 
and they are summarised below.
(a) Market Risk
(i) Currency Risk
The Group operates internationally and is subject to foreign 
exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, 
primarily with respect to the US Dollar and the Euro. The 
Group does not hedge any transactions, and foreign exchange 
differences on retranslation of foreign assets and liabilities are 
recognised in profit or loss.
Wherever possible the Group looks to negotiate its sales 
contracts in Sterling. Sometimes DRS Data Services Limited is 
required to accept payment in either US Dollars or Euros. During 
2013 the Group converted holdings of US Dollar and Euro 
currencies in excess of £150,000 into Sterling to minimise the 
Group’s currency exposure.
(ii) Interest Rate Risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of 
Shareholders’ funds and bank loans. The Group reviews its 
exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its mortgage on a 
regular basis. During 2013 and 2014 the Board decided not to 
purchase any form of interest rate cap to limit the impact of 
potential increases in interest payable as the cost of mitigation 
was perceived to be greater than the risk. 
An increase or decrease of 1% in the rate of interest charged on 
the mortgage will increase or decrease, respectively, the amount 
of annualised interest payable by £15,000. On the Group’s year-
end cash holding, a 1% increase in interest rates would increase 
interest receivable by £35,000.
(iii) Investment Risk
The Board considers security of the principal investment to be a 
greater priority than the rate of return on investment as interest 
rates are so low compared to the general economic uncertainty 
of the financial sector. With this in mind, three banks are used 
to deposit the Group’s cash holding, thereby spreading the risk 
of loss as a consequence of a bank failure. Further details are 
provided in the Strategic Report.
(b) Credit Risk
The Group has a small number of customers that account 
for a significant proportion of the revenue. Close working 
relationships with these customers established over a long-
term manage the risk exposure. Where appropriate, sales to 
overseas customers are usually underwritten using letters 
of credit unless the customer makes a significant up-front 
payment. A summary of all customers with indebtedness 
greater than £100,000 is prepared on a monthly basis for the 
Directors and senior managers to review.
(c) Liquidity Risk
The Group takes a prudent approach to managing liquidity 
risk to ensure sufficient cash is available to meet foreseeable 
needs and to finance safely the successful completion of 
large-scale contracts, thereby minimising liquidity risk issues.
All £1,946,000 (2013: £3,223,000) of the current liabilities are 
payable within one year. 
In January 2013 the Group’s mortgage facility was extended 
and increased to £1,900,000 and £1,506,000 is the balance 
outstanding at 31 December 2014. In December 2014, the 
mortgage covenants were re-negotiated with Barclays Bank 
to support the three-year financial plan. The rate of interest is 
4.0% over the base rate. Repayment of the principal shall be  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
68
in 19 instalments of £56,400 payable quarterly commencing 31 March 2013, followed by a final bullet payment of £828,400 on 
7 January 2018. Interest payments are made quarterly in arrears. 
4.2 Capital Management
The Group’s capital management objectives are:
•  to ensure the Group’s ability to continue as a Going Concern; and
•  to maintain adequate liquidity to finance working capital requirements.
The Group retains a high level of cash and cash equivalents (See Note 2.14) to be able to have sufficient funds to finance 
the working capital requirements of large contracts. The dividend policy provides a return to Shareholders whilst retaining 
sufficient cash to continue to fund working capital and the development of the Group’s products. The Group takes a cautious 
approach to investing this capital to minimise the Group’s exposure to capital loss. The policy is consistent with the approach 
of previous years and explains the relatively large value of cash and cash equivalents held at the year-end (see Note 17).
Capital for the reporting period under review is summarised as follows:
  Restated
 31 December  31 December
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
  Total equity 7,051 8,747
  Capital 7 ,051 8,747
  Total equity 7,051 8,747
  Borrowings 1,506 1,731
  Overall financing 8,557 10,478
  Capital to overall financing ratio 0.82 0.83
Capital has been reassessed in the current year and the prior period comparatives have been updated as a result. 
5 SEGMENT INFORMATION
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of software, data capture services, the manufacture, sale and support of 
optical and image scanning equipment, design and printing of documentation used for data capture and bureau services. The 
Group is organised functionally, with each function of the business specialising in its own area of expertise. Project managers 
look to the functional areas to provide the appropriate tailored mix of products and services to fulfil each specific contract. 
In turn the functional areas are supported by indirect cost centre departments such as Research and Development and 
Information Systems.
Management consider that there is only one operating segment, as this is the lowest level at which discrete financial 
information is available and is reflected by a single set of management accounts that are used throughout the Group. However, 
it reviews revenue according to various segments and the revenue split is disclosed below.
The delivery of market focussed solutions results in a ‘many-to-many’ relationship between department costs and revenue 
streams. The individual standard costs of each type of supply are carefully controlled, but due to the effect sales mix has on 
recovery rates, reporting the relative profitability of the revenue streams would not be consistent with management processes 
within the Group.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
69
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The revenue analysis generated from external customers for the year ended 31 December 2014 is as follows:
  Education revenue non-Education revenue
  Examination &   Elections & 
  Assessment Other Commercial Census  Total
  £000  £000 £000 £000 £000
Region     
UK 9,408 464 19 1 9,892
Africa 2,906 30 2 - 2,938
Rest of world 200 19 51 584 854
Total 12,514 513 72 585 13,684
   Revenue arising from specific products and related services thereon:  
   e-Marker® 9,301    
   e-Counting    14 
All of the Group’s revenue from continuing operations of £13,684,000 was generated from UK operations.
DRS’ largest customer generated revenue of £8,112,000 in 2014 (2013: £8,669,000) and is shown under UK examinations and 
assessment. There were no other customers that accounted for more than 10% of revenue in 2014.
The contract to count the 2016 London Mayor and Assembly elections electronically was won by IntElect®, a joint 
arrangement between DRS Data Services Limited and ERS (Electoral Reform Services Limited). The Group did not recognise any 
revenue in the year in respect of this contract.
The revenue analysis generated from external customers for the year ended 31 December 2013 is as follows:
  Education revenue non-Education revenue
  Examination &   Elections & 
  Assessment Other Commercial Census  Total
  £000  £000 £000 £000 £000
  Region     
  UK  10,057 513 39 11 10,620
  Africa 4,709 25 494 135 5,363
  Rest of world 128 18 69 1,897 2,112
  Total 14,894 556 602 2,043 18,095
  Revenue arising from specific products and related services thereon:  
  e-Marker® 9,713    
  e-Counting 94  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
70
6 Revenue and (loss)/profit before tax
The significant categories of revenue recognised during the period are:
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
    Sale of goods  2,885 6,509
  Rendering of services 10,826 11,434
  Operating lease income (Note 7) 153 152
 13,864 18,095
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after:
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
    Auditor’s remuneration:  
       Audit services 7 6
      Other services 40 39
  Depreciation 315 326
  Amortisation  268 235
  Hire of plant and machinery  61 63
  R&D expense 1,683 1,279
  Share-based payment (credit)/charge (13) 11
Auditor’s remuneration relating to other services comprises:
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
       - audit of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 26 25
    - advice on IFRS 8 8
    - interim review 6 6
 40 39
7 OPERATING LEASE INCOME
Operating lease income relates to the leasing of CD230 and CD360 scanners into UK schools. All of the machines are on a 
standard agreement which can be terminated on its anniversary date by the customer provided they give three months’ notice 
prior to the anniversary date of their intention to terminate the contract. Total future minimum lease payments receivable at 
31 December 2014 amounted to £5,000 (2013: £8,000), all of which is recoverable within one year. Of this amount, £1,000 
(2013: £1,000) is invoiced and included in the trade receivables balance as at 31 December 2014. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
71
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
8 OTHER OPERATING INCOME
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
     Interest income  
    - bank interest 13 14
    - Peladon deferred consideration - 2
  Profit on foreign exchange (realised and unrealised) - 9
 13 25
The profit on foreign exchange gains relates to exchange rate differences on US Dollar and Euro transactions and the 
restatement of monetary assets at the year-end. 
9 DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE
Staff costs during the year were:
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
     Wages and salaries 7,794 7,717
  Social security costs 838 885
  Share options granted to Directors and employees (13) 11
  Pension costs – defined contribution plans 817 679
 9,436 9,292
The average number of full time equivalents of the Group during the year was:
 2014 2013
      Print and bureau services 98 116
  Hardware and software services     94 89
  Sales and marketing 14 16
  Administration 32 34
 238 255 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
72
Remuneration in respect of Directors was as follows:
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
     Emoluments 518 513
  Pension contributions to money purchase pension schemes 57 56
 575 569
  Key management remuneration:
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
     Short-term employee benefits 518 513
  Post-employment benefits 57 56
  Share-based payments (13) 11
 562 580
All of the main Board Directors are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group. Further details on Directors’ 
remuneration and share options are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
10 Exceptional Item
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
    (Loss)/profit before exceptional item and tax (1,138) 1,269
  Exceptional item – impairment charge (813) -
  (Loss)/profit before tax (1,951) 1,269
  Tax credit before exceptional item 395 120
  Exceptional item – deferred tax charge - -
  Tax credit 395 120
  (Loss)/profit for the period (1,556) 1,389
The exceptional item relates to an impairment charge against the carrying value of the Linford Wood property. The acquisition 
of the Linford Wood property was justified on the savings gained against the rental cost of leasing. The use and justification 
remain the same. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
73
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
DRS Data Services Limited holds a mortgage on the property, through Barclays Bank plc, who arranged for Berrys, an 
independent valuer, to conduct a commercial valuation of the property based on tenanted occupancy. The commercial 
valuation is based on a calculation derived from tennancy yields in the immediate vicinity of the Linford Wood property 
in August 2014. This valuation calculated the current market value at £1,600,000 which is the same value as the previous 
valuation undertaken in November 2012 by the same agent and on the same basis. The decline in the commercial valuation 
reflects the general fall in the value of commercial property within the locality. The market value at August 2014 is considered 
to be representative of the value as at 30 June 2014.
The fall in the Group’s profitability led to a review being undertaken at the half year to consider whether the property should 
be impaired in accordance with IAS 36. The recoverable amount (i.e. higher of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal) 
of the business unit is determined on the basis of the fair value less costs. The fair value of the property has been estimated 
using the market approach by reference to comparable sales price per square foot and condition of the building and are 
categorised within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The costs to sell are not considered to be material.
The fair value is therefore deemed to be the current market value. Accordingly, this did not justify continuing to hold the 
Linford Wood property at a carrying value above the current market value of £1,600,000. Consequently, an impairment 
adjustment of £813,000 was made reducing the carrying value to £1,600,000 at 30 June 2014. The impairment charge is 
recognised in administration expenses in the Income Statement. As at 31 December 2014 the carrying value of the property is 
£1,576,000 (2013: £2,446,000) after charging depreciation. See Note 13 Property, Plant and Equipment for further details.
The assets belong to the one operating segment of the business.
11 FINANCE COSTS
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
    Interest expense:  
    - bank borrowings (72) (81)
    - Peladon deferred consideration (6) -
    - loss on foreign exchange (realised and unrealised) (3) (2)
 (81) (83)
The loss on foreign exchange relates to exchange rate differences on US Dollar and Euro transactions and the restatement of 
monetary assets at the year-end. 
The Peladon deferred consideration arises from the sale of Peladon Software Inc. to The Software Construction Company Inc., 
Texas during September 2010. The initial consideration was $1 followed by additional consideration to DRS over the course of 
the five year period following completion, based on the future gross revenues of Peladon Software Inc. and its subsidiaries that 
are generated by the sales of licences for all DocXP™ software. The percentage of such gross revenues that the Group will be 
entitled to ranges from 5% to 10% in each of the five years following completion. Such additional consideration is capped at a 
maximum amount of US $500,000.
Management’s best estimate of deferred consideration under the earn-out agreement for the remaining two years of the 
arrangement is £4,000 (2013: £10,000). No consideration was received in the year and the charge in the year reflects the 
reduction of the estimated cash flows to be generated from this arrangement. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
74
12 INCOME TAX
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
    Current tax – domestic (522) -
  Foreign taxation 26 20
  Adjustment in respect of previous period (196) (269)
  Total current tax (692) (249)
  Deferred tax current year (Note 21) 132 55
  Deferred tax prior year (Note 21) 165 74
 (395) (120)
Domestic income tax is calculated at the domestic effective tax rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) of the estimated assessable 
profit for the year.   
The unrealised losses for 2013 which were not recognised in the 2013 year-end accounts were surrendered in exchange 
for a research and development repayable tax credit of £196,000 resulting in an adjustment in respect of the previous 
period. Development expenditure has already been identified in the current year as qualifying expenditure for research and 
development repayable tax credits thereby creating the £522,000 credit in the current income tax credit. Details of this 
expenditure are provided within the section on Research and Development in the Strategic Report.  
The credit for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the Income Statement as follows:
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
       (Loss)/profit before tax (1,951) 1,269
  Tax at domestic income tax rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) (420) 295
  Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 147 8
  Income not taxable for tax purposes (2) -
  Additional deduction for R&D expenditure (458) (476)
  Surrender of tax losses for R&D tax credit 302 -
  Chargeable gains 3 1
  Foreign tax credits 26 20
  Effect of change in tax rates - 17
  Deferred tax not recognised 37 211
  Adjustment in respect of previous periods (30) (196)
  Tax credit (395) (120) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
75
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
  Freehold
   land & Computer  Fixtures Plant &  Rental Motor
 Total  buildings equipment  & fittings machinery  machines vehicles
 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000
  At 1 January 2013       
  Cost  11,386 2,900 2,192 2,558  3,144 586 6
  Accumulated depreciation (8,331) (387) (2,020) (2,364) (2,968) (586) (6)
  Net book amount 3,055 2,513 172 194 176 - -
  For the year ended 
  31 December 2013       
  Opening net amount  
      at 1 January 2013 3,055 2,513 172 194 176 - -
  Additions 180 - 59 21 100 - -
  Disposals (1) - - (1) - - -
  Depreciation charge (326) (67) (117) (66) (76) - -
  Closing net book amount  
      at 31 December 2013 2,908 2,446 114 148 200 - -
  At 31 December 2013       
  Cost  10,237 2,900 1,185 2,473 3,226 447 6
  Accumulated depreciation (7 ,329) (454) (1,071) (2,325) (3,026) (447) (6)
  Net book amount 2,908 2,446 114 148 200 - -
  For the year ended 
  31 December 2014       
  Opening net amount  
      at 1 January 2014 2,908 2,446 114 148 200 - -
  Additions 372 - 81 205 86 - -
  Disposals - - - - - - -
  Depreciation charge (315) (57) (97) (78) (83) - -
  Impairment charge  
      (See Note 10) (813) (813) - - - - -
  Closing net book amount  
      at 31 December 2014 2,152 1,576 98 275 203 - -
  At 31 December 2014       
  Cost  10,530 2,900 1,257 2,671 3,255 441 6
  Accumulated depreciation 
      and impairment (8,378) (1,324) (1,159) (2,396) (3,052) (441) (6)
  Net book amount 2,152 1,576 98 275 203 - -
An impairment review was undertaken in June 2014 that resulted in an impairment of the Linford Wood property in the 
amount of £813,000, see Note 10 for details. At 30 June 2014, the useful economic life of the building was estimated to be  25 instead of 30 years based on the condition of the building and the planned expenditure in light of the Group’s cost saving 
programme. As a consequence of these two actions, depreciation has reduced from £67,000 per annum to £47,500 per annum. 
Bank borrowings at 31 December 2014 are secured on the Linford Wood land and buildings to the value of £1,506,000 (2013: 
£1,731,000). See Note 20.
The fall in year-on-year cost of assets is the result of disposals made during the year with nil net book value.
14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
  Computer  Development
 Total software expenditure
 £000 £000 £000
  At 1 January 2013   
  Cost  5,206 1,311 3,895
  Accumulated amortisation  (4,460) (1,049) (3,411)
  Net book amount 746 262 484
  For the year ended 31 December 2013  
  Opening net amount at 1 January 2013 746 262 484
  Additions 1,310 105 1,205
  Disposals (27) (27) -
  Amortisation charge  (235) (130) (105)
  Closing net book amount at 31 December 2013 1,794 210 1,584
   At 31 December 2013   
  Cost  6,481 1,381 5,100
  Accumulated amortisation and impairment (4,687) (1,171) (3,516)
  Net book amount 1,794 210 1,584
  For the year ended 31 December 2014  
  Opening net amount at 1 January 2014 1,794 210 1,584
  Additions 987 6 981
  Disposals  (90) - (90)
  Amortisation charge  (268) (133) (135)
  Closing net book amount at 31 December 2014 2,423 83 2,340
  At 31 December 2014   
  Cost  7,378 1,387 5,991
  Accumulated amortisation and impairment (4,955) (1,304) (3,651)
  Net book amount 2,423 83 2,340
Computer software relates to the third party software licences purchased by the Group to be used in the normal course of its 
business and is amortised over three years from the time of purchase. A check is carried out at the end of each year to ensure 
that all the software is still in use within the business.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
77
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
The capitalised development expenditure covers the cost of developing the first release of a completely new version of 
e-Marker® software which is due to be available in summer 2015 plus additional new features which enhance the original core 
e-Marker® software used to mark examination scripts electronically within the education marketplace. This expenditure is 
amortised over its expected useful life from the month in which it becomes available for operational use. The software is used 
in an operational environment and its functional performance is continually monitored to ensure there is no impairment.
The assets making up the closing net book value will be amortised as follows based on Management’s assessment of 
when the asset will be brought into use:
  Computer Development
 Total software expenditure
 £000 £000 £000
    Future amortisation of assets by year   
  2015 295 61 234
  2016 489 21 468
  2017 469 1 468
  2018 468 - 468
  2019 468 - 468
  2020    234 - 234
  Net book amount at 31 December 2014 2,423 83 2,340
All intangible amortisation is charged to cost of sales within the Income Statement.
15 INVENTORIES
 31 December 31 December
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
     Raw materials 585 564
  Work in progress 11 17
  Finished goods 33 393
 629 974
  31 December Movement 31 December Movement 31 December
  2014 during year 2013 during year 2012
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
 
 Inventory  
  provision
     
  PS900 scanners 894 200 694 35 659
  IntelliReg®  - - - (22) 22
  Other scanners 86 (12) 98 (35) 133
  Print 13 2 11 (3) 14
  Total  993 190 803 (25) 828   31 December 31 December 31 December
  2014 2013 2012
  £000 £000 £000
  Related carrying value    
  PS900 scanners 420 780 1,160
  Other scanners 4 12 107
  Manufacturing inventory 424 792 1,267
  Print inventory 205 182 173
  Total 629 974 1,440
Inventory provisions are created to reflect future sales estimates over the useful life of the product. Reductions in the level of 
provision arise from inventory being written off and disposed of. In 2014 the value of fully provided inventory that was written 
off amounted to £12,000 (2013: £60,000).
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to £1,480,000 (2013: £2,311,000), 
comprising of £1,278,000 of materials (2013: £2,276,000) and £202,000 of inventory provision increases (2013: £35,000) as a 
result of the estimated sales of the PS900 scanners.
16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
 31 December  31 December
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
    Loans and receivables  
    - Trade receivables  517 3,111
    - Less provision for impairment of receivables (6) (22)
    - Trade receivables – net 511 3,089
  Amounts recoverable on contracts  151 285
  Prepayments and accrued income 790 682
 1,452 4,056
There is no material difference between the fair value and the carrying value of these assets.
The maximum credit risk exposure at the balance sheet date equates to the fair value of trade receivables. Further details of 
how the Group manages credit risk is set out in Note 4.1.
Standard payment terms on credit sales are 30 days net. 
The trade receivables ageing analysis is as follows:
       
 Total trade  0 – 30 31 – 60 61 – 90 91 – 120 120+
 receivables Current days days days days  days
 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000  £000 £000
 
  31 December 2014 511 348 45 86 10 9 13
  31 December 2013 3,089 2,782 30 251 2 - 24
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
78 The Group recognised a decrease in its impairment of its trade receivables during the year of £16,000 (2013: increase £21,000). 
The trade receivables provision movement, representing those items past due and impaired, is included in ‘administrative 
expenses’ in the Income Statement and a breakdown is as follows:
 31 December  31 December
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
    Opening amount at 1 January  22 1
  (Decrease)/increase in provision to Income Statement (16) 21
  Closing amount at 31 December  6 22
17 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 31 December  31 December
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
       Cash at bank and in hand 85 124
  Short-term bank deposits 3,527 3,556
 3,612 3,680
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits was 0.23% (2013: 0.21%). These deposits have an average maturity of 
one day (2013: two days).
The Group’s approach to managing liquidity and currency risks is set out in Note 4.1.
The tables below show the extent to which the Group has monetary assets in currencies other than Sterling.
  
 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
  2014  2014 2013  2013
  US Dollars  Euro US Dollars  Euro
  £000 £000 £000 £000
      Sterling equivalent 21 47 87 27
18 SHARE CAPITAL
  Number of shares  Ordinary shares Treasury shares Total
  At 1 January 2013 34,621,600 34,621,600 (1,930,000) 32,691,600
  Balance at 31 December 2013 34,621,600 34,621,600 (1,930,000) 32,691,600
  Balance at 31 December 2014 34,621,600 34,621,600 (1,930,000) 32,691,600
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
79
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014  Ordinary shares of 5p each
 at 31 December 2014 and 2013
 Number £000
    Allotted, issued, called up and fully paid 34,621,600 1,731
The Company acquired 1,930,000 of its own shares through purchase between 3 June and 15 July 2004. The price of these 
shares ranged between 59p and 60p. The total amount paid to acquire these shares, net of income tax, was £1,166,000 and has 
been deducted from Shareholders’ equity. The shares are held as Treasury shares. The Company has the right to re-issue these 
shares at a later date. All issued shares are fully paid.
19 OTHER RESERVES
  Share premium Capital redemption Own share Total
  reserve reserve reserve Group
  £000  £000 £000 £000
    As at 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 5,377 115 (306) 5,186
  Own shares vesting - - 8 8
  Balance at 31 December 2014 5,377 115 (298) 5,194
The Share Premium represents proceeds received in addition to the nominal value of shares issued less registration and other 
regulatory fees and net of related tax benefits. 
The Capital Redemption Reserve represents shares which are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the Company’s profits and 
is the amount by which the Company’s share capital is diminished on cancellation of these shares 
The Own Share Reserve represents the cost of shares purchased under the Restricted Share Scheme, less those unconditionally 
vested in employees. At 31 December 2014, 920,529 (2013: 960,529) shares with a market value of £124,271 (2013: £237,731) 
were held. The Scheme authorises the Trustees to purchase up to 5% of the issued share capital, funded by loans from the 
Company. Shares so acquired are conditionally gifted to employees and used to fulfil performance related options to Directors 
and senior managers at the discretion of the Board.
20 BORROWINGS
 31 December  31 December
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
    Current  
  Bank borrowings – secured loan 226 226
  Non-current  
  Bank borrowings – secured loan 1,280 1,505
  Total borrowings 1,506 1,731
In January 2013 the mortgage facility was extended to 7 January 2018 and increased to £1,900,000. The balance outstanding 
at 31 December 2014 was £1,506,000 (2013: £1,731,000). The facility from Barclays Bank plc is secured by a fixed charge 
against the freehold land and buildings to 7 January 2018. The interest rate on the five year extension is 4.0% over base rate. 
Repayment of the principal shall be in 19 instalments of £56,400 payable quarterly commencing 31 March 2013, followed by 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
81
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
a final bullet payment of £828,400 on 7 January 2018. The extension included a reallocation of the mortgage to the subsidiary 
company, DRS Data Services Limited, as tenant of the property.
The overdraft facility for DRS Data Services Limited is £250,000. It remains secured against inventory and debtors. Interest is 
charged at a variable rate of 3.25% over base rate. The facility is not currently in use.
21 DEFERRED INCOME TAX
 
 31 December  31 December
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
    Analysis for financial reporting purposes  
  Deferred tax liabilities 409 222
  Deferred tax assets - (110)
 409 112
At the balance sheet date, the main corporation tax rate for deferred tax purposes remains at 20% and therefore this rate is 
reflected in the calculation of the Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The movement in the year in the Group’s net deferred tax position was as follows:
 31 December  31 December
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
         At 1 January 112 (17)
  Charge to income for the current year 132 55
  Charge to income for the prior year 165 74
  At 31 December 409 112
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and the movements thereon during 
the period:
 R&D tax credits Capital Allowances
 £000  £000
     At 1 January 2014 (110) 222
  Charge to income for the year 110 187
  At 31 December 2014 - 409
A deferred tax asset in respect of unrelieved tax losses has not been recognised due to the uncertainty of the Group generating 
sufficient profit against which these losses can be utilised, as the Group projects similar high levels of development expenditure 
over the next three years. The amount unprovided at 31 December 2014 was £34,000 (2013: £211,000), using the rate of 
corporation tax applicable for future years (20%).  NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
82
22 PROVISIONS
 31 December  31 December
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
    Leasehold dilapidations provision  
  As at 1 January 89 60
  Additonal provision 28 29
  Amounts utilised - -
  Reversals (13) -
  Carrying amount at 31 December 104 89
The provision is based on previous negotiations to terminate these lease arrangements and reflects the Group’s liability for 
dilapidation charges payable on the expiry of all six property leases relating to the eight business units occupied by operations 
in Milton Keynes. See Note 28 for further details about the property leases. The whole amount is included within non 
current liabilities.
23 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
 31 December  31 December
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
      Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost  
    - Trade payables 386 904
  Deferred income 359 958
  Social security and other taxes 343 223
  Accrued expenses 632 912
 1,720 2,997
  Borrowings (see Note 20) 226 226
 1,946 3,223
Trade payables are contractually due within 30 days and are financial liabilities at amortised cost.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
83
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
24 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Categories of financial assets and liabilities
The carrying amounts presented in the statement of financial position relating to the following categories of assets and 
liabilities are:
   31 December  31 December 
   2014 2013
  Notes £000  £000
  Financial assets   
  Loans and other receivables   
    - Trade and other receivables 16 1,452 4,056
    - Cash and cash equivalents 17 3,612 3,680
  5,064 7,736
  Financial liabilities   
  Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:   
  Non-current borrowings 20 (1,280) (1,505)
  Current   
    - Trade and other payables 23 (1,018) (1,816)
    - Repayment of secured loan 20 (226) (226)
  (1,244) (2,042)
Fair value of the Financial Instruments equates to their carrying value.  Diluted earnings per share        
       2014 2013
       £000 £000
  Earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders being (loss)/profit for the period  (1,556) 1,389
      Number Number
  Weighted average number of shares     31,767,482 31,731,071
  Basic
  Dilutive effect of:
    - options under the Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme    - 40,000
    - options under LTIP option scheme     - 544,550
  Diluted      31,767,482 32,315,621
  Diluted (loss)/profit per Ordinary share     (4.90p) 4.30p
     
Basic earnings per share          
       2014 2013
       £000 £000
  Earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders being (loss)/profit for the period  (1,556) 1,389
      Number Number
  Weighted average number of shares     31,767,482 31,731,071
  Basic (loss)/profit per Ordinary share     (4.90p) 4.38p
     
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
84
25 EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to ordinary Shareholders divided by the 
weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. Shares held in the Restricted Share Scheme (see Note 19) are 
treated as cancelled for the purposes of this calculation.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the basic earnings per share, adjusted to allow for the issue of shares 
and the post-tax effect of dividends and/or interest, on the assumed conversion of all dilutive options and other dilutive 
potential Ordinary shares. 
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
85
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
26 DIVIDENDS PER SHARE
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in this period:
 2014 2013
 £000  £000
    Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 0.4p per share 127 -
  Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 0.4p per share - 127
The Directors do not recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014.
27 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  1 January Cash  31 December
  2014 flow 2014
  £000  £000  £000
  Cash at bank and in hand 124 (39) 85
  Term deposits 3,556 (29) 3,527
 3,680 (68) 3,612
28 COMMITMENTS
Operating lease commitments
The Company has the following future minimum lease commitments:
 Lease of land & buildings Other leases
  
  31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
  2014  2013 2014 2013
  £000 £000 £000 £000
        Within one year 210 192 68 76
  Within two to five years 651 176 105 148
  861 368 173 224
The Group held six property leases relating to eight business units occupied by operations in Milton Keynes at 31 December 
2014. Five of the property leases, relating to seven business units, run concurrently to 30 November 2021 with options for 
a break in the lease at 30 November 2017 and 30 November 2019. The remaining business unit lease was due to expire on 
30 November 2015, however, in February 2015 the lease was terminated and a new lease for a similar business unit on the 
same trading estate in Milton Keynes was entered into which runs concurrently with the existing five leases. Rent is payable 
quarterly in advance.
The classification of other leases relates to Company vehicles that are held under three or four year contracts, plus the 
Company telephones, three photocopiers and a franking machine which are held under five year contracts. The Company 
vehicle leases have an up-front payment of three months in advance followed by a monthly payment, the telephone contract 
payments are monthly in advance and the office equipment leases are payable quarterly in advance.
Operating lease expense for the year ended 31 December 2014 amounted to £282,000 (2013: £264,000). NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
86
29 PENSION COMMITMENTS
During 2013 and 2014 the Group operated various separate defined contribution schemes for the benefit of employees and 
Executive Directors. In all cases the assets of the schemes are administered by trustees in funds independent of the Group. 
Pension contributions are shown in Note 9.
30 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Details of options granted:
   Original 
   number    
   of shares Vesting  Exercise Method of
Date of Grant  Type granted period Term price settlement
  Year-end 31 December 2004       
  7 April 2004 RSS* Employees 170,000 3 years 10 years Nil Equity
  Year-end 31 December 2012       
  24 September 2012 LTIP Directors  470,000 3 years 10 years Nil Equity 
  and emplo y ees   16 November 2012 LTIP Directors 916,666 3 years 10 years Nil Equity
  Year-end 31 December 2013       
  18 November 2013 LTIP Directors 66,000 3 years 10 years Nil Equity
* 1996 DRS Restricted Share Scheme 
Movements in the year:
Year-end 31 December 2013
 1 January 2013   31 December 2013
    
 Outstanding  Exercisable     Outstanding  Exercisable
Date of Grant options options Granted Lapsed Exercised options options 
  Year-end 31 December 2004       
  7 April 2004 - 40,000 - - - - 40,000
  Year-end 31 December 2012       
  24 September 2012 470,000 - - 100,000 - 370,000 -
  16 November 2012 916,666 - - - - 916,666 -
  Year-end 31 December 2013       
  18 November 2013 - - 66,000 - - 66,000 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
87
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Movements in the year:
Year-end 31 December 2014
 1 January 2014   31 December 2014
    
 Outstanding  Exercisable     Outstanding  Exercisable
  Date of Grant options options Granted Lapsed Exercised options options 
  Year-end 31 December 2004       
  7 April 2004 - 40,000 - - 40,000 - -
  Year-end 31 December 2012       
  24 September 2012 370,000 - - 150,000 - 220,000 -
  16 November 2012 916,666 - - - - 916,666 -
  Year-end 31 December 2013       
  18 November 2013 66,000 - - 33,000 - 33,000 -
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the exercisable options is 320 days.
Calculation of the fair value:
  Share     Risk-free Fair
 Valuation price Exercise Expected Expected Expected interest value
Options model at grant price volatility life dividends rate of 1 unit 
         Year-end 31 December 2012        
  24 September 2012 Monte Carlo 17.25p 0p 30.00% 3 years 2.50% 0.315% 9.40p
  16 November 2012 Monte Carlo 18.00p 0p 30.00% 3 years 2.50% 0.283% 9.80p
  Year-end 31 December 2013        
  18 November 2014 Monte Carlo 23.25p 0p 30.00% 3 years 2.00% 0.7031% 12.48p
Performance Criteria
Under the Rules of the 2012 LTIP, the number of awards that can be exercised and will convert into nil-cost options at the end 
of the three year performance, which runs from 1 January of the year in which they are granted, are dependent on the following 
two performance conditions:
1.   A comparison of the Company’s total Shareholder return over a three year period commencing on the first day of the 
financial year in which the date of grant falls against a comparator group of companies, comprising the constituents of the 
FTSE Fledgling Index; and
2.  The average growth of the Company’s basic earnings per share in the three year period following grant compared to the 
earnings per share in the year prior to the date of grant (i.e. the year ended 31 December 2012 for the options granted 
in 2013). DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
88
The number of vesting nil-cost options in the 2012 LTIP will be calculated for all participants by reference to the value created 
for Shareholders over the performance period. 
The value created for Shareholders will be based on the increase in the Net Return Index (which reflects movements in share 
price plus dividends reinvested on a net basis (without any associated tax credit) in shares on the ex-dividend date) for a 
company over the performance period and will be calculated based on the value created during the period between the three 
months ending on the last day of the performance period and the three months ending on the date of grant of an option. 
Further details of the units granted are provided in the section on Directors’ Share Options in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report.
Valuation Methodologies
In order to calculate fair values of the options the Company has taken into account those factors knowledgeable, willing 
market participants would consider in valuing the options.
The fair values of the EMI options to employees with no additional market conditions were estimated using a Binomial option 
pricing model. 
The awards granted under the 2012 LTIP, where the potential number of nil-cost options vesting will be dependent upon the 
absolute return to Shareholders over the performance period was calculated using a Monte Carlo Simulation model. The total 
fair value of all units granted to participants in the LTIP was £142,250.  
Volatility Assumptions
Annualised expected volatility of all the options and units granted under the LTIP were determined by calculating the average 
of standard deviations of daily continuously compounded returns of the share price for the Company and the constituents of 
the comparator group calculated over three years back from the date of grant of each instrument.
The dividend yield used in the Monte Carlo model is based on an average yield over the Company’s last five financial years.
Options Outstanding
The weighted average exercise price of the options outstanding at 31 December 2014 was nil, (2013: nil). 
31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
31. 1 Inter-Company Transactions
Balances and transactions between the Company, DRS Data and Research Services plc, and its subsidiary, DRS Data Services 
Limited, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Transactions 
between the Company and its subsidiary are disclosed in Note 43.
31.2 Transactions with Joint Arrangements
Electoral Reform Services Limited (ERS) is working with DRS Data Services Limited in a joint arrangement as IntElect® to 
deliver the 2016 London Mayor and Assembly elections making ERS a related party. No amounts were outstanding between 
the two parties either at 31 December 2014 or at 31 December 2013. Further details about IntElect® are included in Note 5.
31.3 Transactions with Key Management Personnel
The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out in Note 9. 
The Group paid a dividend of 0.4p per share on 30 May 2014 of which the following was paid to Directors:
J F Linwood  £20
A M Tebbutt £2,226
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT 
COMPANY 
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
89
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
90
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 April 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
S J Gowers  A M Tebbutt
Chief Executive Officer  Finance Director
DRS Data and Research Services plc | Registered Company Number: 0959401
 31 December  31 December
  2014 2013
 Notes £000  £000
  Assets
  Non-current assets   
  Property, plant and equipment 34 1,594 2,472
  Investment in subsidiaries 35 3,814 3,814
  5,408 6,286
  Current assets
  Trade and other receivables 36 93 102
  Cash and cash equivalents 37 3,205 3,289
  3,298 3,391
  Total assets  8,706 9,677
  Equity
  Capital and reserves attributable to the Company’s equity holders   
  Share capital 38 1,731 1,731
  Share premium account 39 5,377 5,377
  Capital redemption reserve 39 115 115
  Treasury shares 38 (1,166) (1,166)
  Own shares reserve 39 (298) (306)
  Retained earnings  1,365 2,080
  Total Equity  7,124 7,831
  Liabilities
  Non-current liabilities   
  Deferred income tax liabilities 40 64 112
  64 112
  Current liabilities   
  Trade and other payables 41 1,518 1,734
  1,518 1,734
  Total liabilities  1,582 1,846
  Total equity and liabilities  8,706 9,677    Share  Capital  Own   
 Share premium redemption Treasury shares Retained 
 capital account reserve shares reserve  earnings Total
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
  At 1 January 2013 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 1,070 6,821
  Dividends  - - - - - (127) (127)
  Employee share-based  
  compensation - - - - - 11 11
  Transactions with owners - - - - - (116) (116)
  Profit for the period - - - - - 1,126 1,126
  Total comprehensive income  - - - - - 1,126 1,126
  for the period 
  At 31 December 2013 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 2,080 7,831
  At 1 January 2014 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (306) 2,080 7,831
  Dividends  - - - - - (127) (127)
  Employee share-based  - - - - - (13) (13) 
   compensation 
  Own shares vesting - - - - 8 (8) -
  Transactions with owners - - - - 8 (148) (140)
  Loss for the period - - - - - (567) (567)
  Total comprehensive loss  - - - - - (567) (567) 
  for the period
  At 31 December 2014 1,731 5,377 115 (1,166) (298) 1,365 7,124
85
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
91
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
92
  31 December 31 December
  2014 2013
 Notes £000  £000
  Cash flows from operating activities
  (Loss)/profit for the period  (567) 1,126
  Adjustments for: 
     - income tax        (48) (80)
     - depreciation of property, plant and equipment  34 65 75
     - impairment of property, plant and equipment   813 -
     - exchange (gain)/loss on cash holdings   (10) 3
     - interest income   (63) (14)
     - interest expense  - 3
     - decrease in trade and other receivables  9 6
     - (decrease)/increase in trade and other payables   (229) 628
     - decrease in short-term borrowings  - (1,855)
  Cash used in operations  (30) (108)
  Interest paid  - (3)
  Net cash used in operating activities  - (3) 
  Cash flows from investing activities       
  Interest received  63 14
  Net cash generated from investing activities  63 14
  Cash flows from financing activities     
  Dividends paid to Shareholders  (127) (127)
  Net cash used in financing activities  (127) (127)
  Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents  (94) (224)
  Exchange increase/(decrease) on cash  10 (3)
  Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  3,289 3,516
  Cash and cash equivalents at end of period  3,205 3,289
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
93
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
32 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
These financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company 
are the same as the Group’s accounting policies; see Note 2 
for details, subject to the following addition:
32. 1  INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost less 
accumulated impairment.
32.2  FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS
The Company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial 
risks. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing 
each of these risks and they are summarised below:
a) Market Risk
i) Currency Risk
The Company manages the cash requirements for 
subsidiaries that operate internationally and are subject 
to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency 
exposures, primarily with respect to the US Dollar and the 
Euro. The Company does not hedge any transactions, and 
foreign exchange differences on retranslation of foreign 
assets and liabilities are recognised in the Income Statement.
Wherever possible the Company looks to transact its affairs 
in Sterling. 
ii) Interest Rate Risk
The Company finances its operations through a mixture 
of Shareholders’ funds and bank loans. At the year-end 
the Company does not hold any bank loans and is not 
considered to have any interest rate risk. 
iii) Investment Risk
The Board considers security of the principal investment to 
be a greater priority than the rate of return on investment as 
interest rates are so low compared to the general economic 
uncertainty of the financial sector. With this in mind, three 
banks are used to deposit the Company’s cash holding, 
thereby spreading the risk of loss as a consequence of a 
bank failure.
b) Credit Risk
The Company does not have any trade receivables and 
therefore has minimum credit risk. 
c) Liquidity Risk
The Company takes a prudent approach to managing 
liquidity risk to ensure sufficient cash is available to meet 
foreseeable needs and to finance safely the successful 
completion of large-scale contracts within the Group, 
thereby minimising liquidity risk issues. 
32.3  SHARE-BASED PAYMENT 
DRS Data and Research Services plc manages all share-based 
arrangements for the Group. The basis of calculation for the 
cost of these share-based payments is set out in Note 30. 
Participants of the share based payment arrangements are 
the holding Company Executive Directors and the subsidiary 
company, DRS Data Services Limited, Executive Directors. 
The calculated cost is then charged out as a service to the 
relevant subsidiary.
32.4  CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
It is the policy of the Group that subsidiary companies are 
expected to pass up distributable retained earnings to the 
holding company, DRS Data and Research Services plc as 
dividends as soon as practical. 
33 (LOSS)/PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
DRS Data and Research Services plc has not presented its 
own Income Statement and related notes as permitted 
by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The decrease 
in retained earnings for the year was £715,000 (2013: 
£1,010,000 increase which included £900,000 of dividend). 
The trading loss for the financial year in the Financial 
Statements of the Parent Company is £567,000 (2013: 
£1,126,000 profit).
The costs of Directors’ remuneration and share payments 
are borne by DRS Data Services Limited, the details to which 
are disclosed in Note 9.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
An impairment review was undertaken in June 2014 that resulted in a decision to impair the Linford Wood property by 
£813,000. The impairment charge is recognised in administration expenses in the Income Statement, see Note 10 for details. 
Also at 30 June 2014, a decision was taken to reduce the outstanding expected life of the building by 5 years to 25 years 
reflecting the reduction in planned expenditure on the building’s upkeep as part of reducing the Group’s cost base. As a 
consequence of these actions, depreciation is reduced from £67,000 per annum to £47,500 per annum. 
Bank borrowings held by DRS Data Services Limited are secured on the Linford Wood land and buildings for the value of 
£1,506,000 (2013: £1,731,000). See Note 20.
  Freehold
  land & Fixtures
 Total buildings & fittings
 £000 £000 £000
  At 1 January 2013
  Cost  3,168 2,900 268
  Accumulated depreciation (621) (387) (234)
  Net book amount 2,547 2,513 34
  For the year ended 31 December 2013
  Opening net amount at 1 January 2013 2,547 2,513 34
  Depreciation charge (75) (67) (8)
  Closing net book amount at 31 December 2013 2,472 2,446 26
  At 31 December 2013
  Cost  3,168 2,900 268
  Accumulated depreciation (696) (454) (242)
  Net book amount 2,472 2,446 26
  For the year ended 31 December 2014
  Opening net amount at 1 January 2014 2,472 2,446 26
  Depreciation charge (65) (57) (8)
  Impairment charge (813) (813) -
  Closing net book amount at 31 December 2014 1,594 1,576 18
  At 31 December 2014
  Cost  2,355 2,087 268
  Accumulated depreciation (761) (511) (250)
  Net book amount 1,594 1,576 18
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
94
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35  INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
At 31 December 2014 the principal subsidiary undertaking of the Company was as follows:
The net book amount of the investment in DRS Data Services Limited  at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 was 
£3,814,000.
95
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
  Country of       
  incorporation  
Name of Company  and operation Shareholding Main activity
  DRS Data Services Limited  UK 100% Provision of data capture   
    services, manufacture  
    and sale of optical and 
    image scanning equipment 
37  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
The Company’s approach to managing liquidity and currency risks is in accordance with the Group’s, details of which are set 
out in Note 4.1.
The table below shows the extent to which the Company has monetary assets in currencies other than Sterling.
    
  2014 2014 2013 2013
  US Dollars Euro  US Dollars Euro
   £000 £000  £000 £000
  Sterling equivalent  1 - 1   -
  31 December 31 December 
  2014 2013
  £000 £000
  Cash at bank and in hand  3,205 3,289
36  TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
There is no material difference between the fair value and carrying value of these assets.
There are no trade receivables.
  31 December 31 December 
  2014 2013
  £000 £000
  Current loans and receivables
  Prepayments and accrued income  93 102
  93 102
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
96
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
40  DEFERRED INCOME TAX
The movement in the year in the Company’s net deferred tax position was as follows:
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Company and the movements thereon 
during the period:
  31 December 31 December 
  2014 2013
  £000 £000
  Analysis for financial reporting purposes  
  Deferred tax liabilities  64 112
  64 112
          
     Accelerated tax  Revaluation 
     depreciation  of property Total
      £000 £000 £000
  At 1 January 2014     102 10 112
  Credit to income for the year     (56) 8 (48)
  At 31 December 2014     46 18 64
  
  31 December 31 December 
  2014 2013
  £000 £000
  At 1 January  112 136
  Credit to income for the year  (48) (24)
  At 31 December  64 112
38  SHARE CAPITAL
See Note 18 for details of the share capital of the Company.
39  OTHER RESERVES
See Note 19 for details of the other reserves of the Company. 41  TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
  31 December 31 December 
  2014 2013
  £000 £000
  Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost  
  Amounts owed to Group undertakings  1,430 1,621
  Accrued expenses  88 113
  1,518 1,734
97
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
42  FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Categories of financial assets and liabilities.
The carrying amounts presented in the statement of financial position relating to the following categories of assets and 
liabilities are:
   31 December  31 December
   2014 2013
 Notes £000 £000
  Financial assets 
  Loans and other receivables  
    - Trade and other receivables 36 93 102
    - Cash and cash equivalents 37 3,205 3,289
  3,298 3,391
  Financial liabilities 
  Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
  Current  
     - Trade and other payables 41 (1,518) (1,734)
  (1,518) (1,734)
Fair value of the Financial Instruments equates to their carrying value.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
98
43  INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS
DRS Data and Research Services plc provided £700,000 (2013: £705,000) of services to its subsidiaries during 2014. It did not 
make any purchases from them.
The Company has provided cross Company guarantees for the borrowing facilities of its subsidiary DRS Data Services 
Limited. On 31 December 2013 an inter-Company loan agreement was signed providing for interest of 2.5% to be charged on 
outstanding balances. The amount of interest paid in the year was £54,000.
   DRS Data
   Services Limited
   £000
  At 31 December 2013  
  Amounts owed to subsidiary   (1,621)
  At 31 December 2014  
  Amounts owed to subsidiary   (1,430)
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS
DIRECTORS Sir David Brown, Chairman *
   Alison Reed *
#
   John Linwood *
   Dame Sandra Dawson*
   Steve Gowers 
   Mark Tebbutt
   * Non-Executive Director
   
#  
Senior Independent Director
COMPANY SECRETARY Richard Cole
REGISTERED OFFICE 1 Danbury Court
   Linford Wood
   Milton Keynes
   Buckinghamshire
   MK14 6LR
STOCKBROKERS Arden Partners plc
   125 Old Broad Street
   London
   EC2N 1AR
AUDITOR Grant Thornton UK LLP
   Registered Auditors and Chartered Accountants
   Grant Thornton House
   202 Silbury Boulevard
   Central Milton Keynes
   Buckinghamshire
   MK9 1LW
PRINCIPAL BANKERS Barclays Bank plc
   Barclays Corporate
   Ashton House
   497 Silbury Boulevard
   Milton Keynes 
   Buckinghamshire
   MK9 2LD
REGISTRARS Equiniti Ltd
   Aspect House
   Spencer Road
   Lancing
   West Sussex
   BN99 6DA
99
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DRS Data and Research Services plc
1 Danbury Court
Linford Wood
Milton Keynes
Buckinghamshire 
MK14 6LR
United Kingdom 
Telephone: +44 (0)1908 666088    
Fax: +44 (0)1908 607668   
Email: enquiries@drs.co.uk
    
www.drs.co.uk
