 Annual Report 2005
Improving performance
Developing markets Contents
1 Highlights
2 Group Overview
4 Chairman’s Statement
5 Chief Executive’s Review
8 Operating Review
18 Financial Review
22 Corporate Social 
Responsibility Review 
26 Directors and Company 
Secretary
27 Corporate Governance 
30 Remuneration Report
37 Directors’ Report and Directors’
Responsibilities Statement
39 Independent Auditors’ Report
40 Financial Statements and Notes
65 Five Year Financial Summary
66 Notice of Annual General Meeting
71 Shareholder Information
72 Principal Locations
Front cover pictures from left to right:
Corrugated Packaging DS Smith Packaging
Devizes supplies many of the country’s leading food
and drinks companies.
Plastic Packaging Rapak Rugby produces bags
for bag-in-box packaging used by the soft drinks, wine
and other industries.
Office Products Wholesaling Spicers’ dealer
distribution centre at Birmingham stocks approximately
16,000 product lines for direct delivery to offices
throughout the UK.
DS Smith Plc has a turnover of £1.6 billion 
and employs 11,900 people in 16 countries.
Our strategy is to improve the operational per-
formance and develop the Group’ s strong 
market positions in its principal businesses:
• Paper and Corrugated Packaging
• Plastic Packaging
• Office Products Wholesaling
Annual Report 2005 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 1
2004 2005
Packaging Office
Products
Group
2004 2005 2004 2005
Turnover by Activity 
£million
*before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles – see note 7 to the accounts; 2004 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement benefits’ and UITF Abstract 38 ‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’
957.6
1092.8
530.9
532.1
1488.5
1624.9
2004 2005
Packaging Office
Products
Group
2004 2005 2004 2005
Operating Profit* by Activity 
£million 
Return on Average Capital Employed* 
by Activity
%
55.4
62.2
20.0
21.7
75.4
83.9
2004 2005
Packaging Office
Products
Group
2004 2005 2004 2005
8.4
7.7
15.2
16.4
9.6
9.0
Highlights
Financial
• Turnover £1,624.9m (2003/04: £1,488.5m)
• Adjusted
1
proﬁt before tax £76.1m (2003/04 restated
2
: £64.8m; as previously reported: £81.4m)
• Adjusted
1
earnings per share 14.7p (2003/04 restated
2
: 13.6p; as previously reported: 16.9p)
• Free cash inﬂow before dividends and net acquisitions £55.4m (2003/04: £63.0m)
• Final dividend up 0.2p to 5.8p giving a full year dividend of 8.4p (2003/04: 8.2p)
• Results after exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles: proﬁt before tax £57.1m 
(2003/04 restated
2
: £61.2m; as previously reported: £77.8m); earnings per share: 10.1p 
(2003/04 restated
2
: 12.6p; as previously reported: 15.9p)
Operations
• Results impacted by a weak paper market and circa £16m of higher energy and polymer costs
• Corrugated Packaging:
– Existing business continued its proﬁt growth
– Linpac Containers contributed £21.0m to operating proﬁt in ﬁrst full year’s ownership
• Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling increased proﬁts for the third successive year
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles – see note 7 to the accounts
2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement beneﬁts’ and UITF Abstract 38 ‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’ 2 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Packaging Turnover
2004/05 total: £1,093m
UK Paper and
Corrugated £631m
Continental Europe 
Paper and 
Corrugated £266m
Plastic £196m
Paper and Corrugated Packaging
In the UK, the Group is improving returns from its integrated chain: Severnside
Recycling – recovered paper collection; St Regis – paper production; and DS Smith
Packaging – corrugated packaging manufacturing. 
In continental Europe, DS Smith Kaysersberg is growing its corrugated packaging
operations selectively from its regional positions.
Plastic Packaging
DS Smith Plastics is developing in 
its two focused markets of liquid
packaging and dispensing and
industrial returnable transit 
packaging (RTP).
Key ﬁgures – 2004/05
£896.9m turnover
55% of Group turnover
£52.3m adjusted* operating proﬁt
7.9% adjusted* return on average 
capital employed
* before exceptional items and amortisation 
of intangibles
www.dssmith-plastics.com More information on our Packaging divisions can be found at: www.dssmith-packaging.com
www.dssmith-kaysersberg.fr
www.stregis.co.uk
05 04 03 02 01 00
Packaging Turnover
£million
743
863
892
942 958
1,093
Plastic Packaging
Paper and Corrugated Packaging
Market positions
• Number 1 UK collector and merchant 
of recovered paper
• Number 1 UK producer of CCM
• A leading European supplier of
corrugated packaging 
– Number 1 UK supplier
– Major position in France
– Growing in Italy and eastern Europe
Market positions
• Number 2 globally in liquid
packaging and dispensing – 
bag-in-box systems and injection
moulded taps and dispensers
• A leading European supplier of 
RTP – reusable container and 
pallet systems, extruded sheet 
and bottle crates
Operations
Corrugated packaging is produced at 37 factories in the UK and 13 factories in
continental Europe, located in France, Italy, Poland, the Czech Republic, Turkey 
and the Ukraine.
Paper is manufactured at 6 mills in the UK, 2 in France and 1 in Turkey; 75% is
corrugated case materials (CCM) used for manufacturing corrugated board; 90% 
is made from recycled recovered paper. 
Severnside Recycling operates a network of 19 collection depots in the UK.
Operations
Liquid packaging and dispensing
products are made at 8 locations 
in the UK, Germany, USA and 
New Zealand.
RTP is produced at 13 locations 
in the UK, France, Belgium, Spain,
Poland and the Dominican Republic.
Packaging
Key ﬁgures – 2004/05
£195.9m turnover
12% of Group turnover
£9.9m adjusted* operating proﬁt
7.1% adjusted* return on average
capital employed
* before exceptional items and amortisation 
of intangibles
We are developing our strong positions
in the Packaging and Ofﬁce Products
markets in which we operate.
Group Overview DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 3
Office Products Turnover
2004/05 total: £532m
UK and Ireland
Wholesaling £281m
Continental Europe 
Wholesaling £219m
Manufacturing† 
£32m
† excluding 
   intra-Group sales
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling
Spicers is building its position in continental Europe and strengthening its established
businesses in the UK and France.
Ofﬁce Products
Manufacturing
John Dickinson is maximising returns
from its brands and leading UK
market positions in envelopes, books
and pads. 
Key ﬁgures – 2004/05
£499.7m turnover
31% of Group turnover
£21.7m adjusted* operating proﬁt
18.3% adjusted* return on average 
capital employed
* before exceptional items and amortisation 
of intangibles
www.johndickinson.eu.com More information on our Ofﬁce Products divisions can be found at: www.spicers.net
05 04 03 02 01 00
Office Products Turnover
£million
474
536
548
537 531 532
Manufacturing excluding intra-Group
Wholesaling
Market positions
 Number 1 European ofﬁce products
wholesaler:
– Number 1 in UK
– Number 1 in France
– Developing in Germany, Spain 
and Italy
Market positions
 Leading UK positions:
– Number 1 in envelopes
– Number 1 in social stationery
– Number 1 in hard cover notebooks
 Major brands: Basildon Bond, 
Black n’ Red, Cambridge, 
Challenge, Lion Brand, New
Guardian and Plus Fabric
Operations
Wholesaling of ofﬁce products is carried out through a network of distribution
centres: 10 in the UK; 1 in Ireland; 6 in France; 2 in Germany; 1 in Spain; 1 in Italy. 
Spicers’ product range of its own 5 Star brand and other branded products includes
traditional stationery lines, electronic ofﬁce supplies, ofﬁce furniture, janitorial supplies
and ofﬁce catering and vending provisions; this is communicated to its customer base
of ofﬁce products dealers through printed catalogues and electronic systems.
Operations
John Dickinson’s range of branded,
own-label and bespoke stationery
products is manufactured at 3 
UK locations.
Ofﬁce Products
Kaysersberg Plastics’ Uni-Pak can be folded
down and locked together for economical
and efﬁcient empty transit and storage.
High quality printed corrugated
packaging is produced for
leading consumer brands. 
Key ﬁgures – 2004/05
£46.8m turnover
2% of Group turnover
†
£nil adjusted* operating proﬁt
nil% adjusted* return on average
capital employed
† excluding intra-Group
* before exceptional items and amortisation 
of intangibles
John Dickinson’s products include brand
leader Black n’ Red and the contemporary
styling of the ID range.
Spicers offers a targeted range in each
country where it operates; its catalogues
contain up to 18,000 lines. 4 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Chairman’s Statement
In 2004/05, a further weakening in the paper
market and sharply higher energy and polymer
costs created a very challenging environment,
which was reflected in lower profits in both
our Paper and Plastic Packaging businesses.
Nevertheless, our strategy to enhance
earnings through acquisition and organic
development enabled the Group to produce 
a commendable result. We made progress 
in Corrugated Packaging, thanks both to an
improved result from our existing business
and to the substantial contribution from 
our first full year of ownership of Linpac
Containers. The Spicers Office Products
Wholesaling business continued to advance,
helped by moving into profit in Germany. 
The Group’s adjusted
1
earnings per share
were 14.7 pence (2003/04 restated
2
: 13.6
pence). A strong cash flow, before dividends
and acquisitions, of £55.4 million (2003/04:
£63.0 million) enabled the Group to maintain
a healthy balance sheet, benefiting from the
new financings put in place in the year. The
result includes a significant charge in respect
of DS Smith’s UK defined benefit pension
scheme for the first time for many years and
is now reported under the FRS 17 pensions
accounting standard. As required in the
accounting standard, the 2003/04 result has
been restated to include a pension charge 
in that year. In May 2005, the Group
introduced further changes to the pension
scheme to mitigate the higher cost of
providing pensions. We also increased 
the cash payments into the scheme from 
£10 million to £14 million per annum. 
We are now well advanced with the integration
of Linpac Containers and generating the
expected synergies, despite the delay which
resulted from the referral of the acquisition to
the Competition Commission; the acquisition
finally received unconditional clearance in
October 2004.
The Group’s financial performance reflects
the benefits of the drive over the last three
years to raise the profit contribution of 
our non-Paper activities. This has largely
compensated for both the sharp cyclical fall
in Paper profits and accounting for the cost of
the pension scheme. In Paper and Corrugated
Packaging we began to generate considerable
benefits from our enlarged position in UK
Corrugated Packaging, which materially
offset the challenging conditions in UK Paper,
while we continued the development of our
corrugated packaging business in continental
Europe. We further strengthened the UK
Paper business by enlarging our recovered
paper collection operations and by concluding
a major long-term supply agreement with
BPB plc for plasterboard liner paper, an
important diversification for our paper sales
into a growth market. In Office Products,
Spicers continued its development in
continental Europe: the German business
advanced into solid profit, the Spanish
operation grew rapidly, and we successfully
launched the new Italian business.
Although trading conditions remain 
difficult, the Group has in recent years taken
steps to reduce its reliance on the cyclical
Paper business and has demonstrated its
commitment to generating strong free cash
flow. With the benefits now accruing from 
the enlarged Corrugated Packaging business
and the improving performance of Spicers,
the Board is proposing a 0.2 pence increase 
in the final dividend to 5.8 pence, giving 
a full year dividend of 8.4 pence 
(2003/04: 8.2 pence).
As stated in our April trading update, we 
have begun 2005/06 with energy and other
input costs at considerably higher levels than
at the start of 2004/05. Since April, future
energy costs look like being even higher than
previously expected. We anticipate delivering
the previously indicated synergies from 
the integration of Linpac Containers and
achieving a further advance at Spicers, but 
the extent to which these benefits will be
offset by additional input costs is uncertain.
We will continue our focus on cost recovery
and cash generation.
Antony Hichens Chairman
Antony Hichens Chairman
Our strategy to enhance earnings 
through acquisition and organic
development enabled the Group 
to produce a commendable result.
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement beneﬁts’ and UITF Abstract 38
‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’ DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 5
Chief Executive’s Review
changes to the scheme to reduce the impact
of the increasing cost of pensions. We also
raised our payments into the scheme from
£10 million to £14 million per annum. The
Group’s result for 2004/05, which includes
a significant charge in respect of the UK
pension scheme, is now reported under the
FRS 17 pensions accounting standard and 
the 2003/04 result has been restated as
required by accounting standards; under 
the previously applied SSAP 24 accounting
standard there was no charge. This change
aids comparison between financial years 
and largely anticipates the International
Accounting Standard 19 for Pensions which
the Group will apply in 2005/06.
Financial Results
Group sales advanced by 9.2% to £1,624.9
million, the full year contribution of Linpac
Containers more than offsetting small
reductions in some other segments. Adjusted
1
group operating profit was £83.9 million
(2003/04 restated
2
: £75.4 million) including 
a full year’s contribution from Linpac
Containers of £21.0 million, comprising 
£14.9 million (2003/04: £1.2 million from 
six weeks of DS Smith ownership) from 
its operations and £6.1 million of synergy
benefits in DS Smith’s existing operations.
The Group adjusted return on sales was 
5.2% (2003/04 restated: 5.1%) while adjusted
return on average capital employed was 
9.0% (2003/04 restated: 9.6%). Adjusted
profit before tax was £76.1 million (2003/04
restated: £64.8 million). If the £4.5 million 
of interest paid on the increased debt
attributable to the Linpac Containers
acquisition is taken into account, the
acquisition after synergies contributed 
a net £16.5 million to adjusted profit before 
tax. The adjusted profit contribution from
Linpac Containers of £21.0 million represents
a return on invested capital of 12.3% even
before the full synergy benefits have been
realised and its contribution to 2004/05
earnings per share was 3.0p.
The cash inflow before dividends and net
acquisitions, was £55.4 million (2003/04:
£63.0 million). After net expenditure on
acquisitions and dividends, there was a net
cash inflow of £12.1 million, which resulted
in net borrowings of £260.4 million (2003/04:
£274.7 million) after the effect of exchange
rate movements. The balance sheet remains
strong with gearing at 53.1% (year end
2003/04 restated: 54.9%) and net debt/
adjusted EBITDA of 1.7 times (2003/04
restated: 2.0 times). The adoption of the 
FRS 17 pension accounting standard has
resulted in a net pension scheme deficit 
of £80.3 million being recognised on the
balance sheet which accounts for the gearing
increasing from the previously reported 
figure for 2003/04. 
The sharp rise in energy costs during the 
year significantly affected our 2004/05 
result, particularly in Paper which incurs
approximately three-quarters of the Group’s
energy and fuel costs. The Group’s total costs
for gas, electricity and diesel increased from
circa £64 million in 2003/04 to circa 
£73 million in 2004/05, principally due to 
a 30% year-on-year rise in the UK average
price of gas, which was partially hedged; 
We had a signiﬁcant advance in proﬁt 
in our enlarged Corrugated Packaging
business; in addition the Spicers Ofﬁce
Products Wholesaling business increased
proﬁts for the third successive year.
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive
Overview
At the start of 2004/05, we predicted a
difficult year ahead and this proved to be 
the case. The external trading environment 
in Paper and Corrugated Packaging remained
weak, the Group had to absorb approximately
£9 million of increased energy costs and
approximately £7 million of higher polymer
costs, we faced a Competition Commission
inquiry into our acquisition of Linpac
Containers, and our results included an 
£11.7 million net pension charge, the first
such charge incurred in many years. I believe
the Group has responded well to the challenges,
generating satisfactory earnings, particularly
at this low point in the paper cycle, and
maintaining a strong balance sheet. We had 
a significant advance in profit in our enlarged
Corrugated Packaging business; in addition
the Spicers Office Products Wholesaling
business increased profits for the third
successive year, while further developing 
its continental European business. 
Following the completion of the triennial
valuation of our UK defined benefit pension
scheme, the Group introduced a number of
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement beneﬁts’ and UITF Abstract 38
‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’; the 2003/04 ﬁgures reported previously under the SSAP 24 accounting standard were: adjusted
operating proﬁt: £88.8m; proﬁt before tax: £81.4m; adjusted earnings per share: 16.9p; gearing: 48.9% 6 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
business were affected by lower demand 
from the US carbonated soft drinks sector. 
The combined result of our three smaller
speciality businesses was flat year-on-year
and, as indicated previously, an exceptional
impairment charge of £5.8 million was 
taken against the goodwill of one of 
these, a business providing packaging
management services. 
Ofﬁce Products
Spicers, our Office Products Wholesaling
business, accounted for 31% of total Group
sales and 26% of adjusted operating profit.
Sales were flat while adjusted operating profit
increased by 10%. Spicers’ UK and French
businesses continued to perform well with 
the UK having returned to sales growth
during the second half of the year. Spicers’
development businesses in continental Europe
made good progress: Spicers Germany moved
into profit; Spicers Spain continued to grow
well and reduced its losses; and initial sales in
Italy have been encouraging since our launch
there in November.
In Office Products Manufacturing, adjusted
operating profit fell to break-even, reflecting
the continued difficult trading conditions in
the envelope market.
Strategy
The strategy we have pursued for the last 
four years of Improve and Develop remains
in place. We have reduced the Group’s
reliance on the cyclical Paper business and
have developed and improved our Corrugated
Packaging, Plastic Packaging and Office
Products Wholesaling activities in order 
gas accounted for approximately 50% of the
2004/05 total energy and fuel expenditure.
The Group has benefited from having hedged
its UK electricity until October 2005 but
current market prices are substantially higher.
Looking forward, the Group expects to incur
in 2005/06 a level of increase in energy and
fuel costs at least of the scale of that seen in
2004/05 and possibly even greater, depending
on energy price developments.
Paper and Corrugated Packaging
In our largest segment, Paper and Corrugated
Packaging, which accounted for 55% of
Group sales and 62% of adjusted operating
profit, demand was slightly stronger than 
in the previous financial year but pricing
remained very competitive throughout the
supply chain. Adjusted operating profit was
26% higher than last year as a result of a full
year’s contribution from Linpac Containers
and increased profits from our existing UK
Corrugated operations which was partly 
offset by a further significant fall in profits
from Paper.
We achieved a good result from our UK
Corrugated Packaging operations, despite 
the heavy demands placed on management
during the five-month-long Competition
Commission inquiry into the Linpac
Containers acquisition. After receiving
unconditional clearance for the deal from 
the Commission, we proceeded rapidly with
the integration and restructuring. We have
already generated substantial synergies and
are confident that, by early 2006/07, we 
will achieve the £14.5 million per annum
originally indicated. Our continental
European operations also produced a good
result, with the Polish business continuing 
to perform strongly, our Turkish operation
reporting a profit after a number of difficult
years and our associate in the Ukraine making
further good progress.
Although profits in Paper were significantly
affected by the pressure on margins from
depressed selling prices and higher energy
costs, we continued to raise productivity 
and strengthened the business through a
number of strategic moves. We enlarged our
important Severnside Recycling recovered
paper collection operation through the
acquisition of BPB plc’s waste collection
depots and advanced the development of 
sales in higher added-value paper products 
by concluding a long-term agreement to
supply plasterboard liner paper to BPB plc,
representing an important diversification 
into a growth market.
Plastic Packaging
Our Plastic Packaging business had a tough
year. Sales, which account for 12% of the
Group total, were 6% lower than the previous
year and adjusted operating profit was 29%
lower. The sharp fall in adjusted operating
profit was mainly due to the reduced sales
and an approximate £3 million under-
recovery of the polymer cost increases, this
despite securing price increases across our
customer base. Sales of industrial returnable
transit packaging (RTP) were lower due to a
slowdown in new crate contracts, exacerbated
by some RTP customers deferring orders
owing to the sharp rise in polymer prices.
Sales in the liquid packaging and dispensing
Our aggressive programme to raise
operational performance while pursuing
opportunities to develop our strong 
market positions has resulted in a
signiﬁcant rise in the proﬁt contribution
from the Group’ s non-Paper operations.
Chief Executive’s Review
continued DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 7
to enhance the quality of earnings. Our
aggressive programme to raise operational
performance while pursuing opportunities 
to develop our strong market positions 
has resulted in a significant rise in the 
profit contribution from the Group’s 
non-Paper operations. 
Adjusted return on average capital employed
was 9.0%, primarily reflecting our current
poor returns in Paper at this low point in 
the paper cycle. Although this level of return
is in line with our cost of capital, we are making
determined efforts to improve it, concentrating
particularly on raising returns in Packaging.
We are continuing our programme to reduce
costs and raise operational performance 
while concentrating capital in areas offering
good profit opportunity. We will maintain
investment in our key assets; capital
expenditure projects in 2005/06 will include
completion of the new green-field corrugated
packaging plant in Poland and upgrading
paper manufacturing at our Kemsley and
Wansbrough mills to underpin the supply 
of plasterboard liner paper to BPB plc.
In Paper and Corrugated Packaging our 
focus in the UK is on realising the remaining
synergies from the Linpac Containers
acquisition and improving the return from 
our substantial integrated position. This 
will be through cost reduction and growing
the sales of differentiated products. In
continental Europe we will seek development
opportunities arising from any further
consolidation in the industry and in the 
higher growth markets of eastern Europe. 
In Plastic Packaging, the priority is to
improve significantly the profitability of our
two strategic businesses. In liquid packaging
and dispensing this will be through increasing
cost competitiveness in the mature end-use
sectors, such as wine and carbonated soft
drinks, while concentrating development
resource in faster-growing end-use sectors
such as dairy products and fruit juice. In
industrial RTP, profit growth will be through
maintaining our strong existing market
positions while following our customers 
into new geographic markets. 
Spicers is already producing high levels 
of return on its capital employed but we
believe it has potential for further profit
improvement. Our medium term goal is to 
see the Spicers’ business model profitably
established in the major markets of western
Europe. In our established markets of the UK,
Ireland and France, the key objective is to
generate profitable sales growth; our goal 
in Germany is to build profits further; we
expect the Spanish business to be in profit 
in 2005/06 while we shall be driving sales 
in our new Italian operation.
Our People 
I would like to thank all our employees
worldwide for their considerable efforts 
over the last year. As I travel around the
Group, I am continually impressed with 
the skills of our people and their contribution
to raising our performance. I particularly 
wish to acknowledge the support and
commitment that our new colleagues from
Linpac Containers maintained through 
the uncertain period of the Competition
Commission hearing. 
Prospects
The considerable operational and strategic
progress made over recent years provides 
a sound base from which to tackle the 
current tough trading environment and the
uncertainty as to the future level of increase
in energy costs. We have opportunities for
improvement and we will be pursuing these
hard in 2005/06.
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive
Productivity DS Smith Packaging increased output 
per employee. Record production was achieved on 
the corrugator at DS Smith Packaging Devizes. 
Efﬁciency A streamlined procedure for installing 
new reels of plastic ﬁlm reduced machine downtime
at Rapak Rugby.
Service Spicers UK maintained its high service level;
The dealer distribution centre supplies approximately
2,000 dealers nationwide. 8 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Paper and Corrugated Packaging
DS Smith produces 1.7 billion square 
metres (0.9 million tonnes) per annum of
corrugated packaging. 1.1 billion square
metres are produced in the UK by DS Smith
Packaging, while 0.6 billion square metres 
are produced within DS Smith Kaysersberg 
in France, Italy, Poland, the Czech Republic
and Turkey. DS Smith also owns 39% of an
associate paper and corrugated packaging
business in the Ukraine. 
The Group manufactures 1.3 million tonnes 
of paper per annum. 1.1 million tonnes are
produced in the UK by St Regis Paper
Company while 0.2 million tonnes are
produced within DS Smith Kaysersberg 
in France and Turkey. 75% of the paper
produced by the Group is CCM which is 
used for manufacturing corrugated board;
90% of the paper is made from recycled
recovered paper. Severnside Recycling
collects, through its 19 UK collection depots,
1.1 million tonnes per annum of recovered
paper, the principal raw material for
producing recycled paper; additionally, 
it merchants recycled paper and provides
facilities management services to handle
customers’ general recycling and waste
disposal needs.
Plastic Packaging
DS Smith’s Plastic Packaging segment is
focused on two markets: liquid packaging 
and dispensing and RTP. In liquid packaging
and dispensing, bag-in-box packaging
systems and injection moulded taps and
dispensers are supplied worldwide to the 
soft drinks, wine and other industry sectors
from operations in the UK, Germany, the
USA and New Zealand. In RTP, reusable
container and pallet systems and injection
moulded crates, and semi-finished extruded
solid and multi-wall (corrugated plastic) sheet
are supplied predominantly to the automotive,
beverage and container markets in Europe
from the UK, France, Belgium, Spain and
Poland. Additionally, the segment contains
three small speciality businesses: Packaging
Management, which provides logistics
services particularly for pallet and layer pad
pools; BSK, a specialist coating business; 
and a development business, StePac, which
specialises in modified atmosphere packaging
for preserving the quality of fresh fruit and
vegetables in transit.
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling
Spicers is the leading European wholesaler 
of office products. Its product range of
Spicers’ own 5 Star brand and other branded
products includes traditional stationery lines,
electronic office supplies (EOS), office
furniture, janitorial supplies and office
catering and vending provisions. It supplies
its customer base of office products dealers
from its network of distribution centres 
in the UK, Ireland, France, Germany, Spain
and Italy.
Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing
John Dickinson is the leading UK 
producer of envelopes, social stationery 
and notebooks.
In anticipation of the UK legislation 
requiring changes to the content of
companies’ Operating and Financial 
Reviews to be published from April 2006
onwards, we have increased the detail
provided on our businesses and markets 
in this review. 
Description of 
the Business
DS Smith is an international
group with a turnover in
2004/05 of £1,624.9 million 
and employs 11,900 people 
in 16 countries. 
The Group’s strategy is to improve its
operational performance and develop its
strong market positions in Paper and
Corrugated Packaging, Plastic Packaging 
and Office Products Wholesaling. In Paper
and Corrugated Packaging, it is the leading
UK producer of corrugated packaging and 
has major corrugated packaging positions 
in continental Europe; it is the leading 
UK producer of recycled corrugated case
material paper (CCM); and the leading 
UK collector and merchant of recovered
paper. In Plastic Packaging, the Group 
is a leading worldwide supplier in liquid
packaging and dispensing and holds a major
European position in industrial returnable
transit packaging (RTP). In Office Products,
Spicers is the leading European wholesaler 
of office supplies.
The Group is focused on improving its
operational performance and developing
its strong market positions in Paper and
Corrugated Packaging, Plastic Packaging
and Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling.
Operating Review 1 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers/DS Smith
2 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 9
Paper and Corrugated Packaging
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2005 2004 restated
2
Turnover £896.9m £748.9m
Adjusted
1
operating proﬁt £52.3m £41.4m
Adjusted
1
return on sales 5.8% 5.5%
Adjusted
1
return on average capital employed 7.9% 8.0%
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement beneﬁts’ and UITF Abstract 38
‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’; the 2004 adjusted operating proﬁt reported previously under the SSAP 24 accounting standard 
was £50.5 million
Market Overview
The European market for corrugated
packaging is estimated to be approximately
€17 billion, equivalent to 20 million tonnes 
or 38 billion square metres
1
. Within this, the
UK market is estimated to be approximately
10% of the total European market. Demand
for corrugated packaging is principally
influenced by overall economic activity 
and manufacturing output.
In the calendar year 2004, the European
market by weight for corrugated board grew 
by 2.2%, compared with 1.3% in 2003
2
. 
In western Europe the market grew by 1.1%
(2003: 0.3%) while growth in eastern and
central Europe continued to be much stronger
at 12.8% (2003: 10.9%). In DS Smith’s
principal markets, demand fell slightly in 
the UK and France, by 0.1% and 0.4%,
respectively, while Italy was 1.2% ahead and
Poland and Turkey grew strongly by 16.6%
and 14.2%, respectively. The ongoing trend
towards the use of lighter-weight packaging
for cost and environmental reasons, resulted
in demand, when measured by area, being 
up 1.7% in the UK and up 1.6% in western
Europe as a whole. The market softened 
as 2004 progressed and has subsequently
weakened further in the early months of 2005;
offtake in all the leading western European
countries is reported to be down year-on-year
in the first quarter of calendar year 2005.
Within the total European market, the growth
rates of different segments vary considerably.
Corrugated packaging usage in some
industrial manufacturing sectors of western
The adjusted operating profit of £52.3 million
(2003/04 restated: £41.4 million), which
includes a pension charge of £9.1 million
(2003/04 restated: £9.1 million), advanced 
due to a strong performance from the existing
Corrugated Packaging operations, a full 
year £14.9 million contribution (2003/04: 
£1.2 million from six weeks of DS Smith
ownership) from Linpac Containers and
synergy benefits of £6.1 million, which,
combined, more than offset a significant
reduction in profits from Paper.
Paper
Corrugated
Recovered paper price CCM capacity
Energy costs PRN price
Contribution Drivers
In 2004/05 four key
external drivers adversely
affected the contribution 
in our UK paper business
Pricing and margins in
corrugated packaging are
strongly inﬂuenced by pricing
developments in corrugated 
case materials paper.
Recovered paper Severnside Recycling supplies 
this principal raw material to the UK paper mills; 
it enlarged its collection operations in 2004/05.
Recycled paper Productivity and output 
from the Group’s mills improved but the market
remained weak.
Corrugated packaging The Group beneﬁted 
from the integration of Linpac Containers’ 
well-invested facilities with our existing operations. 10 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
the principal component in manufacturing
corrugated packaging, which typically
accounts for approximately 50% of the 
cost of a box.
Within the total estimated European 
market for CCM of circa 20 million tonnes,
approximately 75% is recycled paper.
European CCM producers sell their product
throughout Europe, so demand and pricing 
for CCM are heavily influenced by demand 
for corrugated packaging and the CCM
supply position in Europe as a whole. 
During 2003 and 2004, low growth in
corrugated packaging and some excess 
CCM manufacturing capacity resulted in
CCM prices being depressed. This situation
has been exacerbated in early 2005 by the
commissioning of four new continental
European CCM machines, with an aggregate
capacity of approximately 1.2 million tonnes.
Although this new capacity, which is
concentrated on lighter-weight papers, has
been partly offset by the removal of an
Europe has tended to decline as a result 
of the transfer of manufacturing to lower 
cost countries, while usage for fast-moving
consumer goods, which accounts for at least
55% of the corrugated market, has been
relatively strong due to the continuing 
growth of this economic sector. Other current
growth segments are the home delivery of
products from internet purchases, and shelf-
ready packaging which can be used as both
transit and display packaging. Supply of
corrugated board and boxes is generally
relatively local to the point of production 
due to moderately high transport costs for 
a low-density product and the service
requirements of customers.
Downward pressure on selling prices is an
ongoing feature of the corrugated packaging
market due to the purchasing power of
retailers and direct customers. In addition,
pricing and margins in corrugated packaging
are strongly influenced by pricing
developments on CCM, the paper used as 
estimated 0.6 million tonnes of older capacity
since the start of 2004, it has resulted in a
continued destabilisation of selling prices
throughout the European market. In the next
two years, the level of capacity additions is
expected to be much lower than in the last
two years. However, the outlook for CCM
prices in the coming year will depend upon
future market growth across Europe and the
extent to which uneconomic capacity is
rationalised further.
The squeeze on paper producers’ margins
from depressed selling prices has been
exacerbated by increased energy costs 
and by the relatively high cost of recovered
paper, the principal raw material for recycled
CCM. The continuing high level of demand
for recovered paper in Asia, some of 
which is being supplied from Europe, is 
contributing to a modest secular increase 
and short-term fluctuations in the price of
recovered paper in Europe. In the UK, the 
net cost of our raw material is also affected
by the price of Packaging Recovery Notes
(PRNs), which are issued as evidence 
that packaging has been reprocessed in
compliance with the UK Packaging Waste
Regulations and for which we receive
revenue to set against the cost of recovered
paper. The price of paper PRNs remained
relatively low during 2004 but has firmed 
in calendar year 2005 to date.
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
100.0
100.0
99.5
97.6
101.9
98.5
103.3
97.6
105.6
97.5
European and UK Corrugated Packaging Market
Tonnes index 2000=100
Europe (including UK)
UK
Source: European Federation of
Corrugated Board Manufacturers
Operating Review 
Paper and Corrugated
Packaging continued
Enlarged 
UK market
position
The addition of Linpac Containers to 
DS Smith Packaging has broadened 
our customer base and strengthened 
our manufacturing capability in 
corrugated packaging.
Integration The Devizes and Bristol plants are now operating
in tandem at lower cost; process control on the new Devizes
corrugator is key to maximising output of high quality board. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 11
Bob McLellan Chief Executive, 
DS Smith Packaging
Recovered
paper
Corrugated
Paper
UK Paper and Corrugated 
Packaging Strategy
We are focused on raising returns through
realising the beneﬁts of our substantial
integrated position
2004/05
£631m turnover
2004/05 Performance – UK
In the UK, the Group benefited from a
substantial increase in contribution from
Corrugated Packaging, which more than 
offset the reduced contribution from Paper.
DS Smith Packaging, our UK Corrugated
Packaging business, produced a good result
despite flat demand, due to higher profits 
from DS Smith’s existing operations, the 
£14.9 million (2003/04: £1.2 million) first 
full year’s profit contribution from the former
Linpac Containers business and £6.1 million 
of initial synergy benefits from the integration
of the two businesses. Prices were increased
early in the financial year to recover some of
the higher input costs but market pressure
resulted in some erosion in the second half 
of the financial year.
Our drive to raise efficiency lifted profitability
across our conventional corrugated network.
Our speciality and heavy duty segments, which
concentrate on higher added-value products,
advanced further, particularly due to better
returns from several plants in which we have
invested recently. Our sheet feeding operations,
which supply corrugated sheet board, benefited
from raised service levels in a market which
continued to be highly competitive and affected
by industry over-supply.
The referral of the Linpac Containers
acquisition to the Competition Commission
meant that we could not begin the process 
of generating the expected synergies until the
second half of the financial year. Following 
the Commission’s conclusion in October 
2004 that the acquisition would not lead to 
a substantial lessening of competition in the
market, we rapidly began implementation
of an extensive integration programme. 
The headquarters were merged, two factories
were closed with a high proportion of the
business being successfully transferred to 
Synergy
beneﬁts
Integration synergies added £6.1 million 
to the 2004/05 result; we are on course 
to achieve, by early 2006/07, the 
£14.5 million run-rate of annual synergies
originally indicated.
Product development New packaging designs are continually being developed to meet customers’ needs;
demand is increasing for shelf-ready packaging which improves retailers’ efﬁciency by enabling easy conversion
of the box from transit pack to display unit.
other plants, and two plants are now being
operated in tandem, thereby reducing costs. 
A new, combined raw materials procurement
function is producing the envisaged benefits 
in paper sourcing. Despite the delay in
beginning the integration process, we are
confident of generating the expected pre-tax
synergies of £14.5 million per annum,
identified at the time of the acquisition; 
£6.1 million has been achieved to date and 
we anticipate generating at least 75% of the
£14.5 million in 2005/06, with the balance
being generated in 2006/07. Exceptional
restructuring charges of £4.9 million were
incurred in 2004/05 with a cash cost of
approximately £2.5 million.
Our UK Corrugated Packaging
business produced a good result
despite ﬂat demand. 12 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
At our UK paper business, St Regis, profits
were again significantly lower than in the
previous year due to continuing depressed
prices for our main product, CCM, and margins
were squeezed further by substantial increases
in gas costs and the relatively high cost of our
raw material, recovered paper. The impact of
these external factors was partly mitigated 
by improvements in productivity and output
volume, favourable sales mix, and improved
raw material and energy usage. The Kemsley
paper mill, which accounts for over 50% of 
St Regis’s paper production, achieved another
year of record total output and production per
employee, due to its ongoing programme of
process optimisation. Wansbrough and Hollins
mills increased their output through increased
efficiency and operating rates respectively; both
mills benefited from an improved sales mix as
a result of the Linpac Containers acquisition.
In March 2005 we made a major advance in
our drive to increase sales of higher added-
value product by entering into a long-term
agreement with BPB plc for the supply of
plasterboard liner paper. St Regis has been
developing its sales of this product in recent
years and, under this agreement, will raise 
sales to BPB plc to 100,000 tonnes per annum. 
In order to satisfy this supply agreement, 
St Regis will undertake a £30 million capital
expenditure programme to upgrade existing
machines at its Kemsley and Wansbrough mills
over the next two years. This programme will
also enhance the quality of St Regis’ CCM and
coreboard, used for manufacturing tubes.
St Regis raised its CCM prices in March 2005,
seeking to recover part of the gas and recovered
paper cost increases, but this had no significant
effect on the 2004/05 result. The extent to
which this will benefit the Group’s overall
result in 2005/06 depends upon developments
in prices throughout the corrugated packaging
supply chain during the year; currently paper
pricing across Europe remains weak.
The results of St Regis’ subsidiary, Severnside
Recycling, were affected by increased
competition for recovered paper with strong
export demand leading to Severnside having to
pay a higher price to source its recovered paper.
It further enlarged its recovered paper collection
operations with the acquisition, in August 2004,
of the five collection depots of BPB Recycling;
this substantially increased Severnside’s ability
to meet St Regis’ recovered paper requirement
from its own collection infrastructure.
Severnside also increased its trading in recycled
materials and grew its business in managing
customers’ entire waste recycling and disposal
needs through facilities management. 
At our UK paper business, 
proﬁts were again signiﬁcantly
lower than in the previous year.
Don Coates Chief Executive, 
St Regis Paper
80
100
120
2004/05 2003/04 2002/03 2001/02
Tonnes produced/employee
Fixed cash costs/tonne produced
UK Paper – Cost Reduction
Productivity Index 2001/02=100
Higher value products DS Smith Kaysersberg
increased sales volume of heavy-duty products by 5%; this
is a particular area of strength for the Group in France.
Developing 
in continental
Europe
Our continental corrugated packaging
operations performed well and the Group 
is seeking further development opportunities,
particularly in the higher growth markets of
eastern Europe.
Operating Review 
Paper and Corrugated
Packaging continued DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 13
France 
Poland 
Czech Republic
Ukraine 
Turkey 
Italy
Jean-Paul Loison Chief Executive, 
DS Smith Kaysersberg 
2004/05
£266m turnover
Continental European Paper and Corrugated Packaging Strategy
Our goal is to grow from our 
regional positions, particularly 
in the higher-growth markets 
of eastern Europe
2004/05 Performance – Continental Europe
NB Indicative relative sizes of operations – not drawn to scale
Our continental European division, 
DS Smith Kaysersberg, performed well and
reported a small increase in profits despite
difficult conditions in many of its markets; 
it benefited from strong progress in the 
Polish and Turkish businesses. 
The French paper mills, which principally
manufacture solid board, increased their
productivity and sales volume following 
an investment programme, but margins 
were squeezed, despite improved
productivity, by weak market conditions,
lower selling prices and higher energy 
costs. Results at the French Corrugated
Packaging operations were lower, due 
to a decline in the French market and 
intense price pressure from customers. 
In Italy, we increased sales volume and
market share in a difficult market, assisted 
Our continental European
division, DS Smith Kaysersberg,
performed well and reported 
a small increase in proﬁts. 
Turnaround in Turkey DS Smith Çopikas increased
its market share and moved into proﬁt. 
Growth in Italy DS Smith Toscana Ondulati 
increased output from its well-invested factories. 
Expanding
in Poland
DS Smith Polska achieved substantial growth 
in sales and proﬁts in a market which is
expanding at over 10% per annum. Its new
factory at Kutno, west of Warsaw, is due to
open in autumn 2005.
by good productivity levels from our well-
invested factories. However, profits were
affected by lower selling prices due to
competitor activity.
Output and profits at the Polish business
advanced strongly, in line with our plan 
to build sales at our existing factory ahead 
of the opening of our new green-field 
factory at Kutno, west of Warsaw, in 
autumn 2005. In Turkey, our programme 
of action over the last two years to raise
operational performance and increase market
share, enabled the business to record a further
increase in sales and to move into profit 
for the year. Our associate operation in the
Ukraine, OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and
Packaging Mill, continued to perform well,
benefiting from the recent major programme
of investment.  3 Source: DS Smith estimates
14 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Adrian Whitﬁeld Chief Executive, 
DS Smith Plastics
DS Smith Plastics was adversely
affected by lower sales and by
under-recovery of the sharp rise
in polymer prices.
Plastic Packaging
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2005 2004 restated
2
Turnover £195.9m £208.7m
Adjusted
1
operating proﬁt £9.9m £14.0m
Adjusted
1
return on sales 5.1% 6.7%
Adjusted
1
return on average capital employed 7.1% 10.0%
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement beneﬁts’ and UITF Abstract 38
‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’; the 2004 adjusted operating proﬁt reported previously under the SSAP 24 accounting standard 
was £15.2 million
DS Smith Plastics’ adjusted operating profit
of £9.9 million (2003/04 restated: £14.0
million), which included a pension charge 
of £1.0 million (2003/04: £1.2 million), was
adversely affected by lower sales, particularly
in RTP, and in the second half of the financial
year by the under-recovery of polymer costs
following their sharp rise.
Market Overview
The bag-in-box market worldwide is
estimated to be worth over $500 million 
and has been growing at over 5% per annum
by volume
3
. The principal uses of bag-in-box
packaging are for wine and carbonated soft
drink concentrate but there is growing usage
in other sectors such as the dairy industry,
edible oils, fruit juices and chemicals. 
In the USA, where usage is principally 
in the carbonated soft drink concentrate
industry, the market is estimated to be 
static in volume while in Europe, where 
usage is primarily in the wine industry, the
market is estimated to be growing at over
10% per annum by volume. Prices in both 
the USA and Europe are under increasing
pressure as the market matures. Usage is 
at an early stage of development and growing
rapidly in Asia. The market for taps, other
than for bag-in-box systems, is fragmented
across a wide range of uses; a major sector
supplied by DS Smith, principally in the
USA, is liquid detergent, which is estimated
to be growing strongly.
Liquid packaging 
and dispensing
£87m
RTP
£79m
Other 
£30m
Plastic Packaging Turnover
Our two primary areas of focus account 
for over 80% of sales
2004/05
£196m turnover
Market
development
Rapak, our liquid packaging and dispensing
business which has operations in Europe, 
the USA and New Zealand, is developing
business in new growth markets for bag-in-box
packaging. A recent success is an award-
winning, three litre pack for fruit juice which
combines Rapak’s Intasept
®
bag and ﬁlling
technology and a specially designed tap.
Operating Review
Plastic Packaging
Innovation The Intasept
®
bag-in-box technology allows the juice
to remain fresh for up to ﬁve weeks in the fridge after opening,
compared with ﬁve days for traditional packaging formats. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 15
The European market for RTP is fragmented
into many sub-sectors but has in total grown
steadily in recent years, due to the increased
requirement for multi-trip, reusable packaging
on cost and environmental grounds, for some
uses. This market is heavily influenced by
industry sector activity levels and, as RTP is
often a capital purchase driven by particular
projects, annual demand can be of an 
uneven nature. 
2004/05 Performance
In liquid packaging and dispensing, the 
bag-in box business was affected by lower
demand from the US carbonated soft drinks
sector, increased competitor activity in the
European wine market and a change in mix
towards lower value-added bags. The tap
business produced an improved result,
following action in 2003/04 to reduce costs
and strengthen sales and product development. 
The RTP business was affected by a slowdown
in new crate contracts, principally from the
brewing industry, after especially strong
demand in 2003/04. Margins in the extruded
sheet sector were additionally squeezed due
to industry capacity increases at a time of
weaker demand and increased sourcing 
of packaging from eastern Europe as some
customers move their operations to that region. 
The division’s overall result was adversely
affected in the second half of the year by 
the sharp rise in polymer prices which 
ended the financial year some 35-40% 
higher than at the start of 2004/05 for our
main polymer types. Although we raised 
our selling prices several times during the
year, it was not always possible to recover
these cost increases in full. The cumulative
effect of this input cost under-recovery 
was approximately £3 million, largely
concentrated in the RTP business. 
The high polymer prices also resulted in
reduced sales in sectors of the market such as
crates and pallets, as some customers deferred
orders in the expectation that polymer prices
would not remain at such high levels.
The combined result of the three smaller
speciality businesses was flat year-on-year,
and in one of these, which provides packaging
management services and was acquired 
in 1998, the Group took an exceptional
impairment charge in 2004/05 of £5.8 million
against its goodwill; this business is trading 
at around break-even and generating cash.
Innovative crate designs DW Plastics
produces crates in Belgium, Poland, Spain and
the Dominican Republic. Customers’ logos are
added during the moulding process.
Security Taps produced by Worldwide Dispensers 
for use in wine bags have tamper-evident seals.
Hygiene Aseptic bags and ﬁtments are produced 
under special conditions to increase the storage life 
of dairy, fruit juice and other sterile products.
New markets Large bags with up to 1,400 litres
capacity are being increasingly used for dairy products,
fruit juice concentrate, mayonnaise and cosmetics. 4 Source: DS Smith estimates based on national data
Spicers advanced principally
due to the German business
returning to proﬁt, which 
more than offset the increased
costs of the newly-launched
Italian business.
16 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2005 2004 restated
2
Turnover £499.7m £498.8m
Adjusted
1
operating proﬁt £21.7m £19.7m
Adjusted
1
return on sales 4.3% 3.9%
Adjusted
1
return on average capital employed 18.3% 16.7%
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement beneﬁts’ and UITF Abstract 38
‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’; the 2004 adjusted operating proﬁt reported previously under the SSAP 24 accounting standard 
was £21.7 million
The adjusted operating profit of £21.7 million
(2003/04 restated: £19.7 million), which
included a pension charge of £1.7 million
(2003/04: £2.0 million), advanced principally
due to the German business moving into
profit, which more than offset the increased
costs of the newly-launched Italian business.
Market Overview
Spicers’ principal office products wholesaling
markets of the UK, France and Germany 
are estimated to be worth approximately 
€9.0 billion, €7.7 billion and €11.1 billion,
respectively, and in 2004 were estimated to 
have declined by at least 2%, with the
traditional stationery sector declining at a
higher rate than this, and electronic office
supplies (EOS) growing at up to 10% per
annum
4
. There was growing evidence during
2004/05 of rising market volumes but prices
remained under pressure. EOS, which now
accounts for 40-50% of the total office
products market, is particularly price
competitive and margins on the highest
volume EOS products continue to be eroded.
The value of the overall market is also being
eroded by the trend for consumers to buy lower
specification or own-branded products.
2004/05 Performance
Spicers’ met its key objectives for the year:
Spicers Germany moved into profit; sales 
in the UK grew; the Italian business was 
Bill Armstrong Chief Executive, Spicers
Spicers’ Locations
Spicers’ 
distribution 
centres provide 
fast, efﬁcient 
delivery to 
their ofﬁce 
products 
dealer 
customers.
Operating Review
Ofﬁce Products
Progress
continued
Spicers’ established businesses continued 
their good performance while the German,
Spanish and Italian businesses met their
development goals.
Service Customers’ orders, received by telephone 
or on-line, are delivered the same day or overnight. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 17
successfully launched; the Spanish business
made progress towards profitability. The 
good result for the year was assisted by 
total costs being held constant despite the
increased costs required to establish the
Italian business. 
In the UK, turnover grew slightly in the
second quarter of the financial year, being 
the first quarter in which growth had been
recorded for over three years; this trend was
maintained through to the financial year-end,
despite some renewed softening of the 
market in the final quarter. Good service
levels were maintained and a sound financial
performance was achieved due to further cost
reduction and productivity improvements.
Profits in Ireland were significantly affected
by reduced sales and price pressure in an
especially weak market; costs were reduced
and sales improved towards the end of the
financial year.
The French business continued to perform
well and gained market share in a challenging
market environment by supporting its
customers with service at a record high level.
Spicers Germany achieved a profit for the
year, helped by exiting unprofitable business
and reducing costs, while growing sales with
independent dealers. The Spanish business
continued to grow sales strongly and reduced
its losses; in addition to growing in the
Barcelona area adjacent to its distribution
centre, it is developing the market in the
Madrid area. Spicers Italy was launched 
in November 2004; initial catalogue sales
were strong and product sales to date have
been encouraging.
Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2005 2004 restated
2
Turnover £46.8m £48.0m
Adjusted
1
operating proﬁt £nil £0.3m
Adjusted
1
return on sales – 0.6%
Adjusted
1
return on average capital employed – 2.2%
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement beneﬁts’ and UITF Abstract 38
‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’; the 2004 adjusted operating proﬁt reported previously under the SSAP 24 accounting standard 
was £1.4 million
John Dickinson was affected 
by continued difﬁcult trading
conditions and intense
competitor activity.
Developing
European
network
Spicers’ continental expansion has enabled 
it to strengthen further its position through 
pan-European purchasing, co-ordinating IT
maintenance and development, and sharing
best practice between countries.
The adjusted break-even result (2003/04
restated: £0.3 million), which included a
pension charge of £1.0 million (2003/04:
£1.1million), was lower due to substantial
European industry over-supply in envelopes
and the trend towards own-label product.
Strengthened merchandising and new
products assisted increased sales of branded
books; costs have been reduced further 
across the business. John Dickinson’s 
leading brands, product range developments
and productivity initiatives provide a good
base for improvement.
Italy Sales have been ahead of plan since Spicers
began trading from its distribution centre, just south 
of Milan, in November 2004.
Productivity Approximately 15,500 product lines 
are picked for despatch each night at the Birmingham
dealer distribution centre. 18 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Return on capital employed, a key measure
for the Group, was lower in 2004/05
although it was in line with the Group’s cost
of capital. Cash ﬂow before dividends and
acquisitions was a healthy £55.4 million.
Gavin Morris Group Finance Director
The major drivers of the
2004/05 results were a full
year’s contribution from Linpac
Containers, signiﬁcant energy
and polymer cost increases 
and the adoption of FRS 17,
‘Retirement beneﬁts’, for 
pensions accounting.
Group Trading Results
The Group’s trading results for the year 
to 30 April 2005 are summarised in 
Table 1 opposite. 
The major drivers of the 2004/05 results 
were a full year’s contribution from Linpac
Containers, significant energy and polymer
cost increases and the adoption of FRS 17,
‘Retirement benefits’, for pension accounting,
the effects of which are explained in detail
below. The 2003/04 figures have been restated
2
for the effects of changes in accounting
policy, as required by the accounting standard.
Turnover for the financial year ended 30 April
2005 increased by 9.2% over the prior year; 
it was 7.4% higher in the first half of the 
year and 10.9% higher in the second half
compared to the same periods in 2003/04.
Excluding the net increase in turnover 
from Linpac Containers and the effect 
of movements in foreign exchange rates,
turnover was up 0.8% on 2003/04 (down
1.2% in the first half of the year and up 
2.7% in the second half). 
Adjusted
1
group operating profit, which
includes an operating pension charge of £12.8
million (2003/04 restated: £13.4 million),
increased by 11.3%, from £75.4 million in
2003/04 (as restated
2
) to £83.9 million in
2004/05. The improvement in adjusted group
operating profit resulted from adjusted profit
increases of £10.9 million and £2.0 million in
Paper and Corrugated Packaging and Office
Products Wholesaling, respectively, which
were partially offset by reductions of £4.1
million and £0.3 million in Plastic Packaging
and Office Products Manufacturing,
respectively. The strong advance in Paper 
and Corrugated Packaging principally reflects
the contribution from Linpac Containers and
the initial synergies arising from combining 
this business with the Group’s existing UK
operations, although lower adjusted operating
profit in Paper partially offset this.
The adjusted return on sales grew from 
5.1% in 2003/04 (as restated) to 5.2% 
in 2004/05. The adjusted return on capital
employed (which is defined as the period’s
annualised adjusted operating profit divided 
by the average month-end capital employed
over the period) decreased from 9.6% (as
restated) to 9.0% although it was in line with
the Group’s cost of capital. 
Group adjusted operating profit was 
£42.1 million in the first half of the year 
and £41.8 million in the second half. Adjusted
full year operating profit from UK operations
increased by £12.2 million to £46.1 million
due to increased profits in UK Corrugated
Packaging. Adjusted operating profits from
non-UK operations decreased from £41.5
million to £37.8 million due to the improved
Office Products continental European
performance only partially offsetting the
lower profits in Plastic Packaging.
The trading results are described more 
fully in the Chairman’s Statement, Chief
Executive’s Review and Operating Review.
Group Proﬁt and Loss Account
The Group’s 2004/05 adjusted total operating
profit included £4.1 million as the Group’s
share of associated undertakings’ adjusted
operating profit, up £1.1 million from last
year. This increase related mainly to the
inclusion of profit from Tri-Wall KK, the
Group’s 33.3%-owned Japanese packaging
company (a previous impairment against this
business was also released as an exceptional
item, as described below). The Group’s share
of operating profit from OJSC Rubezhansk,
the Group’s 39%-owned paper and packaging
company in the Ukraine, was slightly ahead
of last year.
Net interest expense rose from £10.4 million
in 2003/04 to £13.0 million in 2004/05. The
Group benefited from lower average interest
rates as a result of increasing the proportion
of borrowings in euros, but the total interest
charge was higher as a result of the interest
on the additional borrowings used to finance
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement beneﬁts’ and UITF Abstract 38
‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’
Financial Review DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 19
part of the Linpac Containers acquisition 
in March 2004. Other finance income of 
£1.1 million (2003/04 restated: other finance
expense of £3.2 million) is included in
accordance with FRS 17 and is explained 
in detail in the pensions accounting section
below. Adjusted profit before tax was 
£76.1 million (2003/04 restated: £64.8 million).
The Group’s net exceptional charges 
against profit before tax of £9.6 million 
(£8.2 million after tax) (2003/04: £nil),
comprise: exceptional restructuring costs 
of £4.9 million related to the integration 
of Linpac Containers; a provision of 
£5.8 million for an impairment against the
goodwill related to a small business in 
Plastic Packaging; the release of a previous
impairment against the investment in Tri-Wall
KK of £1.1 million. Total operating profit
after exceptional items and amortisation of
intangibles fell from £74.8 million in 2003/04
(as restated) to £69.0 million in 2004/05.
Profit before tax after exceptional items and
the amortisation of intangibles was £57.1
million (2003/04 restated: £61.2 million).
The Group’s effective tax rate, excluding
exceptional items and the amortisation of
intangibles, at 25.0%, was 1.2% below last
year’s rate of 26.2%. The rate benefited 
from a prior year credit of £4.4 million
following the agreement of certain matters
with overseas tax authorities. The effective
tax rate is expected to return to a rate closer
to the UK statutory rate in the coming year.
Adjusted earnings per share increased from
13.6p in 2003/04 (as restated) to 14.7p in
2004/05, reflecting the higher profit before 
development of a corrugated box plant on 
a green-field site in Poland.
Tax payments were £23.7 million,
approximately the same as the current 
tax charge for the year but higher than 
last year’s payments of £17.9 million as 
a result of deferred tax timing differences
reversing, mainly arising from reduced 
capital expenditures.
Free cash flow (before dividends and net
acquisitions) was £55.4 million (2003/04:
£63.0 million). Cash dividend cover, 
defined as free cash flow divided by
dividends paid/declared for the year, was 
1.7 times, down from 2.1 times in 2003/04,
reflecting higher interest costs and cash tax
payments in 2004/05.
The net cash outflow on acquisitions and
disposals related mainly to the acquisition 
of BPB Recycling for £9.4 million during the
period. The amount in 2003/04 was primarily
the consideration and costs, net of acquired
cash, for the acquisition of Linpac Containers
of £166.8 million. 
tax and the lower effective tax rate. The
proposed final dividend is 5.8p, an increase 
of 0.2p or 3.6% on the final dividend last
year. The total dividend for the year is 8.4p
(2003/04: 8.2p). Dividend cover before
exceptional items and amortisation of
intangibles rose from 1.5 times in 2003/04 
(as restated) to 1.7 times in 2004/05.
Cash Flow
Free cash flow (which is defined as the net
cash flow before dividends, acquisitions and
disposals) and net cash flow are shown in
Table 2. Cash flow from operating activities
was £139.3 million, up £7.5 million from 
last year, reflecting higher adjusted operating
profit. The Group made payments of £10.0
million into the UK Group Pension scheme 
in both years (which form part of cash flow
from operating activities) and has announced
its agreement with the Trustee of the UK
Group pension scheme to increase its
contributions to £14.0 million in subsequent
years. Purchase of fixed assets was £53.6
million, £14.6 million below depreciation,
and included the first expenditure on the
Table 1
Full year Second half
2004/05 2003/04
2
2004/05 2003/04
2
£m £m £m £m
Turnover 1,624.9 1,488.5 824.8 743.8
Adjusted
1
group operating proﬁt 83.9 75.4 41.8 38.6
Adjusted
1
return on sales 5.2% 5.1% 5.1% 5.2%
Adjusted
1
return on capital employed 9.0% 9.6% 8.8% 9.7%
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement beneﬁts’ and UITF Abstract 38
‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’; the 2003/04 adjusted operating proﬁt reported previously under the SSAP 24 accounting standard 
was £88.8 million
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 
was £139.3 million, up £7.5 million 
from last year, reﬂecting higher 
adjusted operating proﬁt.  22004/05 2003/04
££m £m
Operating proﬁt 83.9 75.4
Exceptional cash costs (2.5) –
Depreciation 68.2 64.5
Working capital (7.1) (7.0)
Other (3.2) (1.1)
Cash ﬂow from 
operating activities 139.3 131.8
Capital expenditure 
payments (53.6) (51.7)
Sale of ﬁxed assets 6.7 10.8
Interest (13.3) (10.0)
Taxation (23.7) (17.9)
Free cash ﬂow 55.4 63.0
Dividends (31.6) (28.2)
Net acquisitions (11.7) (181.6)
Net cash ﬂow 12.1 (146.8)
Shares issued 2.6 74.1
Purchase of own shares (2.1) (1.0)
Exchange difference 1.7 3.7
Rights issue costs – (1.9)
Net borrowing acquired – (0.5)
Decrease/(increase) in
borrowings 14.3 (72.4)
Financial Position
Shareholders’ funds totalled £482.3 million 
at 30 April 2005, down from £494.4 million
at 30 April 2004, as restated. Shareholders’
funds have been reduced by a total of 
£80.3 million at 30 April 2005 (2003/04
restated: £54.7 million) through the inclusion
of the after-tax FRS 17 pension liability. Net
assets per share were 126p (2003/04 restated:
129p), or 147p (2003/04: 143p) if the FRS 17
pension scheme liability is added back. 
The Group’s closing net borrowings were
£260.4 million, £14.3 million lower than at
the end of last year. In August 2004, the bank
borrowings repayable by September 2005
used to part finance the acquisition of Linpac
Containers were refinanced from the proceeds
of a private placement, due in 2014 and 2016,
of US$200 million. In addition, the Group’s
previous £325 million revolving credit
facilities were replaced in April 2005 by 
a syndicated revolving credit facility of 
£250 million which expires in 2010; these 
re-financings have extended the weighted
average maturity of the Group’s borrowings
to 6.9 years and reduced their cost.
Gearing was 53.1% (2003/04 restated: 54.9%;
as previously reported: 48.9%). The increase
in gearing relative to the previously reported
figure is due to the inclusion of the net
pension scheme liability. Adjusted interest
cover was 6.8 times, compared with 7.5 
times last year (as restated), the lower cover
reflecting the additional interest arising on 
the borrowings used to part finance the
purchase of Linpac Containers in March
2004. The ratio of net debt to EBITDA
(before exceptional items) was 1.7 times
(2003/04 restated: 2.0 times).
Treasury Management
The Group’s treasury strategy is controlled
through the Treasury Committee, which 
meets regularly and includes the Chairman,
the Group Chief Executive and the Group
Finance Director. The Group Treasury
20 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Financial Review
continued
function operates in accordance with
documented policies and procedures approved
by the Board and controlled by the Group
Treasurer. The function arranges funding for
the Group, provides a service to operations
and implements strategies for interest rate,
foreign exchange and energy price exposure
management. The Treasury Committee also
oversees the Group’s UK energy purchasing
activities which are carried out by a separate
Group procurement function.
At the year end the Group’s committed
borrowing facilities were £497.4 million.
Uncommitted borrowing facilities, including
overdrafts, totalled £102.0 million. The total
gross borrowings drawn under all these
facilities at the year end were £319.2 million.
The major Treasury risks to which the Group
is exposed relate to movements in interest 
and foreign exchange rates and the market
price for energy. The overall objective of 
the Treasury function is to control these
exposures whilst striking an appropriate
balance between mitigating risks and
controlling costs. Financial instruments,
including derivatives, may be used in
implementing hedging strategies but no
speculative use of financial instruments 
or other instruments is permitted.
The Treasury Committee regularly reviews
the Group’s exposure to interest rates and
considers whether to borrow on fixed or
floating terms. For the past few years the
Group has generally chosen to borrow on
floating rates, which the Committee believed
provided better value. Recently, however, the
Group has taken advantage of the historically
low levels of medium- to long-term sterling
The Group’s closing net borrowings 
were £260.4 million, £14.3 million 
lower than at the end of last year.
Table 2 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 21
interest rates and fixed the interest rate 
on a total of £80.2 million of sterling
denominated borrowings. Of this amount, 
the interest rate on £40.0 million was fixed,
during 2003/04, for a period of five years to
2008 and the interest rate on £40.2 million
was fixed, during 2004/05, for a period of 
12 years to 2016. Fixed-rate borrowings
comprised 25.4% of total borrowings at 
30 April 2005 (30 April 2004: 13.2%). 
The Group’s policy is to hedge the net assets
of major overseas subsidiaries by means of
borrowings in the same currency, to a level
determined by the Treasury Committee. The
borrowings in foreign currency give rise to
exchange differences, which are accounted
for in the Statement of Total Recognised
Gains and Losses and which match exchange
differences on the re-translation of the net
assets of the overseas subsidiaries. Overseas
net assets hedged through euro borrowings as
a proportion of euro net capital employed
increased from 64% at 30 April 2004 to 83%
at 30 April 2005, resulting from the swap of
US$125 million of the borrowings under the
August 2004 private placement into euros in
order to take further advantage of lower euro
interest rates.
International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS)
The Group’s project to implement the
transition from reporting under UK GAAP to
IFRS is largely complete. As the Group has
adopted FRS 17 for pension accounting in
2004/05 and, with it, has anticipated its
pensions accounting under IFRS (as FRS 17
is consistent with the Group’s planned
adoption of IAS 19, which governs pensions
accounting under IFRS), it is expected that
the transition to IFRS will not otherwise have
a significant effect on the profit and loss
account or shareholders’ funds in the future.
Pensions Accounting – Adoption 
of FRS 17
DS Smith previously reported under the
SSAP 24 pensions accounting standard.
Following the 2004 triennial valuation of 
the UK defined benefit pension scheme 
and in anticipation of the introduction of
IFRS for 2005/06, the Group has adopted 
FRS 17, ‘Retirement benefits’, for financial
year 2004/05. This change has had a profound
effect on the Group’s reported results.
Under FRS 17 a charge of £12.8 million
(2003/04 restated: £13.4 million) has been
made against operating profit for the 
‘service cost’ that results from employees
accruing additional pension during the 
year. This charge should remain relatively
stable over time. 
FRS 17 also requires the inclusion in the
profit and loss account, beneath operating
profit, of the net return on the scheme’s own
assets and liabilities as ‘other finance income
or expense’. This item is the difference
between the expected return on a scheme’s
assets and the interest cost on the liabilities
and can be volatile, since it is affected by
external factors such as expected asset returns
and interest rates, and whether there is a
surplus or deficit in the scheme. In 2004/05,
the Group recorded net other finance income
of £1.1 million, whereas in 2003/04 there 
was net other finance expense of £3.2 million;
the year-on-year difference of £4.3 million
was principally due to a lower opening
scheme deficit and higher investment 
returns in 2004/05.
Finally, under FRS 17 the Group is required
to recognise the after-tax deficit of its pension
scheme in the balance sheet as a reduction in
net assets. This results in greater balance
sheet volatility: the after-tax deficit was 
£80.3 million at 30 April 2005, £54.7 million
at 30 April 2004 and £93.8 million at 30 April
2003. The funding position of the scheme,
being the difference between the scheme’s
assets and liabilities, is reflected in the deficit,
and is sensitive to stock market conditions
and actuarial assumptions. The value of the
scheme’s assets depends primarily on the
level of stock markets and investment returns.
The amount of the liabilities depends on a
number of actuarial assumptions, including
discount and inflation rates, future salary and
pension increases and mortality. The presence
of a pension scheme liability or asset on the
balance sheet brings greater volatility to the
Group’s gearing and net assets per share.
Summary
In the face of weak paper prices, high energy
and polymer costs and a new pension charge,
the Group performed robustly, delivered a
healthy cash flow and maintained a strong
balance sheet.
Gavin Morris Group Finance Director
29 June 2005
In the face of weak paper prices, high
energy and polymer costs and a new
pension charge, the Group performed
robustly, delivered a healthy cash ﬂow
and maintained a strong balance sheet. 22 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Corporate Social
Responsibility Review
DS Smith is committed to
providing good sustainable
returns for its investors while
maintaining high standards 
of ethical and social behaviour
in all its business dealings.
The short- and long-term risks to the Group
arising from social, environmental and ethical
(SEE) matters are considered by the Board in
its regular review of key risks affecting the
Group’s operations. The Board ensures that
effective policies and systems for managing
the Group’s SEE risks are in place and
receives regular reports on performance. 
The Group Chief Executive is the Director
responsible for SEE matters and he reports 
to the Board on these. It is the responsibility
of the Divisional Chief Executives and
General Managers of the individual
businesses to communicate and apply the
policies, to ensure compliance and to review
procedures, taking account of local legislation
and potential risks. Divisional Chief
Executives are required annually to attest that
the companies for which they are responsible
have complied with relevant Group and
divisional human resources, health and safety
and environmental policies. 
The Group’s Key Corporate Values statement
may be viewed on the Company’s website.
It requires all employees at all times to act
ethically and with integrity; to treat their
colleagues fairly, equitably and with respect; 
to work safely; and to protect the
environment. These values are underpinned
by more detailed policies on health and
safety, the environment and other relevant
topics. The Group has a workplace
malpractice policy, under which employees
may report in confidence any concerns they
have over dangers to health, safety or the
environment, breaches of company policies 
or potential unethical business practices or
conduct. This policy is being reinforced with
the introduction of a confidential Employee
Concern Helpline. Any concerns reported are
appropriately investigated.
In September 2004, DS Smith was selected 
as a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK 
Index of companies deemed to meet globally
recognised corporate responsibility standards.
DS Smith is also a constituent of the
Kempen/SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index 
for smaller companies selected for their high
social responsibility standards and practice.
The Group’s highest corporate social
responsibility priorities are to ensure 
that all activities are conducted safely by
qualified and well-trained employees and 
to minimise the impact on the environment 
of the Group’s businesses.
Health and Safety
A safe working environment and safe working
practices are essential elements in the Group’s
drive to raise operational performance; they 
are key factors in attracting and retaining a 
high quality and well-motivated workforce 
and in carrying out our operations productively
and cost-effectively. Information on safety
performance is reported to the Board quarterly
and the importance of safety is reflected in it
being the first fixed agenda item at all main
Board, executive committee and divisional
review meetings. Regrettably, one UK
employee died in August 2004 as a result of
injuries sustained while operating machinery 
at one of our corrugated packaging plants.
Action was taken immediately to prevent a
recurrence of this accident and to raise further
safety awareness amongst employees. In
2004/05, our focus on safety was reflected 
in a 13% reduction to 10.25 in the Group’s
accident frequency rate (all accidents per
100,000 hours worked) and a 16% reduction 
to 0.26% in the severity rate (hours lost as a
percent of hours worked).
During the year, all divisions implemented
programmes to reduce accidents, focusing 
on the particular causes of accidents and
circumstances in their operations. Recent
surveys at three major DS Smith Packaging
sites about employees’ attitudes to safety are
being followed up with training workshops
aimed at changing people’s behaviour in
relation to safety. While the Group made
progress in 2004/05, there is scope to 
reduce accidents still further and the divisions
are continuing their safety training and
awareness programmes.
Environment
During 2004/05, DS Smith continued to
develop its substantial recycling activities 
and made further progress in strengthening
the environmental management of its
manufacturing and distribution operations.
Environmental performance and activities 
of the divisions are reviewed at the Group
Environment Committee, which meets three
times a year and is chaired by the Group
Chief Executive.
The Board ensures that effective policies
and systems for managing the Group’s
social, environmental and ethical risks 
are in place. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 23
82% of Group sites now have an appropriate
environmental management system (EMS) 
in place. Of the 31 Group sites identified as
having higher potential environmental impact
due to their size or type of operations, 24 
are now accredited under the internationally
recognised ISO 14001 EMS; eight plants
obtained certification during 2004/05: DS
Smith Packaging Belper, Fordham, Louth,
Neath and PSM; DS Smith Kaypac; St Regis
Higher Kings Mill and Severnside Recycling.
The remaining seven higher potential impact
sites are targeted to achieve ISO 14001
accreditation during 2005/06. Of the Group’s
71 other sites, 60 have a simplified EMS in
place, appropriate to their lower level of
potential environmental impact, and the
remainder are targeted to implement a
simplified EMS during 2005/06. As part of
their EMSs, many Group businesses have
procedures in place for assessing their
suppliers’ environmental policies and
management systems, as appropriate. 
All Group businesses are required to monitor
and report on the carbon dioxide (CO
2
)
emissions from their direct operations, water
usage, waste disposed of to landfill and waste
recycled. CO
2
emissions from the Group’s
main transport operations are monitored and
other transport activities will be incorporated
into the monitoring process in future. The
coverage and quality of the Group’s data
continues to improve as the number of sites
with EMSs increases; this will in time enable
even fuller reporting of our environmental
performance. Environmental management 
and reporting of sites is audited through the
Group’s routine internal audit processes. 
Data for the Group’s paper mills, which
account for over 80% of the Group’s
environmental impact, and for which data 
has been monitored for many years, are
reported below.
The Group had a number of minor
environmental incidents during the year,
following which prompt corrective action 
and steps to prevent re-occurrence were
taken, and, where necessary, the appropriate
agencies were informed. DS Smith Packaging
Clay Cross was prosecuted and fined £1,000
for failing to ensure that waste chemicals
from its site were disposed of correctly after
an independent contractor they had employed
was found to have been operating illegally.
The circumstances surrounding all
environmental incidents are investigated
immediately and the findings and lessons
learnt are communicated throughout the
Group as part of our drive to reduce 
such incidents.
Packaging and the environment
Packaging is often perceived as an
unnecessary use of resources. However, 
most packaging, and especially corrugated
packaging, performs the valuable functions of
limiting damage to products, enabling more
efficient handling and transportation, reducing
waste and lowering the environmental impact
of the supply of the goods. The Group’s
packaging operations contribute to
minimising the use of resources by working
with their customers to develop packaging of
the optimum specification for the required
end-use. Increased use of packaging that
performs the dual functions of being both the
protective transit packaging and the display
packaging in store reduces the total quantity
of packaging used for some products.
The Group’s operations make a major
contribution to the corrugated packaging
recycling process. Corrugated board is
produced predominantly from recycled paper
and is a cost-effective and fully recyclable
packaging material. Severnside Recycling 
is the UK’s largest collector of recovered
paper; it works closely with a number of
major supermarket chains to raise recycling
levels and, in 2004/05, it invested further in
its collection infrastructure. St Regis is the 
UK’s leading recycler of packaging waste 
and largest producer of recycled paper, 
while DS Smith Kaysersberg is a significant
recycler of recovered paper in France; in 
total the Group recycled 1.1 million tonnes 
of paper in 2004/05.
The Group’s paper collection and recycling
operations also play an important role in
meeting the EU and UK government
objectives for recycling of packaging waste 
as prescribed in the EU Packaging and
Packaging Waste Directive and the UK
Packaging Waste Regulations. Under the
Directive, the UK is required to recycle at
least 60% of all paper packaging by 2008; 
it is already ahead of this target, with 65% 
of paper packaging being recycled in 2004,
and DS Smith is the largest contributor to this
reprocessing. Whereas corrugated packaging
is generally used once and can then be
recycled in what is essentially a loop system,
the Group’s plastic returnable transit
packaging is designed to be re-used, often
Training Many Spicers UK employees have 
successfully completed national vocational qualiﬁcations
(NVQs); the NVQ programme is now being extended.
Environment Severnside provides collection and
recycling services for a wide range of businesses
including major supermarkets.
Safety A ‘Stop’ card system for identifying and
communicating potential hazards is one of many 
safety awareness procedures used across the Group. 24 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
many times, where customers require multi-
trip packaging. Several of our businesses
recycle worn or damaged plastic packaging,
such as bottle crates or layer pads, to produce
new crates or plastic sheet.
Environmental management – 
paper manufacturing 
Paper manufacturing has the largest potential
environmental impact of all the Group’s
operations, particularly because the process
requires large quantities of energy and water.
Seven of the Group’s nine paper mills have
ISO 14001 certification and the other two 
are progressing towards certification. The 
UK mills are regulated through Pollution
Prevention and Control (PPC) permits under
which they each have specific improvement
programmes and targets; St Regis’ overall
compliance with its PPC emission limits 
was 99.0% in 2004/05. St Regis is a key
participant in the UK paper sector Climate
Change Levy (CCL) Agreement with the
Department of Environment Food and 
Rural Affairs under which the industry has
undertaken to achieve energy consumption
reduction targets. St Regis met its target 
for the year to September 2004 and is
comfortably on course to meet its next 
target for the year to September 2005. 
The Group’s UK and French paper operations
are now subject to the terms of their
respective national schemes for implementing
the EU Emissions Trading Directive. As a
result of the energy reduction actions taken 
in recent years, the financial impact on our
operations during the first phase to 2007 is
not expected to be significant. Under the
terms of the UK scheme, our UK mills 
have applied to opt out of the first phase of
the Emissions Trading scheme and remain
within the UK paper sector CCL Agreement.
St Regis is currently working with the Carbon
Trust to identify further ways to reduce its
carbon emissions.
In 2004/05, CO
2
emissions from the Group’s
paper mills, which accounted for 83% of the
Group’s total CO
2
emissions, increased by
4%; the majority of this rise was attributable
to a 3% increase in paper production, but CO
2
emissions per tonne of paper produced were
1% higher, compared with a 4% reduction 
in the previous year. The small increase in
emissions per tonne was due to the failure 
of generating equipment at the combined 
heat and power (CHP) plant operated by an
independent energy company at the Group’s
largest paper mill, Kemsley. Although the 
mill reduced its energy consumption per
tonne, this resulted in the importation from
the national grid of a substantial quantity of
electricity, which is generated and transported
at a significantly lower efficiency, and
therefore produces higher CO
2
emissions per
kilowatt hour used than when the electricity 
is produced at the CHP plant on site. 
Water usage at the paper mills, which
accounted for 98% of total Group water
usage, increased marginally but the usage 
per tonne of paper produced was 3% lower as
a result of investment at our French mills. In
the UK, Hollins Mill received the Lancashire
Business Environment Association Water
Wise award, sponsored by the Environment
Agency, in recognition of its increased
recycling of water; Higher Kings Mill
upgraded its effluent plant; and Sudbrook
Mill continued its programme to reduce the
impact of its effluent discharge. The paper
mills increased their recycling of reject
material, such as plastic and polystyrene,
which enters their process mixed in with the
recovered paper and is separated out during
paper manufacture, by 6%, thus enabling a
6% reduction in waste disposed of to landfill.
Environmental management – 
other operations
Although the environmental impact of the
Group’s other operations is substantially
lower than that of paper manufacturing, 
our Corrugated and Plastic Packaging and
Office Products businesses undertook a
variety of initiatives aimed at minimising
their environmental impact. In 2004/05, CO
2
emissions and water usage of our non-Paper
operations were unchanged year-on-year but
their total waste generated and disposed of 
to landfill was reduced through improved
process control and increased recycling of
waste, particularly in Spicers. The DS Smith
Kaysersberg St Just corrugated plant
converted its boilers from oil to gas during
the year, which is expected to reduce CO
2
emissions in future. DS Smith Çopikas in
Turkey commissioned a new water treatment
plant at its Corlu corrugated packaging plant
which has improved the quality of the effluent
discharged into the local river. A number of
the UK businesses are working with the
Carbon Trust and energy management
consultants to identify opportunities to lower
energy usage and carbon emissions. In
addition to many local energy reduction
Community John Dickinson’s 2004 cause-related marketing campaign to promote Plus Fabric envelopes raised
£58,000 for the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
Corporate Social
Responsibility Review
continued DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 25
projects carried out within DS Smith
Packaging, a newly developed divisional
energy policy is being supported by an energy
management training programme.
In addition to the Group’s primary focus on
safety and the environment, the Group places
considerable importance on its dealings with
its employees and local communities.
Employees
The Group recognises the value that its
employees generate and aims to create a
working environment in which people meet
the Group’s objectives while feeling that they
are well managed, treated with respect and
able to fulfill their own potential. It ensures
that the divisions have in place appropriate
structures, procedures and resources to
implement the employee-related aspects 
of the Group’s Key Corporate Values. 
The recruitment and retention of high-quality
and well-motivated people is key to the
Group’s future success. The annual turnover
rate in the Group’s workforce is below 10%
in most of our operations and less than 5% 
at many locations. In common with other
companies which have similar operations,
turnover is highest at some of our Spicers
distribution centres and in our transport
operations. Action is ongoing in both these
areas to achieve a higher rate of retention. 
An extensive communication programme
contributed significantly to the successful
integration of the operations and workforce 
of Linpac Containers with DS Smith
Packaging’s existing operations. The Group 
has further strengthened its processes for
employee communication and consultation 
by establishing divisional Employee Forums
for UK employees; these will meet for the
first time during the summer of 2005 and will
complement the Group’s existing European
Works Council and the businesses’ established
briefing and consultation structures. Employee
feedback surveys carried out recently
amongst all, or parts, of St Regis, DS Smith
Packaging, Spicers and John Dickinson have
been used to develop action plans for
improving communication, increasing inter-
departmental or inter-location co-operation,
training and performance reviews. 
Training and development are carried out 
by the divisions and businesses to meet 
their specific needs for raising operational
performance and career development. 
Several UK sites have obtained Investors in
People accreditation. St Regis and DS Smith
Packaging continue to benefit from their 
joint management development programme,
accredited by the University of Derby, for
team leaders, supervisors, and operational 
and general business managers. DS Smith 
Plastics has established a new development
programme for graduates and managers. 
The divisions operate a variety of schemes to
encourage and support employees in studying
for National Vocational Qualifications, 
e-learning, Open University courses,
acquiring computer skills and other forms 
of further education. 
The Group is committed to applying equal
opportunities in all recruitment and
employment practices. It is also committed,
as a minimum, to meeting the labour rights
and legislation requirements in each of the
countries in which it operates; in practice 
the Group often exceeds the local and
international requirements. As DS Smith’s
operations are almost entirely located in
member counties of the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development,
human rights matters are not perceived as 
a significant Group risk.
Community Involvement
The Group regards it as important to develop
and maintain good relations and a positive
reputation in the communities in which it
operates. Our individual businesses support their
local communities through a range of activities
such as sponsorship of community projects or
sports teams; helping local schools with project
work or provision of work experience
opportunities; and provision of adult training
skills or facilities. At sites where our operations
may inconvenience neighbours through traffic
movements, odour or noise, liaison groups
meet to consult with local residents and
review ways to minimise any impact. 
The Group supports charitable fund-raising
activities through cash contributions and in
the form of product and services or staff time.
The majority of the modest amount of money
donated by the Group is given by individual
operating units, principally to causes in their
local communities. Donations by the Group
headquarters are focused on a small number
of educational, training and support causes
that help young people become involved in
business and working life. The Group is a
member of Business in the Community and
donates to The Prince’s Trust.
2002 2003 2004 2001 2005
424
717
458
736
511
773
569
881
682
1077
Material collected by Severnside Recycling
’000 Tonnes
Corrugated Packaging
Total Paper and Plastic
2003 2004 2002 2005
100
100
96
101
92
94
93
91
Paper Mills Environmental Performance
Index 2002 = 100
CO2 emissions (excluding transport) 
per tonne of paper produced
Water usage per tonne of paper produced 26 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Directors and Company Secretary
7 Peter Johnson
†+*#
Appointed to the Board on 8 December 
1999 as a non-Executive Director. He is 
Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc, 
a Director of the Home Builders Federation
Ltd, a Member of the Supervisory Board 
of Wienerberger AG and a Member of the
Council for Industry and Higher Education
and was previously Chief Executive of 
The Rugby Group PLC. Age 57. 
8 Richard Marton
†*#
Appointed to the Board on 13 March 2000 as
a non-Executive Director. He was previously
Chief Executive and then non-Executive
Director of Britax International plc. Age 64. 
9 Daniel Piette
†
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 1993 
as a non-Executive Director. He is Group
Executive Vice-President and a member of the
Executive Committee of LVMH Corporation,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of LV
Capital and President of L Capital. Age 60. 
10 Carolyn Cattermole
Appointed Company Secretary on 
20 November 2000. She was previously
Company Secretary of Courtaulds Textiles 
plc and prior to that was a senior legal 
adviser with Courtaulds plc having qualified
as a solicitor with Norton Rose. Age 44.
† Non-Executive Director
§ Member of General Purposes Committee
+ Member of Nomination Committee
* Member of Remuneration Committee
# Member of Audit Committee
4 Jean-Paul Loison
Appointed to the Board on 9 December 
2003. He is Divisional Chief Executive 
of the Kaysersberg Packaging division of the
Group, with responsibility for the Group’s
continental European Paper and Corrugated
Packaging operations. He joined Kaysersberg
Packaging S.A.S. in 1970 and held various
senior management positions before
becoming Divisional Chief Executive in
1993. Age 63. 
5 Bob Beeston
†+*# 
Appointed to the Board on 5 December 2000 
as a non-Executive Director. He is Chairman of
the Remuneration Committee and is the Senior
Independent Director. He is also Chairman of
Cookson Group plc and was previously Chief
Executive of FKI plc. Age 63.
6 Christopher Bunker
†*#
Appointed to the Board on 9 December 2003
as a non-Executive Director and is Chairman
of the Audit Committee. He recently retired
as Finance Director of the Water Division of
RWE AG and was previously Group Finance
Director of Thames Water Plc. Prior to that he
was Group Finance Director of Tarmac Plc,
Commercial Director of GKN Aerospace 
and Defence and Finance Director of
Westland Group Plc. He is a non-Executive
Director of John Mowlem Plc and of Travis
Perkins plc. Age 58. 
1 Antony Hichens
†+
Chairman 
Appointed to the Board on 29 June 1999 
as a non-Executive Director, became Chairman
of the Board on 8 September 1999 and is
Chairman of the Nomination Committee. He 
is a Member of the Takeover Panel, Chairman
of WaterRower (UK) Limited and is also a non-
Executive Director of Candover Investments
PLC and The JPMorgan Fleming Income and
Capital Investment Trust plc. Previously, he
held the positions of a Managing Director and
Chief Financial Officer of Consolidated Gold
Fields, Chairman of Caradon plc and Chairman
of Lasmo plc. Age 68.
2 Tony Thorne
§
Group Chief Executive
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2001 
as Chief Operating Officer and became Group
Chief Executive on 5 December 2001. He
was previously President of SCA Packaging’s
Corrugated Business Division and prior to
that held senior management positions in Shell.
Age 54. 
3 Gavin Morris
§
Group Finance Director 
Appointed to the Board on 5 November 2002
as Group Finance Director. He was previously
Chief Financial Officer of Citex Group and
prior to that held Chief Financial Officer
positions at Philips Lighting Holding BV,
Ionica Group plc, Alfred McAlpine Plc and
Norcros Plc. Age 51. 
12345
6789 10 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 27
Corporate Governance
The Company is committed to the principle
and application of sound corporate governance.
The Company has complied throughout the
financial year with all the provisions of the
Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 
of the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance issued in July 2003 except as
stated below in respect of A.4.1 and B.2.1. The
Board has an ongoing review of its corporate
governance policy and has implemented some
changes to take account of the Combined Code
and best practice. The Company’s Auditors
have reviewed the compliance with those
provisions of the Combined Code specified 
for their review.
Board and Board Committees
The role of the Board
The Board is collectively responsible for
promoting the success of the Company by
directing and supervising the Company’s
affairs. The Board’s role is to provide
leadership of the Company within a
framework of prudent and effective controls
which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Company’s strategic 
aims and ensures that the necessary financial
and human resources are in place for the
Company to meet its objectives and reviews
management performance.
In addition, the Board sets the Company’s
values and standards and ensures that its
obligations to its shareholders and others 
are understood and met.
The Board currently comprises three
Executive and six non-Executive Directors.
The offices of Chairman and Group Chief
Executive are held separately. Mr R G
Beeston is the Senior Independent Director.
During the year each of the non-Executive
Directors has at all times acted independently
of management and has no relationships
which would materially interfere with the
exercise of their independent judgement 
and decision making. It is recognised that 
Mr D R Piette is not considered a fully
independent non-Executive Director 
because of his length of service.
The Board meets a minimum of eight times
per year. All Board members attend all Board 
and relevant Committee meetings unless
exceptional circumstances prevent them 
from attending. During the year there were 
no absences from any Board or Committee
meetings by any Director. In addition to
formal Board meetings, the Chairman and
Chief Executive maintain regular contact 
with all Directors and hold informal meetings
with non-Executive Directors to discuss
issues affecting the Company. Once a year 
the Board visits a business unit and receives 
a presentation from local management.
Individual Directors are encouraged to make
additional site visits during the year. The
Board continually reviews the performance 
of all of the divisions and undertakes a
strategic review on an annual basis. There 
is a formal schedule of matters reserved for
consideration and approval for the Board.
These include the annual Plan, substantial
acquisitions and divestments, the approval 
of the annual and interim results and a review
of the overall system of internal control and
risk management.
The Board and its Committees, as detailed
below, receive timely information of a 
quality that enables them to carry out their
roles effectively. All Directors have access 
to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary. A procedure is in place for any
Director to take independent professional
advice in the furtherance of his duties at 
the Company’s expense. No such advice 
was sought by any Director during the 
year. The Directors are provided with
opportunities for training to ensure that 
they are kept up to date on relevant new
legislation and changing commercial risks.
New Directors are given appropriate
induction training, including site visits 
to major business units. During the 
year the Board carried out a comprehensive
self-appraisal which was led by the Chairman 
and the Senior Independent Director. The
appraisal included the performance of Board
Committees. All Directors and the Company
Secretary participated in the exercise. During
the current financial year the Board intends 
to repeat the process. The non-Executive
Directors meet separately at least once a year
to appraise the Chairman’s performance.
Board Committees
The principal Committees of the Board 
are the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees. The Audit Committee comprises
independent non-Executive Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee comprises
independent non-Executive Directors. 
Mr Piette ceased to be a member of the
Remuneration Committee during the year 
as he is no longer considered an independent
non-Executive Director solely by reason of
his length of service (Combined Code B.2.1).
The Nomination Committee comprises 
the Chairman, Mr Beeston (the Senior
Independent Director) and Mr P M Johnson.
The Nomination Committee did not consist 
of a majority of independent non-Executive
Directors during the year (Combined Code
A.4.1). For this reason Mr A D Thorne ceased
to be a member of the Committee on 28 June
2005 and Mr Johnson was appointed in his
place. All Board Committees have written
terms of reference agreed by the Board. A
copy of these is available on the Company’s
website. The Audit Committee is chaired by
Mr C J Bunker, the Remuneration Committee
is chaired by Mr Beeston and the Nomination
Committee is chaired by Mr A P Hichens.
The membership of each Committee can be
seen on page 26. The Board has used the
criteria proposed by the National Association
of Pension Funds for determining whether 
a non-Executive Director is independent.
Audit Committee
In addition to the Committee members 
listed on page 26 the Chairman, the Group
Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director,
the Head of Operational Audit and the Group
Financial Controller attend by invitation. 
Mr Bunker recently retired as Finance
Director of the Water Division of RWE AG
and was previously Group Finance Director
of Thames Water Plc. The Board is satisfied
that he has both current and relevant 
financial experience.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee,
which meets at least three times a year, cover
all the points recommended by the Combined
Code. The Committee monitors the Group’s
accounting and financial procedures,
including the discussion of the accounting 28 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Corporate Governance
continued
implications of major transactions, and
receives regular reports on the review of
internal controls. It has responsibility to
monitor and review the effectiveness of 
the internal audit function. The Committee 
is responsible for the review of the annual
accounts and interim statement. The
Committee meets with the external Auditors
to determine their independence, objectivity
and effectiveness in carrying out the 
external audit and makes recommendations 
to the Board regarding their re-appointment,
terms of engagement and remuneration. 
The Audit Committee receives written
confirmation from the external Auditors 
as to any relationships that might have a
bearing on their independence. The external
Auditors also confirm whether they 
consider themselves independent within 
the meaning of the UK regulatory and
professional requirements. 
The Committee has adopted a policy on 
the supply of non-audit services by external
auditors. The external Auditors are permitted 
to undertake some non-audit services, for
example advisory services and due diligence
activities associated with potential acquisitions
and divestments. The external Auditors provide
tax compliance services on certain historical
periods, but in the future will not carry out 
such work, which will be performed by other
external advisors. Non-audit services and fees
are reported to the Audit Committee twice 
a year. For guidance, annual non-audit fees
payable to the external Auditors should not
exceed 75% of the annual Group audit fee
without prior formal approval of the
Committee. Approval for permitted non-audit
services are sought as required by the relevant
Group policy.
During the year the Committee met on 
three occasions and there were no absences. 
In addition to its regular business, in 2004/05
the Committee monitored arrangements for the
adoption of International Accounting Standards.
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee considers 
the appointment of Directors, reviews
succession planning at Board level, and
makes recommendations to the Board 
as a whole. The Group Chief Executive
attends by invitation. A rigorous process 
is in place for the appointment of new
Directors, involving the use of external
recruitment consultants, where appropriate,
followed by meetings both with the
Committee and then with the Board. The
Committee met twice during the year and
there were no absences.
Remuneration Committee
The Chairman and the Group Chief 
Executive attend these meetings by invitation,
except when their remuneration is being
discussed. In addition Mr Piette attends 
by invitation in order that he can provide 
an international view on remuneration. 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible 
for determining the remuneration of the
Executive Directors, the Company Secretary
and senior management. The Report on
Remuneration is set out on pages 30 to 36.
During the year the Committee met four
times and there were no absences. 
Other Board Committees 
The Board has delegated certain powers,
mainly of a routine nature, to the General
Purposes Committee, which comprises the
Group Chief Executive and the Group
Finance Director under the chairmanship 
of the Group Chief Executive.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company has a programme of regular
meetings (which sometimes includes the
Chairman and the Senior Independent
Director), site visits and results briefings 
with its major institutional shareholders,
which provides opportunities to discuss 
the progress of the business. The Board 
also receives feedback from major
shareholders in the form of independently
prepared reports. The Annual General
Meeting is used as an opportunity to
communicate with private shareholders,
including a short presentation on the business
and current trading position as well as an
opportunity for questions from investors to
the Chairman of the Board and the chairmen
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Regular communication with shareholders
also takes place through the annual and
interim reports and via the Company’s
website www.dssmith.uk.com.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for 
the Group’s system of internal control 
and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such 
a system, however, can only be designed 
to manage rather than to eliminate risk and 
can therefore provide only reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. In accordance with 
the Turnbull Committee guidance, the
Company established the procedures necessary
to ensure that there is an ongoing process 
for identifying, evaluating and managing the
significant risks to the Group. These procedures
have been in place for the whole of the
financial year ended 30 April 2005 and up 
to the date of the approval of these financial
statements and they are reviewed regularly. 
The Board determines the objectives and 
broad policies of the Group. It meets regularly
and there is a schedule of matters which 
are required to be brought to it for decision.
The Board has delegated to management the
responsibility for establishing a system of
internal control appropriate to the business
environments in which the Group operates.
Key elements of this system include:
• a set of Key Corporate Values which have
been communicated to all concerned;
• a clearly defined divisionalised organisation
structure for monitoring the conduct and
operations of individual business units; 
• clear delegation of authority throughout 
the Group, starting with the matters
reserved for the Board;
• a formal process for ensuring that key 
risks affecting all the Group’s operations
are identified and assessed on a regular
basis, together with the controls in place 
to mitigate these risks. Risk consideration 
is embedded in decision-making processes.
The most significant risks are periodically
reported to the Board and considered by it;
• the preparation and review of comprehensive
annual divisional and Group budgets and an
annual review and approval by the Board of
the corporate strategy; DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 29
• the monthly reporting of actual results 
and their review against budget, forecasts
and the previous year, with explanations
obtained for all significant variances;
• clearly defined policies for capital
expenditure and investment, including
appropriate authorisation levels, with 
larger capital projects, acquisitions and
disposals requiring Board approval;
• procedure manuals laying down common
control procedures and policies to apply
throughout the Group; and
• formal quarterly meetings between central
and divisional management to discuss
strategic, operational and financial issues. 
The Group’s operational audit function
undertakes regular reviews of the Group’s
operations and their systems of internal control.
The work of the function is overseen by the
Audit Committee, which regularly reviews its
plans and activities. The Directors can confirm
that they have reviewed the effectiveness of 
the Group’s system of internal control. This
exercise included a process of self-certification
by senior divisional management in which they
confirmed that their divisions have complied
with Group policies and procedures and
reported any significant control weaknesses
identified during the past year. It also involved
reviewing the results of the work of the
Group’s operational audit function and the 
risk identification and management processes
identified above.
Going Concern
The Directors are required under the
Combined Code to have satisfied themselves
as to the Group’s ability to continue in
existence for the foreseeable future. A review
has been carried out and the Directors have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the accounts on
pages 40 to 64. 30 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
schemes. The Committee consults with 
the Chairman of the Company and with 
the Group Chief Executive, who may attend 
a meeting of the Committee on matters 
which do not directly affect them, although
they are not involved in deciding their own
remuneration. The Committee also consults
with Mr Piette, who attends by invitation 
in order that he can provide an international
view on remuneration. The Committee is
assisted by the Company Secretary and the
Human Resources Director, and receives
advice from Mercer Human Resource
Consulting Ltd, the Actuary to the Company’s
pension scheme, in relation to Executive
Directors’ pensions.
(d) General policy on remuneration
The Committee’s overall policy is to ensure
that the remuneration packages enable the
Company to attract, retain and motivate
Executive Directors and other senior
managers of sufficient calibre to meet 
the Company’s needs. In addition, the
remuneration packages are designed to align
the interests of executives and shareholders
and to link a significant proportion of
executives’ remuneration to performance. 
To achieve this, the Company’s normal
approach is to set basic salaries at around
median levels relative to analogous
businesses, whilst operating cash and share
incentive schemes which are linked to the
achievement of short-term and long-term
performance targets. Variable performance-
related remuneration accounts for
approximately 45% of total target
remuneration. The remuneration package is
described more fully in the remainder of this
report, but the main elements are as follows:
• basic salary
• pension provision
• annual bonus scheme
• long-term incentives, comprising:
(i) share option grants under the 
Executive Share Option Scheme; and 
(ii) awards under the Long-Term 
Incentive Plan.
Basic salaries and pension provision are not
linked to performance (except when basic
salaries are reviewed), whilst payments under
the annual bonus scheme, the Executive Share
Option Scheme and the Long-Term Incentive
Plan are wholly dependent upon performance
against agreed targets.
(e) Basic salaries
The basic salaries of Executive Directors 
are reviewed annually on 1 August, 
in conjunction with other aspects of
remuneration. The basic salary for each
Executive Director is targeted at the rates 
of salary for similar jobs within a selected
group of analogous UK businesses with
substantial overseas operations, and relative
to UK companies generally with similar
market capitalisations. As noted above, 
the Company’s normal policy is to set 
basic salaries at around median levels. 
When determining the level of salary, 
the Committee also takes into account 
the relative performance of the Group 
and of the individual Director, together 
with his experience in the particular job. 
The Committee also considers relevant
information on the remuneration of other
senior executives and the pay of employees
elsewhere in the Group and, where
appropriate, communicates its views on the
levels of such remuneration to the Group
Chief Executive. During its deliberations, 
the Committee has regard to salary levels 
in other countries where this is relevant 
for any non-UK senior executive. The 
table of emoluments of the Directors is 
given on page 33. The current basic salaries
of Mr A D Thorne, Mr G M Morris and 
Mr J-P Loison are £440,000, £248,000 
and £248,172 respectively.
(f) Annual bonus
The Executive Directors participate in 
an annual bonus scheme which has been
approved by the Committee. For the financial
year 2004/05, the maximum bonus payable
was 60% of basic salary at 31 July 2005,
payable in cash. The amount of annual bonus
payable to Mr Thorne and Mr Morris for the
financial year 2004/05 was dependent entirely
upon the Company’s earnings per share
performance relative to targets determined by
the Committee at the start of the year and for
Mr Loison it was based 50% on earnings per
share performance and 50% on targets, as
Remuneration Report
In accordance with the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002,
shareholders’ approval of the Remuneration
Report will be sought at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting. The Remuneration
Report has been approved by the Board 
of Directors.
(a) Composition and role of the
Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’)
The Committee consists entirely of non-
Executive Directors. The members of the
Committee are Mr R G Beeston (Chairman),
Mr C J Bunker, Mr P M Johnson and 
Mr R E C Marton. Mr D R Piette was 
a member of the Committee until 19 April
2005. The continuing members of the
Committee are all independent. The members
of the Committee have no personal financial
interest, other than as shareholders of the
Company, in the matters to be decided by the
Committee, no potential conflicts of interest
arising from cross-directorships and no day-
to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee operates under written 
terms of reference agreed by the Board 
and is responsible for determining the
remuneration of Executive Directors 
and the Chairman. It also considers the
remuneration of senior executives reporting 
to the Group Chief Executive (taking into
account recommendations from him), and 
the incentives of senior executives reporting
to the other Executive Directors.
(b) Compliance
The Board, in conjunction with the
Committee, has taken the necessary steps 
to ensure that the Company complies with 
the provisions of the Combined Code 
(‘the Code’), which relate to Directors’
remuneration. Certain disclosures in this
Report fall within the scope of matters for
review by the Auditors.
(c) Advisers to the Committee
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP has 
been appointed by the Committee to provide
advice on the remuneration of Executive
Directors and other managers. New Bridge
Street Consultants LLP also provides advice
to the Company in connection with the
operation of the Company’s employee share DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 31
determined by the Committee, for the
Kaysersberg Packaging division. The
outcome of the results for the financial 
year 2004/05 means that 19.64% of salary 
is payable to Mr Thorne and Mr Morris 
and 39.82% of salary to Mr Loison.
The bonus scheme for the financial year
2005/06 will be based on profit before tax
targets. Mr Loison’s bonus will be based 
40% on Group profit before tax performance
and 60% on targets, as determined by 
the Committee for the Kaysersberg 
Packaging division.
The annual bonus scheme is not contractual
and bonuses under the scheme are not 
eligible for inclusion in the calculation of the
participating Executive Directors’ pension
scheme benefits.
As far as practicable, the scheme has 
been extended to divisional executives.
However, their bonus schemes are based 
on differing criteria relating to the operating
performance targets of the division in which
they are employed.
(g) Long-term incentives
Executive Directors and other senior
executives are eligible to receive grants of
options under an Executive Share Option
Scheme and awards of shares under a 
Long-Term Incentive Plan on a phased basis. 
The individual grant limit under each Plan 
is 100% of salary per annum. However, 
in order to ensure that the aggregate award
levels executives receive under the Long-
Term Incentive Plan and the Executive Share
Option Scheme are not excessive, in cases
where executives are granted awards under
both schemes in the same year, the maximum
awards for the most senior executives under
each scheme will not exceed 75% of salary
worth of shares, unless there are exceptional
circumstances such as a high-level
recruitment or promotion, in which case the
annual limit will be 100% of salary worth 
of shares under each scheme. During the
financial year 2004/05, the Executive
Directors received a grant of options over
shares worth 75% of salary and an award
under the Long-Term Incentive Plan of the
same amount. The Committee currently
intends to operate the same policy in 2005/06. 
Senior executives are expected to retain 
in shares half of the after-tax gains on the
vesting of Long-Term Incentive Plan awards
until they have built up a shareholding equal
to 100% of salary in the case of Executive
Directors and 50% in the case of other 
senior executives.
(i) Executive Share Option Scheme
Executive Directors and other senior
executives are eligible to receive grants 
of approved and unapproved options.
The exercise of any option granted under
this Scheme is subject to the achievement
of long-term performance conditions. 
The target for future options granted 
will be that the growth in the Company’s
normalised earnings per share must match
or exceed the growth in the UK Retail
Prices Index plus an average of 3% per
annum over the three year period
following grant, with no retesting facility.
The base financial year for the purposes 
of measuring earnings per share growth
will be the financial year prior to the 
grant date. Normally, no part of the option
may be exercised unless the performance
target has been achieved.
(ii) Long-Term Incentive Plan
The key features of the plan are that:
• awards will be made to selected
Executive Directors and other senior
executives over shares in the Company;
• performance will be measured over 
a single period of three financial years;
• awards will vest based on the Company’s
total shareholder return (being the
increase in share price and the value 
of reinvested dividends) compared to 
a comparator group of companies. 
The Committee has determined that the
constituents of the FTSE Mid 250 Index
(excluding investment trusts) should be
the comparator group for initial awards;
• if the Company’s total shareholder return
is ranked at the upper quartile of the
group or higher, the full award will 
vest reducing on a straight-line basis 
to 30% of the award vesting for median
performance. None of the award vests 
for below median performance;
• additionally, no awards will vest,
irrespective of total shareholder return
performance, unless the Company’s
earnings per share growth matches or
exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices
Index over the three year period.
The executives’ long-term incentives,
therefore, take into account the Company’s
absolute share price performance (via the
grant of market value share options), its
relative performance (via awards under 
the Long-Term Incentive Plan, based on 
total shareholder return) and its underlying
financial performance (via the earnings per
share performance condition that applies 
to share options and awards under the 
Long-Term Incentive Plan). The Committee
considers that this will provide for the most
robust assessment of the Company’s long-
term performance.
The earnings per share figures are derived
from the audited accounts and the verification
of the calculation of earnings per share
growth as well as the total shareholder 
return calculation will be performed by 
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, in their
capacity as advisers to the Committee. During
the transition to international accounting
standards, the Committee will ensure that a
consistent basis is used to measure earnings
per share performance.
The interests of the Directors in the share
capital of the Company and details of options
granted to date under the Executive Share
Option Scheme are shown on pages 35 and
34 respectively.
(h) Beneﬁts in kind
Mr Thorne has the provision of a company
car and a driver and free fuel. Mr Morris
receives a car allowance. Mr Thorne and 
Mr Morris both receive unapproved life
cover, permanent health insurance and private
medical cover. Mr Loison receives from
Kaysersberg Packaging S.A.S. life cover, 
a car allowance, free fuel, private medical 32 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
cover and his utility and telephone bills are
also paid for by Kaysersberg Packaging.
(i) Pensions
Mr Thorne and Mr Morris participate in 
a funded contributory defined benefit pension
scheme with death in service cover. Subject 
to the variations mentioned below, the Group
provides pension benefits for UK-based
Executive Directors on retirement at their
normal pension age of 60 based on an accrual
rate of one thirtieth with reference to basic
salary less a deduction equal to the basic 
State pension. This is subject to a maximum
pension of two-thirds of their final
pensionable pay.
As far as possible, the benefit is provided
through the Inland Revenue Approved Group
Pension Scheme, in which other employees 
of the Group participate. In the case of 
Mr Thorne, whose benefits are subject to the
Inland Revenue ‘earnings cap’, the Company
has given a promise to provide the balance
through a non tax-approved unfunded
arrangement. The total accumulated unfunded
provision at 30 April 2005 is £4.2 million
(£3.3 million), £0.9 million of which relates
to Mr Thorne.
In the case of newly appointed UK-based
Executive Directors, the Company’s normal
policy under the current legislation in 
relation to the earnings cap is to provide
compensation by way of a cash supplement,
rather than by way of a funded or unfunded
arrangement. Accordingly, Mr Morris
receives a cash supplement of £40,000 per
annum which will increase to £48,000 per
annum with effect from 1 August 2005. 
This payment is not pensionable and is 
not considered as salary for the purpose 
of calculating any bonus payment.
Life cover of four times basic salary is
provided under the Approved Scheme on 
death in service in addition to spouses’ pensions
of two-thirds of the members’ prospective
pensions plus dependants’ benefits. For those
UK-based Executive Directors whose benefits
are restricted by the ‘earnings cap’, optional
additional life cover is available. Spouses’
pensions on death after retirement are two-
thirds of the members’ pensions, before any
reduction for early retirement or commutation
of pension for cash.
Pensions in payment are increased annually in
line with the increase in the UK Retail Prices
Index, subject to a maximum guaranteed
increase of 5% each year with the possibility
of further discretionary increases. There is no
allowance in the transfer value calculation
basis for such discretionary increases or other
discretionary benefits.
Most members, including UK-based
Executive Directors, contribute to the
Approved Group Scheme at the rate of 7.5%
of their pensionable pay (increased from 6%
with effect from 1 May 2005 and increasing
to 9% with effect from 1 May 2006) subject
to a maximum, for those affected, of 15% 
of the earnings cap. Those members who
elected not to increase their contributions will
now accrue future pension at a lower rate.
Members have the option of paying
Additional Voluntary Contributions. Neither
the contributions nor the resulting benefits 
are included in the table on page 35.
Mr Loison participates in a funded 
defined benefit pension scheme, which 
does not require an employee contribution.
The Group provides pension benefits 
for Mr Loison at his normal pension age 
of 65 based on an accrual rate of one fortieth
with reference to final average salary equal 
to the average of the last full five years’
annual salaries preceding retirement, less 
any offset pensions.
This benefit is provided as a supplementary
arrangement to the mandatory national
programme, which operates on a pay-as-you-
go basis and supplements social security
benefits. Benefits under these arrangements
are dependent on salary progression during 
an individual’s career.
A charge over certain assets of the Group has
been made as security against future pension
payments pursuant to the non-tax approved
unfunded pension arrangements on behalf of
two former Directors, Mr D F Buttfield and
Mr J P Williams.
The Committee is considering the impact 
of the Government’s pensions simplification
proposals, and will have regard to investor
views that companies should not be
responsible for changes in personal 
tax liabilities.
(j) Service contracts and compensation
The Committee’s general policy is that 
the notice periods for Executive Directors
appointed in future will not exceed one 
year, although on appointment it may be
necessary in exceptional cases to offer a
longer initial period which reduces to one
year or less after a specific date. In addition,
service contracts for newly appointed
directors will not normally include liquidated
damages provisions. Instead, the payment 
of any sums due on the termination of
employment by the Company will be
determined pursuant to general contractual
principles, and with full recognition of 
a Director’s duty to mitigate his loss.
The service contract for Mr Thorne is 
dated 28 February 2001 and expires when 
he reaches his normal retirement age of 60. 
It may be terminated by 12 months’ notice 
by the Company, and by Mr Thorne. The
Company may terminate the contract with
immediate effect, in which case it must 
make a payment equating to 12 months’
basic salary, plus an equal payment in 
respect of the loss of his contractual benefits.
The service contract for Mr Morris is dated
5 November 2002 and expires when he
reaches his normal retirement age of 60. 
It may be terminated by 12 months’ notice 
by the Company, and by Mr Morris. The
Company may terminate the contract with
immediate effect, in which case it must make
a payment equal to 12 months’ basic salary,
plus an equal payment in respect of the loss
of his contractual benefits. The service
contract for Mr Loison is dated 9 December
2003. This is in addition to his employment
contract with Kaysersberg Packaging S.A.S.
(a wholly owned French subsidiary of the
Company), dated 22 March 1994. The
contract with the Company is terminable 
by the Company giving 12 months’ notice 
or by Mr Loison giving six months’ notice.
The contract with Kaysersberg Packaging
S.A.S. is also terminable by that company 
Remuneration Report
continued DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 33
giving 12 months’ notice or Mr Loison 
giving six months’ notice.
(k) Policy on external appointments
Executive Directors are allowed to accept
external appointments as a non-Executive
Director of up to two other companies
provided that these are not with competing
companies and are not likely to lead to
conflicts of interest. In normal circumstances,
the Chief Executive may not accept more
than one external appointment. Executive
Directors are normally allowed to retain 
the fees paid from these appointments.
Currently no Executive Director has an
external appointment.
(l) Fees for non-Executive Directors
The remuneration for non-Executive Directors
consists of annual fees for their services as
members of the Board and, where relevant, 
for their work on selected Committees. Non-
Executive Directors, other than the Chairman,
have letters of appointment for a term of three
years whereupon they are normally renewed
but for no more than three terms in aggregate. 
Mr Piette has a rolling 12 month letter of
appointment from the Company. Their
respective dates of appointment are shown 
on page 26.
The Chairman’s letter of appointment
provides for his appointment to continue 
until further notice, subject to review by 
the Board no later than 30 September 2005.
The matter has been reviewed by the Board
and it will be reviewed again prior to Mr
Hichens reaching the age of 70 in September
2006. His appointment may be terminated
immediately by the Company if he is not 
re-elected at any general meeting of
shareholders (or on giving nine months’
notice if this occurs in connection with a
change of control of the Company); or on 
the Chairman giving not less than six months’
notice; or on the Company giving not less
than 12 months’ notice. If his appointment is
terminated by the Company without notice,
the Company may make a payment in lieu 
of notice. The remuneration of non-Executive
Directors is determined by the Board on 
the advice, from time to time, of external
independent consultants and is subject 
to a maximum aggregate level agreed by
shareholders. Non-Executive Directors do 
not participate in, or vote on, any discussion
relating to their own remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible 
for pension scheme membership and do 
not participate in any of the Group’s 
annual bonus, share option or other 
incentive arrangements.
m) Directors’ emoluments (auditable)
Pension Pension
Annual Pension 2005 2004 contributions contributions
Salary/fees bonus Beneﬁts supplement total total 2005 2004
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chairman
A P Hichens 161 – 27 – 188 184––
Chief Executive
A D Thorne 430 86 31 – 547 551 15 15
J-P Loison 246 97 9 – 352 165––
Finance Director
G M Morris 246 49 19 40 354 377 6 6
Non-Executives
R G Beeston 47––– 47 44––
C J Bunker 40––– 40 14––
P M Johnson 42––– 42 42––
R E C Marton 37––– 37 35––
D R Piette 41––– 41 40––
Total 1,290 232 86 40 1,648 1,452 21 21
Mr Morris is subject to the Inland Revenue ‘earnings cap’ and therefore he received during the year an additional 
non-pensionable payment.
Mr Loison’s salary and beneﬁts in kind from Kaysersberg Packaging S.A.S. are paid in euros and have been converted to sterling 
at the average exchange rate for the year.  34 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
(n) Directors’ interests in share options (auditable)
Directors’ interests in share options over ordinary shares are as follows:
Options Options Options 
Options granted exercised lapsed Options Dates
held at during during during held at Exercise from which Expiry
Name of Director 30 April 2004 the year the year the year 30 April 2005 price (p) exercisable date
A D Thorne 428,880––– 428,880 139.89 2 Mar 04 1 Mar 11
215,834––– 215,834 138.96 27 Jul 04 26 Jul 11
243,979––– 243,979 135.23 26 Jul 05 25 Jul 12
241,245––– 241,245 149.22 31 Jul 06 30 Jul 13
– 189,850 – – 189,850 158.00 29 Jul 07 28 Jul 14
J-P Loison 85,528 – – 85,528 – 254.50 4 Aug 97 3 Aug 04
88,415––– 88,415 169.62 30 Jul 00 29 Jul 07
61,313––– 61,313 187.94 31 Jul 01 30 Jul 08
9,515––– 9,515 167.12 30 Jul 02 29 Jul 09
93,751––– 93,751 155.08 5 Oct 02 4 Oct 09
93,547––– 93,547 159.85 31 Jul 03 30 Jul 10
124,497––– 124,497 139.37 27 Jul 04 26 Jul 11
128,988––– 128,988 151.53 26 Jul 05 25 Jul 12
142,779––– 142,779 148.72 31 Jul 06 30 Jul 13
– 113,800 – – 113,800 157.00 29 Jul 07 28 Jul 14
G M Morris 161,152––– 161,152 142.69 18 Dec 05 17 Dec 12
154,129––– 154,129 149.22 31 Jul 06 30 Jul 13
– 112,950 – – 112,950 158.00 29 Jul 07 28 Jul 14
All of the above options were granted for nil consideration.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 30 April 2005 was 150.5p and the range during the year was 138.0p to 176.0p.
Aggregate gains made by directors on exercise of share options in the year were £nil (£nil).
All options will be exercisable from the dates stated above, subject to them satisfying the performance target stated on page 31.
(o) Directors’ interests under the Restricted Share Plan (auditable)
The Restricted Share Plan ceased to be operated with effect from the ﬁnancial year 2004/05. Details of the Directors’ interests in the Plan
are as follows:
Awards
granted/ Awards
Interests under commitments lapsed/ Market price Market price Interests under
the Plan at made crystallised Date on date of at date of scheme at Exercisable Expiry
Executive Directors 30 April 2004 during year in year of award award (p) exercise (p) 30 April 2005 from date
A D Thorne 7,705––––– 7,705 1 Aug 04 31 Jul 08
71,774––––– 71,774 1 Aug 06 31 Jul 10
– 43,610 2 Aug 04 159.0 – 43,610 2 Aug 07 1 Aug 11
J-P Loison 18,508 – 18,508 1 Aug 00 168.5 146.2 – 1 Aug 03 31 Jul 07
19,140––––– 19,140 1 Aug 04 31 Jul 08
21,196––––– 21,196 1 Aug 05 31 Jul 09
42,349––––– 42,349 1 Aug 06 31 Jul 10
– 58,189 – 2 Aug 04 159.0 – 58,189 2 Aug 07 1 Aug 11
G M Morris 28,219––––– 28,219 1 Aug 06 31 Jul 10
– 25,948 – 2 Aug 04 159.0 – 25,948 2 Aug 07 1 Aug 11
The exercise price is £1 in total, the grant being given in relation to the deferred bonus for the years ended 1999/00, 2000/01,
2001/02, 2002/03 and 2003/04 under the Restricted Share Plan.
Remuneration Report
continued DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 35
(p) Directors’ interests under the Long-Term Incentive Plan (auditable)
The Long-Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in September 2004 and is described in more
detail on page 31. Details of the Directors’ interests in the Plan are as follows:
Awards
granted/ Awards
Interests under commitments lapsed/ Market price Market price Interests under Vesting date if
the Plan at made crystallised Date on date at date scheme at performance
Executive Directors 30 April 2004 during year in year of award of award (p) of vesting (p) 30 April 2005 conditions met
A D Thorne – 216,039 – 14 Sep 04 152.7 – 216,039 14 Sep 07
J-P Loison – 116,530 – 14 Sep 04 152.7 – 116,530 14 Sep 07
G M Morris – 121,767 – 14 Sep 04 152.7 – 121,767 14 Sep 07
q) Directors’ interests in shares
The beneﬁcial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company were as shown below.
30 April 2004 30 April 2005
Name of Director Beneﬁcial Non-beneﬁcial Beneﬁcial Non-beneﬁcial
A P Hichens 462,000 – 462,000 –
A D Thorne 56,400 – 75,447 –
J-P Loison –– 16,598 –
G M Morris –– 12,698 –
R G Beeston 30,000 – 30,000 –
C J Bunker 10,000 – 10,000 –
P M Johnson 30,000 – 30,000 –
R E C Marton 30,000 – 40,000 –
D R Piette –– ––
There have been no changes to the shareholdings set out above between the ﬁnancial year end and the date of the report.
It is currently intended that any ordinary shares required to fulﬁl entitlements under the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Restricted Share
Plan will be provided by the David S Smith Group General Employee Beneﬁt Trust (‘the Trust’), which buys shares on the market to do so.
The Trust will also be used to fulﬁl certain entitlements under the Executive Share Option Scheme (along with new issue shares for other
entitlements). As beneﬁciaries under the Trust, the Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the Trust which, 
at 30 April 2005, amounted to 2,986,379 ordinary shares.
(r) Directors’ pension entitlements (auditable)
The following Executive Directors were members of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes provided by the Group during the year, with death in service
cover. Pensions entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows:
Transfer 
value of net
increase in Total change
Increase accrual over Transfer value Transfer value in value during
Employee Gross increase in accrued Total accrued period (net of accrued of accrued period (net of 
contributions paid in accrued pension net pension at of Director’s pension at pension at Director’s
during the pension of inﬂation 30 April 2005 contribution) 30 April 2005 30 April 2004 contribution)
period (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Name of Director ££££££££
A D Thorne 15,345 17,371 16,083 58,926 221,204 866,845 580,333 271,167
G M Morris 6,138 3,318 3,155 8,578 34,020 109,183 66,635 36,410
J-P Loison – 3,626 3,073 38,183 38,099 473,389 356,913 116,476
Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 9.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
The value of net increase (4) represents the incremental value to the Director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption
service terminated at the year end. It is based on the accrued pension increase (2) after deducting the Directors’ contribution.
The change in transfer value (7) includes the effect of ﬂuctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company
and Directors, such as stock market movements. It is calculated after deducting the Directors’ contribution. 36 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
(s) Total Shareholder Return performance
The following graph illustrates the Company’s total shareholder return performance since 1 May 2000, in accordance with paragraph 
4 of the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, relative to the FTSE Mid 250 Index.
The Company is a member of the FTSE Mid 250 Index and, accordingly, this index is considered to be the most appropriate comparator
group for this purpose.
This graph looks at the value, at 30 April 2005, of £100 invested in DS Smith over the last 5 ﬁnancial years compared with that 
of £100 invested in the FTSE Mid 250 Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening ﬁnancial year-ends.
On behalf of the Board
Bob Beeston
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
29 June 2005 
Remuneration Report
continued
50
100
150
200
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
Total shareholder return 
Value £
DS Smith
FTSE Mid 250 Index Source: Thomson Financial Meeting but will be seeking to renew such
authority at this year’s meeting.
Substantial Shareholders
At 29 June 2005, the Company has been
informed of the following notifiable interests
in its issued ordinary share capital:
Ordinary
shares held %
Henderson Global 
Investors 23,544,828 6.05%
Standard Life 
Investments 17,609,371 4.52%
Legal & General
Investment 
Management Ltd 14,200,183 3.65%
Acquisitions and Disposals
The Group received unconditional clearance
from the Competition Commission for its
March 2004 acquisition of Linpac Containers
in the autumn of 2004. The Group acquired
BPB Recycling, a recovered paper collection
business, in August 2004 for £9.4 million.
There were no significant disposals during 
the year.
Research and Development
The Group recognises the importance 
of continuing to invest in research and
development. It is Group policy to develop
new product specifications commensurate
with environmental needs and packaging
solutions required by customers. Research 
is also conducted into ways to improve
product quality and to find more cost efficient
methods of production and distribution.
Research and development is conducted
within divisional operations and expenditure
is not significant.
Directors
The biographies of the present Directors are
on page 26. All the present Directors served
throughout the year. Other than as previously
disclosed in this Report and in respect of
existing service agreements, no Director,
either during or at the end of the financial
year, has been materially interested in any
significant contract or arrangement in relation
to the Group’s business.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 37
Directors’ Report
The Directors submit their Annual Report 
and the audited financial statements for 
the financial year ended 30 April 2005.
Principal Activities and Business
Review
The Company acts as the holding company 
of a group, which, during 2004/05, was
engaged in the production of corrugated 
and plastic packaging and of paper, primarily
from recycled waste, and the distribution of
office products. A full review of the activities
during the financial year ended 30 April 2005
and future developments is given in the
Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s
Review, Operating Review and Financial
Review on pages 4 to 21. The principal
subsidiary undertakings are listed in note 
32 on page 64
Results for the Year
The financial results are shown on pages 
40 to 64.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 2.6p net per ordinary
share was paid on 8 March 2005 and the
Directors recommend a 0.2p increase in the
final dividend to 5.8p net per ordinary share,
making a total dividend to be paid for the
year of 8.4p (2003/04: 8.2p) net per ordinary
share. Subject to approval of shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting to be held on
7 September 2005, the final dividend will be
paid on 20 September 2005 to shareholders
on the register at the close of business on 
19 August 2005. The dividends per ordinary
share stated above are those actually paid 
or to be paid. Historical dividends per share
have been restated for the bonus element
inherent in the 26 March 2004 rights issue 
in the five year summary on page 65.
Share Capital
Pursuant to the Company’s employee share
option schemes, 1,855,707 ordinary shares 
of 10p each were issued during the year. 
47,296 shares pursuant to the Company’s
employee share option schemes were issued
between 30 April 2005 and 29 June 2005
inclusive. The Company has not utilised its
authority to make market purchases of shares
granted to it at the 2004 Annual General 
Re-election of Directors
The Articles of Association require that all
Directors who are subject to retirement by
rotation retire every three years, but they are
eligible to submit themselves for re-election
by the shareholders. The Directors retiring 
by rotation at the Annual General Meeting 
on 7 September 2005 are Mr A P Hichens and
Mr D R Piette but, being eligible, they offer
themselves for re-election at the Meeting.
Following formal performance evaluation, 
the individual performance of both directors
offering themselves for re-election continues
to be effective and they continue to
demonstrate commitment to the role.
Directors’ Interests in Shares
The interests of the Directors and their
immediate families in the ordinary shares of
10p each of the Company, including options
granted but not yet exercised under the
Executive Share Option Schemes, were as
shown in the tables on pages 34 and 35.
Employee Involvement and
Communications
The Group is committed to effective employee
communications to promote the understanding
and involvement of all its employees in the
Group’s business objectives and performance.
Communications and personnel policies have
been developed to reflect the philosophy of
operating management. Information is regularly
communicated by briefings and newsletters.
The Group operates a European Works
Council, with representatives drawn from
across the entire workforce in the EU countries
in which the Group operates. Meetings are 
held to provide an exchange of transnational
information and consultation with employees.
At each meeting, presentations are made 
on the Group’s business strategy, financial
results, health and safety and environmental
performance. In 2005, the Group established
five divisional Consultation Forums for its 
UK employees. These bodies are intended to
strengthen the process of information exchange,
consultation and representation between the
Group and its workforce. Business decisions
concerning capital investment, employment and
training take into account the Group’s public
and local responsibilities. The Group is a 38 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
member of Business in the Community and
supports the involvement of its operations 
in local community activities.
Equal Opportunities
The Group wholeheartedly supports 
the principle and achievement of equal
opportunities in employment and its policies
are designed to provide such equality
irrespective of sex, creed, ethnic origin,
nationality, sexual orientation, age or
disability. Every possible step will be taken 
to ensure that individuals are treated equally
and fairly. Depending upon their skills and
abilities, the Group applies the same criteria
to disabled persons as it does to other
employees and, if necessary, retraining is
offered to any of its employees who develop 
a disability during such employment.
Pension Fund
The Group has five pension arrangements:
two defined benefit schemes (which are
closed to new entrants), one defined
contribution scheme, one Group personal
pension plan and a statutory Stakeholder
arrangement. The defined contribution
scheme was introduced for UK employees
joining the Group on or after 1 May 2005.
The investment of the assets of the various
arrangements are managed on a discretionary
basis by AllianceBernstein Institutional
Investment Management Limited, Schroder
Investment Management Limited, Deutsche
Asset Management Limited, Capital
International Limited and Legal and General
Investment Management Limited for the
defined benefit schemes. The new defined
contribution scheme is a trust-based
arrangement offering members a range of
investments with Axa Sun Life plc and
external investment fund managers, selected
by the Scheme’s trustees. The Group personal
pension plan is a contract-based arrangement
offering members a range of investments with
Norwich Union Life and external investment
fund managers, and the Stakeholder
arrangement is provided through Investment
Solutions Limited. All such assets are held
independently from the Group. The trustees
of each pension scheme send an Annual 
Report to the members of that scheme. 
The Trustee Companies, where applicable,
have Investment Sub Committees, which 
have been established in line with guidelines
recommended in the Myners Report.
Health and Safety
The Group recognises its responsibilities 
and continues to promote all aspects of health
and safety in the interests of its employees
and members of the public. A Health and
Safety Policy Statement has been approved 
by the Board. 
Payment to Suppliers
Although the Company does not follow any
formal code or standard on payment practice,
the Company agrees terms and conditions in
the UK with each supplier, which include
terms of payment. The Company pays each
supplier accordingly, subject to all the terms
and conditions of the order being satisfied by
such supplier. The aggregate amount owed 
by the Company to trade creditors at 30 April
2005 was equivalent to 18 days of purchases
invoiced by suppliers during the year. 
Charitable and Political Donations
The Group contributed £128,000 (£109,000)
to charities in the UK. No payments were
made to political parties. Donations were
made by operating divisions to support their
local communities and industries. The Group
also supported a number of other charities
across a range of causes.
Annual General Meeting
The notice of the Annual General Meeting 
of the Company to be held on 7 September
2005, together with explanations of the
Resolutions to be proposed, appears at the
back of this Annual Report.
Auditors
Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as
auditors of the Company and to authorise the
Directors to determine their remuneration will
be put to the Annual General Meeting. 
By Order of the Board
Carolyn Cattermole
Secretary
29 June 2005
Directors’ Responsibilities 
for Preparation of Financial
Statements
As required by company law, the Directors
are responsible for the preparation of
financial statements for each financial year
which give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Company and the Group 
and of the profit or loss for that period. 
In preparing those financial statements, 
the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable accounting
standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is
inappropriate to presume that the Group
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records which disclose
with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and 
enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies 
Act 1985. They have general responsibility
for taking such steps as are reasonably 
open to them to safeguard the assets of the
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and
other irregularities.
Directors’ Report
continued DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 39
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of DS Smith Plc
We have audited the financial statements 
on pages 40 to 64. We have also audited the
information in the Directors’ remuneration
report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s
Members, as a body, in accordance with
section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that
we might state to the Company’s Members
those matters we are required to state to 
them in an auditors’ report and for no other
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted 
by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s Members 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of 
Directors and Auditors
The Directors are responsible for preparing
the Annual Report and the Directors’
Remuneration Report. As described on page 
38, this includes responsibility for preparing
the financial statements in accordance with
applicable United Kingdom law and
accounting standards. Our responsibilities, 
as independent auditors, are established in 
the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing
Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority, and by our
profession’s ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether
the financial statements give a true and fair
view and whether the financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ remuneration
report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985. We also report to you if, in our
opinion, the Directors’ Report is not
consistent with the financial statements, if 
the Company has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require 
for our audit, or if information specified by
law regarding Directors’ remuneration and
transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance
statement on pages 27 to 29 reflects the 
Company’s compliance with the nine
provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified
for our review by the Listing Rules, and we
report if it does not. We are not required to
consider whether the Board’s statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, 
or form an opinion on the effectiveness of 
the Group’s corporate governance procedures
or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained 
in the Annual Report, including the 
Corporate Governance statement and the
unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report, and consider whether it is consistent
with the audited financial statements. 
We consider the implications for our report 
if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies
with the financial statements.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We have conducted our audit in accordance
with Auditing Standards issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in 
the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the
significant estimates and judgements made 
by the Directors in the preparation of the
financial statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the
Group’s circumstances, consistently applied
and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as 
to obtain all the information and explanations
which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufficient evidence to give
reasonable assurance that the financial
statements and part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are free
from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In
forming our opinion we also evaluated the
overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the financial statements and
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Company
and the Group as at 30 April 2005 and of
the profit of the Group for the year then
ended; and
• the financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
London
29 June 2005 2005 2004
Before Exceptional
exceptional items and Before
items and amortisation amortisation Amortisation
amortisation of intangibles of intangibles of intangibles Total
of intangibles (note 7) Total (restated) (note 7) (restated)
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 1 1,624.9 – 1,624.9 1,488.5 – 1,488.5
Cost of sales (1,193.8) (1.6) (1,195.4) (1,083.3) – (1,083.3)
Gross proﬁt 431.1 (1.6) 429.5 405.2 – 405.2
Operating expenses 2 (347.2) (18.9) (366.1) (329.8) (4.0) (333.8)
Group operating proﬁt 1,3 83.9 (20.5) 63.4 75.4 (4.0) 71.4
Share of operating proﬁts of associated undertakings 4.1 1.5 5.6 3.0 0.4 3.4
Total operating proﬁt 88.0 (19.0) 69.0 78.4 (3.6) 74.8
Net interest payable and other similar items 8 (13.0) – (13.0) (10.4) – (10.4)
Other ﬁnance income/(expense) 6 1.1 – 1.1 (3.2) – (3.2)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before taxation 76.1 (19.0) 57.1 64.8 (3.6) 61.2
Tax on proﬁt on ordinary activities 9 (19.0) 1.4 (17.6) (17.0) – (17.0)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities after taxation 57.1 (17.6) 39.5 47.8 (3.6) 44.2
Minority interests – equity (0.6) – (0.6) (0.6) – (0.6)
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 56.5 (17.6) 38.9 47.2 (3.6) 43.6
Dividends paid and proposed 10 (32.3) – (32.3) (30.6) – (30.6)
Retained proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 26 24.2 (17.6) 6.6 16.6 (3.6) 13.0
Earnings per share: 11
Basic 10.1p 12.6p
Diluted 10.0p 12.5p
Adjusted 14.7p 13.6p
The Group’s results shown above are derived from continuing operations. 
The difference between the reported and historical cost proﬁts for each of the years reported above is not material.
The notes on pages 44 to 64 form part of these accounts.
40 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Group Proﬁt and Loss Account
For the year ended 30 April 2005 2005 2004
(restated)
Note £m £m
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 38.9 43.6
Exchange differences on foreign currency net investments (0.3) (7.7)
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the pension schemes (31.2) 62.5
Movement on deferred tax relating to actuarial (losses)/gains 9.5 (18.8)
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the ﬁnancial year 16.9 79.6
Prior year adjustments 26 (67.6)
Total recognised gains and losses since last annual report (50.7)
Group Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
For the year ended 30 April 2005
2005 2004
(restated)
Note £m £m
Opening shareholders’ funds:
As previously stated 562.0 472.9
Prior year adjustments 26 (67.6) (99.0)
Opening shareholders’ funds as restated 494.4 373.9
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 38.9 43.6
Dividends (32.3) (30.6)
Retained proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 6.6 13.0
Exchange differences on foreign currency net investments (0.3) (7.7)
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the pension schemes (31.2) 62.5
Movement on deferred tax relating to actuarial (losses)/gains 9.5 (18.8)
New share capital issued under option schemes 2.6 1.8
Proceeds from rights issue (net of issue costs of £1.9m) – 70.4
Share-based payments 2.6 –
Net purchase of own shares (1.9) (0.7)
(Decrease)/increase in shareholders’ funds (12.1) 120.5
Closing shareholders’ funds 482.3 494.4
Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses
For the year ended 30 April 2005
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 41 Group Company
30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April
2005 2004 2005 2004
(restated) (restated)
Note £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 12 173.7 185.6 – –
Tangible assets 13 560.4 568.5 0.4 0.5
Investments 15 28.9 28.6 960.3 741.8
763.0 782.7 960.7 742.3
Current assets
Stocks 16 164.0 154.9 – –
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 17 356.8 345.1 82.5 45.3
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 17 1.0 1.4 288.9 461.2
Short-term investments 19 28.4 20.8 3.0 –
Cash at bank and in hand 19 30.4 40.8 – –
580.6 563.0 374.4 506.5
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Trade and other creditors 18 (370.9) (361.5) (79.3) (65.3)
Borrowings 18,19 (25.1) (39.7) (7.9) (44.4)
Net current assets 184.6 161.8 287.2 396.8
Total assets less current liabilities 947.6 944.5 1,247.9 1,139.1
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Borrowings 18,19 (294.1) (296.6) (534.0) (527.0)
Other 18 (2.4) (2.4) – –
Provisions for liabilities and charges 23 (80.7) (90.6) (0.3) (3.7)
Net assets excluding pension liability 570.4 554.9 713.6 608.4
Net pension liability 6 (80.3) (54.7) (77.1) (54.7)
Net assets including pension liability 490.1 500.2 636.5 553.7
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 24 38.9 38.7 38.9 38.7
Share premium account 26 257.0 254.6 257.0 254.6
Revaluation reserve 26 7.9 8.5 – –
Acquisition reserve 26 – – 88.1 88.1
Capital reserve 26 – – 50.0 50.0
Proﬁt and loss account 26 178.5 192.6 202.5 122.3
Shareholders’ funds – equity 482.3 494.4 636.5 553.7
Minority interests – equity 7.8 5.8 – –
490.1 500.2 636.5 553.7
Approved by the Board on 29 June 2005 and signed on its behalf by
A D Thorne, Director
G M Morris, Director
The notes on pages 44 to 64 form part of these accounts.
42 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Balance Sheets Group Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 30 April 2005
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 43
2005 2005 2004 2004
(restated) (restated)
Note £m £m £m £m
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 27a 139.3 131.8
Returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance
Net interest paid (13.1) (9.8)
Interest element of ﬁnance leases (0.2) (0.2)
Net cash outﬂow from returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance (13.3) (10.0)
Taxation
UK corporation and overseas tax paid (23.7) (17.9)
Capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment
Purchase of tangible ﬁxed assets (53.6) (51.7)
Sale of tangible ﬁxed assets 5.2 9.1
Sale of ﬁxed asset investments 1.5 1.7
Net cash outﬂow from capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment (46.9) (40.9)
Acquisitions and disposals
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings 29 (11.7) (182.2)
Net cash acquired – 9.0
Deferred consideration paid in relation to prior year acquisitions – (9.0)
Purchase of associated undertakings – (1.0)
Sale of associated undertakings – 0.8
Disposal of businesses – 0.8
Net cash outﬂow from acquisitions and disposals (11.7) (181.6)
Equity dividends paid (31.6) (28.2)
Net cash inﬂow/(outﬂow) before use of liquid resources and ﬁnancing 12.1 (146.8)
Management of liquid resources 27b (6.9) 4.3
Financing
Issue of ordinary shares 2.6 74.1
Purchase of holding company shares (2.1) (1.0)
Rights issue costs – (1.9)
(Decrease)/increase in debt and lease ﬁnancing (4.6) 96.3
Net cash (outﬂow)/inﬂow from ﬁnancing (4.1) 167.5
Increase in cash in the year 1.1 25.0
Reconciliation of net cash ﬂow to movement in net debt
Increase in cash in the ﬁnancial year 1.1 25.0
Decrease/(increase) in debt and lease ﬁnancing 4.6 (96.3)
Increase/(decrease) in liquid resources 6.9 (4.3)
Decrease/(increase) in net debt resulting from cash ﬂow 12.6 (75.6)
Loans and ﬁnance leases acquired with subsidiary undertakings – (0.5)
Exchange differences 1.7 3.7
Decrease/(increase) in net debt in the ﬁnancial year 14.3 (72.4)
Opening net debt (274.7) (202.3)
Closing net debt 19a, 28 (260.4) (274.7)
The notes on pages 44 to 64 form part of these accounts. 44 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Accounting Policies
A summary of the principal accounting
policies, which have been applied
consistently, is set out below: 
(a) Accounting basis
The ﬁnancial statements are prepared in
accordance with applicable accounting
standards and under the historical cost
convention except that certain freehold 
and long leasehold land and buildings 
are included at valuation. 
(b) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements
include the accounts of the Company 
and all its subsidiary undertakings for the
year ended 30 April 2005. The results 
of subsidiary undertakings acquired or
disposed of in the year are included in 
the consolidated proﬁt and loss account
from the date of acquisition or to the 
date of disposal. The acquisition method 
of accounting has been adopted for all
companies purchased during the year.
An associate is an undertaking in which 
the Group has a long-term interest, usually
from 20% to 50% of the equity voting
rights, and over which it exercises
signiﬁcant inﬂuence. The Group’s share 
of the proﬁts less losses of associates is
included in the consolidated proﬁt and 
loss account and its interest in their net
assets, less permanent diminution in 
value, is included in investments in the
consolidated balance sheet.
(c) Changes in accounting policies
The Group has adopted FRS 17 ‘Retirement
beneﬁts’ in these ﬁnancial statements. 
The adoption of this standard represents 
a change in accounting policy and the
comparative ﬁgures have been restated
accordingly. Details of the effect of
adopting FRS 17 are given in note 26.
The Group has adopted Urgent Issues Task
Force (UITF) Abstract 38 ‘Accounting for
ESOP trusts’ in these ﬁnancial statements.
The application of this Abstract represents 
a change in accounting policy and the
comparative ﬁgures have been restated
accordingly. Details of the effect of adopting
UITF Abstract 38 are given in note 26.
(d) Goodwill and intangibles
Goodwill arising on acquisitions
(representing the excess of fair value of 
the consideration given and associated
costs over the fair value of the net assets
acquired) completed after 2 May 1998 
is capitalised and amortised on a straight-
line basis over its expected useful economic
life, not exceeding 20 years. As permitted
by FRS 10, goodwill arising on acquisitions
prior to 2 May 1998 which had already
been written off to reserves has not been
reinstated on the balance sheet. If a
business is subsequently sold or closed, 
any goodwill that has not been amortised
through the proﬁt and loss account is
included in calculating the proﬁt or loss on
sale or closure. Where negative goodwill
arises it is amortised over the expected life
of the assets to which it relates.
Other material intangible assets acquired
are capitalised at cost and written off on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful
economic lives, not exceeding 20 years.
(e) Tangible ﬁxed assets
Tangible ﬁxed assets are stated at cost,
except that, as allowed under FRS 15
‘Tangible Fixed Assets’, on adoption of 
this standard the book amounts of revalued
land and buildings were retained. These
book values are based on the previous
revaluation in 1995 and have not
subsequently been revalued. Depreciation
is calculated to write off the cost or
valuation less the estimated residual value
of all tangible ﬁxed assets in equal annual
instalments over their estimated useful lives
at the following rates:
Plant, machinery, 
ﬁxtures and ﬁttings 5-33
1
/
3
% p.a.
Motor vehicles 20-33
1
/
3
% p.a.
Freehold and long 
leasehold properties 2-10% p.a.
Freehold land and assets in the course 
of construction are not depreciated.
(f) Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are valued 
at cost less provisions for impairment.
(g) Stocks and work in progress
Stocks and work in progress are valued at
the lower of cost and net realisable value.
(h) Deferred taxation
In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax 
is provided in full on timing differences 
that result in an obligation at the balance
sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to
pay less tax, at a future date, at rates
expected to apply when they crystallise,
based on current tax rates and the law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion
of items of income and expenditure in
taxation computations in periods different
from those in which they are included in 
the ﬁnancial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the
extent that it is regarded as more likely
than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
not discounted.
(i) Foreign currencies
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated
in foreign currencies are translated at the
rates of exchange ruling at the ﬁnancial
year end. 
Proﬁts and losses of subsidiary and
associated undertakings are expressed 
in sterling at average exchange rates for
the year. The balance sheets of overseas
subsidiary undertakings, including the
Group’s share of associates’ net assets, 
are expressed in sterling at year end
exchange rates. Exchange differences
arising on the translation of opening
shareholders’ funds, together with those
arising on borrowings used to ﬁnance or
hedge investments in foreign enterprises,
are recorded as movements in reserves. 
All other exchange differences are taken
to the proﬁt and loss account.
(j) Turnover
Turnover represents the amount receivable for
goods and services supplied to third parties
net of value added tax and trade discounts.
(k) Research and development
Research and development expenditure 
is written off as incurred. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 45
(l) Leasing transactions
Fixed assets acquired under a lease 
that transfers substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership to the Group
are capitalised as tangible ﬁxed assets.
Outstanding obligations due under the
leases, net of ﬁnance charges, are included
as a liability. The ﬁnance element of the
rental payments is charged to the proﬁt 
and loss account over the term of the lease
in proportion to the balance outstanding. 
All other leases are operating leases and
the annual rentals are charged to the proﬁt
and loss account on a straight-line basis.
(m) Pension contributions
The Group operates two deﬁned beneﬁt
schemes for its UK employees. For these
schemes the amounts charged to operating
proﬁt are the current service costs and
gains and losses on settlements and
curtailments. They are included as part of
staff costs. Past service costs are recognised
immediately in the proﬁt and loss account 
if the beneﬁts have vested. If the beneﬁts
have not vested immediately, the costs are
recognised over the period until vesting
occurs. The interest cost and the expected
return on assets are shown as a net amount
of other ﬁnance costs or credits adjacent 
to interest. Actuarial gains and losses are
recognised immediately in the statement 
of total recognised gains and losses.
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are funded, with
the assets of the schemes held separately
from those of the Group, in separate trustee
administered funds. Pension scheme assets
are measured at fair value and liabilities
are measured on an actuarial basis using
the projected unit method and discounted
at a rate equivalent to the current rate of
return on a high quality corporate bond 
of equivalent currency and term to the
scheme liabilities. The actuarial valuations
are obtained at least triennially and are
updated at each balance sheet date. The
resulting deﬁned beneﬁt asset or liability,
net of the related deferred tax, is presented
separately after other net assets on the face
of the balance sheet.
On 1 May 2005 the deﬁned beneﬁt
pension scheme for UK employees was
closed to new members who will be 
offered a new deﬁned contribution 
pension arrangement.
(n) Financial instruments
The Group uses ﬁnancial instruments,
primarily interest rate and currency swaps,
only to manage interest, currency and
commodity risks associated with the
Group’s underlying business activities 
and the ﬁnancing of those activities. The
Group has a policy not to, and does not,
undertake any trading (that is, speculative)
activity in ﬁnancial instruments.
These instruments are accounted for as
hedges when designated as hedges at the
inception of the contracts and when the
ﬁnancial instrument provides an effective
hedge of the underlying risk. As a result,
any gains or losses on foreign exchange
contracts are offset against any foreign
exchange gains or losses on the related
ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. Interest rate
swaps are not shown in the Group balance
sheet at the year end.
(o) Share options
The intrinsic value of options granted,
being the difference between the market
value of shares on the award of an option
and the exercise price of the option, is
charged to the proﬁt and loss account 
over the performance period of the option.
Shares held by the Company for the
purpose of fulﬁlling obligations in respect 
of various employee share plans around
the Group are deducted from equity in 
the consolidation balance sheet. 
(p) Cash and liquid resources
Cash, for the purpose of the cash ﬂow
statement, comprises cash in hand and
deposits repayable on demand, less
overdrafts payable on demand.
Liquid resources are current asset
investments which are disposable without
curtailing or disrupting the business and 
are either readily convertible into known
amounts of cash at or close to their carrying
values or traded in an active market. 1 Analysis of Group turnover, operating proﬁt and capital employed
Group
operating
proﬁt before Adjusted
exceptional return on
items and Group Adjusted Year end Average average
amortisation operating return capital capital capital
Turnover of intangibles proﬁt on sales
1
employed employed employed
1
2005 £m £m £m % £m £m %
Packaging
Paper and Corrugated Packaging 896.9 52.3 40.3 5.8% 645.7 663.2 7.9%
Plastic Packaging 195.9 9.9 1.5 5.1% 129.9 139.6 7.1%
1,092.8 62.2 41.8 5.7% 775.6 802.8 7.7%
Ofﬁce Products
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling 499.7 21.7 21.6 4.3% 125.6 118.4 18.3%
Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing 46.8––– 12.4 13.8 –
Inter-segment (14.4) ––––––
532.1 21.7 21.6 4.1% 138.0 132.2 16.4%
Total 1,624.9 83.9 63.4 5.2% 913.6 935.0 9.0%
United Kingdom 970.7 46.1 34.2 4.7% 619.8 637.9 7.2%
Rest of World 654.2 37.8 29.2 5.8% 293.8 297.1 12.7%
Total 1,624.9 83.9 63.4 5.2% 913.6 935.0 9.0%
2004 (restated
2
)
Packaging
Paper and Corrugated Packaging 748.9 41.4 40.4 5.5% 648.2 517.8 8.0%
Plastic Packaging 208.7 14.0 11.1 6.7% 134.2 139.8 10.0%
957.6 55.4 51.5 5.8% 782.4 657.6 8.4%
Ofﬁce Products
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling 498.8 19.7 19.6 3.9% 121.3 117.8 16.7%
Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing 48.0 0.3 0.3 0.6% 13.1 13.9 2.2%
Inter-segment (15.9) ––––––
530.9 20.0 19.9 3.8% 134.4 131.7 15.2%
Total 1,488.5 75.4 71.4 5.1% 916.8 789.3 9.6%
United Kingdom 829.4 33.9 33.0 4.1% 624.8 493.6 6.9%
Rest of World 659.1 41.5 38.4 6.3% 292.0 295.7 14.0%
Total 1,488.5 75.4 71.4 5.1% 916.8 789.3 9.6%
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 ‘Retirement beneﬁts’ and UITF Abstract 38 ‘Accounting for ESOP trusts’
The operating proﬁts shown above exclude the Group’s share of operating proﬁts and losses of associated undertakings (see note 15).
Adjusted return on sales is deﬁned as operating proﬁt before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles divided by turnover. Average
capital employed is the average monthly capital employed including the intangible assets on the balance sheet. Capital employed excludes
net borrowings, corporation tax balances, deferred tax provisions, dividends payable, ﬁxed asset investments and net pension liabilities.
Adjusted return on average capital employed is deﬁned as operating proﬁt before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles divided
by the average capital employed.
The geographical analysis above is shown by origin. 
46 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Analysis of Group turnover, operating proﬁt and capital employed continued
Capital employed as shown on page 46 excludes items of a ﬁnancing nature, corporation tax balances and ﬁxed asset investments.
Year end capital employed is reconciled to Group shareholders’ funds as follows:
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Net assets including pension liabilities 490.1 500.2
Pension liability 80.3 54.7
Net borrowings 260.4 274.7
Dividends payable 22.4 21.7
Corporation tax creditor (net) 17.7 19.3
Deferred tax provision 71.6 74.8
Fixed asset investments (28.9) (28.6)
Year end capital employed 913.6 916.8
The geographical analysis shown on page 46 is shown by origin. The geographical analysis of turnover by destination is:
2005 2005 2004 2004
£m % £m %
United Kingdom 893.0 55.0% 754.0 50.7%
Continental Europe 666.6 41.0% 671.4 45.1%
Rest of World 65.3 4.0% 63.1 4.2%
1,624.9 100.0% 1,488.5 100.0%
2 Operating expenses
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Distribution costs 183.1 172.0
Administrative expenses 183.0 161.8
366.1 333.8
The administrative expenses in the year include amortisation of intangibles of £9.8m (2004: £4.0m). The administrative expenses in the
year include exceptional restructuring costs of £3.3m and the impairment of goodwill of £5.8m (see note 7).
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 47 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
3 Group operating proﬁt
Operating proﬁt is stated after charging the following:
2005 2004
£m £m
Depreciation – owned assets 67.2 63.3
– leased assets 1.0 1.2
Amortisation of intangibles 9.8 4.0
Hire of plant and machinery 11.9 10.7
Other operating lease rentals 11.4 9.8
Research and development 0.8 1.0
Amounts paid to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates (see below) 1.3 1.6
Auditors’ remuneration
2005 2004
UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Group audit
Parent company 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
Other companies 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.3 0.4 0.7
0.5 0.4 0.9 0.4 0.4 0.8
Non-audit services
Tax advisory 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 – 0.1
Corporate services ––– 0.5 – 0.5
Other assurance (including IFRS transition) 0.2 – 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2
0.3 0.1 0.4 0.7 0.1 0.8
0.8 0.5 1.3 1.1 0.5 1.6
4 Directors’ remuneration
Details of Directors’ remuneration, shareholdings and share options are contained in the Report on Remuneration on pages 30 to 36.
5 Employee information
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was:
2005 2004
Number Number
Production 7,812 6,996
Selling and administration 4,125 3,940
11,937 10,936
Their total remuneration was:
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Wages and salaries 273.8 244.3
Social security costs 39.6 35.7
Other pension costs 14.0 15.1
327.4 295.1
48 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 6 Pensions
The Group operates two funded deﬁned beneﬁt schemes in the UK, the DS Smith Group Pension Scheme (‘the Group scheme’) and the 
DS Smith Containers Pension Scheme (‘the Containers scheme’). The Containers scheme was established in 2004 following the acquisition 
of Linpac Containers and assumed the pension obligations and related pension scheme assets of relevant employees of Linpac Containers
through a bulk transfer. The Group contributed £10m to the Group scheme in 2004/05 and has agreed to contribute £14m per annum 
to the Group scheme from 1 May 2005. The Group contributed £0.2m to the Containers scheme and expects to make broadly similar
contributions in the future. The Group operates various local pension arrangements for overseas operations and unfunded arrangements 
for senior executives: these are, in aggregate, not signiﬁcant to the Group. A charge over certain assets of the Group has been made 
as security for certain of the unfunded arrangements. The ﬁnancial information given below includes amounts related to these other
arrangements, where appropriate.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Group scheme was at 5 April 2004, which has been updated to 30 April 2005 by a qualiﬁed
independent actuary. The Containers scheme was valued for the purpose of the bulk transfer described above and this valuation has been
updated to 30 April 2005 by a qualiﬁed independent actuary. All valuations used the projected unit method. Both the Group scheme and
the Containers scheme are closed to new entrants: because of this, the average age of the active members is likely to increase at future
valuations and this will lead to an increasing current service contribution rate. This may be offset by a falling total pensionable salary
resulting from leavers and retirements.
The principal assumptions made by the actuary were as follows. These assumptions have been applied to both the Group and 
Containers schemes.
2005 2004 2003
% % % 
Discount rate for plan liabilities 5.3% 5.7% 5.4%
Inﬂation 2.6% 2.9% 2.5%
Rate of general increase in salaries 3.6% 4.2% 4.0%
Rate of increase in pensions 2.6% 2.9% 2.5%
The assets of the schemes and the expected long-term rates of return were:
2005 2004 2003
Expected rates Expected rates Expected rates
of return Market value of return Market value of return Market value
%£m %£m %£m
Equities 7.5% 392.2 7.9% 342.5 7.2% 294.5
Bonds, Gilts and Cash (weighted average) 4.3% 167.1 4.7% 147.0 4.4% 132.4
Total market value of assets 559.3 489.5 426.9
Present value of scheme liabilities (674.1) (567.6) (560.9)
Deﬁcit in the scheme (114.8) (78.1) (134.0)
Related deferred tax asset 34.5 23.4 40.2
Net pension liability (80.3) (54.7) (93.8)
The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the
timescales covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice. The schemes’ assets are not intended to be realised in the short term 
and their fair value may be subject to signiﬁcant change before they are realised. The present value of the schemes’ liabilities is derived
from cashﬂow projections over long time periods and thus is inherently uncertain.
2005 2004
£m £m
Analysis of amounts charged to operating proﬁt in respect of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
Current service cost 12.7 13.3
Past service cost 0.1 0.1
Total operating charge 12.8 13.4
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 49 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
50 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
6 Pensions continued
2005 2004
£m £m
Movement in deﬁcit during the year
Deﬁcit in the schemes at the beginning of the year (78.1) (134.0)
Transfer from provisions (see note 23) (4.2) –
Arising on acquisition of Linpac Containers (0.5) –
Current service cost (12.7) (13.3)
Contributions 10.9 10.0
Past service cost (0.1) (0.1)
Other ﬁnance income/(expense) 1.1 (3.2)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (31.2) 62.5
Deﬁcit in the schemes at the end of the year (114.8) (78.1)
2005 2004
£m £m
Analysis of amounts credited/(debited) to other ﬁnance income/(expense)
Expected return on pension schemes’ assets 34.9 27.1
Interest on pension schemes’ liabilities (33.8) (30.3)
Other ﬁnance income/(expense) 1.1 (3.2)
2005 2004
£m £m
Analysis of amounts recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses
Actual return less expected return on pension schemes’ assets (4.5) 39.6
Experience gains and losses arising on schemes’ liabilities 1.4 (0.1)
Changes in assumptions underlying present value of schemes’ liabilities (28.1) 23.0
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses (31.2) 62.5
2005 2004
£m £m
History of experience gains and losses
Difference between expected and actual returns on schemes’ assets (4.5) 39.6
Above as a percentage of schemes’ assets (1)% 8%
Experience gains and losses arising on schemes’ liabilities 1.4 (0.1)
Above as a percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities 0% 0%
Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses (26.9) 62.5
Above as a percentage of the present value of schemes’ liabilities (4)% 11% DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 51
7 Exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2005 2004
£m £m
Exceptional restructuring costs (4.9) –
Impairment of goodwill (5.8) –
Reversal of previous impairment of associate 1.1 –
Total exceptional items (9.6) –
Amortisation of intangibles (see note 12) (9.8) (4.0)
Amortisation of negative goodwill of associates 0.4 0.4
(19.0) (3.6)
Tax on exceptional items 1.4 –
Total (17.6) (3.6)
The exceptional restructuring costs relate to costs incurred in the Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment in integrating the operations 
of Linpac Containers acquired in March 2004.
The impairment of goodwill relates to a subsidiary in the Plastic Packaging segment and follows the Group’s annual assessment of the
carrying amount of ﬁxed assets, including goodwill. The pre-tax discount rate used in assessing the cash ﬂows of the subsidiary involved
was 10%.
The reversal of a previous impairment of an associate is explained in note 15.
Exceptional restructuring costs of £1.6m are included within cost of sales. Exceptional restructuring costs of £3.3m, impairment of goodwill
of £5.8m and amortisation of intangibles of £9.8m are included within administrative expenses in operating expenses. The reversal of a
previous impairment of an associate of £1.1m and amortisation of negative goodwill of associates of £0.4m are included in the share of
operating proﬁts of associated undertakings.
8 Net interest payable and other similar items
2005 2004
£m £m
Interest payable and similar charges
– on bank loans and overdrafts and other loans (17.8) (12.9)
– on ﬁnance leases (0.1) (0.2)
– hyperinﬂationary net monetary loss – (0.1)
(17.9) (13.2)
Interest receivable and similar income 4.9 2.8
(13.0) (10.4)
9 Taxation
(a) Analysis of charge in the period:
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
UK corporation tax – current year 10.1 4.4
Overseas taxation 12.7 17.2
Total current tax 22.8 21.6
Deferred tax – timing differences (5.2) (4.6)
Tax charge 17.6 17.0
Effective tax rate 30.8% 27.8%
Effective tax rate before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles 25.0% 26.2% 9 Taxation continued
(b) Factors affecting current tax charge for the year:
The tax assessed for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2004: 30%). The differences are
explained below:
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Proﬁt before tax 57.1 61.2
Tax on proﬁt at 30% (2004: 30%) 17.1 18.4
Effects of:
Depreciation for period in excess of capital allowances, and other timing differences 0.5 2.0
Permanent differences 4.8 1.3
Overseas tax rates 1.7 2.2
Prior year (credit)/charge (1.4) 0.4
Other 0.1 (2.7)
Current tax charge for the year 22.8 21.6
(c) Factors that may affect future tax charges:
In future years, the Group’s tax charge will be affected by the proportion of proﬁts earned in the various countries in which the Group
operates, movements in currently unrecognised deferred tax assets, the most signiﬁcant of which relate to tax losses, and the extent to which
any capital gains can be either rolled over or sheltered by capital losses.
10 Dividends paid and proposed
2005 2004 2005 2004
Per share Per share £m £m
Interim paid 2.6p 2.6p 9.9 8.9
Final proposed/paid 5.8p 5.6p 22.4 21.7
8.4p 8.2p 32.3 30.6
The prior year interim dividend per share has been restated for the bonus element of the rights issue on 26 March 2004. Historical
dividends per share have been restated in the Five Year Financial Summary on page 65.
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
52 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 11 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year of £38.9m (2004: £43.6m) by the weighted average
number of shares in issue and fully paid during the year of 385.3m (2004: 348.2m). The number of shares excludes the weighted average
number of the Company’s own shares held by the General Employee Beneﬁt Trust (see note 26) of 2.5m (2004: 1.5m). 
The Directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted earnings per share, being the basic earnings per share adjusted for exceptional
items and amortisation of intangibles, helps to explain the underlying performance of the Group. A reconciliation of basic to adjusted
earnings per share is as follows:
2005 2004 (restated)
Pence Pence
£m per share £m per share
Basic earnings 38.9 10.1 43.6 12.6
Exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles (after tax):
Exceptional items – restructuring costs 3.5 0.9 ––
– impairment of goodwill and reversal of previous impairment 4.7 1.2 ––
Amortisation of intangibles, and goodwill relating to associates 9.4 2.5 3.6 1.0
Adjusted earnings 56.5 14.7 47.2 13.6
In calculating diluted earnings per share there are no adjustments to earnings, but the weighted average number of shares denominator is
adjusted as follows:
Number of shares in issue
2005 2004
Millions Millions
Basic weighted average 385.3 348.2
Potentially dilutive shares issuable under share option schemes 0.5 0.8
Estimated vesting of Restricted Share Plan shares 1.5 1.1
Diluted weighted average 387.3 350.1
12 Intangible assets
Positive Negative Other
goodwill goodwill intangibles Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 May 2004 188.1 (2.0) 11.7 197.8
Arising on acquisitions (see note 29) 3.5 (0.2) – 3.3
Exchange differences 0.4 – – 0.4
At 30 April 2005 192.0 (2.2) 11.7 201.5
Amortisation:
At 1 May 2004 10.5 (0.2) 1.9 12.2
Amortisation charge for the year 9.3 (0.1) 0.6 9.8
Impairment (see note 7) 5.8 – – 5.8
At 30 April 2005 25.6 (0.3) 2.5 27.8
Net book value:
At 30 April 2005 166.4 (1.9) 9.2 173.7
At 30 April 2004 177.6 (1.8) 9.8 185.6
The goodwill arising on acquisitions in the ﬁnancial year ended 30 April 2005 is being amortised over its estimated useful life up to a
maximum of 20 years. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associated undertakings is shown within ﬁxed asset investments in note 15. 
The amount arising on acquisitions includes an increase in goodwill of £1.8m relating to acquisitions completed in previous years related 
to fair value adjustments.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 53 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
13 Tangible ﬁxed assets
Group Company
Payments
on account
and assets
Land and buildings
Plant and in course of Plant and
Freehold Leasehold machinery construction Total machinery
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation:
At 1 May 2004 240.6 15.7 1,023.1 14.3 1,293.7 2.9
Exchange differences 0.4 0.1 1.6 – 2.1 –
Acquisitions 8.3 – 7.7 – 16.0 –
Capital expenditure 0.7 0.1 44.1 10.0 54.9 0.1
Disposals (0.3) (2.1) (11.4) – (13.8) –
Transfers 0.8 – 10.6 (11.4) – –
At 30 April 2005 250.5 13.8 1,075.7 12.9 1,352.9 3.0
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 May 2004 48.5 8.6 668.1 – 725.2 2.4
Exchange differences – – 1.1 – 1.1 –
Acquisitions 2.4 – 6.0 – 8.4 –
Charge for the ﬁnancial year 5.2 0.2 62.8 – 68.2 0.2
Disposals –(0.1)(10.3)–(10.4)–
At 30 April 2005 56.1 8.7 727.7 – 792.5 2.6
Net book value:
At 30 April 2005 194.4 5.1 348.0 12.9 560.4 0.4
At 30 April 2004 192.1 7.1 355.0 14.3 568.5 0.5
Freehold land amounting to £56.0m (2004: £53.1m) has not been depreciated. Substantially all the Group’s leasehold land and buildings
are long leasehold.
Tangible ﬁxed assets are stated at cost to the Group with the exception of certain freehold and leasehold land and buildings which 
are included at valuation as follows:
Freehold Leasehold
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Net book value:
Professionally valued in 1995 76.0 75.6 3.5 3.2
At cost 118.4 116.5 1.6 3.9
194.4 192.1 5.1 7.1
Included in plant and machinery are assets held under ﬁnance leases with a cost of £24.1m (2004: £24.5m) and a net book value of
£5.6m (2004: £6.6m).
54 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 14 Capital commitments
2005 2004
£m £m
Future capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed 5.2 4.3
15 Fixed asset investments
Group Company
Negative
goodwill Shares in
Associated on associated Other Group
undertakings undertakings investments Total undertakings Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 30 April 2004 as previously reported 25.0 (7.0) 13.0 31.0 740.5 3.7 744.2
Prior year adjustment (see note 26) – – (2.4) (2.4) – (2.4) (2.4)
At 30 April 2004 as restated 25.0 (7.0) 10.6 28.6 740.5 1.3 741.8
Additions –––– 221.0 – 221.0
Share of retained proﬁts 3.3 – – 3.3–––
Amortisation of goodwill – 0.4 – 0.4–––
Reversal of previous impairment 1.1 – – 1.1 – –
–
Repayment of loan from associate (1.0) – – (1.0) – – –
Disposals – – (0.5) (0.5) (2.5) – (2.5)
Exchange differences (3.0) – – (3.0) – – –
At 30 April 2005 25.4 (6.6) 10.1 28.9 959.0 1.3 960.3
The principal associated undertakings are:
Principal country Financial Group
Nature of business of operation year end Issued capital share %
OJSC Rubezhansk Paper Manufacturer of Ukraine 31 December 17,721,000 shares 39%*
and Packaging Mill paper and packaging of UAH 1.50 each
Grovehurst Energy Ltd Provision of energy England 31 December 100 shares 50%*
and other services of £1 each
Tri-Wall KK Supplier of industrial Japan 31 March 3,042 shares of 33.3%*
packaging and heavy Yen 50,000 each
duty corrugated cases
Foresco Golfkarton NV Fabricator of Belgium 31 December 39,000 shares of 35%*
corrugated cases €24.79 each
*indirectly held
In the year to 30 April 2005, the Group reassessed the conditions that led to a previous impairment of Tri-Wall KK (an associated
undertaking) and, consequent to Tri-Wall KK’s return to proﬁtability, reversed a provision of £1.1m as an exceptional item (see note 7). 
In addition, the Group recognised its share of operating proﬁt, interest and taxation from this associated undertaking, of £0.6m, resulting 
in a total amount of £1.7m being included in the 30 April 2005 balance sheet. 
The Company’s principal trading subsidiary undertakings at 30 April 2005 are shown in note 32.
16 Stocks
2005 2004
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 54.8 48.8
Work in progress 5.7 4.5
Finished goods 103.5 101.6
164.0 154.9
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 55 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
17 Debtors
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
(restated) (restated)
£m £m £m £m
(a) Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade debtors 320.4 312.1 – –
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 81.0 40.3
Amounts owed by associated undertakings 0.1 0.1 – –
Corporation tax 1.0 1.1 0.4 –
Other tax and social security 5.6 4.5 – –
Amounts receivable under ﬁnance leases 0.1 – – –
Other debtors 15.5 14.1 1.0 4.9
Prepayments and accrued income 14.1 13.2 0.1 0.1
356.8 345.1 82.5 45.3
(b) Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 288.7 459.9
Deferred tax asset – – 0.2 1.3
Amounts receivable under ﬁnance leases 0.2 – – –
Other debtors 0.8 1.4 – –
1.0 1.4 288.9 461.2
Total debtors 357.8 346.5 371.4 506.5
18 Creditors
Group Company
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
(a) Trade and other creditors falling due within one year:
Trade creditors 212.8 207.4 – –
Bills of exchange 24.7 21.3 – –
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 49.2 32.2
Corporation tax 18.7 20.4 – –
Other taxes and social security 31.5 23.8 1.4 0.8
Accruals and deferred income 60.4 66.9 6.3 10.6
Deferred consideration due in respect of acquisitions 0.4 – – –
Proposed dividend 22.4 21.7 22.4 21.7
370.9 361.5 79.3 65.3
(b) Borrowings falling due within one year:
Bank loans and overdrafts 24.0 38.4 7.9 44.4
Other loans 0.2 0.3 – –
Finance leases 0.9 1.0 – –
25.1 39.7 7.9 44.4
(c) Borrowings falling due after more than one year:
Bank loans 88.5 199.3 78.7 187.1
Loans from subsidiary undertakings – – 252.3 246.0
Other loans 203.6 94.5 203.0 93.9
Finance leases 2.0 2.8 – –
294.1 296.6 534.0 527.0
(d) Other creditors due after more than one year:
Other 2.4 2.4 – –
2.4 2.4 – –
Total creditors 692.5 700.2 621.2 636.7
56 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 57
19 Financial assets and liabilities (see also note 20)
2005 2004
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
(a) The Group’s net borrowings are:
Bank loans and overdrafts and other loans 316.3 306.4 332.5 326.1
Finance lease liabilities 2.9 2.9 3.8 3.8
Short-term investments (28.4) (28.4) (20.8) (20.8)
Cash at bank and in hand (30.4) (30.4) (40.8) (40.8)
260.4 250.5 274.7 268.3
Gearing (net borrowings expressed as a percentage of net assets including pension liability) 53.1% N/A 54.9% N/A
2005 2004
£m £m
(b) Bank loans and overdrafts and other loans are repayable as follows:
Due within one year 24.2 38.7
Due between one and two years 1.6 89.6
Due between two and ﬁve years 5.9 106.3
Due after ﬁve years 284.6 97.9
316.3 332.5
(c) Analysis of ﬁnance lease liabilities:
Due within one year 0.9 1.0
Due between one and two years 0.4 0.9
Due between two and ﬁve years 1.4 1.2
Due after ﬁve years 0.2 0.7
2.9 3.8
Lease payments:
Due within one year 1.1 1.2
Due after one year 2.3 3.3
3.4 4.5
Finance charges (0.5) (0.7)
2.9 3.8
Obligations under ﬁnance leases are secured on the assets to which they relate.
2005 2004
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
(d) The Group’s exposure to derivative ﬁnancial instruments 
may be summarised as follows:
Derivatives held to:
Hedge future transactions – foreign exchange on purchases and sales – (0.4) ––
Hedge future transactions – energy costs – 0.4 ––
Manage the interest rate and currency exposure of borrowings – (18.0) – (10.0)
Net liability – (18.0) – (10.0)
Forward foreign exchange contracts have been taken to hedge contractual commitments for the purchase of capital equipment and raw
materials and to hedge sales and purchase of goods and materials in foreign currencies. These contracts will have matured by July 2006.
During the year, the Group entered into swap contracts to hedge future energy costs; these contracts will have matured by September 2006.
Following the note purchase agreements in August 2004 (see note 20), the Group entered into 10-year and 12-year currency and interest
rate swap transactions in order to manage the interest rate and currency exposure arising from the additional note purchase agreements.
The fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments has been determined on the basis of third party valuations. Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
20 Interest and currency proﬁle of net borrowings
An explanation of the Group’s treasury policy is included in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 21. Short-term debtors and creditors have
been omitted from the disclosures presented below. The currency and interest rate exposure of the Group’s net borrowings was:
Sterling Euro Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 30 April 2005
Borrowings:
Floating rate 9.0 214.6 14.5 238.1
Fixed rate 80.2 0.4 0.5 81.1
89.2 215.0 15.0 319.2
Cash and short-term investments
Floating rate (3.0) (31.9) (19.0) (53.9)
Fixed rate – (1.2) (3.7) (4.9)
(3.0) (33.1) (22.7) (58.8)
Net borrowings at 30 April 2005 86.2 181.9 (7.7) 260.4
At 30 April 2004
Borrowings:
Floating rate 105.1 168.0 18.7 291.8
Fixed rate 43.3 0.5 0.7 44.5
148.4 168.5 19.4 336.3
Cash and short-term investments:
Floating rate (10.8) (19.9) (13.5) (44.2)
Fixed rate – (11.5) (5.9) (17.4)
(10.8) (31.4) (19.4) (61.6)
Net borrowings at 30 April 2004 137.6 137.1 – 274.7
At 30 April 2005, 69.9% (2003/04: 49.9%) of the Group’s net borrowings were denominated in euros in order to hedge the underlying
assets of the Group’s relevant continental European operations. 
Interest rates on ﬂoating rate borrowings are based on LIBOR, EURIBOR or base rates. Fixed rate borrowings comprise mortgages, ﬁnance
leases and borrowings ﬁxed by interest rate swaps.
In April 2005, the Group entered into a syndicated revolving credit facility of £250m, which expires on 31 May 2010. Advances drawn
down under this facility bear interest at a margin over LIBOR or EURIBOR.
In November 2002, the Group entered into a note purchase agreement with a number of institutions that purchased US$105m of 6.24%
senior notes and £25m of 6.85% senior notes, which will mature on 14 November 2012. The Group entered into a swap transaction 
with a bank counterparty under which it made a payment of US$80m in return for an equivalent amount denominated in euros. The swap
counterparty also agreed to pay ﬁxed rate dollar interest of 6.24% per annum in exchange for ﬂoating euro rate interest at rates linked to
EURIBOR. The proceeds of the swap, €81.6m, or £55.2m at rates prevailing on 30 April 2005, are shown as other loans due after ﬁve
years. In addition, swap counterparties also agreed to pay ﬁxed rate dollar interest of 6.24% per annum on a principal amount of $25m 
in exchange for ﬂoating dollar interest linked to dollar LIBOR and ﬁxed rate sterling interest of 6.85% per annum on a principal of £25m 
in exchange for ﬂoating sterling interest linked to sterling LIBOR.
In August 2004, the Group entered into a further note purchase agreement with a number of institutions that purchased US$105m of 5.66%
senior notes and US$95m of 5.80% senior notes, which will mature on 25 August 2014 and 25 August 2016, respectively. The Group
entered into swap transactions with a bank counterparty under which it made payments of US$105m and US$20m in return for equivalent
amounts denominated in euros, and a payment of $75m in return for an equivalent amount denominated in sterling. The swap counterparty
agreed to pay ﬁxed rate dollar interest of 5.66% per annum and 5.80% per annum, respectively, in exchange for ﬂoating euro rate interest
at rates linked to EURIBOR and ﬁxed rate dollar interest of 5.80% per annum in exchange for ﬁxed rate sterling interest at rates of 6.21%
per annum. The proceeds of the swaps, €103.0m and £40.8m, or a total of £110.4m at rates prevailing on 30 April 2005, are shown as
other loans due after ﬁve years. 
58 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 20 Interest and currency proﬁle of net borrowings continued
Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available at 30 April 2005 were as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Expiring within one year 13.5 10.5
Expiring between one and two years 14.9 25.2
Expiring between two and ﬁve years – 165.1
Expiring in more than ﬁve years 172.6 0.9
201.0 201.7
Bank loans, other loans and overdrafts of certain subsidiaries of £12m are secured over the assets of these companies.
21 Currency analysis of net assets
2005 2004 (restated)
Net assets Net assets
excluding excluding
gross Gross gross Gross
borrowings borrowings Net assets borrowings borrowings Net assets
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling 473.4 (89.2) 384.2 533.7 (148.4) 385.3
Euro 299.5 (215.0) 84.5 269.7 (168.5) 101.2
Other 36.4 (15.0) 21.4 33.1 (19.4) 13.7
809.3 (319.2) 490.1 836.5 (336.3) 500.2
Currency exposures giving rise to currency gains and losses in the Group’s proﬁt and loss account are not material.
22 Other ﬁnancial commitments
Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and buildings Plant and machinery
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Expiring within one year 1.0 1.4 1.7 1.2
Expiring between one and ﬁve years 3.8 4.4 8.6 5.4
Expiring after ﬁve years 7.3 7.8 0.7 4.5
12.1 13.6 11.0 11.1
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 59 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
23 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Group Company
Deferred Deferred
taxation Other Total taxation Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 May 2004 as previously reported 79.3 15.8 95.1 3.2 3.7 6.9
Prior year adjustment (see note 26) (4.5) – (4.5) (3.2) – (3.2)
At 1 May 2004 as restated 74.8 15.8 90.6 – 3.7 3.7
Transfers and fair value adjustments (see note below) 1.3 (5.5) (4.2) – (3.5) (3.5)
Provided 0.9 2.3 3.2 – 0.1 0.1
Utilised (5.4) (3.5) (8.9) – – –
At 30 April 2005 71.6 9.1 80.7 – 0.3 0.3
Other provisions mainly relate to reorganisation and redundancy costs and provisions for vacant leasehold properties. Provisions relating 
to reorganisation and redundancy costs are expected to be utilised during the next year.
Transfers and fair value adjustments comprise: a transfer of £4.2m (see note 6) and the associated deferred tax of £1.3m to the net pension
liability; and fair value adjustments related to the ﬁnalisation of goodwill on the acquisition of Linpac Containers.
Deferred taxation is analysed as follows:
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 68.2 67.3
Other timing differences 3.4 7.5
71.6 74.8
The analysis of deferred taxation excludes additional taxation payable:
(i) on capital gains which may arise if land and buildings were sold for the amounts at which they are carried in the Group’s balance 
sheet as, in the opinion of the Directors, such properties will be retained for use in the business or, if sold, would be replaced by similar
assets; and
(ii) in the event of the proﬁts of overseas subsidiary undertakings being distributed, where there is no intention to make such distributions.
24 Share capital
Number of shares
2005 2004 2005 2004
Millions Millions £m £m
Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each:
Authorised 410.0 410.0 41.0 41.0
Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 389.1 387.3 38.9 38.7
Shares issued during the year to 30 April 2005 and the consideration received were:
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Nominal Share Total
Value premium consideration
’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Reason for issue:
Executive options (see note 25) 244 24 316 340
Savings Related Option Scheme (see note 25) 1,612 161 2,065 2,226
60 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 25 Share options
During the year ended 30 April 2005, the following options were granted:
Number of shares Option price (range) Date exercisable
Executive Share Option Scheme (1999) 1,438,850 157.0p – 158.0p July 2007 – July 2014
Restricted Share Plan 527,590 Nil August 2007 – July 2011
Long-Term Incentive Plan 1,556,332 Nil September 2007
At 30 April 2005, the following options were outstanding:
Number of shares Option price (range) Date exercisable
Executive Share Option Scheme (1992) 3,099,209 164.8p – 306.3p August 1998 – July 2009
Executive Share Option Scheme (1999) 7,717,048 135.2p – 159.5p October 2002 – July 2014
1999 Savings Related Option Scheme 1,122,641 138.1p – 160.9p January 2005 – June 2005
Restricted Share Plan 1,749,797 Nil August 2001 – July 2011
Long-Term Incentive Plan 1,556,332 Nil September 2007
Further details of the Company’s share option schemes, together with details of performance criteria, are contained in the Report on
Remuneration on pages 30 to 36.
26 Reserves
Share
Proﬁt and loss account
premium Revaluation Own
account reserve shares (iii) Other Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 May 2004 as previously reported 254.6 8.5 – 260.2 260.2
Prior year adjustments (i) – – (2.8) (64.8) (67.6)
At 1 May 2004 as restated 254.6 8.5 (2.8) 195.4 192.6
Premium arising on shares issued under option schemes 2.4––––
Retained proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year – – – 6.6 6.6
Net purchase of own shares – – (1.9) – (1.9)
Actuarial losses on pension schemes (see note 6) – – – (31.2) (31.2)
Movement on deferred tax relating to actuarial losses on pension schemes – – – 9.5 9.5
Share-based payments – – – 2.6 2.6
Transfer between reserves – (0.5) – 0.5 0.5
Exchange differences (ii) – (0.1) – (0.2) (0.2)
At 30 April 2005 257.0 7.9 (4.7) 183.2 178.5
At 30 April 2005, the cumulative goodwill written off against the proﬁt and loss account reserve for businesses acquired prior to 2 May
1998 was £156.0m (2004: £156.0m).
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 61 26 Reserves continued
Share
Proﬁt and loss account
premium Acquisition Capital Own
account reserve reserve shares (iii) Other Total
Company £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 May 2004 as previously reported 254.6 88.1 50.0 – 189.9 189.9
Prior year adjustments (i) – – – (2.8) (64.8) (67.6)
At 1 May 2004 as restated 254.6 88.1 50.0 (2.8) 125.1 122.3
Premium arising on shares issued under option schemes 2.4–––––
Retained proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year –––– 98.9 98.9
Net purchase of own shares – – – (1.9) – (1.9)
Actuarial losses on pension schemes –––– (27.8) (27.8)
Tax on actuarial losses on pension schemes –––– 8.4 8.4
Share-based payments –––– 2.6 2.6
At 30 April 2005 257.0 88.1 50.0 (4.7) 207.2 202.5
The Company made a proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year of £131.2m (2004: £10.2m) including the recognition of intra-group dividends.
No separate proﬁt and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by Section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985. 
The Company’s proﬁt and loss account includes an amount of £126.6m (2004: £126.6m) which is considered non-distributable.
(i) Prior year adjustments are explained below:
(a) Adoption of FRS 17
The charge as a result of the adoption of FRS 17 relative to the charge that would have arisen under SSAP 24 has resulted in a decrease 
of operating costs of £3.9m (2004: increase of £13.4m) and an increase in other ﬁnance income of £1.4m (2004: decrease of £3.2m), 
a decrease in the tax charge of £1.6m (2004: £5.0m), an increase in proﬁt for the year of £3.7m (2004: decrease of £11.6m) and a
decrease in total gains and losses of £21.7m (2004: increase of £43.7m). In addition, the adoption of FRS 17 had the following balance
sheet effects at 30 April 2004: it reduced prepayments in debtors by £15.0m; it reduced deferred taxes in provisions by £4.5m; and
included a pension liability (net of deferred taxes) of £54.7m.
(b) Adoption of UITF 38
The adoption of UITF Abstract 38 has given rise to a prior year adjustment to the opening proﬁt and loss account of £2.4m shown as 
a £2.8m reduction of reserves under ‘own shares’ and and a £0.4m addition, under ‘other’, included in the £64.8m amount above. This
represents: the deduction of the gross cost of shares of £2.8m from the proﬁt and loss account, shown separately as ‘own shares’ in the
table above; and the reversal of a provision of £0.4m charged through the proﬁt and loss account in 1999 to recognise an impairment in
the carrying value of own shares held by the General Employee Beneﬁt Trust. The gross cost of the shares less the provision was previously
recorded in investments.
(c) Analysis of prior year adjustments
Group and Company
FRS17 UITF38 Total
£m £m £m
Adjustment to opening reserve at 1 May 2003 (97.3) (1.7) (99.0)
Adjustment to proﬁt and loss account for the year ended 30 April 2004 (11.6) – (11.6)
Adjustment to proﬁt and loss reserve – (0.7) (0.7)
Adjustment to total recognised gains and losses for the year ended 30 April 2004 43.7 – 43.7
(65.2) (2.4) (67.6)
(ii) Exchange differences include an exchange gain of £1.7m (2004: gain of £3.7m) on net foreign currency borrowings, offset by losses
arising on the Group’s equity investment in foreign subsidiary and associated undertakings. 
(iii) The Group operates a General Employee Beneﬁt Trust, which acquires shares in the Company that can be used to satisfy the
requirements of the Executive Share Option Scheme, the Restricted Share Plan (discontinued in 2004) and the Long-Term Incentive Plan
(established in 2004). At 30 April 2005, the Trust held 3.0m shares (2004: 1.7m). The market value of the shares at 30 April 2005
was £4.5m (2004: £2.9m). Dividends receivable on the shares owned by the Trust have been waived.
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
62 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 63
27 Group cash ﬂow statement
2005 2004
(restated)
£m £m
(a) Reconciliation of operating proﬁt to net cash inﬂow from operating activities:
Group operating proﬁt before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles 83.9 75.4
Exceptional cash costs (2.5) –
Depreciation 68.2 64.5
Proﬁt on sale of tangible ﬁxed assets (1.8) (4.0)
(Increase)/decrease in stocks (9.1) 2.7
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (9.5) 7.0
Increase/(decrease) in creditors 11.5 (16.7)
Decrease in provisions (3.3) (0.9)
Other non-cash operating items 1.9 3.8
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 139.3 131.8
(b) Net (purchase)/sale of short-term investments (6.9) 4.3
Short-term investments mainly comprise deposits with banks.
28 Analysis of changes in net debt
At 30 April Exchange At 30 April
2004 Cash ﬂow movements 2005
£m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 40.8 (11.2) 0.8 30.4
Overdrafts (29.8) 12.3 0.2 (17.3)
11.0 1.1 1.0 13.1
Debt due after one year (293.8) 1.7 – (292.1)
Debt due within one year (8.9) 2.0 – (6.9)
Finance leases (3.8) 0.9 – (2.9)
(306.5) 4.6 – (301.9)
Short-term investments 20.8 6.9 0.7 28.4
Total (274.7) 12.6 1.7 (260.4)
The net decrease in debt and lease ﬁnancing arising from cash ﬂows in the year was as follows: 
2005 2005
£m £m
Debt due within one year:
Repayment of short-term loans (2.0)
Debt due after one year:
Repayment of bridging loan facility for the acquisition of Linpac Containers (69.0)
Repayment of long-term loans (43.1)
New debt from note purchase agreements 110.4
(1.7)
Finance leases:
Capital element of ﬁnance lease payment (0.9)
Net cash ﬂow from debt and lease ﬁnancing (4.6) Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
29 Acquisitions and disposals
The Group acquired BPB Recycling, a recovered paper collection business, from BPB plc in August 2004, for consideration of £9.4m. 
The book amount of assets acquired were: tangible ﬁxed assets, £6.5m; and working capital, £1.7m. A fair value adjustment of £1.4m 
was made to increase the book amount of land and buildings in ﬁxed assets, and negative goodwill of £0.2m arose.
The Group completed the process of assessing the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired as part of the acquisition of Linpac Containers
Group in the year to 30 April 2004. The adjustments, none of which was signiﬁcant, resulted in additional goodwill of £1.8m.
Fair value adjustments on other acquisitions are not signiﬁcant. Goodwill associated with these and other ﬁnalisations of fair value
adjustments totalled £1.7m.
30 Related party transactions
2005 2004
£m £m
Sales to associated undertakings on normal trading terms 2.4 1.9
Purchases from associated undertakings on normal trading terms 28.3 25.2
Amounts due from associated undertakings (including loans) 3.4 3.4
31 Contingent liabilities
Guarantees to third parties amount to £34.8m (2004: £22.7m). The Group and the Company has guaranteed certain future operating
commitments of its associated undertaking, Grovehurst Energy Ltd (see note 15). The Company has guaranteed the gross overdrafts and
loans of certain subsidiary undertakings which at 30 April 2005 amounted to £203.2m (2004: £130.7m). Other guarantees to third
parties amount to £11.6m (2004: £5.6m).
32 Subsidiary undertakings
The Company’s principal trading subsidiary undertakings as at 30 April 2005 are:
Percentage of issued Country of 
ordinary share capital incorporation
held by DS Smith Plc or registration
Packaging
St Regis Paper Company Ltd 100% England
DS Smith Packaging Ltd 100%* England
DS Smith Plastics Ltd 100%* England
Kaysersberg Packaging S.A.S. 100%* France
DS Smith Packaging Poland SA 98%* Poland
Toscana Ondulati SpA 65%* Italy
Çopikas AS 100%* Turkey
Cartón Plástico s.a. 100%* Spain
DW Plastics NV 100%* Belgium
Ducaplast SAS 100%* France
Demes Logistics GmbH & Co KG 100%* Germany
David S. Smith America Inc. 100%* USA
DSS Rapak Inc. 100%* USA
StePac L.A. Ltd 90%* Israel
Rapak GmbH & Co KG Systemverpackungen 100%* Germany
A. A. Griggs & Co. Ltd 100%* England
Ofﬁce Products
Spicers Ltd 100% England
Spicers (Ireland) Ltd 100%* Ireland
Spicers France SAS 100%* France
John Dickinson Stationery Ltd 100% England
John Dickinson Stationery (Ireland) Ltd 100%* Ireland
*indirectly held by DS Smith Plc
A complete list of subsidiary companies will be included in the next annual return.
64 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Five Year Financial Summary
Reported under SSAP 24
4
Reported under FRS 17
4
Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
29 April 28 April 30 April 30 April 30 April
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
(restated)
£m £m £m £m £m
Turnover
Paper and Corrugated Packaging 716.9 720.5 747.0 748.9 896.9
Plastic Packaging 146.3 171.9 195.0 208.7 195.9
Packaging 863.2 892.4 942.0 957.6 1,092.8
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling 485.0 500.5 495.6 498.8 499.7
Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing 71.4 66.7 59.7 48.0 46.8
Intra-segment (20.5) (19.4) (18.3) (15.9) (14.4)
Ofﬁce Products 535.9 547.8 537.0 530.9 532.1
Group Turnover 1,399.1 1,440.2 1,479.0 1,488.5 1,624.9
Operating Proﬁt
1, 4
Paper and Corrugated Packaging 51.5 51.2 53.1 41.4 52.3
Plastic Packaging 8.7 12.7 14.7 14.0 9.9
Packaging 60.2 63.9 67.8 55.4 62.2
Ofﬁce Products Wholesaling 24.4 9.7 16.2 19.7 21.7
Ofﬁce Products Manufacturing 0.3 (1.6) 4.0 0.3 –
Ofﬁce Products 24.7 8.1 20.2 20.0 21.7
Group Operating Proﬁt
1, 4
84.9 72.0 88.0 75.4 83.9
Associated undertakings
1
(0.2) 2.2 2.6 3.0 4.1
Interest (12.5) (11.6) (10.9) (10.4) (13.0)
Other ﬁnance (expense)/income
4
– – – (3.2) 1.1
Proﬁt before taxation, exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
4
72.2 62.6 79.7 64.8 76.1
Exceptional items (4.3) (32.4) (8.5) – (9.6)
Amortisation of intangibles (1.1) (1.4) (2.2) (3.6) (9.4)
Proﬁt before taxation
4
66.8 28.8 69.0 61.2 57.1
Free cash ﬂow 22.8 73.5 60.2 63.0 55.4
Capital expenditure 75.8 74.8 57.4 49.8 54.9
Depreciation 60.4 63.6 62.2 64.5 68.2
Average capital employed
2
743.1 783.3 775.5 789.3 935.0
Shareholders’ funds
4
446.2 438.9 472.9 494.4 482.3
Net borrowings 193.4 195.9 202.3 274.7 260.4
Adjusted return on sales
1, 4
6.1% 5.0% 5.9% 5.1% 5.2%
Adjusted return on average capital employed
1, 4
11.4% 9.2% 11.3% 9.6% 9.0%
Gearing
4
43.3% 44.6% 42.8% 54.9% 53.1%
Adjusted earnings per share
1, 3, 4
14.1p 13.1p 16.8p 13.6p 14.7p
Dividends per share
3
8.2p 8.2p 8.2p 8.2p 8.4p
Dividend cover
4
1.7x 1.6x 2.0x 1.5x 1.7x
Net assets per share
3, 4
129.7p 127.5p 137.0p 129.2p 126.0p
1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles
2 average capital employed is deﬁned in note1 on page 46
3 adjusted for the bonus element of the rights issue which took place during the year ended 30 April 2005
4 proﬁt and proﬁt-related ﬁgures for the ﬁnancial years 2003/04 and 2004/05 are not comparable with those for the previous three years. Results for 2000/01, 2001/02 and 2002/03 were reported under
previous accounting standard SSAP 24 and there is no pension charge in any of these years; results for 2003/04 and 2004/05 are stated under pensions accounting standard FRS 17 and include a pension
charge. Shareholders’ funds, gearing and net assets per share for the ﬁnancial years 2003/04 and 2004/5 are presented under UITF 38 and include holdings of own shares as a reduction of shareholders’
funds; those for 2001/01, 2001/02 and 2002/03 include holdings of own shares as investments
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 65 66 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Notice of Annual General Meeting 2005
Notice is hereby given that the Annual
General Meeting of DS Smith Plc will be
held at the Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool
Street, London EC2M 7QN, on Wednesday 
7 September 2005 at 12 noon to consider 
and, if thought fit, pass the following
resolutions, of which Resolutions 1 to 8 
will be proposed as ordinary resolutions 
and Resolutions 9, 10 and 11 will be
proposed as special resolutions:
1 To receive and adopt the Directors’
Report, the Auditors’ Report and 
financial statements for the year ended
30 April 2005.
2 To declare a final dividend on the 
ordinary shares.
3 To approve the Report on Remuneration.
4 To re-elect Mr A P Hichens as a Director
of the Company.
5 To re-elect Mr D R Piette as a Director 
of the Company.
6 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as
Auditors of the Company.
7 To authorise the Directors to determine
the remuneration of the Auditors.
8 That:
(a) in accordance with article 6 of the
Articles of Association of the Company,
the Directors be authorised to allot
relevant securities up to a maximum
nominal amount of £10,897,359;
(b) this authority shall expire at the
conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting to be held in 2006 or, if earlier,
6 December 2006 save that the Company
shall be entitled under such authority to
honour at any time before expiry thereof
any commitment to allot its ordinary
shares which will or might be concluded
wholly or partly after the expiry of such
authority; and
(c) all previous authorities under 
Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 
be revoked.
9 That:
(a) in accordance with article 7 of the
Articles of Association of the Company,
the Directors be given power to allot
equity securities for cash;
(b) the Directors be empowered to allot
equity securities within Section 94(3A) 
of the Companies Act 1985 as if Section
89(1) of the Act did not apply;
(c) the powers under paragraph (a) above
(other than in connection with a rights
issue) and paragraph (b) above shall 
be limited to the allotment of equity
securities having a maximum nominal
amount of £1,945,957; 
(d) these authorities shall expire at 
the conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting to be held in 2006 or, if earlier, 
6 December 2006 save that the Company
shall be entitled under such authorities to
honour at any time before expiry thereof
any commitment to allot its ordinary
shares which will or might be concluded
wholly or partly after the expiry of such
authority; and
(e) all previous authorities under 
Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 
be revoked.
10 That in accordance with article 11 of the
Articles of Association of the Company
and the Companies Act 1985, the
Company is generally and unconditionally
authorised to make market purchases
(within the meaning of the Companies
Act 1985) of ordinary shares of 10p each
in the capital of the Company in such
manner and on such terms as the
Directors may from time to time
determine provided that:
(a) the maximum number of ordinary
shares hereby authorised to be purchased
is 38,914,411 ordinary shares;
(b) the minimum price which may be paid 
for each ordinary share is 10p (exclusive
of expenses payable by the Company);
(c) the maximum price which may be
paid for each ordinary share is an amount
equal to 105% of the average of the
middle market quotations for an ordinary
share as derived from the London Stock
Exchange Daily Official List for the five
business days immediately preceding the
date of any such purchase (exclusive of
expenses payable by the Company); and 
(d) the authority hereby conferred shall,
unless previously varied, revoked or
renewed, expire on 6 December 2006 or,
if earlier, at the conclusion of the next
Annual General Meeting of the Company,
save that the Company shall be entitled
under such authority to make at any time
before the expiry thereof any contract to
purchase its ordinary shares which will or
might be concluded wholly or partly after
the expiry of such authority.
11 That the regulations set out in the printed
document submitted to the Meeting and
for the purpose of identification initialled
by the Chairman be adopted as the
Articles of Association of the Company 
in substitution for all existing articles of
association of the Company.
By Order of the Board
Carolyn Cattermole
Secretary
4-16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
21 July 2005 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 67
Notes
(i) Only those Members registered in the
Register of Members of the Company 
as at 6 pm on 5 September 2005 shall be
entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting
in respect of the number of shares
registered in their names at that time.
(ii) A Member entitled to attend and vote at 
the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or
more Proxies to attend and, on a poll, to
vote instead of him. A Proxy need not be 
a Member of the Company.
(iii) A Form of Proxy is enclosed. To be
effective, Forms of Proxy must reach the
Registrars at the address shown on the
Form not later than 48 hours before the
time of the Meeting. Completion and
return of the Form will not, however,
prevent a Member from attending and
voting at the Meeting.
(iv) CREST Members who wish to 
appoint a proxy or proxies through the
CREST electronic proxy appointment
service may do so for the Meeting to 
be held on 7 September 2005 and any
adjournment(s) thereof by using the
procedures described in the CREST
Manual. CREST personal Members or
other CREST sponsored Members, and
those CREST Members who have
appointed a voting service provider(s),
should refer to their CREST sponsor or
voting service provider(s), who will be
able to take the appropriate action on
their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or
instruction made using the CREST
service to be valid, the appropriate
CREST message (a ‘CREST Proxy
Instruction’) must be properly
authenticated in accordance with
CRESTCo’s specifications and must 
contain the information required for such
instructions, as described in the CREST
Manual. The message, regardless of
whether it constitutes the appointment 
of a proxy or an amendment to the
instruction given to a previously
appointed proxy must, in order to be
valid, be transmitted so as to be received
by the issuer’s agent (ID 7RA01) by 
the latest time for receipt of proxy
appointments specified in (iii) above. 
For this purpose, the time of receipt 
will be taken to be the time (as
determined by the timestamp applied to
the message by the CREST Applications
Host) from which the issuer’s agent is
able to retrieve the message by enquiry
to CREST in the manner prescribed by
CREST. After this time any change of
instructions to proxies appointed through
CREST should be communicated to the
appointee through other means.
CREST Members and, where applicable,
their CREST sponsors or voting service
providers should note that CRESTCo
does not make available special
procedures in CREST for any particular
messages. Normal system timings 
and limitations will therefore apply in
relation to the input of CREST Proxy
Instructions. It is the responsibility of 
the CREST Member concerned to take
(or, if the CREST Member is a CREST
personal Member or sponsored Member
or has appointed a voting service
provider(s), to procure that his CREST
sponsor or voting service provider(s)
take(s)) such action as shall be necessary
to ensure that a message is transmitted 
by means of the CREST system by 
any particular time. In this connection,
CREST Members and, where applicable,
their CREST sponsors or voting service
providers are referred, in particular, to
those sections of the CREST Manual
concerning practical limitations of the
CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid 
a CREST Proxy Instruction in the
circumstances set out in Regulation 
35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities
Regulations 2001. 
(v) Copies of the following documents 
will be available for inspection at the
Registered Office and at the offices of
Allen & Overy LLP, One New Change,
London, EC4M 9QQ during normal
business hours and at the place of 
the Meeting from 11.45 am until 
its conclusion: 
(a) Service contracts of the Executive 
Directors;
(b) Letters of appointment of the 
non-Executive Directors;
(c) Articles of Association; and
(d) Proposed new Articles of Association.
(vi) The Chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination
Committees will be available to answer
relevant questions at the Meeting.
Explanatory notes on the resolutions
Resolution 1:
Report and financial statements
The Directors present to shareholders at 
the Annual General Meeting the Reports of
the Directors and Auditors and the financial
statements of the Company for the year 
ended 30 April 2005. These are contained 
in the Annual Report.
Resolution 2: 
Declaration of a final dividend
Final dividends declared by shareholders
must not exceed the amount recommended 
by the Directors. By passing Resolution 2,
shareholders will declare a final dividend.
The amount of the final dividend
recommended by the Directors is 5.8p 
net per ordinary share.
Resolution 3:
Approval of Report on Remuneration
As required by the Directors’ Remuneration
Report Regulations 2002, shareholder approval 
is sought for the Report on Remuneration set
out on pages 30 to 36. 68 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Notice of Annual General Meeting 2005
continued
Resolutions 4 and 5: 
Re-election of Directors
The Articles of Association of the Company
require that all Directors retire at least 
once every three years but are eligible to
submit themselves for re-election by the
shareholders. The Directors who retire at 
each Annual General Meeting are those who
would otherwise have served for over three
years without re-election by the date of the
following Annual General Meeting.
Mr Hichens will retire and, being eligible,
offers himself for re-election at this year’s
Annual General Meeting. Mr Hichens is
Chairman of the Nomination Committee. 
Mr Piette is submitting himself for 
re-election as he has served more than 
three terms of appointment.
A biography of each Director, including 
those seeking re-election, appears on page 
26 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 6 and 7: 
Re-appointment of Auditors
The auditors of a company must be re-
appointed at each general meeting at which
accounts are presented. Resolution 6 proposes
the re-appointment of the Company’s existing
Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, until the next
Annual General Meeting. Resolution 7 gives
authority to the Directors to determine the
Auditors’ remuneration.
Resolution 8:
Directors’ authority to allot shares
Authority was granted to the Directors at last
year’s Annual General Meeting, pursuant to
Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, to
allot shares in the Company without the prior
consent of shareholders for a period of five
years. Resolution 8, which will be proposed
as an ordinary resolution, will, if passed, 
give the Directors renewed authority to allot
shares up to a maximum nominal value of
£10,897,359 (representing 28 per cent of the
issued share capital of the Company at 29
June 2005).
Other than in connection with any exercise 
of options under the Group’s employee 
share option schemes, the Directors have no
present intention of exercising the allotment
authority proposed by this Resolution. To
ensure compliance with recently published
institutional guidelines and market practice, 
it is proposed that the authority will expire 
at the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting, or, if earlier, on 6 December 2006,
except in so far as commitments to allot
shares have been entered into before that date.
It is the present intention of the Directors to
seek a similar authority annually.
Resolution 9: 
Directors’ power to disapply 
pre-emption rights
This Resolution, which will be proposed as a
special resolution, supplements the Directors’
authority to allot shares in the Company
(proposed by Resolution 8).
Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985
requires a company proposing to allot equity
securities for cash to offer them first to
existing shareholders pro rata to their existing
shareholdings. Authority was granted to the
Directors at last year’s Annual General
Meeting and the Directors propose to seek
shareholders’ approval to renew this authority,
pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act
1985, to allot such securities, notwithstanding
the requirement imposed by Section 89, in
two cases:
– in connection with a rights issue; and 
– allotments of shares for cash up to a total
nominal value of £1,945,957 (representing
5 per cent of the Company’s issued share
capital at 29 June 2005) although it is not
intended without prior consultation with the
investment committee of the Association of
British Insurers to issue or transfer in this
way more than 7.5% of the share capital 
in a rolling three year period. This gives 
the Directors flexibility to take advantage 
of business opportunities as they arise,
including the sale of any shares the
Company has purchased and held in
treasury, whilst the 5 per cent limit ensures
that existing shareholders’ interests are
protected, and is in line with guidelines
issued by institutional investors’ bodies.
To comply with recent guidelines this
authority will expire at the conclusion of the
next Annual General Meeting, or, if earlier,
on 6 December 2006, except in so far as
commitments to allot shares have been
entered into before that date. It is the present
intention of the Directors to seek a similar
authority annually.
Resolution 10:
Company’s authority to purchase shares
This Resolution, which will be proposed as a
special resolution, seeks to renew the existing
authority for the Company to purchase its own
shares in the market. This authority gives the
Company greater flexibility in managing its
capital resources. The Directors have no
specific intention of using this authority and
would do so only when, in the light of market
conditions, they believed that the effect of
such purchases would be to increase earnings
per share, and that the purchases were in the
interests of shareholders generally. The
Directors would also give careful consideration
to gearing levels of the Company and its
general financial position. The purchase price
would be paid out of distributable profits. 
Resolution 10 specifies the maximum number 
of shares which may be purchased
(representing 10 per cent of the Company’s
issued share capital at 30 April 2005), the
minimum and maximum prices at which they
may be bought and when the authority will
expire, reflecting the requirements of the
Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules 
of the FSA. 
The maximum price at which the shares 
may be purchased is 5 per cent above the
average of the middle market values of those
shares for the five business days before the
purchase is made.
Purchases of shares under the proposed
authority are required by the FSA to be 
made in compliance with The Model Code.
Accordingly, the Company would not
exercise the authority at a time when the
Directors would be precluded from dealing 
in the Company’s shares. Specifically,
purchases would not be made within the 
60 days preceding the announcement of 
the interim or final results. This proposal
should not be taken as an indication that 
the Company would purchase shares at any DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 69
particular price or to imply any opinion on
the part of the Directors as to the market or
other value of the Company’s ordinary shares.
The Companies (Acquisition of Own Shares)
(Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003 enable
certain listed companies to hold shares in
treasury, as an alternative to cancelling them,
following a purchase of own shares by the
Company in accordance with the Companies
Act 1985. Shares held in treasury may
subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or
used to satisfy share options and share awards
under the Company’s share schemes. Once
held in treasury, the Company is not entitled
to exercise any rights, including the right 
to attend and vote at meetings in respect 
of those shares. Further, no dividend or
distribution of the Company’s assets may 
be made to the Company in respect of those
shares whilst held in treasury.
Accordingly, if the Directors exercise 
the authority conferred by Resolution 10, 
the Company will have the option of 
holding those shares in treasury rather than
cancelling them.
The total number of ordinary shares that are
under option through the Company’s share 
option schemes at 29 June 2005 (being the
latest practicable date prior to publication 
of this notice) is 11,550,496 of which
10,267,415 are options over unissued
ordinary shares. The proportion of issued
ordinary share capital that the options over
unissued ordinary shares represented on this
date was 2.64% and the proportion of issued
ordinary share capital that they will represent
if the full authority to purchase shares
(existing and being sought) is used is 2.40%.
The authority will expire on 6 December
2006 or at the conclusion of the next Annual
General Meeting (whichever is the earlier). 
It is the present intention of the Directors to
seek a similar authority annually.
Resolution 11:
Adoption of new Articles of Association
This Resolution, which will be proposed 
as a special resolution, adopts new Articles 
of Association in place of the existing 
Articles of Association.
The following is a summary of the principal
changes proposed to be contained in the 
new Articles of Association of the Company.
Other minor wording and administrative
changes have been made to bring the Articles
of Association in line with current best
practice and the Listing Rules of the UK
Listing Authority and these changes require
no further explanation. A copy of the new
Articles of Association of the Company is
available for inspection at the addresses
specified in the Notice of Annual General
Meeting of the Company.
Article 2 – (Interpretation)
This article includes a new definition of
‘relevant system’ and amended definition of
‘Statutes’ in order to bring it in line with the
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Following the introduction of legislation
relating to treasury shares, a new definition 
of ‘treasury shares’ is added. In addition, this
article makes it clear that references relating
to rights attaching to any shares, Members’
right to attend and vote at general meetings,
any distribution of the Company’s assets to
Members or interests in proportion of the
issued share capital, shall be construed as
though any treasury shares had been cancelled,
unless expressly provided by legislation.
Article 7 – (Dis-application of 
pre-emption rights)
The additions in article 7 stem from the
legislation in relation to treasury shares. 
In particular, the definition of ‘allotment of
equity securities’ has been amended pursuant
to the Companies (Acquisition of Own
Shares) (Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003
to include the sale of treasury shares for cash.
Article 25 – (Uncertificated shares – 
general powers)
Article 25 now contains two additional
powers of the Company in relation to
uncertificated shares. First, the Company may
require the holder of an uncertificated share,
by notice, to change the form of such share 
to certificated form within a stipulated period.
Second, the Company may, by notice to 
the holder of any share in certificated form,
direct that the form of such share may not be
changed to uncertificated form for a period
specified in that notice.
Article 26 – (Disclosure of interests in shares)
Article 26 now allows the Company to
exercise any of its powers under article 25 
in respect of any default shares in
uncertificated form.
Article 37 – (Amendments to resolutions)
In the case of a resolution to be proposed as
an ordinary resolution no amendment may be
made unless notice of the intention to move
the amendment is received at the Registered
Office at least 48 hours before the time fixed
for the holding of the relevant meeting. The
required period for receipt of intention of
amendment has been reduced from 5 days 
to 48 hours.
Article 50 – (Appointment of a proxy)
Article 50 includes a new provision allowing
the Board, in relation to uncertificated shares, 
to approve the appointment of a proxy by
means of an electronic communication in the
form of an uncertificated proxy instruction.
The new provision is based on specimen
wording published by CREST Company
Limited and is specific to the CREST proxy
voting launched on 20 January 2003.
Article 55 – (Age of Directors)
New article 55 has been included in the
Articles of Association in order to eliminate
any age restrictions on the appointment or 
re-election of Directors. Directors who reach
the age of 70 will put themselves up for 
re-election on an annual basis.
Article 61 – (Vacation of office of Directors)
Under the existing article (article 60) a
Director should, upon resolution from the
Board, vacate his office if he/she was absent
from the Board and Board meetings for more
than 12 months. The new article 61 reduces
the absence period to six months in order to
bring it in line with current best practice of
corporate governance.
Article 87 – (Issue of share certificates)
In addition to issuing share certificates 
under seal, article 87 is updated to expressly
provide for share certificates to be signed 
by at least one Director and Secretary or at
least two Directors. 70 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Article 128 – (Indemnity of officers)
The amendment to this article has been
proposed in light of the changes made by 
the Companies (Audit, Investigations and
Community Enterprise) Act 2004 to the law
relating to a company’s ability to indemnify
its directors and officers in respect of
liabilities incurred by them in connection 
with their activities on behalf of the
Company. The change to the article confirms
the position that the Company has the ability
(but is not obliged) to indemnify Directors
and officers to the extent allowed by the 
new legislation.
Important notes about the 
Annual General Meeting
Date
Wednesday 7 September 2005
Location
Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, 
London EC2M 7QN
Timing
The Meeting will start promptly at 12 noon
and shareholders wishing to attend are
advised to be in the venue no later than 
11.50 am. The reception area will be open
from 11.30 am, from which time refreshments
will be served.
Travel information
See map on the reverse of Admittance Card 
for the location of the Great Eastern Hotel,
and the nearest underground and railway
stations. The venue is less than five minutes’
walk from Liverpool Street station. There are
no car parking facilities at the venue.
Admission
Please bring the Admittance Card with you 
to the Meeting. You may be asked to show 
the Card before being admitted to the venue.
Shareholders and proxy holders may also 
be required to provide proof of identity. The
registration process may take longer without
these documents. Shareholders are politely
requested to bring no more than one guest to 
the Meeting except by prior arrangement with
the Company Secretary.
Facilities
The Great Eastern Hotel has wheelchair
access. If you are planning to come to the
Meeting and are a wheelchair user, it would
be helpful if you would telephone the venue
in advance on 020 7618 5618.
Enquiries and questions
Shareholders who intend to ask a question
related to the business of the Meeting are
asked to provide their name, address and
question at the Registration desk. Staff from
Lloyds TSB Registrars will be on hand to
provide advice and assistance.
Notice of Annual General Meeting 2005
continued DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 71
Shareholder Information
Financial diary
30 June 2005
Preliminary announcement of results 
for the year ended 30 April 2005
17 August 2005
Ex-dividend date for ﬁnal dividend
7 September 2005
Annual General Meeting
20 September 2005
Payment of ﬁnal dividend
7 December 2005*
Announcement of interim results 
for the six months ended 31 October 2005
3 February 2006*
Ex-dividend date for interim dividend
7 March 2006*
Payment of interim dividend
29 June 2006*
Preliminary announcement of results 
for the year ended 30 April 2006
*Provisional date
Company website
The Company’s website at
www.dssmith.uk.com contains the latest
information for shareholders, including press
releases and an updated financial diary. Email
alerts of the latest news, press releases and
financial reports about DS Smith Plc may be
obtained by registering for the email news
alert service on the website.
Share price information
The latest price of the Company’s ordinary
shares is available from the FT Cityline 
service. Calls within the UK are charged 
at 60 pence per minute at all times. The
telephone number is 0906 843 4044.
Alternatively click on
www.londonstockexchange.com. DS Smith’s
ticker symbol is SMDS. It is recommended that
you consult your financial adviser and verify
information obtained from these services before
making any investment decision.
Registrars
Please contact our Registrars at the address
below to advise of a change of address 
or for any enquiries relating to dividend
payments, lost share certificates or other 
share registration matters.
The Registrars provide on-line facilities 
at www.shareview.co.uk. Once you have
registered you will be able to access
information on your DS Smith Plc
shareholding, update your personal 
details and amend your dividend payment
instructions on-line without having to 
call or write to the Registrars.
Dividends
Shareholders who wish to have their
dividends paid directly into a bank or
building society account should contact 
the Registrars. In addition, the Registrars 
are now able to pay dividends in 35 foreign
currencies. This service is called ‘TAPS’
and enables the payment of your dividends
directly into your bank account in your home
currency. A charge of £2.50 is deducted from
each dividend payment to cover the costs
involved. Please contact the Registrars to
request further information.
Share dealing services
The Registrars offer a real-time telephone 
and internet dealing service. Further 
details including terms and rates can be
obtained by logging on to the website at
www.shareview/dealing.co.uk or by calling
0870 850 0852. Lines are open between 
8.30 am and 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
JPMorgan Cazenove operates a low cost 
share dealing service for private investors
who wish to buy or sell ordinary shares of 
the Company. This is an execution-only
service and further details can be obtained
from The Share Dealing Service, JPMorgan
Cazenove, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
Telephone 020 7606 1768. Please note there
is a minimum level of £500 for investment in
shares using this service.
Registered ofﬁce and advisers
Secretary and Registered Ofﬁce
Carolyn Cattermole
4-16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
Registered in England No: 1377658
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
Solicitors
Allen & Overy LLP
One New Change
London EC4M 9QQ
Principal Clearing Bank
The Royal Bank of Scotland
135 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 3UR
Stockbroker
JPMorgan Cazenove
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Investment Bank
UBS
2 Finsbury Avenue
London EC2M 2PP
Registrars
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Registrars queries
UK telephone 0870 600 3970
Overseas telephone +44 121 415 7047
On the internet at www.shareview.co.uk 72 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
Principal Locations
Group ofﬁce
DS Smith Plc
4-16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7932 5000
Divisional ofﬁces
DS Smith Packaging 
Pilgrim House
2-6 William Street
Windsor
Berkshire SL4 1BA
Telephone +44 (0) 1753 754 380 
St Regis Paper Company 
Mill Lane
Taplow 
Maidenhead 
Berkshire SL6 0AF
Telephone +44 (0) 1628 798 111 
DS Smith Kaysersberg
BP 1
68320 Kunheim
France
Telephone +33 (0) 3 89 72 24 00
DS Smith Plastics 
Brownsover Road 
Rugby
Warwickshire CV21 1HL
Telephone +44 (0) 1788 535 329
Spicers 
Homewood
Sawston
Cambridgeshire CB2 4JG
Telephone +44 (0) 1223 834 555
John Dickinson Stationery 
Sawston
Cambridgeshire CB2 4XD
Telephone +44 (0) 1223 830 083
Countries in which we operate:
Australia
Belgium
Czech Republic
Dominican Republic
France
Germany
Ireland
Israel
Italy
New Zealand
Poland
Spain
Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
USA Published by Black Sun Plc +44 (0) 20 7736 0011
Printed by the colourhouse DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005
DS Smith Plc
4-16 Artillery Row
London SW1P 1RZ
Telephone +44 (0) 20 7932 5000
Fax +44 (0) 20 7932 5003
Email ir@dssmith.co.uk
www.dssmith.uk.com
